09-06-2021||Calcutta||Shootout at New Town complex, Punjab gangsters killed||A criminal on the run from Punjab Police was shot dead along with his accomplice in an encounter with the Special Task Force of the Bengal Police in a residential complex in New Town. Jaipal Singh Bhullar, killed along with his accomplice Jaspreet Singh, was wanted in 15 cases of murder, attempt to murder and robberies in Punjab. Cases were also pending against him in neighbouring Rajasthan, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. On Wednesday around 4.30pm, a team from the Special Task Force received a tip-off about two criminals hiding at the Shapoorji complex. When the team reached the complex, the two saw the police from the fourth-floor flat they were hiding in and opened fire. An inspector of the STF Kartik Ghosh was hit by one of their bullets. The police fired 32 rounds of bullets in the firing that felled the two Punjab gangsters. Bhullar, alias Manjit Singh, a resident of Ferozepur, and Jaspreet were killed in the retaliatory fire by the police team comprising personnel from Bengal and Punjab. On May 15, Bhullar and his gang had opened fire at a police team killing two assistant sub-inspectors – Bhagwan Singh and Dalwinderjeet Singh—at the Jagraon grain market in Ludhiana district and were on the run since then. Along with Bhullar, the police had also named Baljinder Singh, alias Babbu of Moga, Jaspreet Singh of Kharar, and Darshan Singh of Ludhiana in the murder of the cops. Five days before the incident, Bhullar and his men had snatched arms from a police patrol team at a highway near Khanna, Punjab, which were suspected to be used in the police murders. Punjab Police had arrested Darshan and Baljinder from Gwalior last month, while one resident of Ludhiana, Lucky Rajput, was arrested on June 1 for aiding the criminals on the run. Son of a retired police officer, Bhullar had a reward of Rs 10 lakh for his arrest. Once a national-level hammer thrower, Bhullar entered the world of crime with his childhood friend Amandeep Singh, alias Happy, with the kidnapping of a seven-year-old son of a Ludhiana-based cinema owner in July 2004. All the seven accused in the crime were arrested and sent to Ludhiana Jail. It was during his stay in prisons over the next five years that Bhullar befriended gangsters from other parts of the state to form his own handpicked members who were engaged in highway robberies among other crimes. In 2016, Bhullar murdered rival gangster Jaswinder Singh, alias Rocky, in Parwanoo, in neighbouring Himachal. A year later, he looted Rs 1.33 crore from van transporting cash for a private bank in Banur. ADG Bengal Police STF Vineet Goyal said, Rs 7 lakh cash, five sophisticated pistols and 89 rounds of live ammunition were recovered from the encounter site. According to Punjab Police, Bhullar was among 31 top gangsters in the state involved in smuggling of narcotics from Pakistan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
09-06-2021||Calcutta||Police recover snatched mobile phone, two arrested ||Two bike-borne men who allegedly snatched a pedestrian’s mobile phone in Parnasree were arrested and the device was recovered on Tuesday. The incident had happened on June 2 but was reported to police on June 6. The stolen phone was still switched on and its tower location was traced to Rajabagan, cops said. Using CCTV footage from the spot during the incident and the victim’s statement, the police prepared sketches of the accused. Cops zeroed in on the duo and arrested them in Rajabagan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
09-06-2021||Calcutta||Fire breaks out on fifth floor of Apeejay House, none hurt||A fire broke out on the fifth floor of Apeejay House on Park Street on Tuesday afternoon. No one was injured, police said. A number of offices, which fortunately had fewer than usual employees, had to be evacuated. Police cordoned off the area before firefighters launched an operation with 10 tenders that continued for around three hours. The fire started around 2.40pm in the server room of a company that deals in medical items. The office was closed and so was the server room. Firefighters had to break open window panes to access the room before bringing in pipes carrying water from the ground floor. Later, a hydraulic ladder was sent to the site but it was not used. Firhad Hakim, the chairman of the board of administrators of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, who visited the site, said: “The fire could be contained in the server room.” Apeejay House, the headquarters of the Apeejay Surrendra Group, is home to a number of offices and banks. An Apeejay business centre functions from the eighth floor. Only a handful of people, including some employees of a private bank, were in the building as the majority of the offices were closed because of the Covid curbs. “We were asked to take the stairs at the rear,” said an employee of the private bank. “By then smoke had filled parts of the sixth and seventh floors.” Apeejay House is located a few metres from Stephen Court, where a fire in the summer of 2010 had claimed 43 lives. Senior officials of the fire and emergency services said that soon after white smoke was spotted coming out of windows, some of the building’s maintenance staff started fetching water from the underground reservoir using hose pipes, while a few ran upstairs to evacuate employees and others. “Since the building houses several offices, banks and other establishments, fire-fighting gadgets there are regularly checked and their condition is recorded in a logbook,” said an officer of Park Street police station. A team of senior officers led by the deputy commissioner of police, south, reached the spot and launched an evacuation drive as fire tenders started arriving one after another. “A forensic audit will reveal the cause of the fire. The fire could be contained because of prompt intervention,” said fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
09-06-2021||Calcutta||Hotel management student opens cloud kitchen to support family||A final-year student of hotel management has been cooking in his kitchen at home. Not for fun or to experiment, like many people his age have been doing during the pandemic, but to support his family. The 20-year-old put his culinary skills to use knowing well that “an opening at a hotel’s kitchen” would be hard to get now. Aditya Sinha cooks in his Maniktala home, taking orders twice or thrice a week and his father delivers the items. The family’s business has been going through a hard time since last year’s lockdown and is on the “verge of shutting down” this year. Aditya’s father has a medium-scale factory in north Calcutta that manufactures metal containers but orders have been dwindling since last year, the student said. Business is about 20 per cent of what it used to be. His mother is a teacher but her earnings alone are not enough to run the family. Aditya, who is waiting for his final examinations, said he did not expect a hotel industry job in the present economic conditions. “There is barely any opening in the hotel industry. I know people who had a job are now sitting at home and some who have even changed their career. I realised I will not get a job in a hotel kitchen in the next couple of years, so I might as well start a home-based kitchen that will help me pursue my aspirations of being a chef and also support my family,” said the final-year student of IHM Bhubaneswar (Institute of Hotel Management). Lockdowns in two consecutive years and the continuing pandemic have impacted the family’s business of more than 50 years, said Aditya’s mother Mahua. “We have not seen the business suffering so much as it has in the last two years. With last year’s lockdown, the orders went down and payment also suffered. Things started looking better in October and there was some recovery. Then the rate of infections rose again and our downfall started,” said Mahua. The factory employs 15 to 20 people and makes tin containers for products like paints, adhesive, ghee and chewing tobacco among other things. Aditya lives with his parents, younger brother, paternal and maternal grandmother and his uncle, who is a special needs individual. The family’s expenses include the medical bills of two ailing old people who are almost bedridden and taking care of a special needs individual. Aditya has named his cloud kitchen M.A.M.A’s Kitchen. He sends out the menu to people and closes orders 24 hours before  delivery. Aditya has been interested in cooking since childhood. His menu does not have the usual dishes — it adds a twist to the items he learnt in college. On the menu are galouti kebab with sheermal and chicken ghee roast with mini tawa parathas. “The feedback that I have been receiving is rewarding,”said Aditya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
09-06-2021||Calcutta||Students headed abroad await clarity on second dose of Covishield||Students with offers from foreign universities are anxious to know the process they have to follow to get the second dose of Covishield four weeks after the first, a concession that has been allowed to them. India is following a policy of administering the second dose of Covishield 12 weeks after the first. The Centre on Monday announced that students with offers from foreign institutions, professionals with job offers from abroad and members of the Indian contingent bound for the Tokyo Olympics would be allowed to take the second dose of the vaccine 28 days after the first. Till late on Tuesday, the Bengal health department had not announced any guideline on how such people would take the second dose. The state government has to appoint officials who will check whether someone seeking the second dose earlier than usual has a genuine reason to do so. The state has to “designate a competent authority in each district for according permission for such administration of second dose of Covishield”, the announcement by the Centre says. “It usually takes two or three days for the state health department to issue detailed state-specific guidelines after the Centre announces any policy shift,” a health department official said on Tuesday. Class XII examinees who have offers to study undergraduate courses in other countries, research scholars at foreign institutions as well as students who returned home in the middle of a course and are planning to fly back are among those who are anxious to know the procedure to get the Covishield second dose four weeks after the first. Several such students told Metro they did not know where to submit documents as evidence of offers from foreign universities and whether the CoWIN portal would book their slots for the second dose before the mandatory 84 days from the first. The health ministry’s announcement mentioned some of the documents that those who want their second dose early have to produce. Those relate to: ⚫ Admission offers or associated formal communications for the purpose of education ⚫ Whether a person is already studying in a foreign educational institution and has to return to that institution for continuing his/her education ⚫ Interview calls for a job or offer letters ⚫ Nomination to participate in the Tokyo Olympic games. The health ministry has also advised that those who are yet to take their first dose of Covishield should use a passport as the identity document for the jab so that the vaccination certificate has the passport number printed on it. Avani Agarwal, 25, who started her online classes for a master’s course at Columbia University on June 1, is planning to fly to New York in August. “I do not know how I will get the second dose early. Will the portal allow me to get a slot?” she said. Siddhanth Gupta, who is planning to go to Queen Mary University of London in August, said “there should be a provision for us to produce documents and get the jabs at the earliest”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
09-06-2021||Calcutta||App cab driver arrested on charges of sexual harassment||An app cab driver was arrested on charges of sexual harassment of a passenger after an altercation between them over fare. The incident happened on Central Avenue and Zakaria Street crossing on Monday evening when the woman was getting off the vehicle around 8.45pm. Police said the victim, in her early 30s, had boarded the cab at Golf Green. In her police complaint, she said a relative had booked the cab and paid the fare online. However, when the woman was about to alight from the vehicle at her destination, the driver allegedly denied having received any online payment and demanded cash from the woman. “The woman had told the driver that the payment had been made online and that he should check with the app cab system before demanding money. The driver, however, started an argument and demanded Rs 100 extra. When the woman was stepping out of the car, the driver allegedly pulled her by her hand and tried to detain her,” said an officer of Jorasanko police station, where the woman lodged her complaint. Officers of the police station started a case for sexual harassment under Section 354A of the Indian Penal Code. The driver was arrested on Monday night. The charges, if proved in court, could lead to a punishment of three years in jail. Senior officers suggested that women travelling alone could set emergency phone numbers on speed dial in their mobile phones. They may carry pepper spray cans in their bags for self-defence, if needed, said an officer. “We always encourage women to come out and report harassment cases,” said another officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
09-06-2021||Calcutta||Price cap cloud on off-site Covid vaccination centres||The capping of Covid vaccination price announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi will affect off-site inoculation plans, several private hospitals in Calcutta said on Tuesday. Some big private hospitals and smaller nursing homes said Modi's announcement that the Centre would procure doses for the states was welcome. But clarity is awaited on the private healthcare units, many of which have been unable to procure vaccines since May 1. The Prime Minister announced on Monday that from June 21, the central government would provide free vaccines to all states for the “18-plus-year-old people”. Private hospitals, he said, can add a service charge of up to Rs 150 over the procurement price of each dose. Most private hospitals in Calcutta are charging Rs 200 to Rs 300 over the procurement price. To conduct off-site vaccination, such as in offices and housing complexes, the hospitals are charging even more because of the additional cost involved. Most private hospitals are conducting off-site vaccination programmes in collaboration with corporate houses, government offices and residential complexes. “The Rs-150 cap will slow down the vaccination process, especially off-site programmes, because those will not be viable anymore,” said Alok Roy, the chairman of Medica Superspecialty Hospital. The hospital group is conducting off-site vaccination for about 5,000 people every day, said Roy. The AMRI Hospitals group, which is administering more than 5,000 doses at off-site camps, will ask the organisations and associations that are tying up with them to arrange for some of the logistics such as vehicles for doctors and nurses. The group will also ask for a one-time fee for logistics. “We have to hire doctors and nurses from outside agencies for off-site camps. There is a large cost involved in providing logistics like vehicles, refrigerators and other equipment,” said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI. “If the organisations that are interested in tying up with our group don’t agree to pay, we will ask them to tell their employees or members to get vaccinated at our hospitals,” said Barua, who is also president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India. The association of private hospitals, he said, will soon meet to decide on how to go about vaccination following the announcement of the cap. Woodlands Hospital is charging Rs 250 to Rs 300 for each dose administered at the hospital. For off-site vaccination, the hospital is charging around Rs 500. “I will appeal to the Centre to give us the doses for free so that we charge Rs 250 to Rs 300 or lift the cap of Rs 150,” said Rupali Basu, the managing director and CEO of Woodlands. “The service charges had been calculated keeping in mind the cost incurred on doctors, nurses, operations employees and PPE, as well as other logistical expenses,” said Basu. Woodlands, she said, will ask the corporate houses to bear some of the logistical costs if the capping is not increased. “If they don’t agree to bear the cost, we will ask them to come to our hospital and get vaccinated,” said Basu. The hospital is vaccinating 2,500 to 3,000 people every day.  It has vaccinated employees of 60 companies so far. Officials of various hospitals said off-site vaccination helped them reach out to a larger section of the population than the on-site drive. Also, it is convenient for recipients because they don’t have to travel to hospitals amid the raging pandemic. Another reason off-site camps are needed is that space constraints come in the way of scaling up vaccination at most hospitals. Some private hospitals and nursing homes in district towns also want the government's procurement policy to be changed further. The central government will now directly buy 75 per cent of the doses from the manufacturers and distribute them among the states. “We want the Centre to procure the doses and distribute them to small private healthcare units like ours through the respective state governments. Otherwise, we will not be able to procure doses,” said Sk Alhajuddin, the chairman of the Progressive Nursing Homes and Hospitals Association. The Sun Hospital in Burdwan, which Alhajuddin runs, has been communicating with the Serum Institute of India since May 1 to buy Covishield doses. The Pune-based manufacturer recently informed the hospital that it would not be able to supply the doses and asked the health-care unit to wait till July or August. “The hospitals that have already placed orders and made payment are not getting supplies in time. The manufacturers had promised to deliver the doses within a week of the payment but consignments are coming after more than two weeks,” said Barua of AMRI. In the midst of the vaccine crisis, a soft launch of the Russian vaccine for Covid, Sputnik V, was held at the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. Only a limited number of healthcare volunteers were given the vaccine, said an official of the hospital. “A commercial launch is expected by the end of June,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
09-06-2021||Calcutta||City to get 3 drive-by jab centres||The city will get three drive-by vaccination facilities over the next three days — in the Maidan area, Tallah and Ajoynagar. All three, to come up on roads, will be run by the AMRI Hospitals group. The recipients will be administered Covishield and each dose will cost Rs 850, said an official. Anyone of age 18 years or older can get the first or second dose at any of the drive-by centres. Last Friday, the Calcutta Municipal Corporation had launched a drive-in vaccination centre at Quest Mall, off the Park Circus seven-point crossing. So far about 800 people have been vaccinated there. Since the civic body is running the centre at the mall, the jabs are being administered for free. “Recipients do not have to step out of the car to get vaccinated. This is particularly helpful for the elderly and the ailing,” said a CMC official. The first of the drive-by vaccination facilities, to be run by AMRI, will be launched on Leslie Claudius Sarani in the Maidan area on Wednesday. It will be inaugurated at 10.30am. The second centre will come up on the service road near the Ajoynagar crossing of the Bypass. It will function from Thursday. The third will be operational at the Calcutta police traffic training school at Tallah from Friday. At every centre the jabs will be administered from 10am to 6pm. “Recipients will have to register on the CoWIN portal before arriving at a drive-by centre. They  do not need to book a slot. Guards will check whether the recipients are registered on CoWIN,” said an official at AMRI. Recipients will have to travel in four-wheelers. Like the drive-in centre at Quest Mall, the recipients at the drive-by centres, too, will not have to step out of the cars to get vaccinated. A vaccinator will deliver the jab through a window of the car. Post-vaccination, a recipient has to wait in a car for 30 minutes in a parking area. “Each car will be given a red flag that a recipient or those accompanying him or her must fly if the person administered the jab feels uncomfortable during the 30-minute period. Our volunteers will reach out to them and subsequently doctors will attend to them,” said the official. At Quest Mall, the jabs are being administered in the parking area. “The Calcutta Municipal Corporation is providing the vaccine and the vaccinators, Woodlands Hospital is providing doctors and we are giving the space. The drive-in vaccination will continue at least till June 15, since malls will remain closed till then,” said Dilip Sen, the managing director of Quest Mall. Only first doses to those who are 45 or older are being administered at the mall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
09-06-2021||Calcutta||Fire breaks out at Madan Mitra’s Bhowanipore home||A room on the ground floor of Trinamul Congress MLA Madan Mitra’s Bhowanipore home caught fire on Tuesday morning. No one was trapped or injured. Mitra said his son and grandson lived in the room where the fire broke out. “It was sheer luck that my grandson had woken up early.... Usually, he sleeps till late in the morning,” he said. A preliminary investigation by the police and the fire department suggested that a short circuit in the water purifier in the room caused the fire.Later in the afternoon, a team of forensic officials visited the three-storey house. Mitra said the family spotted the flames between 10.10am and 10.15am and alerted the fire department. The room that contained multiple wooden cabinets, bed with mattress and several electrical gadgets was completely gutted by the time the fire could be doused. “My family is in a state of shock. I shudder to think what could have happened had there been anyone in that room. That room has only one entry-exit point. Had anyone been trapped, there was no way the person could have been rescued. I have requested the fire department to let us know the cause of the fire. We all need to be alert if there was some mistake from our end,” Mitra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
09-06-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine centre at IIEST Shibpur reopens on Tuesday||The vaccination programme at IIEST Shibpur, which had been suspended on May 28 after the institute’s director allegedly misbehaved with those running the centre, resumed on Tuesday. Director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti had denied the allegation. An official of the institute said they wrote to Howrah district’s chief medical officer of health (CMOH) on Monday to restart the centre. The drive resumed after Covaxin doses were allotted to the centre. A notice signed by Debabrata Majumder, the professor in charge of the institute’s hospital, says: “...All concerned are requested to bring their original Aadhaar Card at the Vaccination Centre.” A teacher of the institute said they were “feeling relieved” that the drive had resumed. The centre has been administering jabs to residents of the campus and people living outside since late April.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
09-06-2021||Calcutta||American Indologist Wendy Doniger’s love for Santiniketan ||American Indologist and Sanskrit scholar Wendy Doniger had arrived in Santiniketan in August 1963 at the age of 22 to study Bangla and Sanskrit. She made a number of remarkable friendships about which she wrote back to her parents. In January 2019, when she retired from the University of Chicago, where she was the Distinguished Service Professor of History of Religions, and was clearing her desk, she came across a bunch of letters that she said “came to her as part of a tidal wave of books and other things” after her mother died. Reading excerpts from those letters at the virtual Bengal Library Talk last month, Doniger described Santiniketan as a sort of “finishing school” for Bengali girls. “In the evenings, girls sang in Sangeet Bhavan, sketched and danced. The afternoons were filled with children’s voices as there were no classes then. The evenings were cool and everyone made tea for everyone else. Santiniketan was a retreat from the city jungle in every way,” she said. Doniger came to love Santiniketan because of its Indianness, of the constant sound of songs where ashramites woke up at 5am to sing, of the familiar faces everywhere, of the personal tutoring and saturation of Rabindranath Tagore. She talked of the girl who taught her Bharatanatyam in exchange for language classes in German, who was also a sculptor. She recalled how she was asked to teach her friends the song ‘Oh, you can kiss me on a Monday’ from the film Never on Sunday. Doniger liked the slow-pace of life at Santiniketan, where one could enjoy life and where leisure afforded the study of scriptures and telling stories. “Bengalis always nibbled on something, whether it was betel leaf or sweet.” She remembered having dinner sitting cross-legged on the floor with a picture of Stalin over her. She met a man who had 8,000 books in his living room and Doniger tested him by randomly choosing a book and opening a page, which the man recited for her from memory. Talking of the people she met on the train to Santiniketan, Doniger recounted how one Jyotindra Maity enacted the Ram Leela. “He danced the lines with his hands,” she described, adding: “if you tied his hands, he would become mute”. She would be brought tea on a running train, “the man would balance a tray on one hand dashing into the compartment as the train left a station”. Then there would be those who would chant the Geeta in the morning. People would climb in through windows and sit on luggage racks. Bus journeys, too, were similar with people hanging from every inch of space available yet the bus would go off route to reach a traveler his destination, she said. Doniger spoke with great affection of her two women friends. One was Chanchal “whose mother cooked for her and brought her milk at night, which she would ensure she drank”. She narrated how the mother would bathe every time the shadow of a person from a low caste fell on her; Chanchal would run around her kitchen touching everything and her mother would then wash everything, she said. Doniger’s other friend Mishtuni Roy sang folk songs and recited Robert Frost and Emily Dickinson. Later in life, Doniger met Mishtuni at Oxford where she was with her husband. The scholar spoke of meeting Jamini Roy at Santiniketan and buying a painting of his for 30 dollars. Calling him the greatest modern Indian painter, the Indologist wrote: “He paints with fervour and his paintings are basic to all people. They are purely Indian.” She also met sarod player Ali Akbar Khan and described him as “he is to sarod what Ravishankar is to the sitar”. These magical cross-cultural encounters, Doniger said, were made possible “by my youth, my optimism, my mad love for India and in part by the youth of the country, so newly freed from the colonial yoke”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
09-06-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles 334 points to close below 52,000 ||Equity benchmark Sensex tanked 334 points on Wednesday, tracking heavy losses in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank and L&T amid a weak trend in global markets.  The 30-share BSE index ended 333.93 points or 0.64 per cent lower at 51,941.64. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slumped 104.75 points or 0.67 per cent to 15,635.35.  L&T was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by Reliance Industries, Bajaj Finserv, IndusInd Bank, SBI, Maruti, Axis Bank and Bajaj Auto.  On the other hand, PowerGrid, NTPC, Titan, HCL Tech and Asian Paints were among the gainers.  "Domestic equities fell sharply as selling pressure in financials, auto and RIL dragged indices down," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities.  This was the steepest correction after May 12, he said, adding that all key sectoral indices witnessed selling pressure as investors preferred to book some amount of profit ahead of crucial CPI data in the US.  Further, Asian markets also traded weak today mainly reacting on higher-than-expected jump in China's producer price index at 9 per cent for May.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul, Tokyo and Hong Kong closed in the red, while Shanghai ended with gains.  Equities in Europe were also trading on a negative note in mid-session deals.  International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.36 per cent higher at USD 72.48 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
09-06-2021||Business||Deepak Talwar believes Covid 19 has laid an important question. How do we revitalize and align MSMEs in India?||Covid-19, the world's most dangerous virus that has put cancer to shame, has damaged something irreparably in India: MSME sector. Seasoned market analyst Deepak Talwar said the pandemic halted the government's ability to help the sector in India. “In developed nations, governments have directly provided wage subsidies and credit to the stressed firms. The governments could do it because they had an advantage, they could map up the smaller firms. In India, most of the MSMEs are not registered. Why? No one has an answer,” said DeepakTalwar, considered one of the topmost market analysts in India. Talwar said there is a precipitous surge in unemployment that continues to shake the workforce in this pandemic. A key challenge for our policymakers and executives lies in the method in which they can be brought back to work.  Moreover, the impact on the value chain has had a cascading effect. They are currently facing an acute cash crunch due to operational challenges with low manpower. “The risk of delinquencies also exists for financiers offering unsecured loans to MSMEs, who typically rely on the assessment of the estimated cash flows,” said Deepak Talwar. “If the current business climate is to continue it would take nearly two months if not more for businesses to see significant negative impacts, such as temporary layoffs or temporary or permanent closure. The impact of the pandemic shall also lead to MSMEs facing difficulties to pay bank loans and leasing instalments and challenges in paying rent and utility bills,” said Deepak Talwar. So, what is the alternative? Talwar said the government must evaluate some of the points mentioned below: TREDS (Trade Receivable Discounting System) should be made mandatory for all MSME related transactions as it can improve the flow of working capital of the MSMEs at very competitive interest rates to and by reducing the receivable realization cycles, thereby allowing MSMEs in securing credit from a range of banks. Also, why not unlock funds under the ESIC (Employment State Insurance Corporation) as medical insurance cover and impart training in occupation, health and safety for MSME manufacturers? There is also a greater need for financial incentivization. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) needs to issue guidelines for higher provisioning revisions to banks in the absence of which liquidity injection into the system is getting delayed. The increase in the minimum threshold from Rs. 1 Lakh to Rs. 1 Crore to initiate corporate insolvency under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) can help those MSMEs that are under financial distress. “Force Majeure is an extraordinary situation beyond human control such as calamities and is described as an ‘act of god’. A Force Majeure clause frees both parties from contractual obligations. “Due to the pandemic several MSMEs have not been able to carry out their contractual obligations for which they have been held legally liable. So why not seek an amendment to Section 56 of the Indian Contract to include a state-imposed lockdown under Force Majeure?” asked Deepak Talwar. Talwar said the change in definition of MSMEs is a significant change as it has brought several smaller companies within the ambit of the MSME Act. And then, digitisation of MSMEs at an accelerated pace will be a crucial element in fast tracking the revival of manufacturing MSMEs. For example, argued Talwar, the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) has significantly helped those MSMEs that were inactive and has helped them resume their operations by clearing payments to suppliers and paying salaries to employees. “So, banks must lend more under this scheme to support the smaller companies. And work towards a fixed waiver for raw material, electricity etc. in order to ease the burden of spending. We must remember MSMEs have been hailed as the backbone of the Economy that contributes nearly 29 percent to the GDP,” Deepak Talwar added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
09-06-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty start on positive note||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty started on a positive note on Wednesday tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins and SBI amid strong foreign fund inflow.  The 30-share BSE index was trading 80.72 points or 0.15 per cent higher at 52,356.29 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 26.45 points or 0.17 per cent to 15,766.55.  ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by SBI, Sun Pharma, HDFC, Asian Paints, Dr Reddy's and Bajaj Finserv.  On the other hand, UltraTech Cement, Maruti, Bajaj Auto and ICICI Bank were among the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex slipped 52.94 points or 0.10 per cent to 52,275.57, and Nifty declined 11.55 points or 0.07 per cent to end at 15,740.10.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth 1,422.71 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data.  "Domestic equities look to be muted as of now. An improved prospect of economic recovery led by sharp drop in daily caseload, ramping up vaccination process and phased withdrawal of restrictions imposed by states has already led markets to witness fresh highs," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.  Going forward, with the easing of lockdown restrictions at state level, the government's higher allocation towards capital expenditures for FY22E should be helpful in driving economic growth in coming quarters, he noted.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul, Tokyo and Hong Kong were in the red in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was trading with gains.  Equities on Wall Street ended on a positive note in overnight trade.  International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.65 per cent higher at USD 72.69 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
09-06-2021||Business||Capesize vessel from Australia anchored off Sagar Island||A ship nearly twice the size of a standard football pitch has anchored off the Sagar Island, bringing thermal coal from Australia for the cement plants in Nepal. The capesize vessel, the jumbo class of ships which rule the seaborne movement of bulk cargo across the globe, has come to the port at Calcutta for the first time during the monsoon season, bringing significant advantage for trade in the eastern region. If the one-off movement can be made a regular affair during the rainy season when the sea gets rough, it may extend a new lease of life for the riverine port system around Calcutta and Haldia, which has been struggling to find a way to accommodate big ships. Industry expects a 10-15 per cent benefit in the overall cost to move cargo from Sagar to Haldia in comparison to bringing smaller ships with lower parcel loads (average 18,000-20,000 tonnes). “We have been handling cape vessels during winter at sandheads where the river draft is higher. But the operation can not be done between April and September. If the operation at Sagar becomes regular, the port can now handle such large vessels round the year,” Vinit Kumar, chairman of Syama Prasad Mukherjee Port, Calcutta (SMP), explained. Three out of 10 ships sailing globally are capesize, which can carry 180,000 tonnes of cargo in a single voyage. The marine industry trend is rapidly gravitating towards bigger ships to drive down logistic costs. “If we have to be future ready, then the port must find a way to handle capesize vessels round the year. Hopefully, this exercise will encourage trade to get such ships at regular intervals,” Kumar added. Alip Dutta, shipping agent for M.V. Lake D, which carries the Panama flag, said the end user benefits both on account of marine charges as well as cargo handling charges. “We are getting discounts for handling large volumes which we are passing on to the trade,” he explained. The ship, manned by a 20-member Filipino crew, has carried 66,000 tonnes of steam coal, after discharging 95,810 tonnes at Vizag. It sailed from Abbot Point in Australia on May 10 before calling at Vizag before refuelling at Singapore. Coal will be discharged from the ship by a crane to smaller barges of 5,000 tonne capacities, which will come to Haldia. It will then be put in freight trains that will go to Raxaul in Nepal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
09-06-2021||Business||Renault, union spar over Covid protocol||Covid safety protocols, especially social distancing norms, have turned into a major bone of contention in the ongoing management-worker dispute at the Renault-Nissan plant in Tamil Nadu. The Madras high court on Tuesday tasked industrial safety officials to make further visits to the manufacturing facility and draw up uniform safety guidelines for the workers. The workers have threatened to go on strike for the second time, saying social distancing norms were being flouted and the risk to their lives outweighed the health benefits provided by the company. Ford and Hyundai also had to halt work at their plants last month after workers protested and some went on strike. In a court filing on Monday according to Reuters, Renault said it was following the practices at auto makers such as Maruti and Hyundai, but it was “impossible” to increase the space between workers beyond two feet to three feet at some workstations. While there are no industry standards for social distancing apart from the government mandated six-feet distance, companies are modifying work stations and tweaking workflows around the assembly lines to keep workers socially distanced. “Cases are falling more rapidly in the north than they are in the south. So, workers are panicking, particularly in Tamil Nadu where the caseload is still high,” said an industry expert, who is apprehensive of a spill-out of the worker dispute to the neighbouring states. On how social distancing is being maintained at assembly lines, he said: “Companies should ensure very few double operators on a car. However, in assembly lines, four workers work on the same vehicle. The four should start work at the four extremes of the vehicle. When they are at a situation of converging closer, work flows need to be tweaked, partitions put so that two work at the same time. Production is definitely impacted by such workflows.” Another way of distancing is when a single work process is happening on one vehicle, one can put an empty dolly between two vehicles being assembled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
09-06-2021||Business||NCLT allows Anil Agarwal’s Twin Star Technologies to take over Videocon Industries Ltd||Bankruptcy court NCLT on Tuesday allowed billionaire Anil Agarwal’s Twin Star Technologies to take over Videocon Industries Ltd for about Rs 3,000 crore. Twin Star, a part of Vedanta Group, will pay around Rs 500 crore within 90 days as upfront payment and the rest as non-convertible debentures over a period of time. A two-member Mumbai bench of the NCLT comprising members H. P. Chaturvedi and Ravikumar Duraisamy approved the resolution plan by Twin-Star Technologies. Confirming the development, partner at Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas Anoop Rawat told PTI: ‘‘The NCLT has approved the resolution plan’’ filed by Twin Star Technologies. Rawat was assisting the resolution professional of Videocon Industries in the matter. The order was orally pronounced by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in the courtroom and a detailed copy of the judgment is awaited. Videocon Industries also confirmed the development through a regulatory filing. Videocon Industries further informed in terms of the Resolution Plan, ‘‘the equity shares of the company are proposed to be delisted’’. Accordingly, an appropriate disclosure would be made upon receipt of the copy of the order by the NCLT approving the resolution plan, it added. This approval will also now consolidate Vedanta’s hold in the Ravva oilfield. Vedanta’s interest in Videocon is principally driven by the latter’s 25 per cent stake in the Ravva oil field in the KG Basin. Vedanta, through Cairn, holds a 22.5 per cent stake in Ravva and after this success, Vedanta will take its stake to 47.5 per cent, and it will be the biggest stakeholder ahead of ONGC’s 40 per cent. Videocon Industries owes around Rs 31,000 crore to the banks, which also includes interests. Earlier, the Dhoot family had offered to pay Rs 30,000 crore to the lenders to settle their loans and pull out 13 Videocon group companies from the insolvency proceedings. However, the creditors have chosen Vedanta Group’s offer, which has placed its resolution plan through one of its subsidiary companies. Jet meet adjourned The annual general meeting of Jet Airways scheduled to be held on Tuesday was adjourned because of lack of quorum. Jet Airways suspended operations in April 2019 and is currently undergoing an insolvency resolution process. The affairs of the carrier are being managed by resolution professional Ashish Chhawchharia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
09-06-2021||Business|| Franklin Templeton to challenge Sebi order at Securities Appellate Tribunal||Franklin Templeton Asset Management (India) on Tuesday said it strongly disagreed with Sebi’s order on the closure of its six debt schemes and would challenge the direction at  the Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT). On Monday, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) barred the fund house from launching debt schemes for two years. Sebi also imposed a penalty of Rs 5 crore on Franklin. “We strongly disagree with the findings of the Sebi order and intend to file an appeal with SAT,’’ the fund house said in a statement today. Franklin Templeton said it placed great emphasis on compliance and believes it has always acted in the best interest of the unitholders and in accordance with regulations. Franklin said the net asset value of each of the six schemes at present is higher than what they were on April 23, 2020. “We believe this supports the decision made by the trustee in consultation with the AMC and its investment management team to wind up the six schemes.” Kudva ban Sebi has also barred Vivek Kudva, former head of Asia Pacific (APAC) for Franklin Templeton, and his wife Roopa Kudva from the securities market for one year. Sebi said the couple had cumulatively redeemed units worth Rs 30.70 crore while in possession of material non-public information. Vivek Kudva has been  asked to pay a penalty of Rs 4 crore, while a fine of Rs 3 crore has been imposed on Roopa Kudva. Vivek Kudva said he is reviewing the order and considering appropriate next steps which may include filing an appeal before the SAT. “I have always acted in accordance with Sebi regulations, including in this instance. My personal transactions in the two schemes (under winding-up) have been conducted in good faith and with no intent to gain unfair benefit,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
09-06-2021||Business||Group of ministers recommended flat 5% reduction in rates on all Covid-related items||The group of ministers (GoM) set up to decide GST relief on Covid essentials — including PPE kits, masks and vaccines — is said to have recommended a reduction in rates to a flat 5 per cent on all Covid-related items and sticking with the existing duty of 5 per cent on vaccines. The GST Council at its meeting on May 28 was divided over the contentious issue of fixing a zero tax on all Covid products. Sources said the council was likely to meet before the Centre starts procuring vaccines for distribution to the states. The new vaccine policy would be implemented from June 21. A group of ministers led by Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma in its report is learnt to have recommended temporarily slashing the rate to a flat 5 per cent on medicines, medical grade oxygen and pulse oximeters. The same 5-per-cent rate will also be applied on test kits, hand sanitisers, oxygen therapy equipment, ventilators and other supplies, the ministerial panel said. The rates range from 5 per cent to 18 per cent The GST on vaccines is expected to stay at 5 per cent. Sources said the recommendations of the GoM were unlikely to be opposed by the Opposition states at the next council meeting as they themselves were in favour of a uniform 5 per cent rate on all Covid items. Besides, as the states would not be involved in vaccine purchases, they should not oppose the 5 per cent levy on the vaccines. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman was against slashing of the rates on vaccines as the domestic producers would be unable to offset taxes paid on their inputs and pass these on to the consumers by increasing the prices. In a series of tweets she had said “a 5 per cent GST rate ensures that the manufacturer is able to utilise ITC and in case of overflow of ITC, claim refund. Hence, exemption to vaccines from GST would be counterproductive without benefiting the consumer”. Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra had written to Sitharaman proposing zero-rated tax on Covid items at least for a fixed period of time or taxing them minimally at 0.1 per cent to avoid any hurdles at the implementation stage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
09-06-2021||Business||Technical glitches continue to bedevil modified income tax website||Technical glitches continue to bedevil the modified income tax website on the second day — prompting finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to tweet: “Hope Infosys and Nandan Nilekani will not let down our taxpayers in the quality of service being provided.” Sitharaman said she had been besieged by complaints from taxpayers and chartered accountants who said the website wasn’t working. Later at night, Infosys chairman Nilekani tweeted: “We have observed some technical issues on day one, and are working to resolve them.  Infosys regrets these initial glitches and expects the system to stabilise during the week.” Infosys was awarded the contract to develop the next-generation income tax filing system to reduce the processing time for returns from 63 days to one day and expedite refunds. In a tweet hunkashish123 said, “What milestone? Website is not working. First develop it properly after launching the portal. Recruit new people in the department and penalise the developer.” Bimal Jain, a chartered accountant, said “The success of the new income-tax portal depends on the smooth transition from the old portal and the working of the new one. At present, the site is not working smoothly and the taxpayers were not able to log into the portal”. He said the taxpayers would have to re-register their digital signature certificates, which could have been automatically transitioned from the old portal. “From the past experience of GSTN Portal, the government should have taken adequate measures to ensure that the site is able to handle traffic and no technical glitches are faced by the taxpayers.” On Tuesday morning, Sitharaman took to Twitter to announce the launch of the new portal www.incometax.gov.in, saying that the “important milestone to make the compliance experience more taxpayer-friendly” went live at 2045 Hrs on Monday. But, soon, her timeline was flooded with user complaints. Since the new site went live, several taxpayers complained of problems during logging in to the portal. The taxpayers could not link their mobile phone numbers to the portal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
09-06-2021||Business||World Bank slashes 2021-22 GDP growth forecast for Indian economy to 8.3%||The World Bank on Tuesday slashed its 2021-22 GDP growth forecast for the Indian economy to 8.3 per cent from 10.1 per cent estimated in April, saying economic recovery is being hampered by the devastating second wave of coronavirus infections. It projected a 7.5 per cent economic growth in the 2022-23 fiscal. The Washington-based global lender, in its latest issue of Global Economic Prospects released here, said an enormous second Covid-19 wave in India is undermining the sharper-than-expected rebound in activity seen during the second half of the 2020-21 fiscal, especially in services. ‘‘India’s recovery is being hampered by the largest outbreak of any country since the beginning of the pandemic,” the World Bank said. The projected growth compares to the worst ever contraction of 7.3 per cent witnessed in the fiscal ended March 31, 2021 and 4 per cent expansion in 2019-20. In April this year, the World Bank had forecast a 10.1 per cent growth in Indian GDP for FY22. This was higher than 5.4 per cent it had projected in January. But now the projections have been slashed. The multilateral lending agency said India’s GDP is likely to grow by 6.5 per cent in 2023-24. In its report, the Bank said that the global economy is set to expand by 5.6 per cent in 2021 — its strongest post-recession pace in 80 years. ‘‘For India, GDP in fiscal year 2021/22 starting from April 2021 is expected to expand 8.3 per cent,” it said. Activity will benefit from policy support, including higher spending on infrastructure, rural development, and health, and a stronger-than expected recovery in services and manufacturing, it said. The forecast for FY22 factors in expected economic damage from an enormous second Covid-19 wave and localised mobility restrictions since March 2021, the report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
09-06-2021||Business||Flipkart in talks to raise $3 billion from investors, icluding SoftBank ||Flipkart, the Walmart Inc-owned e-commerce firm, is in talks to raise at least $3 billion from investors, including Japan’s SoftBank Group and various sovereign wealth funds. The possible return of SoftBank to Flipkart comes at a time the e-commerce segment is witnessing strong growth as the pandemic has forced individuals to stay indoors and make online purchases. This trend is only expected to continue in the future. According to a Bernstein report, the e-commerce market is expected to grow to $133 billion in 2025 from $24 billion in 2018, a compounded annual growth rate of  around 30 per cent based on various estimates. It added that the increase in internet penetration, higher per capita income, broader selection criteria and convenient delivery are driving adoption and growth. While there are only three big players in the market — Flipkart, Reliance Jio and Amazon, the one with the “most compelling integrated value proposition, offline plus online and prime” will be the leader,  the brokerage said. SoftBank had sold its around 20 per cent share after Walmart agreed to buy a 77 per cent stake in Flipkart for $16 billion in 2018. While its return could be prompted by the robust potential of e-commerce in India, Flipkart will need the much needed capital to take on Amazon and JioMart. A Bloomberg report said that Flipkart is in talks not only with SoftBank, but also several sovereign wealth funds and that it is targeting a valuation of $40 billion. In 2020, Walmart had led a $1.2-billion funding round that valued the e-tailer at $24.9 billion post the infusion. Singapore’s GIC, Canada Pension Plan Investment Board and the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority are some of the other funds with which Flipkart is in discussions, the report added. On the other hand, SoftBank could invest $300-600 million through its Vision Fund II (SVF2). For Flipkart, the fresh capital dose could also come ahead of a planned initial public offering next year. India remains an attractive investment destination for SoftBank. It has backed companies such as Paytm, Ola, policybazaar and Delhivery. Last month, SoftBank invested $250-million in banking technology start-up Zeta. Earlier this year, it led a $300-million funding round in Meesho which helped the social commerce platform attain the unicorn status. Some of the other SVF2 investments in India include Lenskart, Unacademy and MindTickle. Recent reports say that SoftBank may invest up to $4 billion in India during this calendar year across various sectors. Recently, Flipkart had said that it had hired 23,000 people in India across its supply chain, including delivery executives, between March and May. The company had also announced the expansion of its fulfilment centre capacity for grocery by more than 8 lakh sq ft over the next three months across Delhi, Calcutta and other cities. The additional fulfilment centre capacity will help the e-tailer cater to over 73,000 grocery orders per day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
09-06-2021||India||Twitter in final stages of appointing grievance officer||Social media platform Twitter is learnt to have written to the government that it is in advanced stages of finalising chief compliance officer as per the new IT rules and additional details will be submitted to the government within a week, according to an official source. Twitter in its reply to the final notice of the government dated June 5, said that it is making all efforts to comply with the new guidelines but has been unable to do so because of the global impact of Covid-19 pandemic. "...We are in advanced stages of finalising the appointment of the role of chief compliance office and we plan to provide additional details to you in the next several days, and at the latest within a week," Twitter said. According to the source, the letter was sent on June 7 to the Ministry of Electronics and IT. When contacted, a Twitter spokesperson said, "Twitter has been and remains deeply committed to India, and serving the vital public conversation taking place on the service. We have assured the Government of India that Twitter is making every effort to comply with the new Guidelines, and an overview on our progress has been duly shared. We will continue our constructive dialogue with the Indian government." The new IT rules for social media companies that came into effect last month mandate large platforms like Facebook and Twitter to undertake greater due diligence and make these digital platforms more accountable and responsible for the content hosted by them. Under the rules, significant social media intermediaries -- those with over 50 lakh users -- are required to appoint a grievance officer, a nodal officer and a chief compliance officer. These personnel have to be residents in India. Further, social media companies will have to take down flagged content within 36 hours, and remove within 24 hours content that is flagged for issues such as nudity and pornography. The new social media guidelines came into effect from May 26, 2021 but Twitter did not comply with the rules. In its final notice, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) had said that Twitter's refusal to comply with the rules demonstrated the micro-blogging site's "lack of commitment and efforts towards providing a safe experience for the people of India on its platform". The ministry notice warned the social media firm of consequences for not following the new rules but gave one last chance to Twitter to "immediately comply with the rules, failing which the exemption from liability available shall stand withdrawn and Twitter shall be liable for consequences as per the IT Act and other penal laws of India". Twitter in its latest reply said that it understands the importance of new regulations and "have endeavored in good faith to comply with the guidelines, including with respect to hiring personnel in India". The micro-blogging site said that the guidelines were notified on February 25, 2021, and the global impact of the Covid-19 pandemic has made it more difficult for it to make certain arrangements that are necessary to comply with the rules within the stipulated time-frame. "For example, similar to other significant social media intermediaries operating in India, in order to comply with the underlying intention behind the guidelines, we have appointed a nodal contact person and resident grievance officer on a contractual basis while we recruit to fill the positions on a permanent basis," Twitter said in the letter. The social media firm that remains committed to serving the people of India by providing a platform to serve the public conversation in India, especially during critical moments and emergency situations. The social media firm has had several faceoffs with the government since the start of farmers' protest in Delhi and later when it tagged political posts of several leaders of the ruling party BJP as "manipulated media". Several ministers from the government and officials joined Indian rival of Twitter, Koo which is backed by former Infosys CFO Mohandas Pai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
09-06-2021||India||Licence of Agra hospital, which conducted mock oxygen drill, suspended||All patients were shifted out from a private hospital in Agra and its licence suspended on Wednesday after it allegedly conducted a "mock drill" by cutting off oxygen supply for five minutes to "segregate" the critical patients, officials said. A case was registered under the Epidemic Act against Dr Arinjay Jain, the owner of Shri Paras Hospital which has now been sealed, they said. The Agra administration also formed a magisterial team including additional district magistrate, city and two health officials from the chief minister's office. By Tuesday midnight, all the 55 patients at the hospital were either shifted to other hospitals or discharged, officials said. Chief Medical Officer, Agra Dr RC Pandey told PTI that the licence of the hospital has been suspended till the investigation is going on. Further action will be taken as per the report of the investigation, he added. Pandey said a team from the health department has sealed the hospital premises in the presence of the police. In the video which went viral on social media on Monday, the owner of Shri Paras Hospital is purportedly heard saying that bodies of some patients started turning blue after the oxygen supply was cut off. Talking to PTI, Jain shared that the motive behind the 'mock drill' was to calculate the minimum need of oxygen for the patients but it was not to 'cut off' the oxygen. He added, "Targeting our mock drill, a baseless allegation of killing 22 people is being imposed on us." "There were 55 patients in the hospital. Two were Covid patients and the remaining were non-Covid patients," Jain said. The Covid patients were shifted to Sarojini Naidu Medical College while 25 patients were discharged from the hospital as they were able to move on their own, he said. "The remaining patients were shifted to other hospitals with the help of the health department," he added. Jain said they had informed the family members to shift their patients as the hospital was being sealed, however, some of them started panicking. Some began calling their relatives and asked for help in shifting the patients. Till late on Tuesday night, family members were busy arranging ambulances and autos to move their patients, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
09-06-2021||India||Congress slams Centre over its statement on farm talks||Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala on Wednesday condemned Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar's statement over talks with agitating farmers, saying it showed the face of a dispensation that is arrogant and power-drunk . Tomar had on Tuesday told reporters in Gwalior that the government is ready to talk with the agitating farmers on options other than the repeal of the Centre's three farm laws. This statement reflects the face of an arrogant and a power-drunk government, which rejects the demands of farmers agitating for months for the rollback of the farm laws, Surjewala told reporters after appearing as a counsel in connection with the bail plea of a farmer leader, Dr Dalbir Singh. Farmers have been agitating on Delhi borders against the Centre's three new farm laws since November last year. This government cannot see 62 crore farmers of this country because it is playing in the lap of a few capitalists, Surjewala alleged. Hitting out at Tomar, Surjewala said, "He says if farmers want they can talk but black farm laws will not be withdrawn. Then on what issue will the talks take place?" "It is like inviting someone over for lunch and at the same time telling him no food will be served there," he said, adding that farmers are not begging but are seeking their rights. The government has forgotten that it came to power by making tall promises to farmers. And what are farmers asking for, they are only seeking justice and demanding what is their right. The government must withdraw the black farm laws, he said. Surjewala said that the Narendra Modi government wants to hand over the entire agriculture business to a few corporates. Referring to the case in which he argued before the sessions court here, Surjewala said a sedition case was registered against Dalbir Singh in February 2017 and last month, another case was slapped against him. The applicant is being punished for being a farmer activist protesting against the three anti-agrarian laws by the ruling government, he said, adding the arrest in a FIR after four years and three months itself proves the malice and malafide of the state. In the earlier case, Surjewala said that the applicant neither received any notice nor any intimation but it is only after registration of the second FIR on May 24 that the government and the police revived the earlier FIR as a ploy to arrest the applicant . Arresting the farmer leader more than four years after registration of a case, slapping them with sedition and other charges is grave injustice. I argued that both cases are illegitimate and Dalbir should be released on bail. The court has reserved the judgment, Surjewala said. In the fresh FIR, Dalbir Singh is accused of making some objectionable comments against Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar. Referring to the recent incidents involving farmers' protests in Hisar and Tohana, the Congress leader said the ruling dispensation was deliberately provoking farmers so that it gets a chance to lathicharge, lob tear gas shells, use force against them and put them behind the bars. He said when polls come, people will teach a lesson to the government, which is insensitive and apathetic towards the farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
09-06-2021||India||Govt ready to talk to farmers but they have to use logic, says Tomar||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday said the government is ready to resume talks with protesting farmers but asked the unions to point out their objections to the provisions of the three farm laws with sound logic. The government and unions have held 11 rounds of talks, the last being on January 22, to break the deadlock and end the farmers' protest. Talks have not resumed following widespread violence during a tractor rally by protesting farmers on January 26. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi's borders for more than six months in protest against the three laws that they say will end state procurement of crops at MSP. The Supreme Court has put on hold the implementation of the three laws till further orders and set up a committee to find solutions. "All political parties of the country wanted to bring the farm laws, but they could not gather courage to bring them. The Modi government took this big step in the interest of farmers and brought reforms. Farmers got the benefit of that in several parts of the country. But in the meantime farmers agitation started," Tomar said at a Cabinet briefing. He said the government held 11 rounds of talks with farmers and Unions were asked about their objections in the laws and which provisions they think were against farmers. "But neither leader of any political party gave its answer in the House (Parliament) nor any farmers' leader, and the talks did not move forward". The minister said that the government is committed towards farmers and it also respects farmers. "So, whenever farmers want discussions, the Government of India will be ready for discussion. But we have repeatedly asked them to tell the objections in the provisions with logic. We will listen and find a solution," Tomar said. Three union ministers, including Tomar and Food Minister Piyush Goyal, held 11 rounds of talks with the protesting farmer unions. In the last meeting on January 22, the government's negotiations with 41 farmer groups hit a roadblock as the unions squarely rejected the Centre's proposal of putting the laws on suspension. During the 10th round of talks held on January 20, the Centre had offered to suspend the laws for 1-1.5 years and form a joint committee to find solutions, in return for protesting farmers going back to their respective homes from Delhi's borders. Farmer groups have alleged that these laws will end the mandi and MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced. On January 11, the Supreme Court had stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Bhartiya Kisan Union President Bhupinder Singh Mann had recused himself from the committee appointed by the apex court. Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) President Anil Ghanwat and agriculture economists Pramod Kumar Joshi and Ashok Gulati are the other members on the panel. They have completed the consultation process with stakeholders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
09-06-2021||India||Government hikes paddy MSP by Rs 72 per quintal||The government on Wednesday raised the minimum support price (MSP) of paddy marginally by Rs 72 per quintal to Rs 1,940 per quintal for the 2021-22 crop year, while the rates of other kharif crops were also hiked. Paddy is the main kharif crop, the sowing of which has begun with the onset of the Southwest monsoon. The Met Department has projected a normal monsoon for the June-September period. The decision taken by the Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi will help farmers take a call on which kharif (summer) crop to grow as sowing picks with the spread of the Southwest monsoon. Briefing reporters after the Cabinet meeting, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar again dispelled apprehensions about MSP saying, "MSP (on farm crops) is there, is being hiked and will continue in future as well". The Cabinet has approved an increase in the MSP of paddy (common variety) to Rs 1,940 per quintal for the 2021-22 crop year (July-June) from Rs 1,868 per quintal in the year-ago period. Similarly, the MSP of Bajra has been increased to Rs 2,250 per quintal for the current year from Rs 2,150 per quintal last year, he said. MSP has been increased regularly and its benefit is reaching farmers, the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
09-06-2021||India||Over 1.3cr vaccine doses still available with states: Centre||More than 1.33 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and union territories and over 3 lakh doses are in the pipeline and will be received by them within the next three days, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday. Over 25 crore vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far, through the government of India (free of cost channel) and through direct state procurement category. Of this, the total consumption, including wastage, is 23,74,21,808 doses (according to data available at 8 am on Wednesday), the ministry said. "A total of 1,33,68,727 Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and UTs to be administered. "Furthermore, 3,81,750 vaccine doses are in the pipeline and will be received by states and UTs within the next three days," the ministry said. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the government of India has been supporting states and UTs by providing them Covid vaccines free of cost. In addition, the government of India has also been facilitating direct procurement of vaccines by states and UTs. Vaccination is an integral pillar of the comprehensive strategy of the government of India for containment and management of the pandemic, along with 'test, track, treat' and Covid appropriate behaviour. Implementation of the liberalised and accelerated phase-3 strategy of Covid vaccination had started from May 1 this year. Under the strategy, in every month 50 per cent of the total Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) cleared vaccine doses of any manufacturer would be procured by the government of India. It would continue to make these doses available to the state governments totally free of cost as was being done earlier, the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
09-06-2021||India||Congress leader Jitin Prasada joins BJP||Congress leader Jitin Prasada joined the BJP on Wednesday, in a shot in the arm for the saffron party as it prepares for assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh scheduled for early next year. He joined the BJP in presence of Union minister Piyush Goyal and its chief spokesperson Anil Baluni. Prasada told reporters after joining the BJP that it was truly the only national party which worked in an institutional way, while others were all about a few people or confined to specific regions. He also hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his leadership of the country and also lauded other senior party leaders. Noting that politics is for public service, Prasada said he realised he cannot do it in the Congress and could not protect people's interests. Goyal heaped praised on him, lauding him as a leader of stature whose induction will boost the BJP. It will also help him in serving the society, the minister added. The 47-year-old Prasada, a former Union minister, comes from a well known Brahmin family of Uttar Pradesh and was serving as the Congress leader in-charge of West Bengal before joining the BJP. His father Jitendra Prasada was a noted Congress leader. With the Congress in dire straits in Uttar Pradesh and he himself losing the Lok Sabha polls twice in a row, Prasada's decision to join the BJP may help him politically at a time when the saffron party is working overtime to boost its ranks in preparation for the assembly polls. It will also help the BJP keep Brahmins, a section of whom are said to be unhappy with the party in Uttar Pradesh, in good humour in the politically important state of India, party sources said. Speculation was rife even during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections of Prasada joining the BJP, but it is believed that the Congress leadership had then managed to persuade him against quitting the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
09-06-2021||India||HC asks Centre to carry out 'surgical strike' on Covid ||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday said the Centre's approach against coronavirus, which is the society's biggest enemy at present, should be "like a surgical strike" instead of standing at the borders waiting for the virus to come out. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni said the Union government's new "near to home" vaccination programme was like waiting for the virus carrier to come to the Centre. "Coronavirus is our biggest enemy. We need to strike it down. The enemy is residing in certain areas and in some people who are unable to come out. Your (government) approach should be like a surgical strike. You are standing at the borders waiting for the virus carrier to come to you. You are not entering the enemy territory, Chief Justice Datta said. The bench said the government was taking decisions for the welfare of the public at large, but they were delayed which has resulted in the loss of several lives. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by two advocates - Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari - seeking a direction to the government to start a door-to-door vaccination programme for senior citizens above the age of 75, specially- abled persons and those who are wheelchair-bound or bed-ridden. The Union government on Tuesday told the court that currently door-to-door vaccination was not possible, but it has decided to start "near to home" vaccination centres. On Wednesday, the HC pointed out examples of the door-to-door vaccination programmes started by Kerala, Jammu and Kashmir, Bihar and Odisha and also a few municipal corporations like Vasai-Virar in Maharashtra. "Why should the same not be encouraged in other states across the country? The central government cannot clip the wings of those state governments and civic bodies who wish to do it (door-to-door vaccination) but are waiting for the Centre's nod," the court said. It further asked why only Maharashtra and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) were waiting for the Centre's nod to start door-to-door vaccination when other states in the north, south and east have started it already without any nod. "Why is only the west waiting?" Chief Justice Datta asked. The bench noted that even the BMC had failed to live up to the court's expectations by saying it was willing to start door-to-door vaccination only if the Union government permits. "We always praise the BMC and have been saying it is a model for other states," the court said. The HC also questioned the BMC as to how at the beginning of the vaccination drive a senior politician got his dose at his residence in Mumbai. "My question to you (BMC) is at the very inception of the drive, we found that a very senior politician got the jab at his home in Mumbai. Who did it? The BMC or the state government? Somebody has to take the responsibility," the court said. The bench directed BMC's counsel Anil Sakhare and additional government pleader Geeta Shashtri, appearing for the state, to find out which authority administered the vaccine to the politician at his residence. The court also directed Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the Centre, to consider the issue once again. "We trust the government will come up with a sound policy taking into consideration what is happening in the country. The Centre should recognise the sentiments of not only the senior citizens and those who are unable to go to the vaccination centres, but also their family members," the court said. The bench posted the matter for further hearing on June 11.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
09-06-2021||India||Mumbai areas flooded as monsoon arrives ||The south-west monsoon arrived in Mumbai on Wednesday, the IMD announced as heavy rains lashed the country's financial capital and suburbs since early morning. Water-logging was reported in some low-lying areas, but the local train services remained unaffected, while routes of some BEST buses run the city civic body's transport wing were diverted. A high tide of over four metres is expected around noon in the Arabian Sea, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. "It's monsoon arrival in Mumbai today," said Dr Jayanta Sarkar, head of the India Meteorological Department's (IMD) Mumbai office. Several parts of the city and suburbs witnessed heavy rainfall along with thunder in the morning. According to the IMD, the Colaba observatory (representative of south Mumbai) received 77.4 mm rainfall, while the Santacruz observatory (representative of the suburbs) recorded 59.6 mm downpour in the last 24 hours. As per the BMC, the island city, eastern suburbs and western suburbs recorded 48.49 mm, 66.99 mm and 48.99 mm rain, respectively, in the 24-hour period ending at 8 am on Wednesday. A high tide of 4.16 metres is expected at 11.43 am, a BMC official said. The IMD has predicted cloudy sky with moderate rain/ thundershowers in the city and suburbs. There is also a possibility of heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places. "It's raining in Mumbai, but trains are running," the Central Railway's chief spokesperson, Shivaji Sutar, said. The IMD on Saturday confirmed the arrival of the southwest monsoon in Maharashtra as it reached Harnai in coastal Ratnagiri district. But, despite favourable conditions, the monsoon's further progress seemed to be slow.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
09-06-2021||India||India's daily Covid caseload stays below one lakh for second consecutive day||India reported 92,596 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the infection tally to 2,90,89,069, while the number of active cases dropped to 12,31,415, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Wednesday. The daily infections remained below one lakh for the second straight day. The death toll due to COVID-19 reached 3,53,528 with 2,219 more fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of active cases has reduced to 12,31,415, comprising 4.23 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 94.55 per cent. A net decline of 72,287 cases has been recorded in the COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 19,85,967 tests were conducted on Tuesday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 37,01,93,563, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 4.66 per cent. It has been less than 10 per cent for 16 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 5.66 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for 27 consecutive days. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,75,04,126, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.22 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 23,90,58,360 COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19. India had crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4. The 2,219 new fatalities include 702 from Maharashtra, 409 from Tamil Nadu, 179 from Karnataka and 124 from Kerala. A total of 3,53,528 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,01,172 from Maharashtra, 32,099 from Karnataka, 27,765 from Tamil Nadu, 24,668 from Delhi, 21,425 from Uttar Pradesh, 16,460 from West Bengal, 15,219 from Punjab and 13,257 from Chhattisgarh. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
09-06-2021||India||Mehul Choksi's bail hearing adjourned till June 11||The Dominica High Court has adjourned the bail hearing of fugitive diamond merchant Mehul Choksi till June 11, local media reports stated. Choksi had approached the high court after the magistrate rejected his bail petition. The bail hearing took place before high court judge Wynante Adrien-Roberts through video-conferencing on the plea of Choksi's local legal team comprising Julien Prevost, Wayne Norde, Wayne Marsh and Cara Shillingford-Marsh. The government side represented by Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) Sherma Dalrymple "strongly objected" to Choksi's plea calling him a flight risk, Dominica News Online reported. The judge adjourned the matter till June 11, it said. The high court is also hearing a separate matter of habeas corpus filed by Choksi's team in which the hearing has also been adjourned. Choksi had mysteriously gone missing on May 23 from Antigua and Barbuda, where he has been staying since 2018 as a citizen. He was detained in neighbouring island country Dominica for illegal entry after a possible romantic escapade with his rumoured girlfriend. His lawyers alleged that he was kidnapped from Jolly Harbour in Antigua by policemen looking like Antiguan and Indian and brought to Dominica on a boat. The businessman was also brought before a Roseau magistrate on the orders of high court judge Bernie Stephenson, hearing the habeas corpus matter, to answer charges of illegal entry where he pleaded not guilty but was denied bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
09-06-2021||India||Covid: Class V girl from Kerala writes to CJI, thanks judiciary||A Class V pupil penned a poignant letter to the Chief Justice of India in late May, thanking the judiciary for its orders aimed at combating Covid-19 and oxygen shortage to save lives. The letter has become public at a time many in the country believe the Supreme Court’s observations were instrumental in the Narendra Modi government’s decision to centralise Covid vaccination and make a large part of it free. So far, the Centre has not publicly acknowledged the perceived role played by the highest court of the land. Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana was so moved by the “beautiful” letter of Lidwina Joseph from Kerala that he sent her a letter and a copy of the Constitution. “From the newspaper I understood that your honourable court have intervened effectively at the sufferings and death of ordinary people in fight against Covid-19,” Lidwina, a Kendriya Vidyalaya student at Thrissur in the southern state, wrote to the Chief Justice. “I am happy and feel proud your honourable court have moved orders for supply of oxygen and saved many lives.” “I thank you your Honour…. Now I feel very proud and happy,” she added. Lidwina also enclosed a drawing (in graphic) that captured the idea of India that the founding fathers had in mind while the Constitution was being drafted. In his reply, Justice Ramana described the illustration as “heart-warming” and appreciated that Lidwina kept track of contemporary events. “I am really impressed with the way you kept track of happenings in the country and the concern that you have displayed for the well being of people in the wake of pandemic. “I am sure you will grow-up into an alert, informed and responsible citizen who will contribute immensely towards the nation building,” Justice Ramana wrote, wishing the girl all-round success.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
09-06-2021||India||Covid: Modi quiet on Supreme Court while announcing vaccine decentralisation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi uttered over 2,600 words before the nation on Monday. Not one was about the Supreme Court. The highest court of the land has been consistently suggesting course corrections and offering constructive proposals when the second wave of Covid-19 appeared to have caught the Centre unprepared. Instead, unnamed spin-doctors worked overtime on Monday night, dropping hints that the announcements made by Modi on vaccine centralisation and making the doses largely free preceded the court’s observations. The propagandists spread the claim that the decisions were on the Prime Minister’s table on June 1 itself, 24 hours before the Supreme Court observed on June 2 that the Centre’s policy was prima facie arbitrary and irrational. But the Supreme Court had made other observations on the need to centralise vaccination on May 31 itself. On Tuesday, the country’s top vaccination adviser was deployed to underscore that the process to reformulate the Covid inoculation policy had begun in May itself when difficulties with the current policy became apparent. “We respect the concerns expressed by the honourable Supreme Court, but the government of India was evaluating the implementation of the decentralised model ever since it was implemented on May 1,” said Vinod Paul, member of the Niti Aayog and chair of the national expert panel on Covid-19 vaccination. “We asked whether it is going the way it should or are there difficulties,” Paul said. “Such decisions are taken over a period of time — based on analysis, based on feedback, based on experience, based on consultations with manufacturers and state governments, internal systems, science, a totality of picture. And of course, public narrative, very important.” The combined Opposition had demanded on May 2 free, centralised vaccination — more or less what Modi announced on Monday (June 7). It is not clear why what was apparent to the Opposition on May 2 was not conclusive enough for the policymakers who took more than a month to change the policy. Paul said patterns had emerged by May 15. Modi chaired high-level meetings on May 15 and May 21, took feedback and gave directions “that we needed to work on an alternative model”, Paul said. “It became clear we needed to modify the system prevailing at the time.” He said a detailed presentation was made to Modi “10 to 15 days ago”. “I can say with full confidence and full responsibility that this is our internal feedback systems and monitoring programme that has been going on from the very beginning,” Paul said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
09-06-2021||India||Covid: Vaccine priority leeway for states under revised policy||People may register for Covid-19 vaccines on-site at government and private hospitals and states may set their own priorities when vaccinating adults 18 years or older under the country’s revised vaccination policy that starts June 21. The Union health ministry on Tuesday released revised guidelines that also call on states to ensure equitable distribution of vaccines across large and small private hospitals and underserved geographic regions to curb large private hospitals from gobbling up disproportionate shares of doses. Under the revised policy, announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, the Centre will procure 75 per cent of Covid-19 vaccines produced in India and distribute them free to states for all adults 18 years or older. The balance 25 per cent doses will be reserved for private hospitals. The Centre’s 75 per cent doses will be free to anyone above 18 years of age, but those wishing to get vaccinated in private hospitals would need to pay Rs 780 for Covishield, Rs 1,410 for Covaxin and Rs 1,145 for Sputnik. These price tags include a cap of Rs 150 the hospitals can charge for the service. The changes will end the current policy introduced on May 1 under which the Centre procures 50 per cent doses and expects states and private hospitals to buy the other half, leading to a scramble for doses between states and private hospitals. A senior health official said the revised policy would introduce flexibility for people and states, allowing people to register via the Co-WIN digital platform or register on-site in either government or private hospitals. At present, those under 45 years have to pre-register only on Co-WIN. Sections of health experts had pointed out that making pre-registration via Co-WIN had introduced elements of inequity into the campaign by denying opportunities for those between 18 and 45 years who had no access to the digital platform. Many have also complained in recent days that they are unable to find slots on the Co-WIN digital platform. The revised guidelines allow states to decide their own prioritisation within the 18-to-45-years age group depending on vaccine supplies available. A state could, for instance, decide that people in the 18 to 45 age group in certain occupations at high risk of infection exposure such as hotel or restaurant staff or vegetable vendors would have priority over others in that age group,” a public health expert said. The guidelines also require states to “aggregate the demand of private hospitals with a view to achieve equitable distribution”. The states have been asked to ensure that vaccines are distributed evenly across large and small hospitals apart from government facilities across geographies, a health official said. The Centre, based on this aggregated demand, will facilitate supply of vaccines to the private hospitals and their payment through the National Health Authority’s electronic platform, the ministry said. “This would enable smaller and remote private hospitals to obtain timely supply of vaccines,” the health ministry said, amid concerns that over the past four weeks a few large hospital chains have procured disproportionate shares of vaccines available for the private sector. Health experts have welcomed the change, saying centralised vaccine procurement will help the government negotiate better prices. “This will stop competition between states and allow them to focus on vaccine distribution,” said Poonam Muttreja, executive director of the Population Foundation of India, a health non-government organisation. But others caution that vaccine supplies in the immediate future appear limited and will pose challenges to accelerate the pace of the vaccination campaign. “We expect this policy will expand the basket of vaccines for India,” said Giridhar Babu, professor of epidemiology at the Indian Institute of Public Health, Bangalore. But Babu cautioned that more vaccines and on-site registration would not be enough to address inequities in access. “This assumption is not correct,” he said. “Many people across the country do not show health-seeking behaviour that will get them to seek out vaccinations. They need to be motivated.” 440 million doses ordered The Centre has ordered 250 million doses of Covishield and 190 million doses of Covaxin, Vinod Paul, member of the Niti Aayog and chair of the national expert panel on Covid-19 vaccination, said on Tuesday, announcing procurements planned starting in August. Paul said the Centre expected to have distributed 536 million doses up to July 2021 and the additional 440 million Covishield and Covaxin doses were intended to arrive between August and December. In addition, the government also expects 300 million doses of a new vaccine from the Hyderabad-based Biological E. Officials have said India hopes to vaccinate all eligible adults — an estimated 950 million people — by December this year by accelerating the vaccination campaign with these domestic doses as well as imported vaccines from companies such as Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson when they become available. The Centre has said it is distributing doses among states based on population, Covid-19 disease burden, vaccine coverage and wastage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
09-06-2021||India||Covid: Agra hospital owner's video surfaces, asserts conducting 'mock drill' by stopping oxygen support ||A police case has been registered against a hospital owner and doctor in Agra after he was purportedly heard in a video saying 22 patients were segregated (chhant gaye) when he conducted a “mock drill” by stopping oxygen support to test the chances of survival during the height of the Covid wave in April. The voice, suspected to be that of Dr Arinjay Jain, the owner of Shri Paras Hospital, is heard telling another man that 22 patients began gasping for breath and their bodies turned blue. According to the male voice, the “mock drill” lasted for five minutes from 7am on April 26. The video, purportedly shot stealthily in May, has been shared widely on social media since Monday. Jain was on Tuesday booked under the Pandemic Act on the basis of a complaint from the home ministry. Jain told reporters on Monday evening that the voice in the video was his but asserted that he had conducted the “mock drill” only to identify those patients who needed oxygen the most because there was a severe shortage and never had he said during the conversation, which appeared to have been recorded stealthily, that anybody had “died”. He said oxygen supply was stopped for two minutes, not five as claimed in the video. P.N. Singh, the district magistrate of Agra, told reporters on Tuesday that no patient died due to oxygen shortage at the hospital. He said four patients died on April 26 at the hospital while three succumbed to the infection on April 27. “Shri Paras Hospital (a dedicated Covid-care facility) had enough oxygen and it is not true that 22 patients died there due to oxygen shortage. However, the video that is being circulated will be examined and required action will be taken,” the DM said. The male voice in the video is heard saying in Hindi: “I asked them to make people understand that there is no oxygen anywhere and start discharging patients. Even the chief minister was not being able to arrange for oxygen…. But some patients were not ready to leave. They hung on like a pendulum, saying they won’t go. “Then I said, okay, let’s not wrack our brains too much. Let’s conduct a mock drill. Aab woh chhanto jinki oxygen bandh ho sakti hai (segregate those whose oxygen supply can be stopped). We will then figure out who all will survive and who won’t. “We conducted the mock drill at 7am on April 26. Nobody knows this. The patients started gasping for breath and their bodies turned blue. Twenty-two patients were segregated.” When the man seen in the video asked how long the drill lasted, the voice said “five minutes”. The voice then said: “Bais mock drill mein chhant gaye (Twenty-two were segregated in the mock drill). I said, okay, 74 now remain (bach gaye). I said we would now get time. Then we told the 74 others to arrange for their own cylinders.” Confronted by reporters on Monday night, Jain said: “We did the mock drill for two minutes to see who needed oxygen because there was a shortage. I have not said anywhere in the video that 22 people died. I have said they needed oxygen more than the others.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
09-06-2021||India||Covid: Covaxin proves less effective against B.1.617.2 variant||A study by India’s health research agency has found that antibodies generated by Covaxin, the homegrown Covid-19 vaccine, are less effective against the coronavirus variant called B.1.617.2 that scientists say has also similarly challenged other vaccines. Lab tests by scientists at the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, a unit of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), point to a 2.7-fold reduction in the antibody neutralisation of B.1.617.2, a variant circulating widely in India and detected in 44 countries. The tests involved taking blood samples from recipients of Covaxin and mixing them with the B.1.617.2 coronavirus to observe how antibodies in the samples interact with the virus. The results suggest a 2.7-fold lower neutralising antibody against B.1.617.2 compared with that against an earlier coronavirus variant called B1, the scientists said in a study not yet peer-reviewed but posted on medRxiv, an online preprint server. Although there is a reduction in the neutralisation, the inactivated (killed) virus vaccine demonstrates a “protective response” against B.1.617.2, the scientists said. The whole virus present in Covaxin generates a broad immune response that “decreases the magnitude” of reduced neutralisation. The ICMR and Bharat Biotech, Covaxin’s manufacturer, had on April 21 announced that the vaccine has an efficacy of 78 per cent against Covid-19 and 100 per cent efficacy against severe disease, based on a nationwide clinical trial involving over 25,000 participants. The safety and efficacy results are expected this month. A medical scientist who was not associated with the new NIV study said there was emerging anecdotal evidence from observations that both vaccines used in India — Covishield and Covaxin — protect people from severe disease and death from Covid-19. Sections of researchers, however, said that a 2.7-fold reduction in neutralisation antibody levels would still be protective only if the absolute antibody levels generated by the vaccine are high enough. “It is critical to know what is the actual fraction of Covaxin recipients who develop high enough antibody levels — high enough so that even a three-fold reduction in antibody levels does not impact protection,” a senior medical researcher who requested anonymity told The Telegraph. Queries sent by this newspaper to the ICMR and Bharat Biotech seeking their perspectives on the implications of these findings have not evoked a response. Covaxin is the result of joint research and development by ICMR and Bharat Biotech. The NIV study also observed a similar reduced neutralisation against B.1.351, the coronavirus variant first detected in South Africa. Both B.1.351 and B.1.617.2 are viewed as “variants of concern” because they contain mutations that allow them to spread faster and potentially evade immune responses. “These results are similar to what others have shown from sera (blood samples) from people vaccinated with the mRNA vaccines (such as Pfizer) and viral vector vaccines (such as AstraZeneca/Covishield),” said Shahid Jameel, a senior virologist at the Trivedi School of Biosciences, Ashoka University. But Jameel and others have expressed concern that the preprint claims misleadingly that the scientists who conducted the study have “no conflict of interest”. The study has authors from the ICMR and NIV, which contributed to the development of the vaccine, and Bharat Biotech, the manufacturer. “The authors on this study have reputational or financial conflict of interest, but they formally deny this in the preprint, and this is unethical and troubling,” Jameel said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
09-06-2021||India||Govt denies gratuity, pension to central school teachers and staff who joined after 2004||Central universities and the government-run Kendriya Vidyalayas and Navodaya Vidyalayas have not been paying gratuity and family pension to teachers and staff who joined after 2004, exacerbating the miseries of the kin of employees claimed by the pandemic. Under the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972, all government employees are entitled to gratuity after retirement, as also are their families in case of death. Although family pension, given after an employee’s death, is not compulsory, the central government has been paying it to its direct employees, but not the staff who joined autonomous institutions under it after 2004. Central varsities, Kendriya Vidyalayas and Navodaya Vidyalayas are such institutions. In the absence of these benefits, the families of employees of autonomous institutions who have died of Covid are having to make do with the paltry one-time payoff under the National Pension Scheme (NPS). The Centre implemented the NPS for employees joining government jobs after 2004. Although there was no provision for gratuity and family pension initially, the benefits were extended under the scheme through an executive order in 2009. Although the Centre implemented this for its staff immediately, all autonomous institutions did not. A one-time payment is made under the NPS, which is a contributory scheme for which the employee and the employer each set aside 14 per cent of the basic pay plus dearness allowance, and it lacks the security provided by pension. The employees of autonomous institutions, however, have to be satisfied with 10 per cent. The Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS) had started paying gratuity and family pension for all after the 2009 order but stopped in 2019 after the government asked it to without citing any reason. According to the Payment of Gratuity Act, an employer must pay gratuity to an employee for every completed year of service at the rate of 15 days’ salary, provided the employee has served five years continuously. “Denial of gratuity is a violation of the law. The central universities are not giving this benefit while most other central government employees are getting it. This practice is discriminatory too,” said Parveen, a faculty member of law at Delhi University. Nearly 60 teachers have died of Covid at DU, many of whom had joined after 2004. The families of the deceased who joined after 2004 are only receiving the one-time payment under the NPS. Rajesh Jha, a former Executive Council member of DU, said the varsity received a letter from the University Grants Commission in May 2017 stating that gratuity benefits would not be paid to NPS members in case of death or retirement till a final decision is taken by the department of expenditure under the finance ministry. “We have been waiting for over a decade. The families of the deceased staff who were covered under the NPS are in misery. We have written to the government, UGC and the DU authorities (for gratuity and family pension) but to no avail,” Jha said. The KVS Pragatisheel Shikshak Sangh, an association of teachers, has also demanded gratuity and family pension for all staff. “The families of the teachers who lost their lives during the coronavirus epidemic are only being paid a nominal relief amount. They are also being deprived of the benefits of family pension and gratuity. Such a move by the central government and the KVS is a gross violation of human rights and morals,” said a member of the association. He said the gratuity and family pension of KVS employees who joined after 2004 were stopped through a government notification in May 2019. “It should be noted that the Manmohan Singh government had in 2009 implemented retirement-cum-death gratuity and family pension. But they have been withdrawn now,” the member added. The Telegraph sent an email to the education ministry on Monday asking about the denial of gratuity and family pension, but received no response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
09-06-2021||India||Covid: At sword's point, nurses prepare for WAR-D||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
09-06-2021||India||Covid: Cry for food in locked-down Lakshadweep||Elected representatives of local bodies in capital Kavaratti on Tuesday met the Lakshadweep collector to seek relief materials such as food kits and also relaxation of the Covid-induced lockdown that has affected the livelihood of the poor who eke out a living by doing manual work. There is a perception that the move not to ease the lockdown, which has been in place for over two months, despite a significant reduction in coronavirus cases was another attempt to harass residents at a time the islands’ administrator has been introducing one controversial law after another. The 10 elected representatives met Kavaratti collector S. Asker Ali to air their concerns over the recent developments that have brought life to a standstill, especially after the lockdown was enforced. “As an immediate step we urged the administration to provide financial assistance and free dry ration kits as people are literally starving with all their earning resources shut off,” district panchayat member Asif Ali told The Telegraph on Tuesday. He said everyone on the islands had been hit badly by the lockdown that was extended by another week on Monday. “Yesterday Kavaratti reported just 17 new Covid cases while the entire Lakshadweep had 38. The administration is continuing with the lockdown only to harass us for speaking out against them,” Asif Ali said. With more than 40 per cent of the 68,000 people of Lakshadweep dependent on manual labour such as plucking coconuts and doing construction work, Asif Ali said they had been left with no income. “They are surviving on handouts that some political parties and social organisations are providing. The administration has not given any food to these poor people,” he added. The islanders had observed a 12-hour hunger strike on Monday to demand the recall of administrator Praful Khoda Patel and the withdrawal of his contentious reforms. Kavaratti village panchayat member Thaha Malika of the Congress, who was part of the delegation that met the collector, said the officer had promised to “look into” their demands. “He said he would look into our demands. But what we want is an immediate solution so that people can return to normal life,” Malika said, adding that the administration was citing Covid cases only as an excuse to keep people indoors. “Since the collector gave us time, which was a surprise, we hope he will do something to address our concerns,” the Congress leader said. The Telegraph could not contact collector Asker Ali despite repeated attempts. The islanders have been informed about a set of new norms under the Swachh Lakshadweep Abhiyan. The fresh rules prohibit residents from keeping even fallen coconuts and coconut fronds on their land. The notification dated June 4 states that it will be the duty of the residents to maintain cleanliness of their premises. “Tender coconut shell, tree trunks, coconut husk, coconut shell, trunks etc in and around dwelling places/public places must be disposed of scientifically,” it says. Asif Ali, the district panchayat member, said: “We can understand the part where it is said that people are not allowed to dispose of waste materials in public places. But why our own land? Where else do we keep our coconut fronds and coconuts?” he asked. Apart from tuna that’s fished, dried and sold by fishermen, coconut is the main produce of Lakshadweep, which is dotted with trees. “Most people don’t have separate sheds to store coconuts and their fronds. Even those who have sheds leave the coconuts and fronds in the courtyard until they dry sufficiently to be stored. I see this as yet another order to harass the people,” Asif Ali said. The arrival of administrator Patel in December changed life on the islands as he brought in one law after the other that went against the people and their traditions. While beef has been pulled out of the midday meal menu in schools of Lakshadweep where a huge majority of people are Muslims categorised as Scheduled Tribes, the administration drafted a Goonda Act in a place with one of the lowest crime rates in the country, shuttered dairy farms, destroyed fishing infrastructure, brought in a two-child norm to contest elections, and decided to use Mangalore port in BJP-ruled Karnataka to ferry all essential cargo in place of Kozhikode and Kochi in Kerala that share much, including the language and culture, with the islanders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
09-06-2021||India||Congress appoints K. Sudhakaran as president of the Kerala unit ||The Congress high command on Tuesday appointed party heavyweight and Lok Sabha member K. Sudhakaran as the president of the Kerala state unit at a time when confusion was prevailing after the debacle in the state elections when the Left Democratic Front won a rare second consecutive term. Sudhakaran replaced Mullapally Ramachandran who led the party to the election. Lok Sabha member from Kannur, Sudhakaran, is better known as an arch-rival of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan who belongs to the same district that has given birth to stalwarts such as Communist leader A.K. Gopalan and Congress leader K. Karunakaran. The state unit has for long been ridden by factionalism with two main groups dictating terms for decades until Sudhakaran made a pitch insisting there should be just the party and no groups. The proposal found immediate acceptance among many in the second rung of the leadership who have been waiting for a chance to prove their mettle. The appointment of Sudhakaran could only be seen as a continuation of the changes the party has been affecting after the election when V.D. Satheesan was picked as the leader of the Opposition in the Assembly in place of Ramesh Chennithala. Sudhakaran told reporters that Rahul Gandhi informed him of the decision over phone. “Rahul Gandhi informed me over the phone.” “It’s a huge responsibility but I want to say that I will make all efforts to take the party forward by maintaining total unity,” he told reporters emphasising on his oft-repeated mantra that the factions should not exist in the party. When asked how would he bring the two factions on the same page, Sudhakaran shot back in his characterising style: “I know how to make everyone cooperate as I am a well experienced politician. I am not a newcomer. It’s fifty years since I started this work.” Party veteran and former chief minister Oomen Chandy welcomed the new president. “I wish him all success as the new KPCC (Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee) president. He will have everyone’s support in strengthening the party”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
09-06-2021||India||Kerala Assembly polls 2021: BJP bribe case to go to crime branch||More BJP leaders are under the police lens as the crime branch is set to take over the investigation into the case related to the Kerala unit president allegedly bribing a rival candidate to pull out of the recent Assembly elections. Police in Kasaragod had on Monday registered an FIR against state BJP chief K. Surendran under IPC Sections 171b (bribery related to election) and 171e (punishment for bribery) following a complaint by CPM candidate V.V. Rameshan who finished third from Manjeshwar constituency. The complaint was based on the disclosures of Bahujan Samaj Party candidate K. Sundara who had on Saturday said that the BJP gave him Rs 2.5 lakh and a mobile phone and promised a wine shop for withdrawing from the race. Surendran eventually lost narrowly to Congress ally IUML’s candidate from Manjeshwar. Sundara had said he was threatened by local leaders Suresh Naik, Ashok Shetty and former Yuva Morcha leader Sunil Naik for contesting against Surendran before they handed over the money. The complainant’s lawyer, C. Shukkur, said that the actual investigation has only begun with the court sanction. “The police will now record the statements of Sundara and Surendran and usually add more penal sections as the investigation progresses,” he told The Telegraph on Tuesday. Leaders of rival BJP groups in Kerala have closed ranks to portray a united party and rally behind Surendran without giving the impression they are a divided house. While Surendran has been accused of paying Rs 10 lakh to tribal leader C.K. Janu on March 5 to return to the NDA with her party, Janadhipathya Rashtriya Party, against Rs 10 crore she had demanded, a heist in Thrissur district on April 3 from a car in which RSS worker Dharmarajan and his friend Shamjeer carried the money had come under cloud for alleged money laundering. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had told the Assembly on Monday that Rs 3.5 crore was in the car, although Shamjeer and Dharmarajan claimed the amount was Rs 25 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
09-06-2021||India||Covid: SC directs Govt to ensure education for orphans||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Centre, states and Union Territories to take “stringent action” against those resorting to illegal adoption of children orphaned or abandoned due to Covid-19 and also asked the government to provide these children uninterrupted education either in government or private schools. A bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose passed the directions after being informed by advocate Shobha Gupta appearing for an NGO that a large number of children are being illegally adopted by various other organisations and individuals. The court was also informed by additional solicitor-general K.M. Nataraj appearing for the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights  that till date there are 3,621 orphans, 26,176 children who have lost one parent and 274 children who have been abandoned by their parent due to the pandemic. In fact the figure was inconclusive as some states had failed to furnish complete details on the issue. The court said for the present, it is concerned with the implementation of the schemes that are in place to meet the essential needs of the affected children. Accordingly it passed the following directions: ⚫ Special juvenile police unit in each district and city shall be constituted as provided in Section 107 of the JJ Act, 2015. That apart, DCPO (district child protection officer) should take the assistance of the district legal services authorities for coordinating the implementation of the schemes in favour of the affected children. In case of any difficulties, the DCPO should involve the government servants at the grassroots level in the task of attending to the desolate kids. ⚫ The state governments/Union Territories are directed to continue identifying the children who have become orphans or lost a parent after March, 2020, either due to Covid-19 or otherwise and provide the data on the website of the NCPCR without any delay. The identification of the affected children can be done through Childline (1098), health officials, panchayati raj institutions, police authorities, NGOs, etc. ⚫ The DCPU (district child protection unit) is directed to contact the affected child and his guardian immediately on receipt of information about the death of the parent/parents. Assessment shall be made about the suitability and willingness of the guardian to take care of the child. ⚫ The DCPU should ensure that adequate provisions are made for ration, food, medicine, clothing, etc, for the affected child. Financial assistance to which the disconsolate child is entitled to under the prevailing schemes by the Centre and the state governments/Union Territories should be provided without any delay. ⚫ If the DCPO is of the prima facie opinion that the guardian is not suitable to take care of the child, he should produce the child before the CWC (child welfare committee) immediately. ⚫  The CWC should provide for the essential needs of the child during the pendency of the inquiry without fail. The inquiry should be completed expeditiously. The CWC shall ensure that all financial benefits to which the child is entitled are provided without any delay. ⚫ The state governments/Union Territories are directed to make provisions for continuance of education of the children both in government as well as in private schools. ⚫ The state governments/Union Territories are directed to take action against those NGOs/individuals who are indulging in illegal adoptions. ⚫ Wide publicity should be given to the provisions of the JJ Act, 2015, and the prevailing schemes of the Union of India and the state governments/Union Territories which would benefit the affected children. The bench posted the matter for next hearing on July 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
09-06-2021||India||Ex-prof writes to Modi, Adityanath asking to not change shape and nature of Ganga||A retired professor in Varanasi has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath requesting them not to change the shape and nature of the Ganga and hinder its flow by constructing structures for a tourism project. A local advocate has moved the National Green Tribunal seeking protection of the Ganga from “mindless constructions”. The government plans to start a steamer service for tourists from Varanasi to the neighbouring district of Muzaffarpur for which it is building a jetty that juts 100ft into the river from Lalita Ghat and a canal-like channel that will have constant and consistent water flow for the river corridor. A temporary dam-like structure has also been built to create a water-free area along the length and breath of the under-construction jetty so that the platform can be built. U.K. Chaudhary, a retired professor of civil engineering at the Indian Institute of Technology of Banaras Hindu University who has done extensive research on the Ganga, has stated in his letter to the Prime Minister and the chief minister that the semi-circular shape of the river at Lalita Ghat was not only its beauty but also aided the smooth flow of the water. “Some construction work has been started in the middle of the Ganga at Lalita Ghat that will not only harm the river but also the city. The negative impact of such constructions will be visible in five-six years. As the natural flow of the water is being hindered, the river will deposit mounds of sand and earth at the ghats in the vicinity. There will also be heavy erosion on the bank on the city side,” Chaudhary told reporters. He said the 100ft-long and 150ft-wide jetty was being built with the help of heavy machines. “The Ganga has a semi-circular shape at Lalita Ghat. Besides the platform (jetty), the government has also built a dam-like structure there, which is obstructing the flow of the water and hampering the speed of the Ganga. Because of these constructions, water is receding from the Lalita Ghat and also the ghats nearby,” Chaudhary said. “Since the natural flow of the river is getting affected, there will soon be deposits of an unmanageable quantity of sand and silt between Assi Ghat and Dashswamedh Ghat. Lalita Ghat is in the middle of the stretch of the 80 ghats of Varanasi,” he added. Saurabh Tiwari, the Varanasi-based advocate, has filed a petition before the National Green Tribunal seeking immediate halt to the construction work on the Ganga. He accused the government of trying to change the original character of the Ganga by dredging it and creating a “canal-like channel” for the river-ride corridor. “Varanasi is identified with the Ganga. We all know that there is an algal bloom on the Ganga in Vanarasi these days (because of lack of cleaning). Instead of cleaning the Ganga, the government is busy in making a huge platform on Lalita Ghat, a dam and a channel, all of which is obstructing the flow of the river,” Tiwari told The Telegraph. Ashok Dwivedi, former president of the Kashi Vishwanath Temple Trust who is a member of a group of residents who have come together on Modi’s request to advise the government on local issues, tried to dispel fears that the river was being tinkered with. “We recently spoke to the Prime Minister (who is also the Varanasi MP) about the apprehensions of the locals. He promised us that the actual character of the Ganga wouldn’t change. The Prime Minister said scientists had been told to ensure that the sanctity of Varanasi city is not violated,” Dwivedi said. Deepak Agrawal, the divisional commissioner of Varanasi, told reporters: “Some beautification work is going on there. The actual character of the Ganga will be maintained. The idea is to boost tourism without changing the nature of the river in the city.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
09-06-2021||India||PM Modi focuses attention on party, plays guide ||The BJP leadership beset by a bruising defeat in the Bengal polls and the pandemic’s second wave has found a new address “to report party developments and seek guidance” — 7 Lok Kalyan Marg. The occupant of the sprawling address ensconced in greenery is Prime Minister Narendra Modi. There is emerging evidence that Modi is taking an unusual interest in party affairs at a time the BJP has been pounded by crises and condemnation from all quarters. Over the past two days, BJP president J.P. Nadda and other key party leaders have been driving down to the Prime Minister’s residence, after holding extensive meetings among themselves, to “report party developments and seek guidance” from Modi. Nadda chaired a two-day meeting of party general secretaries and other important leaders on Saturday and Sunday to take stock of the preparations for the elections in five states next year, including the politically crucial Uttar Pradesh. On the agenda was also the BJP drive to reach out to the Covid-affected masses under the Seva Hi Sangathan programme. Leaders have been asked to visit villages and help the needy in what appears to be a belated attempt to make up for the leadership void during the tempestuous second wave of the pandemic. Sources said Nadda and other frontline leaders had over the past two days briefed Modi about these sessions. On Sunday, the Prime Minister spent five hours with Nadda, BJP general secretaries and the heads of various frontal organisations. He heard the leaders and advised them on different issues, focused mainly on winning the support and trust of the voters, the sources said. Despite Modi being a “24x7 politician” in command of everything from governance to party affairs, this keenness in the day-to-day affairs of the organisation has sparked off murmurs in the BJP and Delhi’s political circles. What has intensified the speculation is the timing — coming against the backdrop of the BJP’s defeat in the Bengal elections, which the party had turned into a high-octane battle that the whole nation had been glued to, and the widespread miseries perpetrated by Covid’s second wave for which the Centre was blamed. It’s widely believed that the unspeakable human tragedy caused by the lack of hospital beds, oxygen and medicines, and thousands of corpses floating in rivers and buried on the banks had dented Modi’s image and that of the party. The BJP sources said efforts had been launched on a war footing to contain the damage. A measure of how badly the Bengal drubbing had hurt the BJP was evident in the lessons apparently dished out by Modi during the five-hour meeting. “The party should take lessons from the Bengal polls. It should note how the Trinamul Congress secured a big victory after the poor performance in the (2019) Lok Sabha polls,” Modi was quoted as telling the BJP leaders. He also told them that in both victory and defeat, the party should hold detailed analyses so that it can prepare for future elections. BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, which accounts for 80 Lok Sabha seats, goes to polls early next year. This election is believed to be at the centre of Modi’s and the BJP’s concerns. BJP leaders, however, denied that Modi had started showing excessive interest in party affairs, saying he had always played the role of a guide. “Modiji has always addressed party leaders and offered guidance and suggestions. There is nothing out of place,” a BJP general secretary who was part of the meeting with the Prime Minister said. Two other general secretaries who attended the meeting said they had got the impression that Modi wanted to know everything about the activities being carried out by the party and repeatedly stressed on not allowing inertia to creep in during the government’s second stint. In BJP corridors, however, there is a feeling that with the image of his government and the party taking a beating, Modi was not willing to take any chances and wanted to directly monitor the affairs of the BJP. “It’s a fact that our leaders were missing in action during the second Covid wave and this harmed our image. Modiji also seems to be concerned,” an MP said. The other reason behind Modi’s perceived extraordinary intervention, BJP leaders felt, was the shifting of former party chief Amit Shah to governance. With his most trusted lieutenant manning the party, Modi used to feel more assured, the leaders said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
09-06-2021||India||Covid: Congress seeks roadmap from Centre for vaccinating 100 crore citizens by December||The Congress on Tuesday asked the central government to announce a complete roadmap for vaccinating 100 crore citizens by December this year, arguing that over 80 lakh doses will be required to be administered everyday in place of the May average of 16 lakh per day to achieve the target. Responding to the government’s claim that the vaccination drive will be completed by December 31 this year, the Congress said Prime Minister Narendra Modi did not explain how that target would be achieved while announcing the revised policy on Monday. The party had said on Monday that the exercise to cover 100 crore people will be completed only in May 2024 at the current speed of vaccination. Former Union minister Jairam Ramesh said on Tuesday: “In April, the daily average doses given was 30 lakh. In May, it has come down to 16 lakh. If we have to vaccinate 100 crore people by December 31, we have to give 80 lakh doses every day over the next six months. “Manmohan Singh had asked for spelling out the roadmap on April 18. The Prime Minister and the health minister should convince the people that target is achievable.” Ramesh said: “The priority today is vaccine, nothing else. The country has suffered because the government failed to procure enough vaccines. No country in the world was procuring vaccines the way we did. Now we have no option but to complete vaccination this year. “Despite knowing that the Centre alone is in a position to procure vaccine, the Prime Minister is blaming the states, Opposition and others. He handled the issues with lack of honesty and humility, with hubris and irresponsibility.” Confronting the Prime Minister for shifting the blame to states, Ramesh added: “No state would have objected if the Centre said we will procure all the vaccines and distribute it among the states. That was the way. Even in the economic sense, the Centre was better placed to bargain for the best price. The states were only following the policy decided by the Centre. Let the government present the minutes of the meeting showing chief ministers asking for procurement to the Supreme Court.” Ramesh asserted that the country could have been saved from unprecedented miseries if Modi conceded the suggestions made by the Congress and the joint Opposition. “Modi should have discussed the issue with states, with Opposition parties, he could have called the former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. It has to be a national effort, we have to do it collectively,” he added. While Singh suggested ways for ramping up production as early as April 18, the joint Opposition unambiguously demanded free universal vaccination on May 2 and May 12. The Prime Minister didn’t respond. Rahul Gandhi demanded free vaccine for all at least eight times in the last two months. Several chief ministers wrote to Modi, explaining resource crunch and stressing that the Centre alone had the wherewithal to fund such a massive vaccination drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
09-06-2021||India||Assembly polls 2021: Report says most defectors were from Congress||Most candidates who changed parties in the recent polls to five Legislative Assemblies were from the Congress and the destination of most party hoppers was the BJP, according to a report by the NGO Association for Democratic Reforms. In its “Analysis of Re-Contesting Candidates and MLAs who Changed Parties in the Recent Assembly Elections 2021”, the ADR recommended tighter norms and constitutional changes to discourage defection. The report said: “Maximum number of candidates, 8 (13.33 per cent) left INC (Congress) to join another party during the recent Assembly elections 2021, while 5 (8.33 per cent) candidates left each from AIADMK, AIUDF and BJP to join a different party to contest elections during this period. In recent Assembly elections 2021, 15 (25 per cent) out of the total of 60 re-contesting candidates who switched political parties joined the BJP followed by 8 (13.33 per cent) candidates who joined AITC (Trinamul Congress) and 5 (8.33 per cent) candidates who joined INC.” It added: “Highest number of MLAs, 20 (39.22 per cent), left INC to join another party during the recent Assembly elections 2021, while 15 (29.41 per cent) MLAs left AITC to join a different party to contest elections during this period. In recent Assembly elections 2021, 20 (39.22 per cent) out of 60 re-contesting MLAs who switched political parties joined the BJP followed by 17 (33.33 per cent) MLAs who joined AITC and 7 (13.73 per cent) MLAs who joined Amma Makkal Munnettra Kazagam (sic).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
09-06-2021||India||Covid: Bihar to unlock gradually from today||Lockdown in Bihar will be lifted in a staggered manner from Wednesday. The state, clamped over a  month ago in view of the spurt in Covid-19 cases, will enforce night curfew from 7pm to 5am and provide relaxations to shops and offices during the daytime. Chief minister Nitish Kumar made the announcement on his social media handles on Tuesday after a meeting of the crisis management group, which reviewed the pandemic situation in the state. “Lockdown has led to a decline in corona infection hence we are ending the lockdown. Night curfew will continue from 7pm to 5am. Government and private offices will open with 50 per cent attendance till 4pm. Shops can open till 5pm,” Nitish tweeted after the meeting. “Online teaching will continue. Private vehicles will be allowed to ply. This arrangement will continue for a week. There is still a need to stay away from crowds,” he added. Complete lockdown was imposed in Bihar on May 5 after the state was rattled by an explosive rise in Covid-19 cases that heaped additional burden on the health infrastructure, which is already in an extremely poor shape. The lockdown was extended thrice till June 8. Shops had been allowed to remain open from 6am to 10am during the first three phases of the lockdown. The timing was increased till 2pm during the last extension of the lockdown. Only 50 per cent passengers will be allowed in public transport. Schools, colleges, educational institutions and all religious places will stay closed. All kinds of social, educational, cultural, religious, sports, political and entertainment activities will remain banned during over the first phase of unlock from June 9 to 15. Only 20 people can participate in wedding and funeral processions. The state has witnessed 7.14 lakh Covid-19 cases of which 5,424 people succumbed to the infection. At present, there are 8,230 active cases and the recovery rate has increased to 98.09 per cent. Only 762 new infections were detected on Monday. State home department additional chief secretary Chaitanya Prasad clarified that the restrictions with regard to timings will not apply on necessary services like water supply, health facilities, police, electricity, fire brigade, telecom, animal husbandry, food grain supply, banks, ATMs, petrol pumps, cooking gas services, e-commerce, postal department and courier services, medicine shops among others. “Unlock-1 is being initiated. Private vehicles, except during night curfew, will be allowed to ply only if the passengers in it are wearing masks,” Prasad told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
09-06-2021||India||Covid: Odisha Vigilance Directorate airlifted to Calcutta for treatment||The director of the Odisha Vigilance Directorate, Dr. Debasis Panigrahi, who is in a critical condition after being infected with Covid-19, was on Tuesday airlifted to Calcutta for treatment. Panigrahi had been admitted to a private hospital in Cuttack on May 29 after being diagnosed with the virus. He was on ventilator support but as his condition deteriorated it was decided to airlift him to Calcutta. “His condition is critical. He has a number of health issues,” said doctors. A green corridor was created between Cuttack and Bhubaneswar, covering a distance of 30km, to ensure smooth passage of the ambulance carrying the ailing IPS officer to the Biju Patnaik airport. After his condition deteriorated and he developed complications, including inflammation of lungs, doctors advised ECMO (extracorporeal membrane oxygenation) treatment which is not available in any government hospital in Odisha. The Odisha government has decided to start a full-fledged ECMO unit at the SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack because of its rising demand for the treatment of Covid-19 patients with lung and other complications. The government also claimed that the ongoing lockdown has brought down the number of Covid-19 cases in the state. “Besides the lockdown, the double dose of vaccination has reduced the severity of infections among people contracting the virus after inoculation,” said C.B.K. Mohanty, director of Medical Education and Training, Odisha. The state on Tuesday registered 5,896 infections in the last 24 hours, the lowest after April 21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
09-06-2021||West Bengal||Even the gods aren’t safe as Sagar Island braces for another storm||Even the gods aren’t safe on Sagar, the largest of the Sundarbans islands. The Kapil Muni temple on the south side of Sagar attracts millions of Hindu pilgrims every January but their combined prayers can’t keep the seawater away. Says priest Durgapada Pahari: “The temple has been pushed in by at least 7km. It has been rebuilt at least four times, each time further from where it stood earlier.” Another move may not be long coming. “This time during Cyclone Yaas, the seawater had reached the temple,” adds Pahari. The temple priests and the island’s people are bracing for another rough weekend of heavy rain and storm. Embankments will be breached again, homes will get flooded, crops will be damaged and the fish in the pond will die. Thursday's new moon will mean high tides and more devastation. For the 4,000-odd residents of Sumatinagar and Kachuberia on the north side of Sagar Island, this is their life. Islands like Lohachhara, Suparibhanga and Bedford have long vanished and are preserved only as memories by a few community elders. Younger people say these are mere names to them. “I don’t know these names. Maybe the elders will know,” admits Shubhankar Mandal, a post-graduate in history who still lives on the island. Sagar, spread over 280sq km, has lost about 51.8sqkm since the middle of the last century but the island’s residents hang on even though they’ve become resigned to a dismal future. “We lose our fields, our homes, we go elsewhere to survive the current threat. I don’t know how long we can manage like this,” says Sheikh Farooque, who taught at a private school at Subhasgram near Sonarpur near Calcutta before the lockdown. He now survives by giving tuitions to students, though most of them can’t pay. Farooque has gone through this routine countless times. He’s from Ghoramara island north-west of Sagar and was at a storm shelter here before Cyclone Yaas hit on May 23. Says Farooque: “Our house is completely destroyed. We are staying in a tent. The pond feels like acid. Even now there is water till the knee. After tomorrow the situation is going to get worse. Some people have left in a vessel which came in the evening, some have decided to stay in the cyclone shelter.” There have been countless plans to prevent damage to these islands. But the fact is that even the most basic measures haven’t been completed. Yaas hit on May 23 and since then, only half of the 317 embankment breaches have been repaired. It will take a month for the remaining to be fixed. This means that local residents are exposed to another round of inundation and destruction. This time under the invisible gaze of a new moon, which causes higher tides, on Friday, June 11. The agents of destruction have come particularly swiftly in the last two years. Before Yaas, three other cyclones, Fani (May 2019), Bulbul (November 2019) and Amphan (May 2020), struck with devastating force. They’ve made life even worse than it usually is for the people of Sagar and the islands around it at the confluence of the Bay of Bengal and the Channel Creek locally christened Muri Ganga River. Located around 130km from Calcutta at the southern-most tip of West Bengal, Sagar Island is one of the 102 islands on the Indian side of the Sundarbans, one of the world’s largest mangrove forests, shared between India and Bangladesh, with over 200,000 residents. Kachuberia in the northern tip of the island is connected to the Kapil Muni temple at the southern extreme by a 30-km metalled road, which fortunately survived the last cyclone. Nevertheless, localities on both sides of the road were hit badly by it. Around 54 islands on the Indian side are inhabited and home to approximately 5 million people, many of whom have learnt to live with the constant threats to their homes, livelihood and lives as natural disasters of increasing ferocity keep pounding the area. Kept alive by mythology, the vagaries of nature, coupled with human greed, have brought the islands to the brink of disappearance. The gradual destruction of Sundari forests, that lends its name as well as protection to the area, has left Sagar’s residents vulnerable. Over the past several decades Sagar has turned home for many of those who were displaced from neighbouring islands, primarily Ghoramara. Today, its very existence is under threat. Almost 12 per cent of the shoreline has been lost to the advancing sea. NASA satellite images reveal the rise of the sea level by an average of 3cm in the past two decades. The ravages of nature are particularly harsh on livelihoods. Before the sea devours land, it makes it unfit for life and farming. Ponds get inundated with salt water. Fish die. Construction of dams on rivers has reduced the flow of freshwater to the delta, while the sea pushes inwards and increases the saline quotient. “Ponds need to be dry fast for freshwater to fill it up again. But where is the respite from this never-ending series of natural calamities that has left us on the brink of ruin?” said Gouranga Jana, a resident of Sumatinagar. With saline water deposition leaving the fields unfit for cultivation, an increasing number of residents are venturing out into the sea for fishing, an unsustainable livelihood measure for most as the catch is fast dwindling. Pratikar Rahman, state SFI president who has been travelling around Yaas-affected areas of South 24-Parganas, including the Sunderbans, has a lot to say about the hopeless situation. “The only way to protect Sagar and Sundarbans is planting mangroves and building concrete embankments. Everything else is a temporary measure that will be washed away in the next floods,” says Rahman who contested unsuccessfully from the neighbouring Diamond Harbour constituency in the just-concluded assembly elections. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee also stresses that mangroves must be grown to protect the islands, but officials looking after the development of Sundarbans agree it will take time. “It will take time for the mangroves to grow. Every monsoon, every cyclone our priority is to save lives from the imminent threat. Long-term measures take a backseat as immediate relief takes over,” said a senior government official. Sources in the state administrative headquarters said Mamata has instructed the South 24-Pargana district administration to shift 20,000 people from Sagar and Mousuni islands to safe zones and cyclone shelters ahead of Wednesday’s rainfall and high tide.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
09-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata questions Centre's decision to distribute vaccine to private hospitals||Alleging that the Narendra Modi government is not following the spirit of federalism, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday wondered why the Centre kept to itself the right of distribution of 25 per cent Covid-19 vaccines to private hospitals and not to the states. The prime minister had on Monday announced that the Centre has decided to buy 75 per cent of jabs from vaccine makers for free supply to states, while private sector hospitals will continue to procure the remaining 25 per cent. Banerjee said that she opposed the imposition of Goods and Services Tax (GST) on medicines, equipment and vaccines required for the treatment of Covid-19. Addressing a press meet at the state secretariat 'Nabanna' after meeting leaders of agitating peasants, she said that from "Covid to farmers", the BJP-led central government has pushed the country into serious crisis. "The Centre has said that it will directly provide 25 per cent of vaccines to private hospitals. Why by the Centre? The state implements the policy of the Centre in a federal set-up," she said. Taking a dig at the prime minister, she said, "He only knows how to speak against states. He only knows about divide and rule. Why is there no word by the PM about withdrawing 5 per cent GST on Covid vaccines?" Banerjee said that the prime minister did not think about spending Rs 34,000 crore from PM Cares Fund to fully vaccinate the people of the country in all these days. Had the Centre taken up the free vaccination drive in this period, "we would not have to lose so many citizens in the age group of 18-45 years", she claimed. "What happened to the promise by Modi before the Bihar elections about free vaccination to everyone? So many months elapsed afterwards," she said. The Bihar Assembly election was held in three phases in OctoberNovember last year. "The PM should not take credit for the free vaccine policy of the Centre now and should explain what happened in all these days," Banerjee said. The CM said that two crore people were inoculated in West Bengal and the state government spent Rs 200 crore to procure vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
09-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata promises to support farmers’ agitation after meeting with leaders||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday assured farmer leaders led by Rakesh Tikait and Yudhvir Singh of support to their agitation against the new agriculture laws. At a meeting with the farmer leaders here during the day, the TMC chief said that there should be a platform where states could converse on policy issues. "Bulldozing states is not good for the federal structure," she said. Mamata’s support for the north India-based farmers' unions comes within days of the Trinamool Congress announcing that the party would spread its footprints outside Bengal's geographical boundaries. The Bhartiya Kisan Union led by Tikait and Singh had supported the 'No vote for BJP' campaign ahead of the Bengal Assembly elections and now have plans to extend that in other upcoming state elections as well. Mamata announced after the meeting that her "support for the farmers' movement will be there" and added in an obvious jibe at the Centre that "India is hungrily waiting for policies which help in fighting Covid-19, assist farmers and industry." The chief minister rhetorically asked, "...why is it so difficult to talk to the farmers?" She was referring to the breakdown in communication between the Centre and the farmers who have been camping at Delhi's borders for the past one year against three farm laws passed by the Parliament. The agitators feel the new laws will commercialise agriculture without adequate protection to small farmers from exploitation by large retail chains and industry. "The BJP rule has been disastrous for all sectors from healthcare to farmers to industry. India is suffering...we are facing both natural and political disasters," Mamata said. The chief minister said that the agriculturist leaders have requested her to talk to other state leaders on the farmers' issue and organise a dialogue with farmers' unions. "The farmers' movement is not just for Punjab, Haryana or Uttar Pradesh. It is for the whole country," she said. Mamata also said that it was necessary for states to come together to discuss policy issues and stand together against injustice. Earlier in the day, Yudhvir Singh, general secretary of the BKU, told PTI, "We want to congratulate Mamata Banerjee for her electoral victory and to elicit her support for the move to give farmers a fair MSP for their crops." Tikait and other farmer leaders have been agitating on Delhi's borders for the past one year against three laws passed by the Parliament which they feel will commercialise agriculture without adequate protection to small farmers from exploitation by large retail chains and industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
09-06-2021||West Bengal||Over 4,000 evacuated from Yaas-hit islands amid high tide warning in Bengal||More than 4,000 inhabitants of cyclone Yaas-hit Mousuni and Ghoramara islands in Bengal's South 24 Parganas district have been evacuated to safety following warning of new moon high tides on June 11 and June 26, a state minister said on Wednesday. Around 3,000 people from Mousuni Island and 1,100 inhabitants of Ghoramara have been shifted to different flood centres in the district, Sunderbans Development Minister Bankim Hazra said. "So far, we have evacuated over 4,000 people from these two islands but more people need to be moved as per Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's direction. Over 1,100 families live in Ghoramara and 3,200 in Mousuni," he told PTI. Mamata had directed the district administration to evacuate residents of the two islands where embankments were ravaged by cyclone Yaas on May 26 and repairs would not be completed before June-end. "The Irrigation Department is trying to complete the repair work," he said. Hazra expressed hope that high tide waters will not enter coastal areas like Dhobal and Shibpur but may inundate parts of Gosaba, Kultuli, Patharpratima, Frazerganj, Noapukuria, Iswaripur and Narayanpur on June 11 as repairing of embankments are yet to be completed in those areas. "I will be holding a meeting with senior officials of the Irrigation and Panchayat departments and SDOs, BDOs and the police administration to chalk out a plan," he said. Mamata had earlier said that there have been breaches at river embankments at 317 places, most of which will be repaired by June 21 barring a few in Sagar and Mousuni islands, work for which will be completed only by June 31. Hence, nearly 20,000 people will have to be evacuated before the coming high tides, she had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
09-06-2021||West Bengal||Buddhadeb, wife discharged from Calcutta nursing home||Former West Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee was on Wednesday discharged from a nursing home in Calcutta where he was undergoing treatment for post-COVID ailments, doctors said. His wife Mira Bhattacharjee, also admitted at the same nursing home, was discharged as well, they said. The former chief minister's health condition is stable, a senior doctor of the nursing home said. "His antibody report is okay and other parameters are also fine. But, he is needed to follow the prescribed medicines at home," the doctor said. Bhattacharjee, 77, is a patient of COPD and need to be very careful, he said. "Our doctors will be in touch with the family and keep a tab on the health conditions of both Bhattacharjee and his wife," he said. The former minister and his wife, diagnosed with COVID-19 last month, were discharged from a hospital on June 2 after recovering from the infection. They were then admitted to the nursing home for treatment of post-COVID complications.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
09-06-2021||West Bengal||Farmers set to meet Mamata today to elicit support for protest||Farmer leaders led by Rakesh Tikait and Yudhvir Singh of the Bharatiya Kisan Union will be meeting Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday to elicit her support for the ongoing farmers' stir against the new agriculture laws and for a Minimum Support Price for farm produce. Mamata’s support for the agitation which has drawn on the farmer community in rural north India, is being viewed as a potential booster which has been flagging in recent weeks. Yudhvir Singh, general secretary of the BKU, told PTI, "We want to congratulate Mamata Banerjee for her electoral victory and to elicit her support for the move to give farmers a fair MSP for their crops." Singh wants to also impress Mamata to come up with MSP for fruits, vegetables and milk products in Bengal as "this will serve as a model" elsewhere. The lack of a specified MSP and glut in produce often leads to farmers suffering from extremely low prices which results in huge losses, often leading to farmer suicides in many parts of the country. Tikait and other farmer leaders have been agitating on Delhi's borders for the past one year against three laws passed by the Parliament which they feel will commercialise agriculture without adequate protection to small farmers from exploitation by large retail chains and industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
09-06-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari meets Modi for the first time after election results||BJP MLA and Leader of Opposition in the Bengal Assembly Suvendu Adhikari on Wednesday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi. Adhikari met Modi at his residence a day after meeting the BJP's top brass, including its president JP Nadda and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. This was the first meeting of Adhikari with the top leaders of the BJP after becoming the leader of Opposition in the Bengal Assembly. On Tuesday, he met Home Minister Amit Shah and discussed various issues concerning the state. In his first meeting after becoming the leader of opposition in the state assembly, Adhikari also met Union minister Mansukh Mandviya. He was also scheduled to meet BJP national president J P Nadda, party sources said. Adhikari had defeated Trinamul Congress (TMC) supremo and Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in a closely contested election in the Nandigram Assembly segment. His meeting with top brass of the BJP comes days after his presence in Modi-Mamata meet over cyclone Yaas review had irked the TMC leader. According to sources, Mamata Banerjee had arrived late at the aforementioned meeting and left after submitting a report on the impact of the cyclone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
09-06-2021||West Bengal||20-minute-long cyclonic wind wreaks havoc in North 24-Parganas||Around 200 houses were damaged as a 20-minute-long cyclonic wind wreaked havoc in several areas of Gaighata block in North 24-Parganas on Monday evening. Local sources said that a rotating column of wind, quite similar to the tornado-like mass of wind that recently rampaged several areas of Hooghly, North 24-Parganas and Nadia districts, lashed Jaleshwar, Ichhapur, Panchpota, Sutia, Rajapur, Chowgacha and some other adjacent areas under Gaighata block. The cyclonic wind brought down houses and uprooted several trees. Govinda Das, chief of Gaighata Panchayat Samiti, said the damage had left many families homeless. “Preliminary reports suggest that more than 200 families have been rendered homeless by the sudden calamity. We have begun an assessment of the losses that people suffered so that they can be compensated according to government norms. For now, we have also arranged relief items and shelter for people who lost their homes,” Das said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
09-06-2021||West Bengal||Former Bangladeshi enclave residents back Trinamul at Dinhata ||Some 120 families from erstwhile Bangladeshi enclaves and are mostly from the minority community, shifted allegiance to Trinamul at Dinhata in Cooch Behar on Tuesday, in a major setback for the saffron camp. Since 2015, when the enclaves merged with the Indian mainland and became Indian villages, most dwellers supported the BJP, with the party securing a number of seats in the 2018 panchayat elections. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and the Assembly elections held earlier this year, these people had supported the BJP. “Cooch Behar is a district where the BJP had the support of many Muslims, especially dwellers of former enclaves. In fact, a number of youths from these villages were office bearers of BJP’s frontal organisations in the district. The BJP also publicised this to say it enjoys the support of minorities,” said a political observer. However, the tables have turned against the BJP.  Around 120 families of erstwhile enclaves like Madhya Mashaldanga, Dakshin Mashaldanga and Poaturkuthi (all in Dinhata subdivision of the district), joined Mamata Banerjee’s party at an event in Salmara under Dinhata-II block on Tuesday. Udayan Guha, the immediate past Trinamul MLA of Dinhata, who lost to the BJP’s Nisith Pramanik by 57 votes this time, was present at the event. As Pramanik is also the Cooch Behar MP and has resigned as MLA, Dinhata will have a bypoll soon. On minorities quitting the BJP for Trinamul, Guha said they realised that the BJP only makes “hollow promises” and the leaders play the polarisation card. “Unlike the BJP in power at the Centre, Mamata Banerjee has kept her promises. In the coming days, BJP will be wiped out from these areas,” said Guha. Jainal Abedin, who stays in one of the former enclaves, and was a general secretary and vice-president of the BJP’s young wing Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha for years, was among those who quit the BJP on Tuesday. “We are fed up with the divisive politics of BJP. Some leaders do speak of inclusiveness but ultimately practise religion-based politics. That is why we felt it necessary to join Trinamul,” said Abedin, the grandson of Asgar Ali, one of the leaders at the forefront of a movement for the exchange of enclaves between India and Bangladesh that happened in 2015 under a bilateral pact. BJP leaders, however, are confident of retaining their support base. “A few families of Dinhata may have joined Trinamul but thousands in the district are still with us,” said Diptiman Sengupta, a district BJP leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
09-06-2021||West Bengal||Four persons arrested for harassing sub-divisional officer in Alipurduar||Four persons, including two employees of the state health department and a civic volunteer, were arrested on charges of harassing the sub-divisional officer (SDO) of Alipurduar and also for driving in an inebriated state on Monday evening. Police sources said Priyadarshini Bhattacharya, an IAS officer posted as the SDO, was returning to Alipurduar from Rajabhatkhawa when her vehicle had a close shave as a car was running recklessly at a high speed with four persons in it. “The SDO asked her driver to follow the car — heading in the opposite direction. Police were also informed who intercepted the car at Damanpur (on Alipurduar outskirts). The quartet had an argument with the SDO as she reached the spot. They were under the influence of alcohol and have been arrested,” said a police officer. On Tuesday, the quartet Sanjib Kushali, a pharmacist, Surajit Chatterjee, a medical technologist, Amal Ghosh, a civic volunteer, and Ranjit Das were produced in a local court and released on bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
09-06-2021||West Bengal||Bolt from the blue tears apart seven-year-old girl’s life in Hooghly||A bolt from the blue on Monday evening tore apart a seven-year-old girl’s life in Hooghly, killing her parents. Her parents had gone to their field to save their peanut crop from rain, when lightning fell. The couple became a statistic among the 26 lightning deaths in five districts in a day. The child’s father owned an acre in a village in Hooghly, but would give his land to sharecroppers, as he ran a studio in the market. This was the first time that he farmed peanuts, a cash crop, on his land, as income from the studio fell drastically amid Covid-19. “The harvested peanuts were heaped on the field and he went to cover them with a plastic sheet. His wife went with him. That’s when a bolt killed the couple,” said Gopal Roy, a Trinamul zilla parishad member. “We are all worried about the little girl, her education and her life in general,” he added. On Tuesday, state government officials, headed by representatives of local bodies, gave her two cheques of Rs 2 lakh each as compensation for her parents’ deaths. “The girl is a minor and has no bank account. The authorities will open a bank account for her and deposit the money,” said an official. Pranay Samui, a neighbour, said no amount of money could compensate what the girl lost. “The little girl is so shocked that she hasn’t even spoken since last (Monday) evening,” said Samui. Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced Rs 2 lakh each for the next of kin of each deceased and and Rs 50,000 for each injured. His party leaders tripped over themselves to lavish praise on the decision. The Mamata Banerjee government has a standard compensation for such mishaps, of identical amounts, Rs 2 lakh and Rs 50,000. Sources said the state government asked its officials not to waste time in giving aid after Modi’s announcement. Trinamul leaders visited every affected family on Tuesday, and helped with last rites. The party also  announced that its national general-secretary Abhishek Banerjee would visit homes of the deceased in Murshidabad, Nadia and other places over the next two days. Lightning killed three persons  on Tuesday evening as well, two in Birbhum and one in Nadia. The deceased are Birbhum’s Mungali Hembram, 27, a farm labourer, and Sukumar Garai, 56, a farmer, and Nadia’s Hasan Mondal, 48, also a farmer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
09-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal BJP unit sets up disciplinary action committee amid dissent||BJP’s Bengal unit on Tuesday set up a disciplinary action committee with an intent to curb anti-party activities at a time when the saffron camp is rattled by agitation by workers at the grassroots and criticism from within the party. The formation of the disciplinary panel had been due since the new state committee had been formed in 2020 with Dilip Ghosh as the president. “We have set up a disciplinary action committee with MP Subhas Sarkar at its helm. Two other leaders Biswapriyo Roy Chowdhury and Rathindra Bose will assist him,” Ghosh told journalists at the end of a state executive meeting on Tuesday. The timing of the decision has prompted several BJP workers to question if there is no space to voice their opinions anymore. Ghosh himself faced two protests — one at Hooghly and the other at Asansol — in the last few days. Many in the party felt it appeared the leaders were trying to stop them from speaking the truth. However, the same meeting where measures of restricting dissent were decided also witnessed at least two leaders raising questions over several instances of conduct of the party during and after the Assembly polls. According to sources, Barrackpore MP and Trinamul turncoat Arjun Singh and a state vice-president Raj Kamal Pathak targeted the central and state BJP leaderships over the drubbing it had received in the Bengal polls. Singh pointed out how the para-dropping of leaders from outside Bengal had worked in favour of the Trinamul Congress and Mamata Banerjee’s attempts to tag the BJP as a party of “outsiders”. He, according to a source, accused leaders from Delhi of visiting places like Midnapore and speaking in Hindi. “Naturally, the people there failed to understand what the leaders had to say, which alienated them from the party,” the source added. Talking to a TV channel later, Trinamul turncoat Sabysachi Dutta echoed the sentiments of Singh. “Arjunda was furious. He said in spite of being an MP, he hadn’t been consulted before leaders were sent to his constituency for campaigning,” a source said. Pathak, on the other hand, had said it was necessary to discuss why the party, which had secured a lead in 121 Assembly segments in the 2019 parliamentary polls and targeted a win in more than 200 seats, was stopped at 77. “It is good that we have gone up to 77 from three. But we must also discuss why we were restricted to 77,” Pathak is quoted to have said at the meeting. Hours after the committee was announced, BJP’s Domjur candidate and Trinamul turncoat Rajib Banerjee took to Twitter to criticise his party’s stand on persistent attacks on the state government and the chief minister. Later, Bishnupur MP Saumitra Khan hit back at Rajib on Twitter and said: “You remembered this after losing by 42000 votes? 42 BJP workers have been killed and to keep mum at this time would mean supporting the ruling party…” According to a BJP leader, all these contradicting statements show how disoriented the party is at this moment. “On one hand, the disciplinary action committee is being set up and at the same meeting, two leaders speak against the leadership. It’s mayhem.” The BJP has decided to launch state-wide agitation from June 23 to protest against the death of its workers in violence after declaration of Assembly results. .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
09-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid daily toll below 100 after 36 days in Bengal||Bengal on Tuesday logged 12,290 Covid-19 recoveries, 5,427 new infections and 98 deaths. With this, it reported a drop by 6,961 in its total of active cases to 19,295, less than 20,000 after April 9, 60 days ago, and daily toll below 100 after May 3, 36 days ago. “Everything else has been improving for weeks. The daily death toll was the final frontier in the second wave,” said a minister. The total number of active cases, which was at an all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21, has improved by over 85 per cent in these 18 days. Bengal now has 1.56 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is out of the top 10 states with most such cases, jumping from the eighth spot to the 12th in a day. The recovery rate rose for the 38th consecutive day, rising by 13 percentage points over five weeks, to 97.47 per cent on Tuesday. The national rate now is 94.5. “We are truly en route to getting past the second wave, emerging from it decisively now. The restrictions put in place since May 16 helped immensely,” added the minister. The daily confirmation rate, which had peaked in the second wave at nearly 33 per cent, fell to 9.01 per cent on Tuesday. A decreasing positive confirmation rate indicates reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. The state now has a total of 14.37 lakh cases, since the first was reported on March 17 last year. The total includes 14.01 lakh recoveries and 16,460 deaths. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.14 per cent, while the national rate is 1.21. Of the 98 deaths reported on Tuesday, 21 were from Calcutta and 27 from North 24-Parganas. Calcutta logged 528 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 1,109. The total of active cases in the two districts, which was over 53,000 in the third week of May, is barely 6,000 now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
09-06-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Trinamul Congress workers accused of taking away four sacks of rice from youth club ||Trinamul Congress workers have been accused of taking away from a youth club four sacks of rice donated by a social organisation for Cyclone Yaas victims at Hingalganj in North 24-Parganas. The alleged misappropriation of relief material, which came to light on Tuesday morning, left residents of the Katakhali-Boltala area angry and they blocked the Basirhat-Hingalganj road for an hour demanding a probe. The blockade was withdrawn after Hingalganj block development officer Saswata Prakash Lahiri assured the protesters of the probe. Several homes collapsed and vast tracts of land were inundated in Hingalganj during Cyclone Yaas on May 26. The villagers alleged that aides to local panchayat member Sarafat Gaji had taken away four sacks of rice from the club room. “A social organisation provided us with rice and other items for daily cooking. We stored all the items at the club. But the panchayat member’s men took away rice without informing us. The panchayat member couldn’t give a satisfactory reply,” said a villager. Rejecting the allegation, Gaji said: “Four sacks of rice were actually taken out for sale to pay six cooks who have been tirelessly cooking twice every day for about 600 people for the past two weeks at the community kitchen. Since we have no provision to make such payment, we collectively decided to sell the rice to arrange for their payment because we have enough stock of rice to meet the daily needs.” BDO Lahiri said: “I advised villagers to lodge a written complaint to conduct a probe. But till evening, no complaint has been lodged.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
09-06-2021||West Bengal||Irrigation dept faces daunting task of repairing embankments before high tide strikes coastal districts ||The irrigation department is faced with the daunting task of repairing long stretches of damaged earthen embankments before high tide strikes coastal districts of South 24-Parganas, North 24-Parganas and East Midnapore on June 11 and 26. Cyclone Yaas damaged 294km of earthen embankments that protect villages from floodwaters. Irrigation department engineers said they got barely over a week to repair embankments damaged in the three districts by Cyclone Yaas on May 26, as floods made work impossible in the first few days. State irrigation minister Saumen Kumar Mahapatra said: “Altogether 294km of the 400km embankments have been damaged. We are carrying out temporary work in all pockets as permanent work can’t be done now. I have spoken to the Met officials who said the water level won’t rise like it did when Yaas struck.” Though the minister sounded confident, engineers on the ground voiced misgivings. “We got little soil to repair embankments as most places are under water. The soil is loose and if monsoon comes, it will be more difficult for us. We have been trying our best to strengthen embankments but at many places could not bring earthmovers or soil from outside because of logistics,” said Kalyan Dey, an executive engineer of the irrigation department in Kakdwip division, Sourg 24-Parganas. “There is scarcity of soil as large tracts of land have gone under water since May 26. At a few places, saline water is yet to be drained out. We have repaired embankments at many places but we doubt if they can withstand (waves of) high tides,” said a senior engineer of the irrigation department in South 24-Parganas. “Yaas stressed the need for concrete embankments to save lives and livelihood in the Sunderbans. It is impossible to repair 294km of damaged embankments in seven days. We could not start our work immediately after Yaas as the places were under water,” he added. Repair of a 3km stretch of embankment along the Bay of Bengal near Digha is underway with sand bags and soil as a temporary step, said an irrigation official in East Midnapore. Villagers in Yaas-hit East Midnapore asked for concrete embankments in an interaction with a central team headed by a joint secretary in the home ministry, S.K. Shahi, on Tuesday. When the team visited Mandarmani, around 1,000 villagers said that in the face of recurring breaches in earthen dykes, they wanted concrete embankments along the sea. Lack of concrete embankments has left the state government, including chief minister Mamata Banerjee, worried as villages near rivers and sea are expected to face the brunt of high tides on June 11 and June 26. Mamata on Monday had directed South 24-Parganas district magistrate P. Ulaganathan to evacuate 20,000 people from many islands in the district as it would be difficult to finish repairs before the first of the two high tides strikes on June 11. Irrigation department officials said earthen embankments were not repaired during monsoon as soil gets washed away and so do government funds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
09-06-2021||West Bengal||National Gorkhaland Committee rakes up statehood demand||The National Gorkhaland Committee (NGC), an apolitical body which is positioning itself as a “think tank” of the community in India, has decided to set up a Peoples Forum (PF) to “expedite the demand of a separate home state” at a time hill political parties are relatively silent on the Gorkhaland issue. Lt. Gen. (retd) Shakti Gurung, chairman, NGC, said its members scattered across India had held a meeting with Mahendra P. Lama, founding vice-chancellor of Sikkim University, on Sunday on Lama’s proposal of forming a Peoples Forum for a “permanent political solution for the hills”. Many in the hills construe the “permanent political solution” as a separate state. Lt. Gen. (retd) Gurung said: “Following the discussions, Dr Lama, while promising his full cooperation, requested the NGC to initiate the process of setting up the PF and to lead it, for which the NGC has agreed.” NGC has now started reaching out to political parties “of the proposed state”, eminent citizens and institutions representing different stakeholders like “tea, tourism, cultural, natural resources … and social organisations to participate in the PF and work together in this endeavour”. The NGC’s announcement comes at a time when Gorkhaland is not really a buzzword among political parties in the hills. The Binay Tamang faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morch is focused on issues like scrapping of provisions for free movement of Indian and Nepalese citizens in the 1950 Indo-Nepal treaty. Bimal Gurung is less vocal on the issue. Both Tamang and Gurung are in alliance with the Trinamul Congress, which is opposed to the statehood demand. Gurung has merely said they would support a party that backs Gorkhaland in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. The statement was issued while announcing their tie-up with Trinamul before the Bengal Assembly elections. The BJP and its ally Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) are also talking about a “permanent political solution” but they have not expressly said it is Gorkhaland. In fact, the GNLF wants a constitutional body with “not less than Sixth Schedule status”. Many in the hills believe the state government is likely to push for a Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA)-type body once again. In fact, chief minister Mamata Banerjee during her election campaign had said they would find “a permanent political solution” for the hills. The NGC, however, wants to start a campaign against forming a GTA-like body in the hills. “It has been agreed (at the Sunday meeting) that all communities in the hills must be advised to oppose the possible formation of GTA-3 or a similar body ……..as such an agreement in the past has failed miserably to fulfil the aspirations of the people,” said Lt Gen (retd) Gurung. Many in the region, however, argue whether an apolitical body can spearhead an initiative for the statehood, which is a political issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
09-06-2021||North East||Covid: Assam to hold board exams for Classes X and XII||The Assam government on Tuesday decided to go ahead with holding the board exams for Classes X and XII amid a campaign demanding their cancellation. The decision was taken at a meeting of stakeholders with state education minister Ranoj Pegu  here on Tuesday. Pegu said both the state board exams will be held as the Covid-19 situation was showing signs of improvement. The exams, scheduled for May, had to be put off because of the alarming rise in Covid-19 cases since April. “Both the matric and higher secondary final examinations of the state will be held ...if necessary with reduced number of subjects or reduced total marks. The modalities of how to go about it will be announced soon after discussion with the chief minister,” Pegu said. Pegu said there would be a window in July-August to hold the examinations. Sources who attended the exam-related meeting chaired by the minister said the government was looking to wrap up the exams within August 10 and declare the results by September 5. Pegu assured that everyone associated with the  examinations, including students, teachers, school and college staff and drivers, would be vaccinated. “A detailed examination-related SOP will be released soon,” the first-time minister said. It is not clear how students appearing for the Class X exam will be vaccinated since they would be under 18. The vaccines available in the country now are only for adults. Till Monday, Assam reported 3,803 new Covid-19 cases and 37 fresh fatalities  with the caseload rising to 4,38,746,||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-3
09-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Wider view||Any institution that represents India’s diversity would be perceived in a positive light. Therefore, reports that the Supreme Court collegium is considering a reform of the appointment process in order to bring in more members of the scheduled castes, scheduled tribes, other backward classes, minorities and women as judges suggest a forward-looking change. Not that there have not been senior judges, even chief justices of India, from the largest minority community, but the presence of judges from all these groups in high courts and the Supreme Court is undeniably sparse. The Supreme Court has never had a woman chief justice or a chief justice from other minority communities. Just before N.V. Ramana was appointed Chief Justice of India, the Supreme Court Women Lawyers Association had applied to the Supreme Court for more women judges at all levels. The country’s justice institutions have no gender parity. Bar associations have also been demanding that the higher judiciary be made more inclusive. The CJI has reportedly expressed the need to include members of marginalized groups in the judiciary so that courts reflect the vast diversity of the country. Since there is no Constitutional or legislative mandate in courts equivalent to reservations, such a reform would be voluntary. It would be in line with the CJI’s ideas about modernization and the need to improve judicial infrastructure in the pursuit of access to justice and speedy justice that he had mentioned before his present appointment. His vision of sustainable and inclusive modernization includes courtrooms with disabled-friendly arrangements, waiting areas, washrooms and crèches. The most disadvantaged citizen should be able to approach the courts in a ‘barrier free-citizen friendly environment’. An inclusive judiciary would be necessary for this. No doubt the wisdom of the high court collegiums, which will recommend the names for appointment, and of the Supreme Court collegium that will select from them will put merit above all else. Merit was emphasized in the women lawyers’ application, and the Bar associations have been asking that advocates ‘of standing’ who have been practising for 10 years be considered as judges. Inclusiveness with merit, therefore, would be ideal for future appointments. The widening of the ambit for appointments may also speed up the process of filling the vacancies in judges’ posts and help in the faster delivery of justice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
09-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: About-turn||‘Course correction’, as the Centre has done now with its vaccination policy, is, effectively, another term for the Narendra Modi government owning up — belatedly and in a convoluted language — to its own incompetencies. In an address to the nation, the prime minister announced several significant and necessary changes to the public vaccination campaign against Covid-19. As is often the case in politics, the timing of Mr Modi’s address let the proverbial cat out of the bag. The changes were made following persistent demands by leaders of the Opposition for the Centre to alter course. Recently, the government was also rapped on its knuckles by no less than the Supreme Court, which described the vaccination policy to be “arbitrary and irrational”. However, what may have prompted Mr Modi to act — finally — on sane advice are the political murmurs from the ground. The immense suffering that India has had to endure on account of the combined onslaught of a vicious second wave of the virus and the Centre’s vacuous, inept and discriminatory vaccination plan is quite likely to have political consequences. Having been routed in Bengal, there are murmurs that the Bharatiya Janata Party is nervous about the outcome of the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, which is among the five states that go to elections next year. The BJP’s discouraging performance in the local polls in the state shows that the concern is not unwarranted. Some of the changes to the vaccination programme are, evidently, attempts to blunt the charges of arbitrariness and discrimination. For instance, the Centre has decided to acquire 75 per cent of all the vaccines being manufactured and distribute them free of cost to the states. It has also done away with the price differences among different groups of recipients. But more needs to be done. The pace of vaccination and the paucity of vaccines remain areas of serious concern. There was nothing in Mr Modi’s address that would assure the nation that these deficiencies would be addressed. Neither did the prime minister discuss the emerging fault lines in vaccination pertaining to gender disparities, rural-urban inequalities as well as the exclusion that has been brought about by the requirement of mandatory digital registration for vaccination. Mr Modi, characteristically, tried to shift the blame for the vaccine debacle on to the Opposition and the states, but this argument is unlikely to cut much ice. The real blame lies with the Centre’s hubris, inefficiency and its slack of empathy for the people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
09-06-2021||Opinion||Equality does not lie in uniformity||A school presents a myriad opportunities to observe human behaviour. And if we have been around long enough, it also affords us time to understand the outcome of the education we impart. Human nature in all its manifestations — raw ambition, deep disappointment, the joy (and sometimes, the smugness) of achievement, the humiliation of defeat and the triumph of victory — can be seen in the children in our care. These children also display an impressive array of talents which we try to enhance. But the broader question of whether our school system is producing the same kind of minds without giving enough scope to children to develop individuality or originality has been raised powerfully by thinkers like the late Ken Robinson. It is imperative that we in India pay more attention to this aspect of schooling, especially in view of the current attempt to make our country ‘uniform’. The growing obsession in India with wanting to be ‘one nation’ has many implications. If we are ‘one country’, we must have one election, one tax, one religion, one language and so on. This trend set me thinking about ‘uniformity’ and ‘conformity’ in school apart from the tired ‘one-size-fits-all’ testing system which needs a drastic overhaul anyway. Uniformity in everything produces a sameness which is boring, and soul-killing when overdone. Beyond a point, the compulsion to conform cripples one’s individual freedom. Everybody appreciates the need for both uniformity and conformity in order to maintain some standard of equality in a democratic setting and a reasonable level of discipline and order in civilized society. The trouble starts when there is too much regimentation and one’s personal freedom is irrationally impinged upon, especially when the authorities insist that only a specific culture or a particular way of thinking is acceptable. These prescriptions stifle the atmosphere and soon free expression, creativity, innovation and bold experimentation become casualties. Just as conformity is necessary to maintain law and order in society, in school it is needed to discipline the hundreds of students who enter its gates every day. Without discipline, the teaching-learning process itself cannot be put in motion. But students are required to conform in many ways. They must be in school uniform within the school premises, follow certain norms of the institution and observe the rules and regulations that are laid down. Unsurprisingly, obedience in students is highly valued by most teachers and unfortunately, many want them to be passive in the classroom and preferably not ask too many questions. Thus, the teacher’s life is made easier and it is these ‘quiet and obedient’ students who are usually rewarded with good conduct prizes. The ‘non-conformists’ are the ones who are labelled ‘troublemakers’ and  often punished for daring to step out of line. The school uniform, a universal feature in Indian schools, is a symbol of both uniformity and conformity, among other things. For generations, schoolchildren have been made to write essays on the benefits of having a uniform. The essays point out that a uniform brings about equality among school students. It is undeniable that a sense of equality is especially important in a mixed student population comprising different socio-economic backgrounds. A practical benefit that is usually mentioned is the time saved every morning on choosing one’s outfit. Interestingly, both students and teachers maintain that there is a marked improvement in discipline when students are in uniform. Then there is the pride factor. Many children profess that they feel especially proud of their school uniform when representing their school outside. “It also makes us feel that we are one,” they proclaim. This reminds me of a curious experience that I had as a visitor in an upmarket school in Pennsylvania in the United States of America. As I entered the classroom, my eyes fell on a particular boy who was wearing a football outfit. The other students were all in everyday clothes. I was told later that membership of the football team that the boy represented was greatly coveted in their school. To my astonishment, the teacher who came in to take the class immediately pulled up the boy for ‘showing off’. She explained to me that students were not permitted to flaunt any particular uniform and the boy in question should have changed into everyday clothes before entering class. The principle, I realized, was uniformity. But the human urge to ‘stand out’ is universal and understandable. Yet, nobody wants to stick out like a sore thumb either, as the attention one seeks must be ego-enhancing and pleasurable in nature. However, uniformity does not necessarily signify equality. Indeed, the school uniform has many uses but it does not automatically place all children on an equal footing. It is the school’s attitude that matters. But although we want equal opportunities and uniform rules for all, we certainly do not want to educate children to become clones of one another. Therefore, I feel disappointed that even though we display great pride in our diversity as Indians, we don’t behave in an inclusive manner. We stereotype different communities and keep running them down except with a few friends who are outside our circles. It is a matter of pride that in these days of divisiveness, most schools in Calcutta open their doors to all children, irrespective of religion or community. While in the throes of the pandemic, we are poignantly reminded of John Donne’s words of long ago: “No man is an island... any man’s death diminishes me, because I am involved in mankind...” Today these words are resonating louder than ever before. Acute universal distress has made it clear that we are all interdependent — as countries and as individuals. We cannot turn a deaf ear or a blind eye to somebody else’s tragedy because it is also ours. In this sense, “We are one”. This togetherness signifies unity — the absence of diversity has nothing to do with it. It is time we reminded unthinking people and Procrustean organizations that uniformity does not necessarily signify either unity or equality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
09-06-2021||Opinion||The Bengal model||Like countless others, I, too, am utterly delighted that the West Bengal electorate has halted the fascist juggernaut of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah although, naturally, disappointed at the decline in the vote-share of the Left. The latter, however, has been a price demanded by the former. The 50th anniversary of the liberation of Bangladesh is being celebrated this year, an event that had refuted in practice the two-nation theory of M.A. Jinnah that underlay the formation of Pakistan. Jinnah had privileged the Islamic identity over all other identities, but the formation of Bangladesh was a blow against this; it amounted to privileging the Bengali identity over others. The linguistic-regional identity in short had triumphed over religious identity in the creation of Bangladesh, refuting the notion that the ‘Muslims’ of undivided India constituted a nation. Something similar has happened in West Bengal in the recent elections: the linguistic-regional (Bengali) identity has overcome appeals to the religious (Hindu) identity. There were, no doubt, many factors behind Mamata Banerjee’s victory, but the enduring image was of a linguistic-cultural entity, called Bengal, being invaded by ‘outsiders’ (bahiragata, referring to outside electioneers, not settlers from other states), who brought with them not only alien cultural traits but even the scourge of the coronavirus. Mamata Banerjee emerged as the champion of this linguistic-cultural assertion, a symbol of Bengal’s resistance against invasion by ‘outsiders’, just as on the earlier occasion Sheikh Mujibur Rahman had donned that role on a much bigger scale. In this clash between identities that became overarching, the Left got squeezed out, just as the Left in Bangladesh — not a mean force in earlier times with popular leaders like Maulana Bhashani — had got squeezed out. This is not to say that promoting the linguistic-regional identity itself is foreign to the Left; indeed the very idea of forming states on a linguistic basis was a Left idea (since “nationalities” in Communist theory are defined on the basis of language). In accordance with this, the Left had led the ‘Vishalandhra’ and ‘Aikya Keralam’ movements and participated in the ‘Samyukta Maharashtra Samiti’ agitation. But this was at the stage of the formation of states; once states have been formed broadly on a linguistic basis, the Left would find it difficult to project an argument of the kind Mamata Banerjee did, that “Bengal’s linguistic-cultural identity is under threat from ‘outsiders’.” The invocation of ‘nationality’ consciousness in the Bengal elections also promoted ‘secularism’ in a different way. The argument now advanced for secularism was that it went against Bengal’s tradition, not just that it was a desirable thing. A very senior communist leader had once told me, half-jokingly but with a core of seriousness: “there are no more than a thousand people in the country who are genuinely committed to secularism; but that is quite enough for defending secularism.” This was before the era of neoliberalism, which made the intelligentsia, a major beneficiary of it, lose its credibility among the masses. The ‘thousand’ who were to be found within its ranks would no longer suffice and the need arises for a fresh prop for secularism other than its sheer desirability. This came to the fore in the Bengal elections. In regions with strong linguistic-cultural traditions, as in Bengal or Tamil Nadu or Kerala or indeed the entire rim of states outside the Hindi heartland (except Assam which has its own particularities), the linguistic-cultural identity can be a powerful bulwark against Hindutva’s invocation of religious identity. The Hindi heartland, however, is quite different. It is not a compact region with a single distinct language, but a sprawling area marked with variations on one basic language. Besides, there is a certain lack of cherishing of the literary tradition of that language even among the educated in the region. When my wife had won a school prize for proficiency in Hindi, she wanted to buy Hindi novels other than by Premchand with the money and asked a well-read friend whose mother tongue was Hindi for advice; her friend’s suggestion was the novels of ‘Saratchandra’. My wife, a Bengali, had read him years earlier in the original; but the story, while underscoring a laudable absence of narrow-mindedness, also hints at an absence of a strong specific literary-cultural tradition. Invoking a linguistic-cultural identity against the Hindutva-promoted religious identity appears difficult in the Hindi heartland, which, therefore, remains open to the spread of the Hindutva ideology. Vishwanath Pratap Singh had sought to mobilize a ‘backward caste’ identity against the Hindutva juggernaut in the Hindi heartland; but given the infinite number of castes and sub-castes, the Hindutva forces could break this unity by locating, and championing through inconsequential tokenism, the cause of some caste-group within the OBC that feels even more deprived compared to others in this category. It is tempting to conclude from the above that there is a natural limit to the spread of Hindutva, that while the Hindi heartland remains susceptible to its influence, the rim of states surrounding it with strong linguistic-cultural traditions are less vulnerable: their specific regional cultures can withstand a pan-Indian religious-communal appeal. There is some truth in this, as the Bengal elections demonstrate; but accepting it in toto would be an oversimplification. The appeal to ‘nationality’ consciousness is not always certain to defeat the religious-communal. It may do so on some occasions but not others; otherwise, East Bengal would not have become a part of Pakistan in 1947 It follows that the Mamata Banerjee-style appeal to a Bengali consciousness will not always vanquish the Hindutva forces’ attempt to annex Bengal. The case of Bangladesh is somewhat different here. Bangladesh has had a high GDP growth-rate that has raised its per capita income above India’s. It has done so by becoming a part of international value chains, first of the North and, more recently, of China whose Belt and Road Initiative has come in handy for this process. Its economic achievement may be a far cry from the dreams of the anti-colonial struggle or its own liberation struggle, and income inequalities as everywhere else may have grown immensely, but it has at least given that country a degree of stability that has strengthened the secular forces and kept communal-religious elements at bay. But West Bengal, like the rest of India, is mired in massive problems of unemployment and poverty from which there are no easy ways out. Neither the invocation of a linguistic-cultural unity nor the invocation of a Hindutva-communal unity will succeed in overcoming these problems. But the Hindutva forces will promise to overcome them if the electorate gives them a chance, and on that basis can come to power and infuse the poison of hatred into the State. This is where concrete steps and strategies to overcome the economic travails of the state become necessary, such as those projected by the Left in this election. The problem with the Left had been its fixation with large-scale industry as the panacea for West Bengal’s economic woes. Large-scale industry, however, never provided much employment, not even in the 19th century. Unemployment in Britain had been kept within bounds by massive emigration of population to the temperate regions of settlement, not by employment opportunities opened up by the industrial revolution. The Left has to recognize the need for a variegated industrial structure in the state apart from showing greater awareness of the dangers of fascism. But as long as it remains faithful to a discourse that addresses seriously the problems of unemployment and poverty, it will bounce back in West Bengal. Prabhat Patnaik is Professor Emeritus, Centre for Economic Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
09-06-2021||Jharkhand||Son of daily wager qualifies for Special Olympics camp||Rahul Kumar Sharma of Giridih, son of a daily wager, has qualified for the national floorball final preparatory camp for the Special Olympics World Winter Games to be held at Kaza, Russia from January 22 to 28 next year. Rahul, along with Jamshedpur-based Sital Sikka, had attended the national preparatory camp in Bilaspur (Himachal Pradesh) in March this year. However, Sital could not make it to the final camp while Rahul made the cut. Ranchi-based floorball coach Abhiranjan Kumar will also attend the final preparatory camp. He had accompanied Rahul and Sital to Bilaspur. The final preparatory camp is scheduled in New Delhi from July 1 to 10, said Special Olympics Jharkhand (SOJ) assistant area director Satbir Singh Sahota. "We're happy that Rahul has made it to the final preparatory camp. He (Rahul) is a good player and was expected to make the cut. We were also optimistic about Sikka but he must not have performed well," Sahota, also regional sports advisor (east Zone) of Special Olympics Bharat (SOB), a national organisation which promotes intellectually impaired athletes, said. According to him, performance of athletes will be the key in getting a slot in the Indian floorball squad for the World Winter Games. "Rahul is in good form and is expected to make it to the national squad. The SOB would also organise another camp (after the final one) before the national contingent leaves for Russia in January,” Sahota informed. In a bid to keep Rahul fit before the final preparatory camp, the SOJ has plans to conduct a short training camp in the steel city. "The training camp will be organised if the state government allows the stadiums to reopen. The stadiums are presently shut in view of the pandemic," Sahota said. "We have asked Rahul to work on his fitness at home. A lot will depend on fitness when he participates in the final preparatory camp," Sahota added. Rahul and Abhiranjan will be leaving for New Delhi on June 29. The SOJ has already booked their train tickets. A fair number of special athletes from Jamshedpur have represented the country (in various sports disciplines) at the World Games organised under the banner of Special Olympics International.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
09-06-2021||Jharkhand||Material seized by Bokaro police not uranium, says energy department ||The Department of Atomic Energy has clarified that the material recently recovered by Bokaro police is not uranium. It was stated that the seized material does not cause any radiation-related health hazard to living beings or the environment. Bokaro police had arrested seven individuals with 6 kg of unknown material, recovered from them in three packets. Based on the statement given by the arrested to the police, the material was believed to be uranium. The accused confessed before police that the substance is uranium and they were looking for customers for it. One of the accused, Bappi Da, had received the substance from a resident of Giridih, who is absconding. The material recovered from the accused contains a monogram of uranium and mentioned 'Made in USA' on the packets. The police lodged an FIR against the seven accused under the Atomic Energy Act, considering the substance to be uranium. The samples of seized uranium were taken for investigation by experts of Uranium Corporation of India Limited (UCIL) from Bokaro on Sunday for the test. After getting permission from the court, the Bokaro police handed over the sample to a team of experts. They conducted radiation tests of the seized uranium sample. In the preliminary investigation, they found no radiation like uranium in the said material. In the press release issued by the Department of Atomic Energy, it has been clearly stated that the material seized is not uranium. However, the Department of Atomic Energy has not clarified what that substance is. Pakistan had expressed concern over the recovery of uranium in India and demanded an investigation. Bokaro SP, Chandan Kumar Jha, said “Till now no official communication has come from the Department of Atomic Energy or UCIL in this regard. Until the test report does not come to him, he is not in a position to say anything.” According to police sources, even if the test report of uranium comes negative, police will continue its investigation to find out for what purpose the accused are marketing that substance, branding it as uranium. Any false or true trade related to radioactive material is illegal. At present, the police have planned to take the accused in custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
09-06-2021||Jharkhand||Railway services disrupted for six hours ||Train services were affected for about six hours in South Eastern Railway's Chakradharpur division on Wednesday due to a traffic cum power block between 9 am and 3 pm. The traffic-cum-power block was undertaken for construction of a Limited Height Subway. The subway was constructed replacing an unmanned level crossing between Rajgangpur and Sonakhan of Rourkela-Jharsuguda section under Chakradharpur division of the SER. The six-hour traffic block resulted in cancellation of 68029/68030 Rourkela-Jharsuguda MEMU passenger train. It also resulted in rescheduling of several long distance trains including 08478 Yog Nagari Rishikesh-Puri Special, 03287 Durg-Rajendera Nagar Special and  08311 Sambalpur-Manduadih Special which travels via several stations of Chakradharpur division. Duronto Special to resume journey The South Eastern Railway on Wednesday notified running of Superfast Duronto Special between Howrah and Mumbai CSMT via Tatanagar railway station. As per a schedule released by Garden Reach, the headquarters of SER the 02096 Howrah-Mumbai CSMT Superfast Duronto Special will leave Howrah every Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday with immediate effect from June 11 at 05.45 am and will reach Mumbai CSMT at 08.15 am, the next day. In the opposite direction, 02095 Mumbai CSMT-Howrah Superfast Duronto Special will leave Mumbai CSMT every Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday with immediate effect from June 13 at 5.15 pm and will arrive at Howrah at 8.05 pm, the next day. The train with one first AC, three AC-2 Tier and twelve AC-3 Tier coaches will have stoppages at Tatanagar, Bilaspur, Raipur, Nagpur and Bhusaval stations between the two destinations - Howrah and Mumbai CSMT.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
09-06-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city crematorium becomes eco-friendly  ||An incinerator became operational from Wednesday at the premises of Subernarekha burning ghaat in Bhuiyadhih. A first of its kind in the state, the incinerator has been installed for disposing of the paraphernalia used for cremation rituals at the burning ghaat. Constructed under the aegis of the civic body Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee, at a cost of Rs 15lakh from the MLA fund, it was inaugurated by Jamshedpur East legislator Sarayu Roy on Wednesday. "Environment in and around the Subernarekha burning ghaat and the adjoining Subernarekha river will be free from the paraphernalia that is brought along a body. Similar incinerators should be set up in other burning ghaats too," said Roy. On an average, a dozen bodies are cremated at the Subernarekha burning ghaat every day. People bring pillows, bed sheets and other household materials used by the deceased during the cremation. Flowers and other household articles are left or thrown away near the cremation ghaat, causing the surroundings to get littered. JNAC city manager Ravi Bharti who was present during the incinerator inauguration program informed that remains generated from the incinerator will be used as compost. "As the things brought along an 'arthi' (funeral bier) happen to be organic materials, the remains of such materials can be used as compost. We will see to it as to how the remains can be used in the best way, " said the city manager while talking to The Telegraph Online. Bharti said this way the incinerator at the burning ghaat will make the environment free of waste and contribute to the agriculture activity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
09-06-2021||Jharkhand||Vaccination drive for differently abled in Dhanbad ||A special Covid vaccination camp for physically and mentally challenged students and other differently abled persons from 18 to 44 year age group was organised on Wednesday at Pehla Kadam, a school for special students at Jagjivan Nagar, by Narayani Charitable Trust. The camp, the first of its kind in the district, was launched on Wednesday morning at around 10 am in the presence of Deputy Development Commissioner, Dasrath Chandra Das and eminent physician, Dr Nirmal Drolia of Patliputra Nursing Home of Dhanbad. District Reproductive and Child Health Officer of Dhanbad, Dr Vikash Kumar Rana who also visited the vaccination site and supervised the special session himself said, “It is first of its kind camp for special students of 18+ category in the district organised today with the Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh’s permission.” “We have plans for organising special camps for other vulnerable sections of society like street vendors, newspaper hawkers, auto drivers, etc at different places of the district as soon as we receive the sufficient doses of vaccines,” further said Rana. “We appreciate the initiative taken by school management led by its founder Anita Agarwal for organising camp during which a large majority of physically and mentally challenged students of the host school besides some special youth of other parts of the district also received vaccination doses,” said Rana. Anita Anarwal said, “Altogether 50 persons, majority of which are our students, got registered for vaccination before the beginning of the camp but the figures rose to 60 as on spot registration of some were also carried out.” Shivam Burnwal ,18, a physically challenged student of the school who arrived at the centre along with his fruit seller father Sanjay Kumar Burnwal and mother Sangita Burnwal, said, “I felt no reaction after taking the vaccine and rather felt quite secure after taking the dose.” “After completing matriculation I am preparing for ITI exams and was concerned how I would go out without taking a vaccine for study related work but felt quite relaxed today,” said Burnwal. Echoing his sentiments, 29-year-old Imran Khan, a physically challenged licensee engineer of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation who also took the Covishield dose in the camp said, “As soon as I came to know about the vaccination camp, I readily contacted Anita ma'am and feeling quite relaxed after taking the vaccine dose appeal to all others to take vaccine as soon as possible.” Shivaji Singh Yadav, a retired officer of BCCL, who also turned up at the school for vaccination of his daughter affected by cerebral palsy, said, “The camp at the school has solved our entire concern for vaccination of our daughter compared with a general vaccination centre as we are getting difficulty to book the slots due to huge rush at the site.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
09-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia artists paint about Covid's pain ||The father son painter duo of Jharia, Bhushan Singh and Gaurav Singh who are running a Covid awareness campaign through wall paintings across the district for a month have now brought to focus the pitiable condition of the common people and the failure of the political leadership to address the core issues . “The latest series of paintings, titled, ‘Black Fungus’ made near the Randhir Verma Chowk outside the civil surgeon’s office are aimed at highlighting the pitiable condition of common people including the lack of quality medical care facilities, lack of livelihood, lack of ration cards, lack of education for their children and even lack of safe drinking water and shelter over their heads,” said Bhushan. “The Covid crisis has bared the tall claims of our politicians and bureaucrats about the lack of focus of the government on the core areas of governance so we have painted about the corrupt practices of these politicians and bureaucrats besides doctors and hospital operators as black fungus in our painting attacking the weak body affected through Covid,” said Bhushan and added the paintings are not against any particular government or political party but rather the handling of crisis by the political leadership of states or centre in the past and present remained the same. “Amidst the pandemic we have come across the news of different private hospitals across the country, including in Dhanbad charging extra money from the people other than the government approved treatment rate for Covid so we painted these corrupt practices and mindsets as black fungus acting to weaken our democratic set up which the founders of nation tried to establish on the ground of equality and justice to all,”said Bhushan. “Had all preparation made in advance after the phase I the magnanimity of crisis during phase II would not have been such and the dead bodies floating in river The Ganges have greatly affected us as an artist so we have started making paintings titled Black Fungus expressing our disgust over the situation for which the policy makers are responsible,” explained Bhushan. A resident of main road Jharia, Bhushan Singh underwent training at Kamal Arts of Calcutta and also made paintings at Mumbai before settling down in Jharia in 1997. Singh earlier during Anna Hazare's agitation on Lokpal bill also made some paintings at Randhir Verma Chowk of Dhanbad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
09-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand declares total lockdown this weekend till 6am on Monday||The Jharkhand government will enforce a complete lockdown from 4pm on Saturday, June 12 to 6am on Monday, June 14, but essential services will be allowed to operate. The current lockdown, described as health safety week, has also been extended to 6am on June 17 after which several new relaxations would come into force, as per a detailed notification issued by the state IPRD in the evening. As per the notification, all shops will be permitted to open in 23 districts except East Singhbhum from June 17. In East Singbhum, shops selling garments, jewellery, footwear and cosmetics will continue to remain closed. From June 17, shops in all districts will be allowed to function till 4pm against the present closing time of 2pm. Government and private offices will also be able to function till 4pm with one-third staff. Buses will continue to stay off the road, while e-passes will remain in force for inter-district movement. Those coming to Jharkhand will have to undergo mandatory seven-day quarantine, barring a few exceptions, said the notification. Educational institutions will remain closed and all examinations conducted by different agencies of the state government will remain postponed. “Following today’s meeting under the aegis of chief minister Hemant Sorenji related to further course of health safety week, we have now decided to go for complete lockdown from 4pm on Saturday to 6am on Monday to break the chain of Covid-19 transmission. Only essential services will be allowed to operate in this period,” said the health minister Banna Gupta. He stressed that East Singhbhum (Jamshedpur) remains the only district which is a cause of concern for the state government. “Covid cases are fluctuating there and the declining trend is still not sustainable. Hence, we have decided to keep the existing rules of health safety week intact there, but for the remaining 23 districts, the upcoming relaxations will be applicable,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
09-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs 603 fresh Covid cases, 13 casualties in a day||East Singhbhum accounted for more than half of the 603 fresh cases of Covid-19 reported in Jharkhand on Tuesday, while the active caseload in the district also increased as only 134 patients recovered from the infection there against 348 people found infected on the day, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. The gap between fresh cases of infection and Covid recoveries also narrowed on the day as the state reported 803 recoveries against the 600-odd cases. In the past one week, Jharkhand reported at least twice as many recoveries as fresh cases every day on an average, while none of the districts reported a spike of more than 50 in the past three days. As many as 13 Covid patients died in the state on the day and at least five of them breathed their last in East Singhbhum, taking the Covid toll in the district to 1027 and that in Jharkhand to 5073, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As many as 814 people in East Singhbhum were battling the infection by the end of Tuesday. Barring East Singhbhum, no other district reported a triple-digit-spike on Tuesday in Jharkhand. While 29 people were found infected in Ranchi, as many as 30 cases were reported in Dhanbad. However, recoveries outnumbered fresh cases in both the districts. The active caseload in Ranchi dropped to 1430 as at least 97 patients recovered here. The capital, however, accounted for five casualties on the day, which took the Covid toll here to 1582, the NHM stated in its bulletin. Dhanbad reported 37 recoveries, which brought the active caseload there down to 177. Among other districts, Bokaro reported five cases against 33 recoveries, while Chatra reported nine cases against 26 recoveries. As per government data, as many as 25 people were found infected in Hazaribag and 23 patients recovered there. Lohardaga reported 16 cases against 39 recoveries. Even during the recently concluded Intensive Public Health Survey (IPHS) conducted in rural Jharkhand, East Singhbhum accounted for the highest number of Covid cases among the 24 districts in the state. During the survey, at least 108 people were found infected in the district, while 107 were found infected in Ranchi. As many as 981 people were found infected by Coronavirus during the survey across rural Jharkhand. So far, Ranchi has reported 84,850 Covid cases while East Singhbhum accounts for 50,943 cases. Ranchi has also accounted for the highest number of casualties in totality, but East Singhbhum has reported a sudden spike in cases as well as fatalities lately, health officials said. The growth rate of infection in the state was 0.14 per cent against the national average of 0.28 per cent on Tuesday, while the recovery rate in Jharkhand jumped to 97.02 per cent against the national average of 94.30 per cent. The Covid mortality rate in the state remained 1.48 per cent against the national average of 1.20 per cent. The state on Tuesday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 48,368 residents and almost 30,000 of them were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. The second jab was administered to 5796 beneficiaries, mostly commoners above the age of 45 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
09-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Depressed CRPF jawan shot dead his colleague before shooting himself, says police||A CRPF jawan who was depressed shot dead his colleague before shooting himself at a Covid-19 isolation centre in Simaria block in Chatra district of Jharkhand, police said on Tuesday. The deceased have been identified as constable Kalu Ram Gurjar of Rajasthan and cook Ravindra Kumar Singh of Haryana, both of the 190 CRPF battalion. Sources said the incident took place at around 12.30pm during lunch. “The jawans in their 30s were in the same room. Prima facie it appears that Kalu Ram Gurjar tried to end his life using his SLR. When Ravindra Kumar Singh attempted to thwart his bid, Gurjar fired at him and then shot himself dead. Gurjar, who had rejoined recently after leave, was facing some family issues and was mentally depressed and had posted about it on Facebook. However, we are probing the case for more details,” said Chatra superintendent of police Rishabh Jha, who ruled out work-related pressure as the motive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
