10-06-2021||Calcutta||Bengal government to help private hospitals and diagnostic centres buy Covid-19 vaccines||The Bengal government will help private hospitals and diagnostic centres to procure Covid vaccines by passing on their demands for doses to the manufacturers through the Centre, officials said. The state government also requested private vaccination centres to implement the cap of Rs 150 over the procurement cost of each dose, announced by the Prime Minister, from Wednesday. State health department officials told private hospitals and smaller vaccination centres at a meeting on Wednesday that they could charge additional amounts for “value-added service” for off-site vaccination. Private hospitals were asked to submit their demands for vaccines to the state government from Wednesday. “We will compile the demands and give the combined list to the central government for placing orders with the manufacturers of Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V. Once the manufacturers confirm delivery, the vaccination centres will be asked to make payment,” said a health department official. “Details of the modalities of placing demand and receiving consignments will be finalised soon.” Big hospital chains can continue to procure doses from the manufacturers centrally and then distribute them to the various units across the country, including in Bengal, the official said. The government asked the private centres to place their demands for July and August. Many centres did so by Wednesday evening. A number of small nursing homes as well as big hospitals have been unable to get any vaccine since May 1, when a policy announced by the Centre requiring private hospitals to buy doses directly from the manufacturers came into effect. Before that the state government was supplying doses, from the consignment it was receiving from the Centre, to private centres. “We had earlier proposed that the state government procure doses for us. But that was not possible then. This decision will help many small nursing homes and diagnostic centres. These centres place small orders, so they lose out to big units in the rush for vaccines,” said Rupak Barua, the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India. The state government also requested private hospitals to charge not more than Rs 150 over the procurement price of each dose. The cap announced by the Centre will come into effect on June 21 but the state wants the private centres to implement it right away. A private centre can charge a maximum of Rs 780 for a Covishield dose and Rs 1,410 for a Covaxin dose. “We are implementing it from today,” said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue Clinic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
10-06-2021||Calcutta||Neighbours recount shootout at New Town housing complex||Around 3.30pm on Wednesday, a 29-year-old IT professional stepped out to visit the ATM at the gate of Shukhobrishti housing complex when two men with guns asked her to immediately get back inside. Maitrayee Sen was barely in the lift lobby when the men, one of whom was clad in a bulletproof vest, shouted “ekkhuni bhetore jaan (go inside immediately)!” She had just about moved into the stairwell when gunshots rang out. “The sound was that of firecrackers, only 20 times louder. As each shot rang out, I froze and seconds seemed like hours. I have seen gunfights only on television and in web series and could not believe that something like this was happening right in front of my eyes,” said Sen. According to her, she could barely move her muscles and had a prayer on her lips when the building's guard grabbed her by the arm and dragged her up a few flights of stairs. “In the melee, both of us had completely forgotten about the lift. We stood there on the staircase for what seemed like hours before the shots finally stopped,” said Sen. The two then went downstairs after waiting for some time when they saw a number of police vehicles and buses pull up and men wearing bulletproof vests and armed with assault rifles fan out in every direction. “All through, the policemen warned us to stay back. It was then that I checked my phone and saw that several residents had posted on our Telegram group that a gunfight was on and everyone should be indoors,” said Sen. A little later, Sen saw a white SUV pull up and then speed away. A senior police officer said they had posted men near the surrounding buildings to ensure that no resident or guard got caught in the crossfire. Sen had gone to the market in front of their housing complex in the morning and spotted several policemen outside. Some were inside the complex, too, but she did not think much of it as the police have been regularly carrying out checks to enforce Covid curbs. Mainak Kanrar, who lives in a 12th-floor flat opposite the building where the gunfight broke out, said he rushed downstairs when he saw armed men in bulletproof vests and fatigues running around across the road. Kanrar was working on his laptop when he glanced outside his window and saw men with guns running around on the service road right in front of his building. “I immediately went down and called the guard. Several policemen shouted at us and told us to stay inside. It was then that I heard the shots and posted on the Telegram group warning people to stay indoors,” said Kanrar. According to him, the building where the gunfight broke out is mostly occupied by tenants. “There are 16 flats and most of them are occupied by tenants. Although I posted a message warning people to stay inside, many had stepped out to see what was happening,” he said. Minutes later, he said, a large posse of policemen gathered and started putting up guardrails. “The policemen asked everyone not to cross the guardrails. By then gunshots had stopped,” he said. Kanrar, the joint secretary of a residents’ body of Shukhobrishti, then asked around and came to know that the men the cops had come to nab had been staying in the second-floor flat since May 22. “The owner of an outlet that sells milk and eggs in our complex said the two men had bought eggs and milk from him this morning. It sends shivers down the spine to think that such hardened criminals were staying in our complex on rent,” Kanrar said. Shukhobrishti housing complex has around 12,000 flats of three categories. There are 400 low-income group (LIG) towers, 60 middle-income group (MIG) towers and seven super MIG towers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
10-06-2021||Calcutta||Shootout in New Town: Slain Punjab gangsters linked to multiple cases||One of the two gangsters shot dead in New Town on Wednesday was the son of a retired assistant sub-inspector of Punjab police. Jaipal Singh Bhullar, police said, had been a champion hammer thrower in college before becoming a dreaded criminal wanted in several states. Bhullar had more than 25 criminal cases pending against him, including robbery, murder, extortion and arms and drugs smuggling. He had allegedly entered the crime world with the kidnapping of a child in Punjab, the police said. He and his associates — Jaspreet Singh, alias Jassi Kharar, Baljinder Singh and Darshan Singh — were wanted in the killing of two assistant sub-inspectors of police, Bhagwan Singh and Dalwinderjit Singh, at a grain market in Punjab’s Jagraon on May 15. In 2017, Bhullar and his accomplices allegedly robbed an ATM refill van and fled with Rs 1.33 crore in Banur, near Chandigarh. He and his brother, Amritpal Singh Bhullar, also allegedly fled with 30kg of gold after a daylight robbery at a financial institute in Ludhiana's Gill Road. The Punjab director general of police, Dinkar Gupta, said at a media briefing on Wednesday: “Jaipal had earlier snatched a 9mm pistol from an assistant sub-inspector, Sukhdev Singh, of Khanna police in the evening of May 10, 2021, when he was deployed at a naka on GT Road, near Doraha. In this connection, Punjab Police had earlier arrested Darshan Singh and Baljinder Singh, alias Babbi, from Gwalior on May 28, 2021.” The lead on the black vehicle in which Bhullar had travelled from Gwalior to Bengal came after the arrest of Babbi, sources said. Bhullar had a reward money of Rs 10 lakh on him and Jassi Rs 5 lakh. The reward money usually goes to individuals or agencies who share authentic or actionable information that leads to the arrest of the accused. In this case, it was not clear whether officers of the Bengal police, who were part of the operation that led to the gangsters’ death, could claim the reward. A senior Bengal police officer said: “The reward money is not a factor. What matters was that we could neutralise the targets by suffering minimum damage. The kind of weapons they had... the consequences could have been serious had we not gone prepared.” Another officer said the “stature” of a criminal can often be gauged through the reward amount on him. “Such a bounty is usually announced for credible information on terrorists or most wanted criminals. The fact that Bhullar had a bounty of Rs10 lakh on him signifies how important he was,” the officer said. The Punjab police said Bhullar had been absconding since 2014. During all these years, he had allegedly committed many heinous crimes and was wanted in more than 25 cases. He was of late involved in smuggling drugs from across the border in collaboration with smugglers in Pakistan, DGP Gupta said. Bhullar’s notoriety came to the fore after he had in 2016 killed a politician named Jaswinder Singh Bhullar, alias Rocky, and claimed responsibility through a Facebook post. He had said in the post that he had killed Rocky near Parwanoo in Himachal Pradesh. “The game has just started. Just wait and watch,” an officer of the Punjab police quoted from the post. He became “Punjab’s Most Wanted” after he and his associates allegedly shot two cops who were checking vehicles following a tip-off about purported sale of illicit liquor on May 15. The names of Bhullar, Jassi, Baljinder and Darshan emerged from the incident, after which the Punjab police circulated their photographs and declared rewards on them. Darshan and Babbi were arrested from Gwalior on May 28. Bhullar and Jassi were found in possession of five automatic small guns and revolvers and at least 89 rounds of ammunition in the New Town flat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
10-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Drive-in vaccination unit at Quest Mall stopped||The drive-in vaccination at Quest Mall, started less than a week ago by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation in association with a private hospital, has been stopped because of a shortage of doses. No bookings for Thursday were given on Wednesday. Only 24 people were vaccinated at the site on Wednesday, down from over 200 on Tuesday. “We did not want to refuse anyone who had booked slots earlier. So, only 24 people were vaccinated. We will resume bookings at Quest Mall once adequate quantities of vaccine doses are available,” said an official of the state e-governance mission team, which is managing the WhatsApp chatbot through which slots for vaccination at the mall can be booked. An official of the state health department said there were only 10 lakh vaccine doses on Thursday morning for the entire state (excluding the ones in possession of private vaccination centres). By evening, about two lakh of the doses had been administered. “We are expecting a fresh consignment on Thursday,” said the official. A resident of Ballygunge, who tried to book a slot at the Quest Mall site for her home help, rued the fact that such a good initiative had to be stopped. “The drive-in vaccination at the mall was giving specific time slots to people, which made the entire process very seamless. It is unfortunate that such an initiative had to be halted,” she said. The suspension of the vaccination at the mall comes at a time when vaccination sites are being opened at other malls across the city. But officials of hospitals conducting vaccination said uncertainty over supply remained a worry. The AMRI Hospitals group started a drive-by vaccination on Leslie Claudius Sarani in the Maidan area on Wednesday and inoculated 150 people. “Only four-wheelers are allowed and pre-registration on CoWIN is mandatory. One does not need to book a slot. They can just come with the CoWIN registration in a car,” said an official of AMRI. The hospital will operate two more drive-by vaccination sites  — one on the service road near the Ajoynagar crossing of EM Bypass from Thursday and another at the Calcutta police traffic training school in Tallah from Friday. A walk-in vaccination has also started at City Centre Salt Lake. “We vaccinated over 2,000 people on Wednesday. Our volunteers will also help a person register on the CoWin, portal,” said Ramesh Pandey, a director of the Ambuja Neotia group, the owner of City Centre. Anyone who is 18 years or older can walk in for the first or the second dose. The mall is administering Covishield.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
10-06-2021||Calcutta||Presidency University students double fund to treat Covid-19 affected children||Students of Presidency University handed a cheque for Rs 6.26 lakh to the Institute of Child Health in Park Circus on Wednesday, doubling the pledged amount so that the institute could set up more beds to treat Covid-affected children. The Presidency University Students’ Union had last week pledged to donate Rs 3.12 lakh from the funds earmarked for students’ activities, such as fest and freshers’ welcome, to the children’s hospital. Deeprajit Debnath, an assistant general secretary of the students’ union, handed the cheque to paediatrician Apurba Ghosh, the director of ICH. The institute has set aside 30 beds for Covid-affected children and is in the process of adding more beds. “The students of the university have contributed a substantial amount which will be spent on enhancing the capacity. We had an impression that students’ unions across campuses indulge in unrest, disruptive activities. But the constructive approach as exhibited in this contribution has made us realise that our youth know responsible behaviour,’’ said Ghosh. He said children were getting infected with the coronavirus during the renewed surge in cases. Initially, the students' union had only decided to use the funds for the 2018-19 academic year. “Since the union elections could not be held because of the pandemic, we could use the students’ activities fund for the 2019-20 academic year as well,’’ said Debnath. “Even if the campus reopens, we don’t want to spend money on these celebrations,’’ said Debnil Paul, a student representative. Around Rs 7.50 lakh is deposited in the activity fund of the students’ union each year. The students’ activity fund is created with contributions that students make during admission. Forty per cent of the corpus — the two academic years put together — has been transferred to the institute. The union will also spend 30 per cent of the funds on scholarships to underprivileged students of the university. “The amount to be spent on the scholarships has been raised from Rs 2.25 lakh to Rs 4.5 lakh,’’ said a student leader. Paul said the unspent amount from the coffer would be used on developing infrastructure so that maximum physical distancing norms could be maintained whenever the campus reopened. “We might have to increase the sitting capacity in the canteens, open spaces,’’ said Paul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
10-06-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: Jesuit priests of St Xavier’s organise relief campaign in East Midnapore||A relief campaign, led by Jesuit priests, has been feeding 1,500 people every day in pockets of East Midnapore that were devastated by Cyclone Yaas. Two trucks loaded with dry ration reached the coastal district on June 1. A team of volunteers from the St Xavier’s College Alumni Association stationed there hasbeen organising a camp everyday to provide hot meals toaround 1,500 residents of Contai and Ramnagar-I. Around150 quintals of cereals, potatoes and other vegetables havealso been sent to Ramnagar-IIand Khejuri-I. The Jesuit priests of St Xavier’s are at the helm of the relief campaign. Reverend Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the college and the president of the alumni association, took it upon himself to appeal to former students, benefactors and well-wishers of the college for contributions, said an organiser. “The whole world is in distress and most importantly our state of Bengal has been repeatedly hit by back-to-back natural calamities apart from the pandemic. People should shower love and share their comfort with others with greater intensity at this crisis period...,” said Father Savio. The alumni association is organising the camps with the local administration. The help from St Xavier’s is not limited to food and dry ration. The consignments sent to East Midnapore included clothes and medicines. On June 5, medical camps were organised in multiple blocks. “We will hold relief camps in Gosaba and Basanti of South 24-Parganas soon,” said an organiser.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
10-06-2021||Calcutta||Students of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira raise fund to help 30 school students  for a year||A group of present and former students of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, have started a fundraising drive to help 30 school students encountering extreme poverty amid the pandemic with Rs 500 each per month for a year. Students of Baranagar Swami Vivekananda Work Circle are also separately raising Rs 1 lakh for the needs of school students like application form fees and admission fees. Students of Classes IX and X who study in institutions outside the ambit of Ramakrishna Mission will be helped, said Avisekh Lahiri, a member of the circle, who is studying integrated PhD at the Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science. “Students under RKM get assistance during distress. But underprivileged students outside the purview of RKM have been encountering financial constraints amid the pandemic. We want to help some of them,” said Lahiri, who passed out from Vidyamandira last year. The drive that started in June has raised Rs 15,000 so far. It will continue for two months. An appeal with the donation link has been posted on the circle’s Facebook page. The circle will get in touch with schools for details of students coping with financial distress and shortlist 30 from among the applicants. A monk attached with Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Sargachhi, Behrampore, said they want to help students continue their studies. “Families have been so adversely impacted in the lockdown that they are not able to provide the support to help their wards continue studies. We are trying to provide the bare minimum support,” he said. “From offering free tutorials to providing financial assistance, our students are trying to help those in distress in as many ways as possible,” said Swami Ekachittanada, the principal of Vidyamandira. Around 60 members of the circle are engaged in the fundraising drive. Throughout the pandemic, the members have been providing books from their book bank to underprivileged children. The students of the college under the banner of ‘Kheya Paribar’ have launched an initiative to prepare an online database, containing details about the persons or facilities delivering oxygen cylinders, providing ambulances, medicines and other emergency services in one’s neighbourhood.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
10-06-2021||Business||Sensex rebounds 359 points to close above 52,000||The BSE benchmark Sensex surged nearly 359 points to close above the 52,300-level on Thursday, with financial, pharma and IT shares gaining the most amid positive global cues.  The 30-share Sensex finished 358.83 points or 0.69 per cent higher at 52,300.47. Intra-day, the index swung between a high of 52,346.35 and a low of 51,957.92.  Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty climbed 102.40 points or 0.65 per cent to end at 15,737.75.  On the Sensex chart, Bajaj Finance, Bajaj FinServ, SBI, IndusInd Bank, Dr Reddy's, Tech Mahindra, ITC and Kotak Bank were the prominent gainers rising up to 7.29 per cent.  On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, Maruti, HCL Tech, Ultratech Cement, PowerGrid, ONGC and Nestle suffered losses.  Of the 30 shares in the Sensex pack, 23 ended with gains.  Elsewhere in Asia, stock markets closed with gains ahead of crucial US inflation data for May.  On the forex market front, the Indian rupee lost 9 paise to end at 73.06 against the US dollar on Thursday.  "Many states have eased lockdown restrictions since the peaking of the second COVID wave in early May. The central bank is maintaining its accommodative stance, while the government has launched another fiscal package via the distribution of free vaccines and food," said Jen-Ai Chua, Equity Research Analyst Asia, Julius Baer.  "India is expected to vaccinate two-thirds of its population with a first dose by early 2022 -- a key move that should boost its COVID containment efforts. We maintain our constructive view on the market," he added.  The active COVID-19 cases in the country have reduced to 11,67,952 comprising 4 per cent of the total infections, while the national recovery rate has improved to 94.77 per cent, the Health Ministry data showed on Thursday.  Meanwhile, 94,052 new cases took the tally to 2,91,83,121; while a net decline of 63,463 cases has been recorded in the total number of COVID-19 cases in a span of 24 hours, the data showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
10-06-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 150 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 150 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking gains in index-heavyweights Reliance Industries, Infosys and HDFC Bank amid a positive trend in global equities.  The 30-share BSE index was trading 160.07 points or 0.31 per cent higher at 52,101.71 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 58.75 points or 0.38 per cent to 15,694.10.  PowerGrid was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by ITC, Tech Mahindra, IndusInd Bank, NTPC, Sun Pharma and Dr Reddy's.  On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, Asian Paints, Maruti and Nestle India were among the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex ended 333.93 points or 0.64 per cent lower at 51,941.64, and Nifty slumped 104.75 points or 0.67 per cent to 15,635.35.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 846.37 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data.  Domestic equities look to be good as of now. Previous session's selling pressure was due to profit booking ahead of crucial US CPI data and European Central Bank (ECB) policy meeting outcome, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.  "While sharp drop in daily caseload and phased withdrawal of business curbs by the states have significantly improved prospects of economic recovery, the government's decision to increase MSPs for several Kharif crops is a sensible move to enhance rural income," he noted.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals.  US equities finished lower as profit-booking ahead of crucial May inflation data.  International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.72 per cent lower at USD 71.70 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
10-06-2021||Business||LIC chairman M.R. Kumar's tenure extended||The tenure of LIC chairman M.R. Kumar has been extended by the appointments committee of the cabinet on Wednesday. Kumar’s term as LIC chairman was supposed to end on June 30, 2021, but the Centre extended his term by almost nine more months till March 13, 2022. Officials said the rules under the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956, have been amended to provide extension beyond 60 years in view of the ongoing preparations for the initial public offer of Life Insurance Corporation. The Centre hopes to mobilise Rs 90,000 crore by selling up to a 10 per cent stake in LIC. The maiden offer of LIC would be floated in 2021-22 as part of the Rs 1.75 lakh crore divestment target. The government owns 100 per cent in LIC. Once listed, it is likely to become the country’s biggest company by market capitalisation with an estimated valuation of Rs 8-10 lakh crore. The government as part of the finance bill had significantly increased the authorised capital of LIC to Rs 25,000 crore from Rs 100 crore to facilitate the listing. LIC has an asset base of Rs 31,96,214.81 crore. LIC collected the highest ever new business premium of Rs 1.84 lakh crore in 2020-21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
10-06-2021||Business|| Govt approves allocation of 5MHz spectrum in 700MHz (4G) band to Indian Railways||The government has approved the allocation of 5MHz spectrum in the 700MHz (4G) band to Indian Railways to improve its communication and signalling systems, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said after a cabinet meeting on Wednesday. The spectrum from the government  will be used in a five-year project to upgrade 34000km of tracks, with Rs 12,000 crore to be invested in signalling systems and another Rs 12,000 crore in infrastructure for the 4G spectrum. The project will improve the safety of passengers on the transport network. The railways at present rely on optical fibre for its communication network but with the allocation of fresh spectrum, it will be able to use high-speed radio on a real-time basis. Tony Verghese, partner, J Sagar Associates, said the government has accepted a recommendation of the telecom regulator in 2019 to provide spectrum to the railways. “The Wi-Fi enhancement capabilities for end customers will not be a focus for now. However, the implementation of safer and faster journeys will result in increased revenues.” The cabinet has also approved a train collision avoidance system along with the grant of spectrum. The spectrum  will be used for modern signalling and train protection systems and ensure seamless communication between loco-pilots and guards. The spectrum charges will be levied on the basis of a formula to fix royalty and licence fees in the case of captive use, which will be recommended by the telecom regulator. Paddy MSP hiked The cabinet has also approved a hike in the minimum support prices for summer-sown crops, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said. The Centre has hiked paddy MSP by Rs 72 to Rs 1,940 per quintal for the 2021-22 crop year from Rs 1,868 per quintal last year. The minimum support for sesamum has been raised by Rs 425 per quintal and urad, Rs 300 per quintal. Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care Ratings, said: “It was expected that the MSPs would be aggressive this time as the pandemic has struck rural India and the farming community may be affected.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
10-06-2021||Business||Petronet LNG agreement to invest in Tellurian’s LNG project lapses||Petronet LNG on Wednesday said its non-binding agreement to invest $2.5 billion in US energy upstart Tellurian’s LNG project in Louisiana in return for gas supplies for 40 years has lapsed. The country’s largest gas importer is in talks with Qatar for gas. The non-binding deal was signed during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s September 2019 “Howdy Modi” Houston visit and was billed as one of the largest foreign investments in the US to ship LNG abroad. “The MoU was not extended. As of today, there is no MoU with us,” Petronet managing director and CEO A.K. Singh told reporters on a call. The initial pact, he said, has expired. The parties had set March 31, 2020 as the deadline to sign the deal, which was first extended to May 31 then to December 31, 2020. Singh said the agreement lapsed because Petronet “did not get a request from Tellurian’s side for an extension” and the PSU had no role in this matter. On the reasons for the non-conclusion of the deal or the MoU not being extended, Singh said this was not because of Petronet. “We did not get a request from their (Tellurian’s) side for an extension,” he said but refused to elaborate. Petronet promoters had earlier questioned the need to make an equity investment and lock in such large volumes from one supplier for a 40-year period. In November last year, the PSU’s director-finance V.K. Mishra had said LNG was available at throwaway prices and “there appears to be no need to invest in liquefication terminals (which convert gas into LNG)”. Petronet, meanwhile, has opened talks with suppliers such as Rasgas of Qatar for LNG to meet the growing energy needs of the country. Its long-term deal to import 7.5 million tonnes per annum (mtpa) of liquefied natural gas (LNG) from Qatar ends in March 2028 and the company has time till December 2023 to decide on extending the deal. “We are in discussions with suppliers like Qatar for additional LNG volumes,” he said adding Petronet is expanding the capacity of the Dahej LNG terminal by five mtpa, planning a new east coast terminal and there was unused capacity available at its Kochi terminal too. GAIL split scrapped A proposal to bifurcate state-owned gas utility GAIL (India) Ltd has been scrapped for now, and instead the company will monetise some of its pipelines by selling a minority stake through InvIT. GAIL chairman and managing director Manoj Jain said the company has sent a plan for monetising two of its pipelines to the oil ministry and an Infrastructure Investment Trust (InvIT) is possible within the current fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
10-06-2021||Business||JSW Group takes 3 top primary steel producers of the United States to court||Sajjan Jindal’s JSW Group has picked up a legal fight with three top primary steel producers of the United States for ganging up against its outfit by not supplying basic raw material and thereby crippling operations. It has filed a federal court lawsuit in the Southern District of Texas against Nucor Corp, United States Steel Corp and Cleveland-Cliffs Inc alleging that these companies conspired to boycott and refused to supply JSW Steel USA with a critical feedstock (domestic semi-finished steel slab) beginning in 2018 and continuing till date. JSW Steel (USA) Inc and JSW USA Steel Ohio Inc alleged that the defendants’ cartel cost them hundreds of millions of dollars in lost profits, increased their expenses and caused them other damages, and also led to higher prices and significant harm to the steel buyers in the US and significantly fewer jobs for US steelworkers. As these three companies declined to sell slabs manufactured in the US, the Texan facility had to import slabs after paying high tariffs. Two years back, the company had also taken the US government to court for not exempting it from the levy. Commenting on the lawsuit filed now, Parth Jindal, son of Sajjan Jindal and the board member of JSW Steel (USA), said that the defendants have long been the dominant US steel companies and continue to use anti competitive tactics against smaller producers like JSW to succeed at all costs. “We bought into the US market a few years ago and made significant progress in improving our facilities and performance. In 2018, we announced our intention to make substantial investments to further expand and upgrade our facilities. These companies derailed those plans, and so we file this suit today to respond assertively. “As we allege, they stated repeatedly that they could make semi-finished steel slabs in the quantities and quality to meet our needs and that they were willing to sell it to us, but when we tried to get them to move forward, they dragged things out and made excuses. We are now convinced that it was all for show and that, in reality, they never intended to make or sell steel slabs to us,” Jindal said in a statement. Group boycotts are illegal in the US as they erode competition, raise consumer prices and disadvantage companies like JSW, board member John Hritz added. These three primary steel producers put together account for a two-third of steel production. The previous Trump administration’s decision to slap duty on import of steel to the US had an adverse impact on JSW’s US operation, which is split into two locations. The $12-billion Indian conglomerate, which operates India’s largest steel company JSW Steel, has two units in the US. It operates a plate and pipe mill in Baytown, Texas, which was acquired from the outfit of Prithvi Raj Jindal, elder brother of Sajjan Jindal, in 2007 at an enterprise value of $900 million. Slab is a basic raw material for making plate and pipe which is used by the energy industry in Texas Later JSW bought a steel facility at Mingo Junction, Ohio, where now an electric arc furnace has been constructed to make slabs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
10-06-2021||Business||Quickening vaccination coverage critical for regaining growth momentum: Finance ministry report||The finance ministry in its monthly economic report has said the vaccination exercise needs to be speeded up for a quicker recovery of the economy. The report for May said the government must set as its paramount objective the vaccination of 70 crore people with at least the first dose by September. This will boost consumer and investor confidence. It even suggested vaccination in 24x7 shifts in August and September when supply was expected to increase significantly and the government may achieve the target of 1 crore shots a day. With the peaking of the second wave in the first half of May and the localised restrictions adopted to combat its spread, the economic impact of the virus is expected to be confined to the first quarter . The report said a healthy monsoon bodes well for farming and the softer lockdown by states is expected to translate into a “softer economic shock” in sectors such as  manufacturing and construction. UP favours rate cut The Uttar Pradesh government was in favour of reducing the duty rate on Covid equipment, state finance minister Suresh Kumar Khanna said. Khanna is in the Group of Ministers to set GST rates on Covid essentials, including vaccines. He said he was expressing the views of his government as he himself was not in a position to comment being part of the ministerial panel. “However, the Uttar Pradesh government is in favour of tax rate cuts to facilitate patients,” Khanna said. Senior BJP leader Sushil Modi has suggested levying 0.1 per cent each of central GST and state GST on vaccines, oxygen ventilators and other essential medical devices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
10-06-2021||Business||Uber to hire about 250 engineers in India||App-cab service provider Uber on Wednesday said it will recruit 250 engineers split between its tech centres at Bangalore and Hyderabad. The ride hailing service said it is building new teams and adding to the existing ones, including Uber infrastructure, Eats, Marketplace, Risk and Payments, Uber for Business (U4B), marketing and advertising platforms. Manikandan Thangarathnam, senior director - engineering, said, “Our teams in Hyderabad and Bangalore work on important global mandates, and pioneer various industry-first innovations. “In order to serve more people across the globe, we’re expanding our teams and are looking for bright engineering minds so we can collectively solve mobility and delivery challenges across all our global markets.’’ Recently, Uber’s tech teams have been heavily invested in building technology to enable safer rides and delivery across cities, including enabling mask-detection features and updating maps across countries. To facilitate more effective social distancing measures, Uber’s engineers have been accelerating digital payments in several countries, and also using machine learning and artificial intelligence to digitise several parts of Uber’s operations, including driver on boarding, and uploading digital menus. The cab aggregator had seen its services severely impacted due to the Covid pandemic as lockdowns globally to prevent the spread of pandemic resulted in lower trip volumes. The company in an SEC filing in May last year had announced layoffs of around 3700 full time employees. In India around 600 positions were reportedly impacted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
10-06-2021||Business||Equity mutual funds net inflow tops Rs 10,000 crore in May||Equity mutual funds saw net inflows of over Rs 10,000 crore in May as investors overlooked the second Covid- 19 wave to focus on corporate earnings and better growth ahead. This is the third straight month where equity mutual funds are witnessing net inflows. It is the highest level of infusion seen since March 2020 when they saw a net infusion of Rs 11,723 crore. Data released by the Association of Mutual Funds in India on Wednesday showed that net inflows into these schemes stood at Rs 10,083 crore in May after Rs 3,437 crore in April and Rs 9,115 crore in March. Barring equity-linked saving schemes, which saw a withdrawal of Rs 290 crore, all the equity schemes have seen inflows last month. Multi-cap funds saw the largest net inflow at Rs 1,954 crore. This was followed by a net inflow of Rs 1,368 crore in mid-cap funds, Rs 1,169 crore in focussed funds, Rs 1,137 crore in sectoral or thematic schemes and Rs 1,130 crore in flexi cap funds. “This kind of consistent numbers look favourable for the mutual fund industry and for the economy as a whole as it highlights investor’s confidence and normalcy taking its hold back in the economy,’’ said Mohit Nigam, head, PMS- Hem Securities. “We understand from the first wave of Covid that these waves will be short-lived and eventually economic activity will revive giving a boost to market sentiments. Therefore, buying on dips always makes sense and which is what reflecting in the mutual funds sales numbers quite positively,” Akhil Chaturvedi of Motilal Oswal Asset Management Company said. Contribution from systematic investment plans was Rs 8,819 crore in May against Rs 8,596 crore in April. However, investors pulled out Rs 44,512 crore from debt mutual funds. Stocks end in red Profit booking from mid-noon trades on Wednesday saw stocks giving up their early gains and ending in the red. The Sensex, which oscillated in a 730-point range, closed 333.93 points at 51941.64, extending its losing streak to the second session. The index had opened higher at 52401.41 and hit a high of 52446.92. However, the gauge later fell to a low of 51717.07 and closed 0.64 per cent lower. Though market experts feel the outlook continues to remains positive, they are now advocating caution given the lofty valuations in certain pockets, particularly the mid-cap and small-cap segments. The NSE Nifty slumped 104.75 points, or 0.67 per cent, to end at 15635.35.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
10-06-2021||India||Doctors are God’s envoy on earth, says Ramdev||Yoga guru Ramdev, who had said he does not need the Covid vaccine as he has protection of yoga and ayurveda, on Thursday did a somersault, saying he will soon get the jab and described doctors as "God's envoys on earth". Ramdev had earlier stirred a controversy with his comments on the efficacy of allopathic drugs against Covid-19, drawing the ire of the medical fraternity. Now, welcoming Prime Minister Narendra Modi's announcement about free vaccines to all from June 21, Ramdev described it as a "historic" step and appealed to all to get themselves vaccinated. "Get both doses of the vaccine and the double protection of yoga and ayurveda. They will combine to give you such a robust shield of protection that not a single person will die from Covid," he told reporters in Haridwar. Asked when he will get the vaccine shot, the yoga guru said, "Very soon." Ramdev also heaped praise on good allopathic doctors, describing them as "God's envoys on earth". On the ongoing confrontation with the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Ramdev said he cannot have any animosity with any organisation. He was against the exploitation of people in the name of medicines, he said. Ramdev said Pradhan Mantri Jan Aushadhi Kendras had to be opened because of the tendency among many doctors to prescribe expensive medicines in place of generic drugs, which are much cheaper. "I am not against any organisation. Good doctors are a real boon. They are God's envoys on earth. But individual doctors can do wrong things," he said. He also said for emergency treatment and surgery, allopathy is the best. "When it comes to emergency treatment and surgery, allopathy is the best. There cannot be two opinions about it," said the yoga guru who had caused so much anger among doctors by his recent remarks against allopathy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-71
10-06-2021||India||Girls will run away if they are given cell phones: UP women’s panel member||In controversial remarks, a member of the Uttar Pradesh women's commission has suggested that girls should be kept off mobile phones by families who don't want them "running away" with boys. She also asked mothers to keep tabs on their daughters. "Girls should not be given mobile phones and if given, families should keep tabs on them. Girls talk with boys over the phone and later run away with them," Meena Kumari told reporters in Aligarh when asked about the rise in crime against women. "Society and family members, especially mothers have a major responsibility to ensure that young girls do not go astray," added the member of the UP State Women's Commission. She further said mothers should take care of their daughters as such incidents occur due to their "negligence". Citing an example, Meena Kumari said she had received a similar complaint that a boy and a girl from different castes ran away recently. She stressed that the misuse of cellphones was frequently leading to such ‘social ills’. Delhi Commission of Women chairperson Swati Maliwal retweeted a video where Meena Kumari was seen making the remarks. Countering her, Maliwal said, “No ma'am, phone in girl's hand is not a reason for rape. The reason for rape is such mentality, which increases the morale of the criminals. The Prime Minister is requested to sensitise all the women's commissions, one day send them to see the working style of the Delhi Women's Commission, we teach them!”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-72
10-06-2021||India||Modi is the top leader of India, BJP says Raut||Days after the one-on-one meeting between Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Thursday said Modi is the top leader of the country and the BJP. He made the statement in response to a question on whether he felt that Modi's popularity is on a downslide as media reports suggested that RSS is contemplating to project state leaders as the face in the state elections. "I don't want to comment on this...I don't go by the media reports. There is no official statement about this... The BJP owes its success to Narendra Modi in the last seven years and currently he is the top leader of the country and his party," Raut said. The Sena's Rajya Sabha member, who is currently on a tour of north Maharashtra, was speaking to reporters in Jalgaon. The Shiv Sena's stand has always been that a prime minister belongs to the entire country and not a particular party, he said, adding, "Hence the PM shouldn't get involved in election campaigning as it puts pressure on the official machinery.” To a question on Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil's remarks that his party would make friendship with tiger (Shiv Sena's symbol) if Modi wished, Raut said, “No one can make friendship with a tiger. It is the tiger that decides whom he wants to be friends with." When asked about his tour of north Maharashtra, he said it was part of the Shiv Sena's efforts to strengthen the organisation. "All Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) allies have a right to expand their base and strengthen the parties. It is also the need of the hour. We are also holding meetings on strengthening our coordination among each other," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-72
10-06-2021||India||Group of students break into JNU central library||The Jawaharlal Nehru University administration on Thursday alleged that a group of students broke into the central library and clashed with the staff there following which an FIR has been registered with the police. The varsity alleged that the students have been occupying the library for the last two days. The police said based on the complaint by the varsity, a case has been registered. According to the police, the incident took place on June 8 and based on a complaint from the varsity's chief security officer, a case was registered on Wednesday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh said "Based on the complaint, a case was registered under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code, Delhi Disaster Management Act and prevention of damage to public property." No arrests have been made in the case so far, police said, adding that a meeting between the students and chief librarian of the varsity was also held in this regard. In a statement, the varsity said, "This (incident) has caused health risk for the library staff and even other students residing in the hostels, since these unruly students return to hostel for lunch/dinner or other purposes." The varsity said "a group of students scuffled with the security staff, broke open the side glass door of the B R Ambedkar Library, entered the main reading room of the building on June 8 and have occupied the space since then". It added that the students did not vacate the library building even during the night. "When no amount of persuasion by the librarian and the security personnel convinced these students against violating the law and COVID-19 guidelines, the JNU Security Office lodged a police complaint in view of the seriousness of the issue. It has been found that these students do not even use mask or follow other COVID-19 related guidelines," the varsity statement said. The curfew imposed by the Delhi Government is still in place and no new guidelines have yet been announced regarding resuming normal academic activities, it said. "The chief proctor office in the mean time has been tasked with taking necessary disciplinary action against these students as per the university rules," it said. The students occupying the space are not permitting the library staff to sanitise the library for making it safer for students who will use the library after restoration of normalcy, it said. "All these students are hereby instructed to vacate the library immediately," it said. A varsity student, requesting anonymity, said, "The library has not opened for a long time which has left PhD students frustrated. Students have their submissions due and have not been able to access the library. The students entered the library but there was no violence."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-72
10-06-2021||India||HC extends Stan Swamy's stay in private hospital till June 18||The Bombay High Court on Thursday said Jesuit priest and activist Stan Swamy, arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, shall remain admitted in a Mumba-based private hospital till June 18 as he is suffering from COVID-19. Swamy, 84, was on May 28 shifted from the Taloja prison in neighbouring Navi Mumbai to the Holy Family Hospital here after he filed a petition, seeking interim bail on medical grounds. After being shifted to the private hospital, he tested positive for the coronavirus infection. He was lodged at the Taloja prison since his arrest in October 2020. On Thursday, his counsel Mihir Desai told a division bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar that Swamy had tested positive for COVID-19 and hence, his stay at the private hospital should be extended. The bench said Swamy shall remain admitted at the private hospital till June 18, and posted the petition for hearing on June 17. The court also directed the hospital to submit in a sealed envelope medical reports of Swamy by the next date of hearing. Last month, when Swamy was produced before the HC from the prison via video-conferencing, he told the court that his mental and physical health had declined steadily in the jail. The Elgar Parishad case relates to alleged inflammatory speeches delivered at a conclave held at Shaniwarwada in Pune on December 31, 2017, which the police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial on the Maharashtra city's outskirts. The Pune Police had claimed the conclave was backed by Maoists.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) later took over the probe into the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-72
10-06-2021||India||Yogi Adityanath meets Amit Shah, likely to meet Modi||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath Thursday met senior BJP leader and Union minister Amit Shah here, and is also likely to call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and party chief JP Nadda during his two-day visit, sources said. While Adityanath will meet PM Modi on Friday, his meeting with Nadda may take place Thursday itself or on Friday, the sources added. He is expected to be in the national capital for two days. Adityanath is coming to Delhi a day after Jitin Prasada, a former Congress leader who comes from a well-known Brahmin family of Uttar Pradesh, left the party and joined the BJP. The BJP hopes that Jitin’s defection will send a positive signal to the Brahmin voters. Brahmins make up roughly half of the 20 per cent upper caste population of Uttar Pradesh and have supported different parties at different times. Jitin could get a key position in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, BJP sources said. The chief minister’s visit to the national capital assumes significance as the politically crucial state of Uttar Pradesh is going to polls early next year. Earlier this month, BJP's general secretary BL Santhosh had visited the state to review the party's preparations for Assembly elections due next year. Adityanath’s visit comes at a time when there have been reports of despair and helplessness and widespread criticism of his government over its tackling of the pandemic that had apparently prompted the central leadership to rush Santhosh and Singh to Uttar Pradesh for the stock-taking exercise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-72
10-06-2021||India||Jharkhand tops list in Covid vaccine wastage in May||Kerala and West Bengal recorded negative wastage of Covid-19 vaccines in May, saving 1.10 lakh and 1.61 lakh doses respectively, while Jharkhand reported maximum wastage of 33.95 per cent, according to government data. While Kerala reported -6.37 per cent vaccine wastage, West Bengal recorded -5.48 per cent. Chhattisgarh reported 15.79 per cent vaccine wastage while Madhya Pradesh reported 7.35 per cent. States like Punjab, Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra reported 7.08 per cent, 3.95 per cent, 3.91 per cent, 3.78 and 3.63 per cent and 3.59 per cent respectively. The data showed that a total of 790.6 lakh vaccines were supplied to states and UTs in May out of which total vaccinations were 610.6 lakh while 658.6 lakh shots were utilised and the closing balance was 212.7 lakh. The vaccination in May was less as compared to April in which a total of 898.7 lakh vaccinations were done, 902.2 lakh vaccines were utilised and the closing balance was 80.8 lakh. India's first dose coverage of the 45-plus population till June 7 was pegged at 38 per cent with Tripura's coverage being 92 per cent, Rajasthan and Chattisgarh 65 per cent each, Gujarat 53 per cent, Kerala 51 per cent and Delhi 49 per cent. Tamil Nadu's first dose coverage of the 45-plus population is at a low of 19 per cent, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh at 24 per cent each and Bihar at 25 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-72
10-06-2021||India||Nadda lauds Modi’s Covid efforts amid Opposition criticism||The way the government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi prepared itself to fight Covid is "admirable" and reflects India's strength, BJP president J P Nadda said on Thursday, citing the ramping up of medical infrastructure in the country to laud the Centre. While noting that the country faced a shortage of medical oxygen as the pandemic surged, he said Modi left no stone unturned to meet the shortfall in a week by rallying resources through "earth, air and water", a reference to its transportation through all available means. In an address after inaugurating the BJP's office building in Arunachal Pradesh through a virtual event, Nadda said medical oxygen's production rose to 9,446 MT from 900 MT. He also expressed condolences to those who lost their loved ones to the pandemic and said Covid is the biggest pandemic of the century. "We feel happy at the way the Indian government under Modi prepared itself to fight COVID-19. This is truly admirable and is reflective of India's strength," he said, noting that the number of Covid-testing labs has grown to 2,500 from one and their capacity to 25 lakh per day from 1,500 since last year when the highly infectious disease was first reported in India. The number of isolation beds has risen to over 14 lakh and ICU beds to 81,000 from 2,000, he said. Nadda's comments came amid criticism by Opposition parties of the Modi government's handling of the pandemic. They have accused it of being "ill-prepared" to deal with the recent second surge. The BJP president accused the opposition parties, including the Congress, of trying to "derail" India's vaccination programme by questioning the safety of jabs being manufactured in India. They tried to break the morale of vaccine manufacturers, he alleged while praising the Modi government for the production of two made-in-India vaccines within a year of the disease's outbreak. "Within nine months, India had two vaccines, unprecedented in our nation's history. People were questioning and spreading rumours. Congress leaders were spreading lies and questioning the ability of India's experts and scientists," he said. Only two companies were making vaccines earlier but now 13 firms are making jabs in India, he said. "By December, 19 companies in India will be making vaccines and India will have 200 crore vaccine doses," he claimed. India had earlier waited for decades and years earlier for starting vaccine programmes to tackle diseases like measles and polio, he said. In his address, he also highlighted the government's welfare measures like providing free ration to the poor and financial, educational and health benefits for children who lost both their parents to the disease. Touching on the government's work for the Northeast region, Nadda said it was neglected until Modi came to power in 2014. "Due to the prime minister's Act East Policy, the government has focused on the Northeast and a lot of developmental work is being done," he said, and lauded the BJP's rise in Arunachal Pradesh where it is in power.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-72
10-06-2021||India||A date with monsoon gone wrong||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-72
10-06-2021||India||Vaccine data advisory issued to states to prevent misuse of information: Govt||The government on Thursday said its advice to states and union territories to obtain permission before sharing eVIN data on vaccine stocks and temperature of storage is to prevent any misuse of this information by various agencies for commercial purposes. The Health Ministry clarification comes in the wake of media reports about the Centre writing to the states and UTs, advising them not to share the data of the Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN) system on vaccine stocks and the temperature of vaccine storage at public forums without prior consent, and stating that it is a "sensitive information and to be used only for programme improvement". "The crucial information related to specific vaccine usage trends for multiple vaccines used in Universal Immunization Programme (UIP), and temperature related data in respect to each such vaccine, can be used to manipulate the market as well as associated research with respect to various vaccines and cold chain equipment. "It is important to note that the Union Health Ministry has been using the eVIN electronic platform for all vaccines used under UIP for more than six years now. Sharing of sensitive E-VIN data on stocks and storage, temperature requires the Health Ministry's prior consent," the ministry said in its statement. The data on Covid-19 vaccine stocks, their consumption and balance is reflected on the CoWIN platform, and it is also regularly shared by the Union Health Ministry through weekly press conferences and daily press releases. "The Health Ministry's letter to the states and UTs in focus was intended to prevent use of such sensitive data for unauthorised commercial purposes," the ministry said. The government of India is committed to transparency in the Covid-19 vaccination programme, and that is the reason it came up with a real-time IT-based tracking of vaccine logistics through CoWIN, it said. The aim is to share the information with the general public on a regular basis, the statement said. The government of India has been supporting the efforts of states and UTs for an effective vaccination drive under the Whole of Government approach since January 16 this year. Several measures are being taken for timely availability of Covid-19 vaccines across the country. Streamlining its supply chain, including storage, is also given equal priority, the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-72
10-06-2021||India||Nationwide campaign being launched to counter rumours on vaccination drive, says Naqvi||A nationwide campaign will be launched by social and educational institutions to curb and crush rumours and apprehensions spread by nefarious and vested interests" about the world's largest anti-coronavirus vaccination drive being conducted in India, Union Minister for Minority Affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said here on Thursday. State Haj committees, Waqf boards, their associate organisations, Central Waqf Council, Maulana Azad Education Foundation and other social and educational institutions will be part of the campaign Jaan Hai To Jahaan Hai , to be launched especially in villages and remote areas of the country, he said. The senior BJP minister said Women Self Help Groups will also be included in the campaign. These groups will inform the people about some narrow-minded self-interests creating fear and confusion on the vaccines. Such elements are enemy of health and well-being of the people, he told reporters. The above-named organisations and groups will encourage people to get vaccinated to tackle the pandemic, the minister said. Unfortunately some narrow-minded elements are creating confusion and fear on the vaccination front. They are not only enemies of the health and well-being of the people but also of the country. We have to remain cautious of such people, Naqvi said. The Central government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is running the world's largest Covid vaccination drive in India, Naqvi said. As many as 24.30 crore people in India have been vaccinated so far, he said. Naqvi who chaired the Haj 2021 review meeting at Haj House in south Mumbai earlier in the day, said preparations regarding this year's Haj are complete, but keeping in view the pandemic, India will stand with the Saudi Arabian government's decision on the annual pilgrimage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-72
10-06-2021||India||HC refuses to stay release on movie based on Sushant Singh Rajput’s life||The Delhi High Court on Thursday refused to stay the release of the movie, 'Nyay: The Justice', which is purportedly based on the life of late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The movie is scheduled to be released on Friday. Justice Sanjeev Narula dismissed an application by Rajput's father Krishna Kishore Singh, seeking to restrain anyone from using his son's name or likeness in movies. The court, however, directed the producers to maintain accounts of the film and listed the suit for completion of pleading before the joint registrar. The detailed order is awaited. According to Singh's plea, some of the upcoming or proposed movie projects based on his son's life are -- 'Nyay: The Justice', 'Suicide or Murder: A star was lost', 'Shashank' and an unnamed crowd-funded film. Rajput's father, represented through senior advocate Vikas Singh and lawyer Varun Singh, has contended that the filmmakers are taking advantage of the situation for commercial gains and therefore, the right to freedom of speech and expression would not apply to them. "Plaintiff (Singh) has apprehension that various plays, movies, web-series, books, interviews or other material may be published which would harm the reputation of the son of the plaintiff and his family," claimed the suit, seeking damages of over Rs 2 crore from the filmmakers for "loss of reputation, mental trauma and harassment" to Rajput's family. Opposing the plea, senior advocate Chander Lall, appearing for the director of Nyay, has said the movie's release has been widely publicised and therefore, he would not be able to give any assurance with regard to holding it back. He said Rajput's caricature, name or likeness has not been used in the film. Lall as well as the counsel for the producers have told the court that restraining anyone from making any movie on what happened to Rajput would be an infringement of the freedom of speech and expression guaranteed under the Constitution. They stated that Rajput being a celebrity, people need to know what happened to him and cited examples of movies, both Indian and foreign, made on various individuals and companies without their express permission and said that such activity was permissible. They also said that since Rajput has passed away the rights of fair trial and privacy cannot be inherited by his father. Counsel for Rajput's father has opposed the contentions of the film's producers and director saying since the father filed the complaint, which was the basis of the FIR and trial, and also the present suit, he had a right to fair trial and privacy. The director of the film 'Shashank' was represented through advocate A P Singh. The suit has also claimed that in case a "movie, web-series, book or any other content of similar nature is allowed to be published or broadcasted, it would affect the right of the victim and deceased for a free and fair trial as it may cause prejudice to them". It has also contended that Rajput being a well-known celebrity, "any misuse of his name/ image/ caricature/ style of delivering dialogues also amounts to infringement of the personality right vested with the plaintiff besides amounting to acts of passing off". The contentions of Rajput's father have been opposed by the filmmakers of the upcoming and proposed movies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
10-06-2021||India||Rishi Dubey as an experienced Poll Advisor with a holistic approach can be a game changer in present political scenario||Before any Elections it is necessary for the political parties to carefully analyze the factors that have led to the party’s/individual’s performance in the last Elections & their prospects in the forthcoming Assembly/General Elections. It is also important to ascertain the expectations of different sections of the electorate so that an implementation plan could be drawn up and acted upon. Political PR, Political Campaigning, Political Research, Political Marketing, Political Management, Environment Mapping etc. relating to all contexts and processes. Politicians nowadays piercing party lines in India are hiring Public Relations agencies to conduct surveys, mobilise essential data of the electorate that they are willing to compete from, chalk out public announcements & to hike the image before the elections. Understanding the immense impact of Public Relations and digital/social media campaigns in connecting, engaging and advocating with their target audience nowadays politicians are reaching out to professionals to help layout the strategies. All PR firms are observing the increasing number of political leaders sanctioning this approach majorly after Prime Minister Mr. Narendra Modi's PR strategies proved to be dynamic in 2014 & 2019 General Elections. As per PR companies the essence of originating campaign strategy is "data", as they say data is the new oil. Data acquired through surveys specific to the constituencies help in assisting political candidates and parties to have an insight that is very essential in chalking out powerful manifestos & devise the augmented approach based on it. In the conventional political campaigns, the political parties/candidates used to abide by the media campaigns only. In today’s scenario Public Relations play an important role by managing political campaigns for any political party/candidates by seeking professional expertise. It helps the clients to develop communication in order to sustain relationships and engage the electorate to promote their political developments, transparency, accountability and activities such as: Research & Analytics, Print Media Management, Social Media Management, Public Opinion Poll, Politico-Social campaigns, Communication consulting, Press Conferences, Slogan Development, Perception Mapping, Content Development, Media Management, Candidate Profiling, Competition Mapping, Sample Survey etc. Today "Strategy" has attained major importance in each and every field. “We have been seeing an increasing number of candidates and leaders approaching us from all parties for precise surveys and formulating strategies for their election campaigns. During 2017 & 2020 Punjab and Delhi Assembly elections respectively, we successfully formulated and implemented the PR campaigns and strategies for several Candidates and Political Parties. This time too we have numerous campaigns in hand. However, according to our PR policy we cannot disclose the details, until unless the candidates/parties are willing to reveal the same” said Mr. Rishi Dubey Co-founder and CEO, PR BABA Private Limited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
10-06-2021||India||Eight 8 kids among 12 killed in Mumbai building collapse ||At least 12 people, including eight children, were killed and seven injured when two floors of an illegally constructed three-storey residential building collapsed on an adjoining single-storey house in suburban Mumbai, officials said on Thursday. The incident took place around 11.15pm on Wednesday, when Mumbai experienced heavy rain through the day, at the New Collector Compound on Abdul Hamid Road in the Malwani area of suburban Malad, the officials said. The three-storey building had been constructed illegally and had suffered damage in Cyclone Tauktae, which passed close to the Mumbai coast last month, police said, adding that its contractor had been arrested on the charge of culpable homicide. The Maharashtra government announced an ex gratia of Rs 5 lakh each for the kin of those who lost their lives in the house collapse, while the Centre will give an additional Rs 2 lakh. The second and third floors of the three-storey building collapsed on the adjoining single-storey house, said Santosh Dhonde, acting ward officer of the city’s P-North ward. Fire brigade and other agencies immediately rushed to the spot and started a search-and-rescue operation, the official from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. Eight children and four adults died, he said, adding that most of the deceased were from two families. Seven others were injured and the condition of one of them was critical, he said. People rescued from under the debris were taken to nearby hospitals, he added. The deceased have been identified as Sahil Sarfaraz Sayyed, 9, Arifa Sheikh, 9, Shafiq Md Saleem Siddiqui, 45, Tausif Shafiq Siddiqui, 15, Aalisha Shafiq Siddiqui, 10, Alfisa Shafiq Siddiqui, 1, Afina Shafik Siddiqui, 6, Ishrat Bano Shafiq Siddiqui, 40, Rahisa Bano Rafik Siddiqui, 40, Tahes Safik Siddiqui, 12, and John Irranna, 13, and a 60-year-old man named only as Sardar. According to civic and fire brigade officials, some people might still be trapped under the rubble and the search-and-rescue operations were on. According to the BMC, the collapsed building was located on collector’s land and its owner got permission from the collector’s office while constructing a permanent structure. However, joint commissioner of police (law and order) Vishwas Nangre Patil told reporters that the building had been constructed illegally and had serious structural faults. During Cyclone Tauktae last month, the building suffered damage, he said, adding Wednesday’s incident could have been averted if proper precautions had been taken. An FIR under IPC Sections 304 (2) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 34 (common intention) has been registered against the building contractor, Ramzan Nabi Shaikh, its owner Rafique Siddiqui (who lost nine members of his family) and others, the police said. Contractor Ramzan, 34, a resident of Malwani, was picked up by police after the incident for questioning and later placed under arrest, said Dilip Sawant, additional commissioner of police (north region). Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed grief at the loss of lives in the building collapse and announced Rs 2 lakh ex gratia each for the next of kin of the deceased from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund. In a condolence message from the Prime Minister, his office tweeted: “Pained by the loss of lives due to the collapse of a structure in Malad West, Mumbai. In this hour of grief, my thoughts are with the bereaved families. I pray that the injured recover at the earliest.” A sum of Rs 50,000 will be provided to each of the injured, Modi said. The Maharashtra government separately announced an ex gratia of Rs 5 lakh each to the kin of those who lost their lives in the tragedy. It also said that the medical expenses of the injured would be borne by the government. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray condoled the loss of lives and visited Shatabdi Hospital in the city on Thursday to enquire about the well-being of the survivors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
10-06-2021||India||India reports highest single-day spike of 6,148 casualties as Bihar revises death toll||With Bihar revising its figures and putting the total number of fatalities caused by COVID-19 at 9,429, India reported its highest single-day spike of 6,148 deaths, pushing the toll to 3,59,676, while 94,052 new cases took the tally to 2,91,83,121, according to the Union health ministry's data updated on Thursday. The Nitish Kumar government on Wednesday reported that the number of deaths across the state in the pandemic was 9,429 compared to the figure of 5,500 earlier. New figures imply that while 1,600 people died of Covid in Bihar between March 2020 and 2021, the number of deaths from April to June 7 this year was a staggering 7,775, about six times more. The active cases have reduced to 11,67,952 comprising 4 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 94.77 per cent, it said. A net decline of 63,463 cases has been recorded in the total number of COVID-19 cases in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. Also, 20,04,690 tests were conducted on Wednesday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 37,21,98,253, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 4.69 per cent. It has been less than 10 per cent for 17 consecutive days, the ministry said. Weekly positivity rate was recorded at 5.43 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 28th consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,76,55,493, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.23 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 24,27,26,693 COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive in the country. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4. The 6,148 new fatalities include 3,971 from Bihar, 661 from Maharashtra, 405 from Tamil Nadu, 192 from Karnataka and 156 from Kerala. COVID-19 death toll in Bihar was on Wednesday revised drastically upwards by the state health department, which put the total number of fatalities caused by the pandemic at 9,429. A total of 3,59,676 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,01,833 from Maharashtra, 32,291 from Karnataka, 28,170 from Tamil Nadu, 24,704 from Delhi, 21,516 from Uttar Pradesh, 16,555 from West Bengal, 15,293 from Punjab and 13,271 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
10-06-2021||India||In ex-bureaucrats’ crossfire, govt allies have few answers||The first week of June saw retired bureaucrats and diplomats pitted against each other in public like never before, with the pro-government among them launching broadsides against not just those criticising the Narendra Modi government but those seeking to hold the mirror to it. This came in the midst of the Union government’s face-off with Bengal over what many considered the “arbitrary” transfer of outgoing chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to the Centre, and a new pension rule requiring officials who have retired from intelligence and security-related organisations to seek clearance before commenting or writing on subjects related to intelligence or security. Although these developments may appear unrelated, the purpose behind each was to browbeat critics and naysayers into silence, or at least circumspection, at a time when India’s Covid response is drawing world attention. However, it did not stop the Constitutional Conduct Group (CCG) from coming out with yet another open letter to the Prime Minister calling for withdrawal of the three new regulations proposed for Lakshadweep. Ironically, this — the CCG’s 45th open letter since it sent out the first four years ago to this day — received traction like none other. The reason was partly the personal attack on the group by Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri on May 31 that drew more media attention to the CCG. Puri, a career diplomat, was briefing journalists to counter criticism of the government’s continuation with the Central Vista project amid the raging pandemic when he chose to pick on the CCG using a letter sent 10 months ago. Puri’s exact words for his erstwhile colleagues among diplomats and bureaucrats, including batch-mates, were: “Yeh padhe likhe murkh hi nahin hain (they are not just educated fools), they are a disgrace.” Puri was referring to a passing mention in the letter to reports of superstition being one of the reasons for building a new Parliament. Although taken aback by the “vitriolic” attack by one of their own, CCG members decided not to respond. They reasoned they would be playing into the government’s hands by getting into a spat with the minister and providing a diversion from the real issues at hand. A couple of the signatories have responded in their individual capacity, though. Former culture secretary Jawhar Sircar on Wednesday tweeted: “Please don’t shout down questions and criticisms @HardeepSPuri Branding all colleagues as Moorkhs is not nice or diplomatic. Modi Sarkar must clarify TOTALITY of Central Vista project — extent, timeline, expenditure.” Another signatory and former diplomat, Deb Mukharji, told The Telegraph: “My response to Hardeep Puri would be, ‘Yes, I apologise to the reference in the beginning to the superstition, but you know we are dealing with a government where the Prime Minister has referred to superstitions in the past and right now, in the middle of Covid, you have the health minister endorsing Baba Ramdev. We did not make up the rumour. So we can’t be blamed for believing this of the government when the Prime Minister believes in these kind of things.’ “Hardeep Puri seems to have forgotten his training in the foreign service and is speaking the language of the company he keeps. Lastly, he did not address a single concern that we raised.” Another member of the CCG who did not want to be quoted said this was a sign of the government being rattled. About the change in the pension rules, he said some in the CCG might not be able to write as individuals but the new restrictions were unlikely to stop them from signing up on these open letters. “Till date, we have steered clear of security-related issues and have not written on issues that impact relations with other countries,” the CCG member said. A third retired bureaucrat underlined that the government was harming itself with the new pension order. “It is denying itself some experienced counsel. What the government has done now with the vaccination policy is what former health secretary Sujatha Rao has been writing (about) for over two months now,” the ex-bureaucrat said. As for the article written by the Forum of Former Ambassadors of India about the criticism of the Modi government’s foreign policies, retired and serving diplomats see it as a targeted attack on former national security adviser Shivshankar Menon and former foreign secretary Shyam Saran, two voices taken very seriously not just in India but across the world. In the process of going after the critics, through an article in The Indian Express newspaper last week, the Forum has also established that much in the realm of foreign policy over the past seven years has been a continuation of work in progress, something the Modi government and the Right-wing ecosystem has refused to acknowledge in their zeal to project everything as unprecedented and historic. “Those faulting the Modi government’s foreign policy as if there are serious departures from the past miss the clear continuities in key areas under the UPA and the NDA governments,” the Forum wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
10-06-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh elections 2022: Anup Chandra Pandey appointed election commissioner ||The man who aggressively implemented Yogi Adityanath’s cow welfare scheme will now help conduct an election crucial to the Uttar Pradesh chief minister’s political future and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s efforts to rebound from the Bengal drubbing. Anup Chandra Pandey, a retired 1984-batch IAS officer from the Uttar Pradesh cadre, has been appointed election commissioner about nine months before Assembly elections are due in the heartland state. The former Uttar Pradesh chief secretary, under whose supervision Adityanath had implemented a Rs 613-crore cow welfare project in 2018, was adept at reading his political masters’ mind, sources in Lucknow said. In December 2018, Pandey was working on a vision document for Agra’s development when he suddenly shelved the plan, realising Adityanath didn’t want such a programme for the city of the Taj Mahal, a Mughal monument, the sources said. While overseeing the cow welfare project, Pandey would hold frequent meetings with district officials to ensure abandoned cows were not left to roam or attacked for destroying crops. Over 100 people were arrested for cow-related crimes in 2018-2019. However, the 600 cowsheds the state government built under the project became defunct within months because funds were not released after Pandey’s retirement on August 31, 2019. Pandey, who became chief secretary on June 30, 2018, had served for 37 years in Uttar Pradesh and been posted in one capacity or the other in almost every part of the state. Political observers suggested Pandey’s choice as election commissioner implied that Modi had begun preparing for next year’s Uttar Pradesh polls, being seen as a political barometer ahead of the 2024 general election. The state election, due by March, could face the BJP with a tough challenge if the repercussions of the farmers’ agitation and the popular fury over the Covid mismanagement persist. Pandey, a mechanical engineer and MBA who also has a PhD in ancient history, will fill the slot left vacant by Sushil Chandra, who took over as chief election commissioner on April 12 after the retirement of Sunil Arora. The other election commissioner is Rajiv Kumar, a retired IAS officer from the Jharkhand cadre. Chandra will retire in May 2022, after the Uttar Pradesh elections. Pandey, whose term expires on February 15, 2024, is unlikely to become chief election commissioner. Kumar is next in seniority after Chandra and is likely to succeed him. He will turn 65 in February 2025 and retire after the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. Pandey is a year older than Rajiv Kumar. Only four election commissioners have retired without becoming chief election commissioner, the last being Ashok Lavasa who quit last year to join the Asian Development Bank. Lavasa had expressed dissent over the clean chits the poll panel had given to Modi and Amit Shah when they were accused of violating the model code of conduct during the 2019 general election campaign. The last chief secretary of a state to be appointed election commissioner was Gujarat’s Achal Kumar Joti in 2015. The 2017 Gujarat polls were conducted on his watch as chief election commissioner, and he faced allegations of ignoring complaints against BJP leaders. Joti retired in 2018. A source in the central government said: “Pandey had met the Prime Minister several times in the past one year to discuss the Ganga development project in Varanasi and also as member of the National Green Tribunal’s monitoring committee for the Uttar Pradesh chapter.” Additional reporting by Pheroze L. Vincent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
10-06-2021||India||Jitin Prasada, former Union minister and Congress leader, joins BJP||Jitin Prasada, former Union minister and a third-generation Congress leader once considered a member of Rahul Gandhi’s inner circle, joined the BJP on Wednesday, with the ruling party shedding its self-proclaimed distaste for dynastic politics as it had done in the case of Jyotiraditya Scindia. While Jitin’s switch was seen as a loss for the Congress, it also bared the desperation of the BJP in the run-up to the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls due early next year. The BJP spreading the red carpet for Jitin, 47, who lost the 2014 and 2019 elections, was widely seen as an effort to reach out to the Brahmin voters in the heartland state who are said to be increasingly feeling marginalised under chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Union home minister Amit Shah welcomed Jitin into the party, saying: “I have full faith that his joining the BJP will give strength to the Uttar Pradesh BJP’s resolution to serve the people.” Adityanath was similarly effusive. “Jitin Prasada joining the BJP will certainly strengthen the BJP in Uttar Pradesh,” the chief minister tweeted. Jitin had since last year been leading an effort to woo Brahmins away from the BJP by floating a “Brahmin Chetna Parishad”. This  seems to have caught the BJP leadership’s attention as the traditional Thakur-Brahmin rivalry in Uttar Pradesh has become more palpable under Adityanath, who has been accused of patronising the Thakurs. At the BJP headquarters in New Delhi, Jitin joined the party in the presence of railway minister Piyush Goyal, who said the former MP had spent his life working for the people of Uttar Pradesh. Jitin said three generations of his family had been associated with the Congress and that he took the decision to embrace the BJP after “lot of deliberation”. “I felt the party I was in was not able to help the people. What is the relevance of remaining in a party if you can’t protect the interests of your people?” he said, calling the Congress a “person-oriented party”. Jitin claimed he had not been able to work for his people while in the Congress. Jitin hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi and claimed that the BJP was currently the “only national party”. He also had words of praise for home minister Shah, calling him a “karmyogi (worshipper of work)”. Jitin’s father Jitendra Prasada had been a four-time Congress MP from Uttar Pradesh. Jitin is the second prominent Congress dynast to have joined the BJP after Jyotiraditya last year. The BJP, which misses no opportunity to attack the Congress for promoting dynastic politics, has welcomed Jitin and Jyotiraditya with open arms and appears to be eyeing more such leaders, including former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot. Both Jitin and Jyotiraditya, along with some others like Milind Deora and Sachin, had been inducted as ministers in the UPA II government and were referred to as “young Turks” who were preparing to take over under the leadership of Rahul. They also seemed to share Rahul’s sartorial tastes, sporting puffed half jackets. Like Jyotiraditya, Jitin had found himself powerless after losing the Lok Sabha polls in 2014 and 2019. He had won earlier in 2004 and 2009 and joined the Manmohan Singh government. He had been minister of state for steel, petroleum and natural gas, road transport and human resource development at various times between 2008 and 2014. Jitin had recently been holding the post of the Congress general secretary in charge of Bengal. Jitin had been among the “group of 23” leaders who had written to Congress president Sonia Gandhi on the drift in the party and called for sweeping organisational reforms. There had been rumours of Jitin joining the BJP ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls but Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra were believed to have intervened to hold him back. A Doon School alumnus like Rahul, Jitin had in October last year termed the Adityanath government “autocratic” for manhandling Rahul and Priyanka and not allowing them to meet the Hathras gang rape and murder victim’s family. Only last month Jitin had re-tweeted Rahul’s statement slamming the Centre’s vaccine policy. Of late, however, Jitin had turned silent and refrained from joining Rahul’s attacks on the government. On June 1, Jitin had tweeted to greet his caste men on “Vishwa Brahmin Diwas”. A couple of days ago, he had greeted Adityanath on his birthday. The BJP hopes that Jitin’s defection will send a positive signal to the Brahmin voters. Brahmins make up roughly half of the 20 per cent upper caste population of Uttar Pradesh and have supported different parties at different times. Jitin could get a key position in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, BJP sources said. Additional reporting by Piyush Srivastava||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
10-06-2021||India||Jitin Prasada's switch to BJP a symbolic loss for Congress||The Congress does not see the exit of Jitin Prasada as a substantial political loss but concedes that his switch to the BJP on Wednesday may have symbolic significance ahead of the crucial Uttar Pradesh elections. Unlike the other young leaders — such as Jyotiraditya Scindia, whose exit had pulled down the Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh, and Sachin Pilot, whose rebellion imperilled the Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan — Jitin doesn’t have any effective bargaining counter except being considered close to Rahul Gandhi. Jitin had lost two successive Lok Sabha elections and one Assembly election, leaving his reputation as a mass leader in tatters. His decision to defect to the BJP failed to trigger any political concern in the Congress except for the fleeting impression of young leaders’ disenchantment with Rahul. “It definitely was bad in terms of optics,” said a senior Congress functionary, as Jitin, much like Jyotiraditya and Sachin, was perceived to be close to Rahul at one point. “But the event is more of a schematic plot by a desperate BJP to alter the narrative before the election in Uttar Pradesh, a model that they unsuccessfully deployed in Bengal,” he added. Another Congress leader told The Telegraph over phone from Lucknow: “Brahmins are livid with chief minister Yogi Adityanath and the BJP is trying to use Jitin to fool them. He is a symbol of appeasement. But to presume that the Brahmins will follow Jitin’s footsteps is childish. “Jitin’s father Jitendra Prasada did have some clout among the Brahmins but the son joining the BJP is not expected to have much of an impact on electoral dynamics. Suvendu Adhikari was a big fish in Bengal but Jitin is a small player in Uttar Pradesh. The ripples his exit created will be ephemeral.” Jitin, who was said to have made up his mind to defect to the BJP before the 2019 parliamentary elections but was stopped, had been feeling uncomfortable in the Congress as his hopes of becoming the president of the Uttar Pradesh party unit were dashed when Ajay Kumar Lallu was appointed to the post. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said: “Doesn’t Jitin feel any unease in standing with the party that inflicted such miseries on the people of the country, attacked democratic institutions and the very idea of India? He is standing with the people who threatened to invoke the National Security Act against citizens who spoke about the oxygen crisis, with a Prime Minister whose mismanagement is responsible for the death of lakhs of people.” Shrinate added: “It is unfortunate that these leaders are not able to understand the nature of the fight. It is not about power, it is about ideology, commitment and morality. ” Asked about Jitin’s charge that the Congress had become a person-oriented party, Shrinate said: “People who are joining the BJP, which is today nothing except Modi, have the cheek to talk about person-oriented.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
10-06-2021||India||The story behind Lidwina Joseph’s letter to CJI Ramana||When 10-year-old Lidwina Joseph decided to write a letter of thanks to the Supreme Court for its Covid initiative, her father was discouraging despite being a postmaster himself. “I initially discouraged her since I thought a letter from a child won’t make any difference,” Joseph K. Francis, a former air force employee, told The Telegraph from his home in Thrissur, Kerala, on Wednesday. He admitted being “really surprised” at the splash his daughter’s letter and the accompanying hand-drawn picture of a judge had created, with Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana writing back appreciatively to her and several newspapers covering the story. Drawing is a hobby with Lidwina, who said: “I want to be a painter when I grow up.” However, very much a child of the 21st century, the postmaster’s daughter had written just a single pen-and-paper letter before in her life – as a class assignment. Still, Lidwina didn’t want her letter to the Chief Justice of India sent as an email. “Lots of people must be sending letters via email to the Chief Justice. So I told my papa we shall send it by post,” the youngest daughter of Francis and Bincy, a schoolteacher, said. Francis sent it by speed post in May-end. Asked why she had thought of writing to the Chief Justice, Lidwina said: “Every day I used to read newspaper headlines and see scary pictures (of mass cremations and burials of Covid patients). I got very scared at the thought that no one was helping the people.” The Class V student of the Kendriya Vidyalaya, Thrissur, kept asking her father why no one was pitching in to save lives. Then she read in The Hindu that the Supreme Court had intervened to ramp up oxygen supplies. “I felt very happy. I wanted to thank the Supreme Court for saving lives,” Lidwina said. Francis’s initial scepticism eventually yielded to Lidwina’s persistence. “I told her to draw an image of a judge in a courtroom and write a letter, which she did in two days,” he said. Did she feel afraid to write to the Chief Justice of India? “No, where’s the need to feel scared when I was only thanking the Chief Justice?” The idea to place the text in a scroll came from her father. “Papa told me to draw a scroll. Then I remembered the stories in which kings and big people got their letters on scrolls. Since Justice Ramana Sir is a highly respectable person, I thought I should draw a scroll,” she said. Lidwina added: “Drawing and craft are my principal hobbies. So I checked Google to get an idea of a courtroom before I did the sketch. My papa then corrected some mistakes I had made in the letter.” In her seven-sentence letter to Justice Ramana, Lidwina wrote: “I am happy and feel proud your honourable court have moved orders for supply of oxygen and saved many lives.” The Chief Justice’s office called Francis a few days later asking for Lidwina’s home address since she had mentioned only her school address. They called again on Tuesday to confirm whether Lidwina had received the Chief Justice’s letter and gift — a signed copy of the Indian Constitution. “The letter and the copy of the Indian Constitution are my treasures. I shall always keep them with me,” Lidwina said. Justice Ramana had in his reply lauded the “beautiful letter” and “heart-warming illustration”. “I am really impressed with the way you kept track of happenings in the country and the concern that you have displayed for the well being of people in the wake of pandemic. I am sure you will grow up into an alert, informed and responsible citizen who will contribute immensely towards the nation building,” he wrote. Lidwina confessed to having written only one complete letter before. “I had a Class III lesson on letter-writing, postage stamps and Inland letters. I had to write to a friend as part of my class activity on Christmas,” she said. She added that she “used to write a few lines when my sisters wrote to my father” during the time Francis worked in the Gulf before taking up his current post office job. Why did the sisters — Isaballe is a first-year BSc mathematics student while Catherine is enrolled in Class XII at the Sacred Hearts College in Thrissur —  write letters to their father rather than email or WhatsApp messages? Francis said he had insisted on it, having developed a fondness for letter-writing himself while corresponding with his family from his various air force postings in the 1990s and 2000s.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
10-06-2021||India||NGO seeks moratorium on housing and loans to borrowers||An NGO has urged the Supreme Court to direct the Reserve Bank of India and the Centre to grant moratorium on housing and other loans to borrowers, particularly the middle class, which according to the organisation is the worst affected in terms of financial distress and job losses on account of the second Covid-19 wave. In a petition filed in the top court, the NGO Distress Management Collective has also pleaded that the RBI and the banks should be directed not to declare any assets of borrowers as NPAs (non-performing assets) for non-payment of EMIs at least for the period from April to August this year and consider rolling out a financial package primarily focusing on “the severely affected sections of the society and also keeping in mind an imminent third wave”. The petition filed through advocate Jose Abraham has stated that scores of middle class people who have availed loan from banks are facing extreme distress and are unable to pay their EMIs since the onset of the second Covid wave, particularly due to the lockdowns announced by different states. Citing various news and research reports, the petition stated that the second wave of Covid-19 is pushing India’s middle class towards poverty with an estimated 32 million people losing their jobs and sources of livelihood. The petition said: “The weekly extension of lockdowns since the last one and half month has resulted in more people from the middle class losing their jobs and those who have their jobs safe at the moment are facing prospects of substantial salary cuts. “That the petitioner organisation has also come to know from legal professionals, that many of their colleagues are severely affected by the pangs of Covid-19. It is a harsh reality that since 25th March, 2020, a big section of lawyers have shifted from cities to their hometowns.” The NGO stated that the small and medium enterprises (SME) have also been badly jolted by the second wave of the pandemic, which had emerged at a time when the sector had hardly recovered from the blow received during the first wave. Pointing out that the RBI had initiated a stimulus in the form of granting a moratorium on loans for six months from March to August last year, the organisation wanted a similar package for the middle class and SME sector this year as well. The petition said that given the massive loss of jobs and sources of livelihood, merely a resolution plan or restructuring of loans would not be sufficient as there was an urgent need to grant a moratorium on loan for another six months. The NGO urged the apex court to direct the RBI and the government to ensure that the banks do not resort to the extreme measure of declaring the assets of defaulting borrowers as NPAs. The petition also cited news reports that stated that even chiefs of private sector banks have met the RBI authorities to pitch for a limited moratorium on payments and a wider window to restructure dues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
10-06-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh cop shoots trader dead over 'personal enmity'||A constable in uniform was accused of shooting dead a man outside a hospital here on Wednesday over “personal enmity”. Real estate trader Pravin Singh, 35, was coming out of Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences at Gomti Nagar after meeting his ailing father when constable Ashish Mishra allegedly shot him with a revolver. As the constable threw the revolver in a drain and tried to run away, some people caught him and handed him over to the police. The police said the cause of the enmity was being probed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
10-06-2021||India||SC Bar Association constitutes 'search committee' on HC judges||The Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) has constituted a “search committee” to identify Supreme Court lawyers who could be considered for the post of high court judges. Under the present system, advocates practising in the high courts and having a minimum experience of 10 years are considered for elevation as high court judges. However, the SCBA feels that Supreme Court lawyers with “vast experience” in different fields of law should also be considered for elevation as judges of high courts. No criteria have been planned yet. The SCBA has constituted a “search committee” comprising its president Vikas Singh, vice-president Mahalakshmi Pavani and four eminent members of the Bar — senior advocates Rakesh Dwivedi, Shekhar Naphade, Vijay Hansaria and V. Giri — to facilitate the process of elevation “by identifying deserving and meritorious Supreme Court practitioners”. In a letter to the SCBA members on Tuesday evening, Singh, himself a senior lawyer, said he had also raised the issue of elevation of Supreme Court lawyers as judges of high courts with Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana. “Elevation of the lawyers practicing in the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India has always been a concern of the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA). “In spite of having vast experience and exposure in dealing with all kinds of issues relating to civil, criminal, constitutional, commercial law, etc, the lawyers practising in the Supreme Court are rarely considered for elevation by the high court collegium as they do not regularly practice in the high courts. While these Supreme Court lawyers are professionally more meritorious than their colleagues at the high court, they miss out on the opportunity of being considered as high court judges,” Singh said. Since 2014, Supreme Court lawyers are considered for elevation as judges of the top court. Singh said that on behalf of the executive committee of the SCBA he had made a representation to Justice Ramana on May 31, putting across the concerns of the members of the association with regard to their elevation to the high courts. Singh had also suggested a transparent mechanism to institutionalise the appointments, which will also help in filling up the large number of vacancies in the high courts. “It was also emphasised that there are a large number of lady advocates practising in the Supreme Court who are to be considered for elevation, but the high courts do not recommend them on the plea that there are not enough lady lawyers fit for elevation,” the SCBA president said, while referring to his meeting with Justice Ramana. Singh said that Justice Ramana had agreed to the request made by the SCBA and requested the chief justices of the high courts to consider lawyers practising in the Supreme Court for elevation to the high courts. Singh said: “…I sincerely believe that every lawyer practising in India is a citizen of India and therefore should be fairly considered for elevation on the basis of merit alone, no matter where he or she practises. We are hopeful that immediate action in view of the large vacancies in the high courts is taken.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
10-06-2021||India||Covid: Centre asks states and UTs not to share vaccine data||The Centre has written to the states and Union Territories advising them not to share on public forums without consent data from the Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN) on vaccine stocks and the temperature of storage. The government said such data were “owned” by the health ministry and were “sensitive information and to be used only for programme improvement”. In a recent letter to the states, the Union health ministry said the Centre, with support from the United Nations Development Programme, had rolled out the eVIN system that is used to track vaccine stock status and the temperature at all levels of vaccine storage, from national to sub-district. The health ministry said it was overwhelming to see that all states were using the system to update the stocks and transactions of Covid vaccines on a daily basis. “In this regard, please be advised that data and analytics generated by eVIN for inventory and temperature are owned by the ministry of health and not to be shared with any other organisation, partner agency, media agency, online and offline public forums without the consent of the ministry,” the letter said. “This is very sensitive information and to be used only for programme improvement,” said the letter written by Pradeep Haldar, adviser, reproductive and child health (RCH), to all mission directors of the National Health Mission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
10-06-2021||India||Kerala: K.N. Balagopal rules out sacrificing state’s share in auto fuel taxes||Kerala finance minister K.N. Balagopal on Wednesday ruled out sacrificing any more of the state’s share in auto fuel taxes amid rising demand from the Opposition to reduce tax and help the people burdened by spiralling fuel prices. The finance minister said the Pinarayi Vijayan government had in its first term reduced sales tax on petrol and diesel in 2018 to 30.08 per cent and 22.76 per cent from 31.8 per cent and 24.54 per cent, respectively. “The government is not in a position to provide any more reductions,” the minister told the Assembly in response to a demand by the Congress-led United Democratic Front that the state consider slashing its share of sales tax on fuel prices as the overall revenue had risen with a steady increase in prices. A. Shamsudeen of the Indian Union Muslim League, a UDF ally, said the state government had earned additional tax revenue of Rs 12,000 crore on fuel prices over the last five years and urged the finance minister to provide some relief. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan urged the finance minister to provide a fuel subsidy from the additional tax revenue. “At least provide some fuel subsidy if you are not ready to forgo your sales tax,” he said. Satheesan noted that fuel prices were hiked 21 times in the last 37 days and sought Rs 10 fuel subsidy for each litre purchased by fishermen and a similar concession for the first 20 litres bought by drivers of cabs and auto-rickshaws each day. However, Balagopal blamed the Centre for squeezing the states dry. “The Centre is taking away our income sources while we have heavy liabilities like pay rise obligations to meet,” the minister said. The Opposition wanted the state government to fight for the inclusion of auto fuel in the goods and services tax, pointing out that the GST would then be limited to 28 per cent and could bring down the petrol price to Rs 70 a litre. But Balagopal refused to agree to the suggestion, saying auto fuel and liquor were the only commodities that the state had any control on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
10-06-2021||India||Covid: Bihar district sets up lottery bait for vaccination||The district administration in Bihar’s Sheohar has started a lottery scheme to encourage people aged above 45 to take the Covid-19 vaccine. Under the scheme, six people from among those who take the vaccine — one each from the five blocks in the district and one from the town area — will get prizes, including valuables and consumer durables every week. The move, initiated by Sheohar district magistrate Sajjan Raja Sekar, has started showing results. “This is not a new idea,” Sajjan told The Telegraph. “I read about incentives being given to people in a fishing village close to the Kovalam beach in Chennai to encourage them to take Covid-19 vaccines. It was successful. So I thought why not implement it on a district level here. We have noticed much hesitancy among people here in taking the shots,” he added. One of the beneficiaries of the scheme, which rolled out last Saturday (June 5), got a 1gm gold coin while two others got a gas connection set along with a stove. Water filter, pedestal fan and a suitcase were also awarded to others whose name came up in the lottery draw. “We have engaged the district chamber of commerce, banks, gas agencies, medical stores, jewellers and civil society organisations as sponsors to provide the gifts. Many of them wanted to give us cash, but we refused and asked them to give us consumer durables if they wanted to help. We will conduct weekly draws,” the Sheohar district magistrate said. The district administration did not publicise the scheme as it did not want to send forth a message that people should get themselves vaccinated only to avail an opportunity to win the lottery. However, information about the scheme spread through word of mouth and various communication mediums. There was a lot of hesitancy among people above 45 years of age here in the district in taking the vaccine. Though Sheohar is on top among the districts as far as vaccination is concerned, only around 60,000 people have taken the shots so far from among the projected 1.6 lakh people above 45 years who need to be vaccinated. “The lottery incentive is showing results. The Rashidpur slum area in Sheohar town was resisting the vaccination drive and nobody there had taken the vaccine. However, a lady from there got a gas connection, cylinder and stove in the lottery and now many people from the area have expressed willingness to take the vaccine. “We are now planning to send the ‘vaccine express’ (a mobile vaccination SUV) there,” Sajjan said. An official involved in the vaccination programme said the lottery scheme was going to be successful and would prompt people to come and take the shots. “Such out-of-the-box measures are needed to encourage people to take the Covid-19 vaccines. Various rumours are keeping them away despite the fact that the shots are for their safety. “We are witnessing an increase in the number of people turning up at the vaccination centres this week,” the official said on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
10-06-2021||West Bengal||Film fraternity remembers Buddhadeb Dasgupta, a ‘shining name’ of cinema||Actors and directors across the Hindi and Bengali film industry, including Prosenjit Chatterjee, Srijit Mukherji and Deepti Naval, remembered celebrated filmmaker Buddhadeb Dasgupta as a "sensitive poet" and "God of cinema". The 77-year-old National Award-winning director, who had been battling kidney ailments for quite some time, died at his residence in Calcutta early on Thursday following a cardiac arrest, his family members said. Dasgupta began his career as an economics lecturer in a college before taking a plunge into filmmaking in the '70s, after having enrolled his name as a member of Calcutta Film Society. Some of his notable films include "Neem Annapurna", "Grihajuddha", "Bagh Bahadur", "Tahader Katha", "Charachar", "Lal Darja", "Uttara", "Swapner Din", "Kaalpurush" and "Janala". Chatterjee, who worked with Dasgupta in the 2004 drama "Swapner Din" and "Ami, Yasin Ar Amar Madhubala" in 2007, took to Twitter and posted a heartfelt note. The actor remembered him as a "shining name", not just in the Indian cinema but also in the "international film world". "Fortunately, I had the opportunity to do two films with him and I went with him to various film festivals to find out how much his other genre of cinema is appreciated internationally... Buddha Da is also incomparable as a human being. Be well, stay with us through your work," Chatterjee wrote in Bengali. Dasgupta had also directed Hindi films -- "Andhi Gali" and "Anwar Ka Ajab Kissa". Naval posted a picture with the filmmaker from 1984's "Andhi Gali". Calling Dasgupta one of the finest directors of Bengali cinema, Naval wrote, "I had the good fortune of working with him in a Hindi film called 'Andhi Gali' and since have had a huge regard for Buddha Da not only as a fine director but also as an extremely sensitive poet and a wonderful, gentle human being." "Urojahaj", which released in 2019, was the last film Dasgupta directed. The Chand Roy Sanyal-headlined drama had its world premiere at MAMI. Roy Sanyal posted a series of pictures with the filmmaker on Instagram and wrote he was so gutted with the news of Dasgupta's passing away that he was unable to talk to anyone. The actor, who also worked with him in "Tope" (2017), said his growing up years in Delhi were dotted with Dasgupta's films. Roy Sanyal remembered the director as a taskmaster and "a man of perfection". "For a regular Bengali, Buddhadeb was the God of cinema and he leaves behind a great legacy of films. He was in a league of his own. Not in my wildest dreams could I have imagined that at some point in my career, I would actually get to work with him..." "It's been an honour to have worked with you in 'Urojahaj," actor Parno Mitra wrote on Twitter. Mukherji said Dasgupta's films, which boast of impeccable storytelling, have shaped up his cinema memory. Mukherji especially remembered Dasgupta's two films -- 1982 drama "Grihajuddha", which had the Naxalite movement in Bengal of the 1970s as the backdrop, and 1989 drama "Bagh Bahadur", about a man who paints himself as a tiger and dances in a village. "Even his last film 'Urojahaj' bore the stamp of his class and poetry in every frame. Goodbye, Memory-maker." Actor Paoli Dam, who worked with him in two episodes of a Doordarshan show in 2008 and "Tope", said Dasgupta's films were a lesson on "filmmaking, philosophy, life and perspective." "I grew up on Buddhadeb Dasgupta films. And one can imagine how elated I will always feel to have worked with him. It is very rare for any actor to be blessed with a chance to work with a director of that calibre in their lifetime. I got that..." Actor Sudiptaa Chakraborty said she was fortunate to have collaborated with the filmmaker on two of his projects -- "Mondo Meyer Upakhyan" (2002) and "Kaalpurush" in 2005, which also featured Mithun Chakraborty and Rahul Bose. "Poet and Filmmaker Buddhadeb Dasgupta is no more. In the post Ray-Ghatak era, he was one of the most celebrated and valued Indian (and Bengali) filmmaker in the international diaspora," she said. Bose took to Instagram and described "Kaalpurush" as one the most satisfying films of his career. The actor said Dasgupta was a "part poet, part filmmaker", which was reflected in his cinema, from his storytelling and framing to the sound. "It took time for me to understand Buddhada's style of direction. But once we understood each other the relationship flowed with ease." The actor remembered the filmmaker as a sensitive, emotionally acute "with an impish sense of humour" and said he would miss the time spent with him during shootings and travelling to various film festivals. Filmmaker and Bengal MLA Raj Chakrabarty tweeted his condolences to Dasgupta and wrote, "Recipient of numerous national and international honours, legendary filmmaker and renowned poet, #BuddhadebDasgupta has passed away. Sincere condolences to his family and friends." "Mirzapur" star Pankaj Tripathi, who worked with Dasgupta on "Anwar Ka Ajab Kissa", said he shared a "very wonderful and loving relation" with the filmmaker. "He was a master of cinema. I remember we would chat a lot about cinema, life. Later I met him at a film festival and I have always loved being around him. It is a sad day today for all of us but his cinema will stay alive among us," he said. Dasgupta is survived by his wife and two daughters from his previous marriage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
10-06-2021||West Bengal||Chinese national held by BSF along India Bangladesh border in Bengal||A Chinese national was apprehended by the Border Security Force (BSF) along the India-Bangladesh international border in Bengal on Thursday, officials said. The 35-year-old man, dressed in a black sweatshirt, pants and shoes, was "intercepted" by a BSF party around 7 am when he was "infiltrating" into the Indian territory after crossing the border in Malda district, they said. A Chinese passport bearing a Bangladeshi visa, a laptop and three mobile phone SIM cards were found on the man who was identified by security officials as Junwei Han. He has been kept at the Kaliachak post of the border guarding force, and a BSF spokesperson in Delhi said an "interview of the individual is underway by agencies concerned". Sources said the Chinese man does not probably understand English, and hence, a security officer conversant in the Mandarin language has been called in for a joint questioning session by officials of the BSF, local police and the intelligence agencies. Further details and the reasons for his venturing into the Indian side will be known once the session ends, they said. Headquartered in Calcutta, the BSF's South Bengal Frontier guards the India-Bangladesh international border in this area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
10-06-2021||West Bengal||Celebrated film director Buddhadeb Dasgupta dies at 77||Eminent film director Buddhadeb Dasgupta, who had been battling kidney ailments for quite some time, died at his residence here early on Thursday following a cardiac arrest, family members said. He was 77. The national award-winning director is survived by his wife, and two daughters from a previous marriage. Extending her condolences to the ace director's friends and family, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted, "Saddened at the passing away of eminent filmmaker Buddhadeb Dasgupta. Through his works, he infused lyricism into the language of cinema. His death comes as a great loss for the film fraternity." Dasgupta was found motionless by his wife, Sohini, at his residence in Kalikapur area of the city at 6 am, according to the family members. He suffered cardiac arrest in his sleep, they added. Mourning his demise, filmmaker Goutam Ghosh said, "Buddha da continued to make films, write articles and stay active, despite his failing health. He had directed 'Tope' and 'Urojahaz' even when he was unwell. It is a great loss for all of us." Actor-director Aparna Sen said Dasgupta's films were "soaked in surrealism". "I am sad that I won't be able to bid a final farewell to Buddhadeb da at the crematorium, like I did in the case of Mrinal da. It is upsetting that we cannot give due recognition to a director of his calibre, due to this COVID pandemic and the lockdown," Sen said. Actor and theatre personality Kaushik Sen said Dasgupta was in the league of filmmakers such as Satyajit Ray, Ritwik Ghatak and Mrinal Sen, "who took Bengali cinema to global platforms". "He had often been accused of making cinema in a style that was not easily understood by the masses. But he stuck to that style, never deviated from what he believed in," Sen said. Born in 1944 in Purulia, Dasgupta began his career as a lecturer in a college before taking a plunge into filmmaking in the 70s, after having enrolled his name as a member of Calcutta Film Society. He made his first feature film 'Dooratwa' in 1978, leaving his mark as a poet-lyricist-director. Prior to that, he had made a short 'Samayer Kache'. Some of the notable films he has helmed include 'Neem Annapurna', 'Grihajuddha', 'Bagh Bahadur', 'Tahader Katha', 'Charachar', 'Lal Darja', 'Uttara', 'Swapner Din', 'Kaalpurush', 'Janala'. He had also directed Hindi films -- 'Andhi Gali' and 'Anwar Ka Ajab Kissa'. Dasgupta -- who bagged 12 national awards in his lifetime -- was liberal in his views, having criticized arrests of several political activities in the recent times. He stood by younger filmmaker Anik Dutta, when anti- establishment 'Bhobisyoter Bhoot' was withdrawn from theatres in the city one week after release. A recipient of Venice film festival silver lion, Locarno critics' award for Uttara, Locarno Special Jury award, the auteur, after one of his ventures did not get a commercial release a few years ago, had told PTI, "It hurts me when my film gets recognized internationally but doesn't hit the theatres in Kolkata and the rest of Bengal. But there is a strong distribution lobby at work. PM condoles demise Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed anguish on Thursday at the death of film director Buddhadeb Dasgupta, and noted that his diverse works struck a chord with all sections of society. Modi tweeted, "Anguished by the demise of Shri Buddhadeb Dasgupta. His diverse works struck a chord with all sections of society. He was also an eminent thinker and poet. My thoughts are with his family and several admirers in this time of grief. Om Shanti."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
10-06-2021||West Bengal||Leopard caged in Haldibari tea estate||A wild male leopard was trapped on the Haldibari tea estate in Banarhat of Jalpaiguri district on Wednesday. Sources said in the past few days, the residents and the managerial staff of the garden had felt the presence of a leopard in the plantation. Also, the big cat had mauled a garden worker a couple of days back. The foresters of Binnaguri said after the incident they had laid a cage with bait at the plantation area. “On Wednesday morning, the residents could hear growls of the animal. They went near the cage and found that the animal had been trapped,” said Subhasish Roy, range officer of the squad. “We soon went to the spot and the animal was taken away from the garden later in the day. The big cat will be kept under observation and released in the forest in due course,” Roy added. Jumbo raids A wild elephant entered Subhashpally area of Birpara in Alipurduar district around 9pm on Tuesday and mauled a woman. Sources said Nisha Pal suffered an injury in the chest as she fell into a roadside drain after the jumbo nudged her. She is under treatment. A team from Dalgaon forest range managed to steer the elephant back into the forest later in the night. Also, another wild elephant came out of the Pana forest range of Buxa Tiger Reserve in Alipurduar and damaged three workers’ quarters at the Chinchula tea estate. The foresters drove the animal back to the forest and no injury or casualty was reported.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
10-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal police team gun down two Punjab gangsters in New Town||A Bengal police team gunned down two gangsters wanted in Punjab during a raid on a New Town flat on Wednesday afternoon. A team of officers knocked at Flat 201 in the Shukhobrishti housing complex at 3.30pm, and was greeted with gunfire when the door opened. The police returned the fire and killed two men, later identified as Jaipal Bhullar and Jaspreet Singh alias Jassi Kharar, both of whom had bounties on their heads in Punjab. Officers said they had found five automatic pistols, 89 rounds of live ammunition and Rs 7 lakh in the flat. Over 40 personnel from the Bengal special task force (STF) and the State Striking Force (SSF) were involved in the operation. STF inspector Kartick Mohan Ghosh took a bullet in his left shoulder and was rushed to AMRI Salt Lake in the middle of the gunfight. Hospital officials said the bullet had entered below the scapula and exited through the left arm. Ghosh had abrasions caused probably by glass shards. He will undergo an MRI scan and a nerve test on Thursday to determine whether he needs surgery. Ghosh, who is from Karimpur in Nadia, himself lives in the Shukhobrishti housing complex. Additional director-general of police (Bengal STF) Vineet Goyal, who visited the spot after the operation, said his officers had fired back in self-defence. “We had received inputs that two men wanted for killing policemen in Punjab were hiding here. When we zeroed in on their location and knocked on the door of Flat 201, they started firing on us. We returned fire in self-defence and killed them,” Goyal said. Bhullar and Kharar were allegedly part of a gang that killed two cops, Bhagwan Singh and Dalwinderjit Singh, at the Jagraon grain market in Ludhiana district on May 15. Dinkar Gupta, director-general of Punjab police, told a news conference in Chandigarh on Wednesday that his force had been tracking Bhullar and his associates since that incident. The Punjab police had earlier on Wednesday arrested a man named Bharat Kumar, who apparently said his in-laws lived in Calcutta and that he had recently rented a flat in New Town. Kumar is suspected to be part of the same gang as Bhullar and Kharar, and the Punjab police thought it likely the two wanted men were holed up in the flat he had mentioned. Sources said the Punjab police had named the operation to nab the gangsters “Operation Jack”. The Bengal police began a recce of the building from Wednesday noon. They started the operation around 3.30pm when, one officer said, they were “sure of the presence” of the suspects inside the flat. Residents of the complex heard gunshots and saw plainclothes and uniformed men run around the block, some of them armed and wearing bullet-proof vests. Officers said 35 gunshots were fired during the exchange. Bhullar and Kharar continued firing till they died. A resident of the complex said he had gone downstairs when he heard what “sounded like gunshots”. “As I was talking to the guard under my building, trying to figure out what was happening, some plainclothesmen ran towards me and asked me to stay indoors,” Mainak Kanrar said. “I saw armed cops running. I went upstairs and alerted others through our society’s Telegram group that police activity was going on and no one should step out.” Several residents complained about the security inside the complex, saying most of the flats were occupied by tenants whose antecedents were unknown to them. Later in the evening, the police removed the bodies and sent them for post-mortem. Teams from the state CID and the state forensic laboratory visited the flat. Goyal said that since the shootout had taken place in Bengal, the Bengal police would probe it although the two gangsters were wanted by the Punjab police. The state CID has begun investigating the incident. Punjab DGP Gupta said: “We had received information that the gang used a black four-wheeler with a Bengal number plate for movement from Gwalior to Bengal. We started tracking it through CCTVs on the highways and found it had entered Bengal. We shared the intel with the Bengal police.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
10-06-2021||West Bengal||Mom dies of shock after gang rape of daughter in Malda||The mother of a 19-year-old tribal girl died of shock on Wednesday after she learned that her daughter was gangraped by a group of miscreants here on Tuesday night. Police sources said the quintet had picked up the victim and her 16-year-old sister while they were returning home from a wedding ceremony at a village in Malda district and took them to two separate spots. “The elder girl was gangraped while the younger one was released after she refused to give in to their filthy proposals,” said a police source. As both the girls were released after the crime, they had sought help from some villagers who took them for treatment, said the sources. Alok Rajoria, the superintendent of police of Malda, said: “The principal accused Shailen Soren has been arrested following a complaint lodged by the victim. He has admitted his involvement in the crime and searches are on to nab four others involved in the incident. The case had been handed over to the women police station.” The mother of the girls died of shock on Wednesday after she learnt about the incident, the sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
10-06-2021||West Bengal||Farmers' protest: Mamata agrees to liaise with non-BJP chief ministers||Farm leader Rakesh Tikait on Wednesday called on Mamata Banerjee and requested her to consolidate the backing of non-BJP chief ministers across the country for the farmers’ movement, to which she readily agreed and pledged her “full support”. “Chief ministers opposed to the Narendra Modi government coming together for a conference and issuing a joint statement in favour of the farmers’ movement will create pressure on the Centre to withdraw the anti-farmer laws. Mamataji has promised to take the initiative,” Tikait told The Telegraph after meeting the Trinamul Congress chief and party national vice-president Yashwant Sinha at Nabanna. Tikait was accompanied by Yudhvir Singh, another farm leader. At a joint news conference after the meeting, Mamata threw her weight behind the peasants’ struggle. “I assured my full support to the cause of our dear farmers…. The Centre’s indifference towards our farmer brethren is to be blamed for this situation. As I have said earlier, farmers’ rights cannot be compromised in any way and we will together fight every battle to uproot the BJP along with its insensitive, miscalculated policies,” the Bengal chief minister said. “They requested me to speak to all Opposition chief ministers and gather them for a virtual conference with them…. I will definitely speak to the chief ministers who are my friends,” Mamata added. “In a federal structure, there should be a union of states so that if the Centre harasses a particular state, the other states can jointly fight it,” Mamata said, demanding to know why none from the Centre had spoken to the agitating farmers since late January. Asked if she was ready to lead the national Opposition and, perhaps, chair the UPA in the run-up to the Lok Sabha elections in 2024, the Trinamul chief said: “I don’t want to do anything (else)…. I just want to remove Modiji.” Tikait, a leader of the largest faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) that is part of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha umbrella outfit leading the battle against the three contentious farm laws, said the process of coordination with leaders in the national Opposition would continue. During the discussions, the farm leaders spoke of measures the Trinamul government could adopt for farmers in Bengal. A BKU leader said Mamata had handed over a document listing the initiatives her government had implemented for farmers. “We will go through the document and suggest measures we feel the (Bengal) government must implement for the welfare of farmers,” Tikait said later. According to state government data, Bengal has 71.23 lakh farmer families, of whom 96 per cent are small and marginal cultivators. “We repeatedly tried to impress on the chief minister that for the survival of the peasantry it is imperative for the Bengal government to provide them adequate price and infrastructure support like cold chains, a marketing network and robust kisan mandis (farmers’ markets),” Tikait said. He added that the measures should also cover those engaged in fisheries, horticulture, fruit growing and poultry farming. Tikait urged Mamata to turn Bengal into a “model state” by bringing in a law that guaranteed farmers a minimum support price in keeping with the M.S. Swaminathan Commission’s recommendation to governments to buy crops at a rate one-and-a-half times the cost of production. “We told Mamataji to turn Bengal into a model state for farmers so that other states can emulate it,” Yudhvir, the BKU (Tikait) general secretary, said. He stressed the need to keep corporate groups out of the agriculture sector, avoid the establishment of a “company raj” in the state, and at the same time ensure the elimination of conduits. “We told her the government should take strict action against corrupt government officials who, in nexus with middlemen, deny farmers government benefits. We asked her to ensure that political intervention is eliminated in the purchase of crops by the government,” Singh told this newspaper after the meeting and the media conference. The BKU leaders asked the state government to promote agri-based industries in Bengal and requested Mamata to ensure that her government’s initiatives such as kisan mandis and the Krishak Bandhu and Bangla Sasya Bima schemes reached the doorsteps of farmers. A BKU source said the delegation asked the government to consider waiving all kinds of agricultural debt in view of the losses farmers had suffered because of the pandemic and the lockdown. They also stressed the need for a special government package for farmers in the Yaas-affected districts, where land remains inundated with seawater, and crops, fish and cattle have been lost. “Their land has become uncultivable. They should be given a monthly support of Rs 10,000 for at least two years,” the BKU source said. Mamata told the news conference that farmers’ rights had always been her foremost priority and formed the basis of her anti-land-acquisition movement in Singur. “From agriculture to industry, employment generation to Covid-19 (management) --- over the past seven years, this BJP raj has completely destroyed the country... which has become weak and is suffering. The economy is a disaster. The nation now faces twin disasters, natural and political,” she said. Trinamul has made it clear that it wants to assiduously pursue a national role for itself — a process to be overseen by Trinamul parliamentarian Abhishek Banerjee. Abhishek, Mamata’s nephew, last Saturday took over as the Trinamul national general secretary. A detailed expansion plan aimed at taking the BJP head-on and win elections in other states is likely to be unveiled within a month. “This meeting with Tikait amid an Opposition vacuum in the national space and ahead of crucial Assembly elections in seven states next year is not an isolated incident. The party needs all the help possible to get a foot in the door, especially in the Hindi heartland that has a substantial farm community,” a Trinamul source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
10-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: BJP MLAs call on Gautam Deb, offer help for Siliguri||Two BJP MLAs on Wednesday met Gautam Deb, the chairperson of the board of administrators at the Siliguri Municipal Corporation, and offered their help to handle the Covid-19 situation and resolve longstanding civic issues. Shankar Ghosh and Shikha Chatterjee, the MLAs of Siliguri and Dabgram-Fulbari, respectively, were accompanied by Pravin Agarwal, the BJP president of Siliguri (organisational) district. The trio spoke to Deb, a former minister, for about an hour and discussed a series of issues pertaining to Siliguri and its surrounding areas. “It was a cordial meeting where we told the chairperson of the civic body that being local MLAs, we are ready to extend all possible help to the SMC as well as the state government. Be it the prevailing pandemic or old issues of Siliguri, we are there to work together,” Ghosh said. The Siliguri civic area, which is spread over 47 wards, comes under the Assembly constituencies of Ghosh and Chatterjee. Chatterjee defeated Deb in the Assembly polls. In north Bengal, this is the first time after the Assembly elections that BJP MLAs have met a civic functionary who has been nominated by the Mamata Banerjee government. Political observers noted that the courtesy visit by the BJP MLAs could indeed help in addressing different issues more effectively. “That is what any common man expects from elected representatives. If they work together by keeping aside political differences, it would surely help in handling the ongoing (Covid 19) crisis in a better manner as well as solving issues like the traffic congestion that has been plaguing Siliguri for years and conservation of the Mahananda river and some rivulets,” said an observer. Deb said the MLAs had paid a courtesy visit and underscored certain civic issues. “The board of administrators has been constituted by the state government and we have certain limitations. We have explained to them what we have been doing to curb the pandemic and how we are providing civic services to people,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
10-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal district hospitals asked to arrange special units for kids ||The state health department has asked district officials to arrange special units, including new intensive care infrastructure, for children at district and block hospitals amid the threat of a probable third wave of Covid-19. A health official said the preparation comes in the wake of reports that children may be more susceptible to the new wave. The apprehension of the state health officials is contrary to opinion expressed earlier this week by the Indian Academy of Paediatrics. The body representing paediatricians in India has ruled as baseless fears about a third wave hitting children hard. The IAP has said that available clinical data did not give any reason to conclude that any fresh surge in the Covid-19 epidemic was “highly likely” to predominantly or severely affect children. The state government, however, is not ready to take any chances. In a video conference on Tuesday evening, top health officials in Calcutta instructed all tiers of district healthcare infrastructure — including heads of medical colleges and hospitals — to keep at least one special unit to treat children. “We are well equipped to handle adult patients but not children right now. There are several units like the Sick Neonatal Care Units (SNCU), but there are very few Pediatric Intensive Care Units (PICU) in the districts. We also have been asked to increase the number of High Dependency Unit beds in the district,” said a senior health official. Health officials also apprehend that the infection rate among children could be at least twice that of the first or second wave of the pandemic, and may potentially hit the state in late September. Medical colleges have been asked to prepare special PICU units for Covid-19 patients where all block and district hospitals have been asked to increase the number of SNCU or HDU beds. “We are planning to open a 15-bed PICU unit to treat Covid-infected children at Suri district hospital. Block hospitals have been asked to keep separate units for children apart from their existing facilities. Hospitals with SNCU facilities have been asked to ascertain in advance that the entire infrastructure is functioning,” said Jayanta Sukul, a deputy chief medical officer in Birbhum. Sources said there were around 70 SNCU units in government hospitals that can admit around 2,400 patients. Officials said they were planning to increase PICU beds in medical colleges and new SNCU units or beds at the district hospitals. Bankura has sent a proposal to increase 150 HDU beds in three Covid hospitals in the districts to admit both adults and children. “We have already sent a proposal for 150 HDU beds in our Covid hospitals. There will be additional facilities in medical colleges too. Our first priority is to assure as many oxygen beds as possible before the third wave hits,” said Shyamal Soren, the chief medical officer in Bankura. Sources said the health department has asked districts to involve health workers on the ground to keep a record of vulnerable children in blocks along with those whose parents were infected over the last two waves. On Wednesday, the government also enlisted rural healthcare providers and family members of health workers to be vaccinated as a priority community. “We need rural healthcare providers to handle the situation in rural pockets as the virus will spread in rural areas this time. So, vaccination of those healthcare providers is now in our priority list,” said a senior official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
10-06-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari meets Narendra Modi and Amit Shah in Delhi ||Leader of Opposition in the Bengal Assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi on Wednesday amid speculations that the Nandigram MLA had been lobbying the Centre for the President’s rule in the state. He had met Shah on Tuesday as well. However, sources in the BJP said state unit chief Dilip Ghosh and leaders close to him were unhappy with Suvendu’s hyper-activity on the issue. Three BJP MPs and Trinamul turncoats — Arjun Singh, Nishit Pramanik and Saumitra Khan who are in favour of imposing Article 356 (President’s rule) in Bengal — also reached Delhi on Wednesday morning. Suvendu discussed “important issues” with the two before meeting Shah. “We are unaware of the exact reason for Suvenduda’s stay in Delhi. But it is a fact that he is in favour of invoking Article 356 in the state. Dilipda, on the other hand, is against treading that path immediately,” a source close to Ghosh said. The rift between Suvendu and Ghosh has been the talking point among BJP leaders and workers for the past few days. It became apparent on Tuesday when Ghosh claimed that he had no idea why Suvendu had gone to Delhi. On Wednesday, Suvendu claimed that he had gone to Delhi by informing Amitava Chakraborty, the general secretary (organisation) of the BJP’s Bengal unit. He had also met BJP’s national chief J.P. Nadda on Tuesday. A close aide to Ghosh said the state party chief and his associates were unhappy that Suvendu was gaining importance in the BJP. There is a rumour that Ghosh might be removed from his position as the Bengal president well before his term ends in 2022. Multiple leaders, who were once close to Ghosh, are steadily aligning with Suvendu, the former protégé of Mamata Banerjee, and this has further angered Ghosh. “It is really surprising that the president and the general secretary (organisation) of the state unit are in Calcutta and the leader of Opposition has gone to Delhi to meet Modiji, Amitji and Naddaji,” a BJP old-timer said. “This is not how things in our party used to work.” On the other hand, party insiders said that Ghosh was of the opinion that there was not enough ground for the implementation of the President’s rule in Bengal yet. However, the likes of Suvendu, Singh and Khan have repeatedly appealed to the Centre to weigh the possibility of the President’s rule in Bengal since law and order in the state, according to them, has gone for a toss. After meeting Modi, Suvendu said: “Human rights are being trampled upon every day in Bengal.…As public representatives, it is our duty to protect their rights and stand by them.” He added post-poll violence was a part of his discussion with the Prime Minister. Speaking to The Telegraph, Saumitra Khan said he and Arjun Singh had met Suvendu to discuss the “prevailing situation in Bengal and other important issues”. The MPs will meet BJP’s top leaders on Thursday. Issues related to the party’s organisation in Bengal also came up for a discussion at the meeting, according to sources, but Khan rejected such claims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
10-06-2021||West Bengal||Truck kills two civil engineers on NH12||Two friends, both civil engineers, died after a truck collided with their bike on NH12 at Chakdah in Nadia on Tuesday night. A police patrolling van found Subhankar Biswas, 29, and Sukhendu Debnath, 28, lying in a pool of blood along the highway and took them to Chakdah state general hospital where doctors declared them dead. Family sources said the duo, both residents of Chakdah, worked at a private construction firm and were returning home from a site in Ranaghat when the accident happened. The police have launched a search for the truck. But till late Wednesday evening, the vehicle could not be traced. A police constable suffered multiple injuries when unidentified assailants fired at him from close range on Wednesday night. Niloy Biswas, 30, attached to the DIG office in Barrackpore, was walking with wife Shilpa at Baro-Andulia in Chapra when the goons attacked him. Bullets hit the constable on the shoulder and the left hand. He was rushed to Chapra block hospital, but soon shifted to Nadia district hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
10-06-2021||West Bengal||People of East Midnapore, South 24-Parganas and North 24-Parganas asked to shift before high tide||Authorities have launched a massive campaign, asking people in low lying areas of East Midnapore, South 24-Parganas and North 24-Parganas to shift to shelters or higher areas ahead of high tides on June 11 as several stretches of embankments damaged by Cyclone Yaas are yet to be repaired. “We are working to repair all damaged embankments by June 10. But it appears that in some areas, the repairs would be of temporary nature because we did not get much time after Cyclone Yaas. We have appealed to people in vulnerable areas to move to higher places or relief camps or cyclone shelters as a precautionary measure,” said a senior government official. Sources said East Midnapore district authorities had started campaigning in the vulnerable areas to make people aware of the forthcoming high tide. “In East Midnapore, almost 80 breaches in river embankments have been repaired. But we apprehend that sea water could gush in through seven to eight spots where the damage is yet to be repaired. So, we have asked people to move to shelters if they feel unsafe,” said an official in East Midnapore. A total of 24 shelters are being run by the authorities where 3,100 people are still spending days as they could not move to their villages because of stagnation of water. “Although we feel the situation would not be as worse as Yaas, we are taking no chance,” said another official. Tarun Das, vice-chairman of the Digha-Shankarpur Development Authority, said the damaged river embankments had already been repaired. “We expect the high tide would not leave a severe impact like Cyclone Yaas did, but still, we have completed inspection of damaged embankments and decided to help people living in vulnerable areas.” In South 24-Parganas too, the cause of concern remains the river embankments that were breached but could not be repaired completely yet. “In this district, too, evacuation of some people might be required. The decision on how many people would have to be taken to the cyclone shelters would be taken by tonight,” said an official on Wednesday. A 15-meter part of an earthen dyke along the Vidyadhari river in Minakhan, North 24-Parganas, was swept away on Wednesday afternoon. The breach led to fresh inundation at adjacent villages like Ghusidanga, Kulti, Ghospur, Bamunpukur and Kushagra in North 24-Parganas. A team of Minakhan block officials and irrigation department officials rushed for the repair of the breached stretch on war-footing. Sources in the district administration said several families had been evacuated from the area and shifted to safe locations. Same measures would be initiated in South 24-Parganas also if it was felt that the high tide could submerge villages. The Bengal government has placed estimated damages of Rs 20,000 crore in Cyclone Yaas before the central team that visited the affected districts in the past three days. The team on Wednesday met the top brass of the government at Nabanna where the estimated loss was placed. “A detailed damage report would be sent to the Centre soon. But the central team was informed the state primarily estimated that it had suffered a damage of about Rs 20,000 crore in the cyclone,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
10-06-2021||West Bengal||Kamtapur leader Atul Roy dies at 62||Atul Roy, the vice-chairman of Kamtapur Bhasha Academy and the president of the Kamtapur Progressive Party (KPP), died at a private nursing home in Matigara, on the outskirts of Siliguri, on Wednesday afternoon. The 62-year-old is survived by mother, wife, son and two daughters. Roy, a prominent political face of the Rajbanshi community, was instrumental in the 1990s in spearheading a movement for the separate Kamtapur state. In 1996, he had floated the Kamtapur Peoples’ Party (KPP) to press for the statehood and raised demands like recognition of Rajbanshi language and its introduction as a medium of instruction at schools. However, the KPP split in 2004 with Roy forming the Kamtapur Progressive Party (also abbreviated as KPP). He headed the KPP till the last day of his life. In 2017, Roy was made the vice-chairman of Kamtapuri Bhasa Academy which was formed by the Mamata Banerjee government as part of her efforts to reach out to the Rajbanshi community. Rajendranath Roy, the vice-chairman of the KPP, said Atul had been suffering from various ailments, including diabetes and high blood pressure. “He had initially been admitted to a private nursing home in Pradhannagar (of Siliguri) on May 22 after being diagnosed with Covid-19. A couple of days later, he was shifted to another nursing home at Matigara where he was on ventilation for a week. He breathed his last this afternoon,” said Rajendranath. In her condolence message, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said: “Deeply saddened at the demise of Atul Roy who was serving as the vice-chairman of Kamtapuri Bhasha Academy. I offer my heartfelt condolences to his family and loved ones. His dedicated & continuous fight for the people of North Bengal will always be etched in our hearts,” Mamata tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
10-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Total cases drop below 15,000 in Bengal||Bengal’s total active Covid-19 cases fell to 14,702 as the state on Wednesday logged 10,512 recoveries, 5,384 infections and 95 deaths. This is the first time in 63 days after April 7 that the total active cases dropped below 15,000. The figure plummeted by 5,223 compared to Tuesday. The recovery rate rose for the 39th consecutive day on Wednesday to reach an all-time high of 97.83 per cent, riding the consistently large number of recoveries. The rise was by 13 percentage points over five weeks. The previous high in the recovery rate was 97.68 per cent, reported 85 days ago on March 16. “This is a huge morale-booster. We will get past 98 in a day or two and breach the coveted 99 per cent mark in recovery rate in a week. Bengal has all but defeated the second wave,” said a minister. The national recovery rate is 94.71 now. The total number of active cases, which was at an all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21, improved by nearly 89 per cent in the intervening 19 days. The state now has a total of 14.42 lakh cases since the first infection was reported on March 17 last year. The total includes 14.11 lakh recoveries and 16,555 deaths. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.14 per cent, while the national rate is 1.23. Of the 95 deaths reported on Wednesday, 17 were in Calcutta and 20 in North 24-Parganas. Calcutta logged 547 infections and North 24-Parganas 996. The total of active cases in the two districts, which was over 53,000, is less than 5,000 now, at 4,344.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
10-06-2021||North East||Concern over Karbi Anglong  deal plan with the Centre||The Naga Students’ Federation on Tuesday said it was “deeply pained and disturbed” to learn that six rebel groups based in Assam’s Karbi Anglong district are set to ink a deal with the Centre “without consultation or the consent” of the Naga populace who are the original inhabitants of the area. The NSF statement comes a day after the NSCN(IM) flagged the proposal to create a Karbi-Anglong Autonomous Territorial Council (KAATC) in Assam’s Karbi Anglong district, an agreement to “appease” six rebel Karbi outfits. The outfit, which is in ceasefire with the Centre since 1997, also said the proposed pact should not “override” the interests of the Rengma Nagas living there. Any pact that “victimises” the Rengma Nagas, the “legitimate” owner of the land, would “not be acceptable” to the Nagas in general and to the NSCN in particular, the NSCN(IM) said. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had said in Delhi last week that they were on the verge of signing a peace pact with the six outfits. They had joined the mainstream in February. Denouncing the proposed peace deal, the NSF said it remained committed to assert on the inherent right of the Nagas’ and shall continue to strive for the “unification of our ancestral homeland”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-3
10-06-2021||North East||Assam to institute own versions of Bharat Ratna and Padma awards||The Assam government will present its own versions of the Bharat Ratna and the Padma awards from next year. The weekly cabinet meeting, chaired by chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma here on Tuesday afternoon, decided to institute the Asom Ratna Award to be presented every year to one person who has made significant contribution to the society. The cabinet also instituted other civilian honours such as the Asom Bibhushan Award to be presented to three persons, the Assam Bhushan to five and the Asom Shree to 10 people every year. These four awards will carry cash prizes of Rs 5 lakh, Rs 3 lakh, Rs 2 lakh and Rs 1 lakh respectively with other benefits like free medical treatment for critical illness, free stay at Assam Bhawans and free travel in ASTC buses, among others. “We can say these awards will be the state version of the coveted awards extended at the national level. The general administration department will supervise/ monitor activities related to these awards. Details are being worked out,” cabinet minister Pijush Hazarika told The Telegraph. The Bharat Ratna is the highest civilian award of the country awarded in recognition of exceptional service/performance of the highest order in any field of human endeavour. The Padma awards, given in three categories, are one of the highest civilian honours presented annually on the eve of Republic Day. The three categories of Padma awards are the Padma Vibhushan (for exceptional and distinguished service), the Padma Bhushan (distinguished service of higher order) and the Padma Shri (distinguished service). Like the Bharat Ratna, the Padma awards were also instituted in 1954. The BJP-led state government also decided to confer literary pension in the name of litterateur Homen Borgohain on his birthday, December 7, and sports pension in the name of Arjun Bhogeswar Barua on his birthday, September 3. Similarly, artistes’ awards will be conferred on January 17 every year. All these awards will be announced seven days ahead of the presentation. Other cabinet decisions included: ⚫ All government offices will display photographs of the President, Prime Minister and the first Assam chief minister Gopinath Bordoloi. This is the first time such a directive has been issued, an official said. ⚫ The first budget session of the present Assam Legislative Assembly will begin on July 12. ⚫ A committee under MLA Padma Hazarika will be formed to oversee the utilisation of 77,000 bighas of government land freed from encroachers at Gorukhati in Darrang district for agricultural purposes. ⚫ Simplification of flood damage assessment and repair of infrastructure. Deputy commissioners authorised to take necessary action in this regard within the timeframe of April 1 to October 31. ⚫ For smooth implementation of the Batadrava Than Cultural and Tourism Project, cabinet approval for allotment of additional land measuring 35 bighas 2 katha 2 lecha to the management committee. Cultural affairs and tourism minister Bimal Borah will visit and review the status of the project every month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-3
10-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Private matter||The concept of privacy is overarchingly associated with concern for intrusion and surveillance. A more nuanced understanding with regard to its links with other precepts, especially with the notion of autonomy, is welcome. Unfortunately, in societies rife with discrimination and conservatism — such as that in India — not only is citizens’ right to privacy blatantly disregarded by the State, but its association with individual rights is considered undesirable by the powers that be. Unsurprisingly, the responsibility of upholding privacy and delineating its intricate link with other fundamental issues has often fallen upon the judiciary. This enlightened fraternity has risen to the occasion several times, be it the Supreme Court’s landmark judgment in 2017 on the right to privacy being intrinsic to life and liberty or, most recently, the ruling by the Madras High Court that links sexual autonomy with an individual’s privacy. The court established that sexual autonomy is an essential aspect of the right to privacy, thereby setting a heartening precedent of cementing sexual minorities’ right to choice. The element of reform cannot be ignored either. The court expressed the need for changes in school and university curricula, recommended awareness programmes for judicial officers, police and prison officials and, importantly, prohibited attempts to “medically cure” persons from the LGBTQIA+ community through ‘conversion therapy’. Professionals involved in any form of ‘conversion’ practices would face penalties, including the revoking of their licences. The high court’s reminder that such cruel and regressive ‘therapies’ exist — usually in the guise of ‘mental health practices’ — throws light on a shocking anomaly. In spite of the apex court’s landmark decision to decriminalize same-sex relationships, discrimination against the LGBTQIA+ community persists in myriad forms. The social and economic exclusion of sexual minorities is one aspect of this problem; the shocking cultural endorsement of shame and silence around alternative sexual identities is another. The prevailing notion that members of this community are somehow deviant reflects two things: first, India remains trapped in ancient binaries that are unwilling to accommodate alternative sexual identities and choice. Second — this is crucial — the battle for rights and dignities of sexual minorities must be viewed as one that is embedded in the larger struggle against human rights violations. The high court judgment should be taken forward so that policymakers are forced to review the loopholes in existing legislations that seek to empower the community. This exercise should not be left to bureaucrats: it must be participatory in nature, with adequate representation from the country’s besieged sexual minorities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
10-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Different moods||The mood in the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Trinamul Congress in Bengal cannot be more contrasting at the moment. Despondency seems to have given way to dissension in the state unit of the BJP. There are murmurs that some influential heads might roll as a result of the drubbing that the BJP received in the assembly elections. The TMC, meanwhile, is in a different frame of mind: it is looking towards the future. Hearteningly, the party has not allowed its momentous victory to go to its head: complacency, indeed, can be fatal in politics. What the TMC is doing instead is preparing a second rung of leadership by inducting young personnel to responsible positions. Abhishek Banerjee has been anointed national general-secretary. The word is that a trusted aide has succeeded him in the youth wing. The organizational changes reflect Mr Banerjee’s growing clout within the TMC. His personal ties with the chief minister, however, offer a partial explanation for this elevation. It cannot be denied that Mr Banerjee’s attention to organizational deficiencies as well as his strategy — he roped in the services of the poll strategist, Prashant Kishor — played a part in the TMC’s spectacular return to power. Mr Banerjee has declared, rather ambitiously, that he would like the TMC, a regional outfit, to spread its wings beyond Bengal. This is in keeping with the chief minister’s national ambitions that have now been resurrected. Two formidable challenges await the TMC in this respect. The party has virtually no organizational base outside the state. Building one before the next general elections — the polls are only three years away — seems improbable. Second, the principle of Bengali exceptionalism may have served Mr Banerjee’s party well in the state elections but this provincial capital could well turn out to be an impediment on the national stage. It would perhaps be politically prudent for the wise woman and men in the TMC to concentrate on building a formidable alliance with the Opposition to challenge the BJP in 2024. Bengal may be enamoured with the TMC; but that need not be the case with India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
10-06-2021||Opinion||Kashmir: A shrine for many faiths||There are thousands of Sufi shrines dotted all over the Kashmir Valley. Kashmir is famously known as ‘Pirwaer’ (garden of sufis and saints). Kashmir is believed to have transformed into an Islamic space through the intervention of Sufi mystics — in particular Kubravi Sufi Mir Saiyid Ali Hamadani and their disciples — says Chitralekha Zutshi, one of the most prominent historians on Kashmir studies. These travelling Sufis also imparted new crafts and skills. Many argue that Shah-i-Hamadan, the most celebrated Sufi of Kashmir, came with a large retinue of immigrant artists, calligraphists, and architects. They introduced the arts of wood-carving, papier-mâché, and shawl and carpet weaving. Besides influencing Kashmir’s society and culture, Sufism also blended well with the everyday lives of the people. The appeal of mysticism and its inclusive ethos has performed several crucial functions in conflict-ridden Kashmir. Some of the valuable aspects of Sufism in the Kashmir Valley, therefore, merit a detailed scrutiny. In spite of the periodic political contentions between Pandits and Muslims in Kashmir, the overall culture of religious tolerance did not disappear. Its resilience stemmed from the heterogeneous composition of society as well as from the influence of mysticism. Sufi culture is relatively more accommodating than ‘formal Islam’ wherein people of different religions share a cultural commonality; this is evident in Sufi shrine festivals such as urs (the death anniversary of a saint) that are celebrated by both Muslims and Hindus. Numerous shrines in Kashmir are revered by Kashmiri Muslims and Pandits — the shrine of the 14th-century saint, Sheikh Nooruddin Walli, (Charar-e-Sharief) of the Reshi order (indigenous mystics) being one example. Other notable shrines venerated by both Muslims and Hindus are that of Baba Zain-ud Din at Aishmuqam or the shrine of Sheikh Hamza Makhdum at Srinagar. Kashmir’s Sufi ethos not only facilitates the building of a congenial culture within different communities but also addresses the lacunae of spatial availability for women in a male-dominated public sphere in conflict. In Kashmir, women offer nimaz (prayer) in all the major mosques and shrines, including Dastegeer Shahib, Makhdoom Sahib, Hazratbal among others. There are common sitting areas where men and women could interact with ease. To the extent that some locals even accuse Sufi culture of encouraging immorality. One of the most neglected yet significant aspects of Sufi philosophy in conflict-ridden Kashmir lies in its healing power. In case of loss and injustice, religion offers a certain comfort: people can somehow believe that their loss is not for nothing. A large number Kashmiris are coping with stress and trauma. Spirituality provides them with a worldview that offers purpose and meaning to suffering. As Maya Angelou writes, “people whose history and future were threatened each day by extinction considered that it was only by divine intervention that they be able to live at all.” Besides, the tombs of Sufis are often the only space that offers sanctuary to people dealing with the precariousness of life in conflict. On every occasion, pleasant or unpleasant, people flock to shrines to invoke the deceased saint’s intercession through ritual supplication. In 2020, people congregated in Charar-e-Sharief amidst rumours that an asteroid would brush past earth. Politicians also visit Sufi shrines to seek blessings on different occasions. Farooq Abdullah is a frequent visitor to Charar-e-Sharief; Mehbooba Mufti visited Khanqah-e-Moula after a fire in 2017. One of the most interesting dimensions about Kashmir’s Sufism is what it brings to the global ‘good Muslim versus bad Muslim debate’. Tariq Ramadan defines ‘good Muslims’ as those who accept the values and customs of the dominant power and are invisible in the public sphere whereas bad Muslims resist “religiously, culturally or politically”. In this partial viewpoint, Sufism is seen as detached from worldly affairs, including politics. However, the belief that Sufism is apathetic to politics is essentially a myth deliberately promoted as an alternative to an assertive Islam demanding political and public presence. We find many cases where Sufism played an active political role and inspired numerous resistance movements. For instance, many Algerians joined Qadiriyya and Libyans entered Sanussi Sufi orders to fight against French and Italian colonialism. Omar al-Mukhtar, the leader of the resistance movement from the Senussi Sufi orders, became an idol for many young Kashmiris, especially after the film on his life and struggle, Lion of the Desert, was released in 1981. Likewise, in the battle for leadership and autonomy from Dogra rule, shrines played a vital role. Within the Muslim fraternity, the control of shrines became imperative to control the movement and its leadership. The financial gains associated with shrines were an additional incentive. Most scholars working on Kashmir claim that Kashmiriyat — described as a unique Kashmiri composite identity based on inter-communal harmony — derived from Sufism to counter any potential threat to the State. Kashmiriyat is also evoked to hark back to a golden period before orthodox Islam took over Kashmir. In this sense, the Sufi philosophy of syncretism is not endorsed for its positive message only but also to denounce the ‘two-nation theory’ and justify Kashmir’s accession to India. Therefore, Sufi convictions have various values beyond its function of spreading Islam. Sufi doctrines should not be seen as aloof from politics. Sufism continues to play a social, political, economic and spiritual role in Kashmir’s strife-torn landscape.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
10-06-2021||Opinion||New vista||Over the past few months, Lutyens’ Delhi has been in the eye of a political storm over the building works in the Central Vista project. The ongoing building activities have been questioned by those opposed to the Narendra Modi government on two counts. First, many Opposition politicians have described the public expenditure during the Covid-19 pandemic as evidence of the government’s misplaced priorities. Since the project aims at being completed by the time India celebrates the 75th anniversary of Independence, it has been dubbed as Modi’s ‘vanity project’ and even challenged — unsuccessfully — in the courts. Critics have even gone to the extent of comparing the new Central Vista scheme with Albert Speer’s unfulfilled plans for a monumental Germania in the heart of Berlin to celebrate Hitler’s Third Reich. Secondly, there have been questions raised on the aesthetic merits of the project. The likes of Sir Anish Kapoor have called Bimal Patel, the Berkeley-educated, Ahmedabad-based, chief architect as “third rate” and the London-based Daily Mail even went to the extent of describing the new buildings, particularly the new Parliament building that will come up alongside Sir Herbert Baker’s famous circular structure, as examples of “bad taste”. Kapoor, whose connections with contemporary India have been casual at best but whose fierce opposition to Modi dates back to May 2014, even suggested that the project was inspired by the prime minister’s blind hatred of anything remotely Islamic. Whether either Sir Edwin Lutyens or Baker — the two main architects who designed the new city a century ago — were inspired by Islamic architecture is, of course, undocumented. The storm over the Central Vista project is not the first occasion on which the urban landscape of New Delhi has been drawn into controversy. A brief examination of some of these earlier points of friction may be instructive for a more rounded understanding of the present issues. First, the decision to transfer the capital from Calcutta to Delhi, announced by the King-Emperor at the Coronation Durbar of 1911, was fiercely contested. The Opposition, led in the main by the former viceroy, Lord Curzon, contested the wisdom of moving from “the English city with which it has been associated for 150 years to the dead capital of Mahomedan kings…” The European business community of Calcutta was equally miffed and The Statesman ran an editorial, “Hardinge Must Go”, that likened the viceroy to Siraj-ud-Daulah. What is noteworthy is the fact that the shift of capital wasn’t occasioned by the rise of nationalist sentiment. Indeed, Bengali opinion having been placated by the annulment of Curzon’s partition of the province was largely — and short-sightedly — indifferent to the issue. In moving the capital to Delhi, the raj was consciously attempting to shift gear. As the secretary of state, Edwin Montagu, put it, the objective was to signal a break with the past and create a new British-India where “the ascetism of the Oriental, the simplicity of his code of life, and the modesty of his bodily needs, are meeting the restless spirit of progress in material things, the love of realism, the craving for the concrete and the striving towards advancement which come from the West.” Montagu even cited, with considerable approval, Rabindranath Tagore’s hope of the meeting of the East and West at “the altar of humanity”— an exercise where New Delhi would resonate with symbolism. Secondly, in determining both the location — detached from the Civil Lines and away from the scenes of the fiercest battles of the 1857 uprising — and the design, the underlying philosophy was the evolution of the British Empire from conquest to consent and cooperation. Lutyens, the chief architect, had built his reputation on building country houses for well-off Britons. They were built, noted a posthumous tribute in Country Life, “for people who had no particular discrimination in architecture but who were driven to recognise in his buildings the perfect embodiment of the sentiments they both cherished. In his houses Lutyens spoke… for the inarticulate upper-class Englishman”. In India, the clients weren’t ‘inarticulate Englishmen’. In India, Lutyens encountered men who were lucid, fastidious, demanding, occasionally unbudging and who knew what they wanted. “To express modern India in stone, to represent her amazing sense of the supernatural, with its complement to profound fatalism and enduring patience, is no easy task”, he despaired. The challenge was further complicated by Lutyens’ mental block on Indian architectural traditions, his own penchant for European classicism and the viceroy’s absolute insistence that the new capital must have a definite feel of India. It was to negotiate these conflicting impulses that Baker — relatively unknown in Britain but celebrated in South Africa — was appointed to partner Lutyens. As the historian, David Johnson, wrote in his well-researched New Delhi: The Last Imperial City, “Baker’s ability to adapt architectural style to a given location would help silence critics who worried that Lutyens, if left to his own devices, would create an architectural style totally foreign to India.” Judging by the ferocity with which Lutyens’ legacy is being upheld by both sides in the Central Vista debate, the duo did something right. The British Empire barely endured the inauguration of New Delhi, but the imperial grandeur Lutyens set in stone has become a part of the Indian imagination. Finally, when New Delhi was inaugurated in 1931, it boasted only a few iconic state buildings — Government House, the two imposing secretariat buildings on both sides of its approach, the circular Council building, and the War Memorial at the end of Kingsway. The rest of the city was still work in progress. It was to remain that way by the time World War II intervened and was followed by Indian Independence. Jawaharlal Nehru, the presiding deity of Indian aesthetics in the aftermath of Independence, was at heart partial to the Le Corbusier style of modernism. He tolerated Lutyens’ mark on the landscape, but without enthusiasm. The consequences of this were profound. As the scope of the government expanded, there was a rash of new buildings to accommodate the ministries. Unfortunately, they were neither faithful to Lutyens’ style nor the philosophy behind it. In the spirit of the new socialist but impoverished India, functional necessities were combined with either post-War ugliness or modernism as viewed through the prism of the Public Works Department. The importance of stylistic harmony was largely discarded. The unfortunate Indian penchant for ad-hocism became the governing philosophy despite the formation of specialist bodies to oversee aesthetics. Lutyens wasn’t entirely discarded: his legacy was confined to the ceremonial avenue, now Rajpath, the grand buildings on Raisina Hill, Parliament House and the façade of white bungalows with majestic lawns. The biggest casualty was a coherent philosophy. Perhaps this was inevitable in an India that was uncertain and confused over its self-image. At the heart of New Delhi was a discarded imperial vision that hadn’t been replaced by anything tangible. Honestly speaking, this didn’t matter to an India that was still caught between conflicting political and economic pulls, not to mention going beyond survival. In today’s India defined by soaring ambition, relative institutional stability and galloping self-confidence (which will outlive the pandemic), the ‘vision thing’ is deemed important. There will always be disagreements over the aesthetics of the ongoing Central Vista project. What matters is a larger question. Do the new buildings exude the same sense of power and majesty as what Lutyens and Baker tried to achieve? To these attributes must be added efficiency and authenticity. A century after New Delhi was created, the challenge is to embellish past grandeur with a new vision for India that is authentic, majestic, democratic but also exudes power.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
10-06-2021||Opinion||Proud moment||Sir — The Indian striker, Sunil Chhetri, recently surpassed Lionel Messi to become the second-highest active international goal-scorer with 74 strikes. The 36-year-old footballer achieved this feat during the match against Bangladesh in the joint preliminary qualifying rounds for the 2022 Fifa World Cup and 2023 AFC Asian Cup. This is a proud moment for Indian football. But this development also begs the question why, in spite of being home to world class athletes, India continues to trail behind others in all sports except cricket. It is time that the sports ministry introspects on this imbalance.  Anushua Chakraborty, Calcutta About time Sir — It was not surprising to learn that the West Bengal government has decided to cancel the higher secondary and secondary examinations that were scheduled to be held this year in light of the pandemic (“Madhyamik, HS exams scrapped”, June 8). West Bengal saw an exponential rise in the number of Covid-19 infections after the assembly elections took place in eight phases. The chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, was rightly against the decision and had appealed to the Election Commission multiple times to shorten the process. It is the students who have to pay the price for this misstep. Although the decision to scrap the exams was unavoidable, it has shattered the dreams of many, especially of those who were about to appear for their higher secondary examinations. But public health must be prioritized. It was also heartening to see that Banerjee did not take this decision unilaterally but rather on the recommendation of an expert committee and public opinion. She has asked the exam-governing bodies to come up with an alternative method of assessment at the earliest and also to keep an eye on the decisions taken by the Central Board of Secondary Education so that students under the state board do not suffer in any way. Banerjee’s commitment to the well-being of the students must be lauded.  Shyamal Thakur,  Ramnagar, East Burdwan Sir — While it is true that the government was left with no choice but to cancel the secondary and higher secondary examinations in light of the pandemic, this decision will, nevertheless, have long-term repercussions for our careers. The system of higher education in our country is structured in such a way that board examinations, especially Class XII results, determine the trajectory of the rest of our academic lives. The government must try to devise alternative ways of assessment that can help students academically progress in spite of these unprecedented disruptions.Sourjya Rath, Howrah Think again Sir — With less than 50 days to go, the Tokyo Olympics is hanging in the balance. On one hand, the president of the organizing committee, Seiko Hashimoto, has said the Games will go ahead as planned while on the other side, Shigeru Omi, head of a panel of experts that has been advising the Japanese government on its Covid-19 response, issued his strongest warning yet of the potential risks of holding the Games. It may be possible to limit the spread of the disease among the audience by restricting attendance. But the sheer number of athletes, thousands of Olympic support staff including officials, judges, sports presentation personnel, housekeeping and grounds crew, technicians, translators and many more volunteers — reportedly at least 10,000 volunteers have quit ahead of the Games — would be difficult to manage. This will result in an influx of persons from outside the country and lead to unrestricted mingling which would undoubtedly turn the Olympics into a superspreader event. It is obvious to all that by now too much money is at stake. It will be difficult to persuade the organizers to postpone the event once more and thus it is likely that the show will go on. But public health and safety must be prioritized. Polls have shown that a majority of people in Japan do not want the Olympics to take place. The organizers must respect the wishes of the people and cancel the event.  Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee, Faridabad||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
10-06-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town civic workers protest over pending dues||More than 650 workers of Dhanbad’s oldest civic body, Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority, held a meeting on Thursday and decided to serve a notice to the Managing Director warning of a series of protests against non-payment of salaries of over 45 months. The delayed payment problem arose in JMADA around a decade ago due to loss of different sources of revenue through tonnage cess, royalty cess, stamp duty, sanitation tax etc withdrawn as per the different acts of government brought in phase wise manner. The two-hour meeting was held at Jamadoba based water treatment plant under the chairmanship of Md Aslam, in-charge of Putki based water supply network, discussed issues like inadequate revenue collection in terms of water supply charges and holding charges etc. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Aslam said, “Despite the fact that a fund worth Rs 38crore was provided by the state government, there is no initiative with regard to payment of pending salaries of over 45 months.” “Recently the pending salaries for 26 months of JMADA officers have been cleared but the common workers including the machine and pump operators working at water supply installations at Jamadoba, Tilatand, Putki, Topchanchi and Chhatabad as well as sanitation workers are being deprived of their pending salaries without any reason,” said another JMADA employee Tulsi Mahto present at the meeting. “Not only pending salaries but the lack of other development work carried out by civic body, like pipeline laying, maintenance of existing water supply network by carrying out repair of the non functional motors etc further questions the apathetic attitude of the JMADA administration as funds worth Rs 21 crore received as Bazar fee for development work is also lying unutilised,” said Surendra Halkhor, a worker at the water supply division of JMADA. “Though, we are not going to stop the water supply as part of our protest over the pending salaries or other issues but we will serve a notice to the JMADA administration seeking reasons for their nonchalant attitude and warning them to mend their ways in order to solve all issues otherwise we will be forced to carry out phase wise agitation,” said Halkhor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
10-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand government cancels state board exams||The Jharkhand government on Thursday announced cancellation of this year's matric and intermediate exams conducted by the Jharkhand Academic Council in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Chief minister Hemant Soren made the announcement on Twitter saying, "Considering the Covid-19 situation and based on the demands from students, teachers and parents, we have decided to cancel matric and intermediate exams for safety of students." The exams were originally slated to be held from May 4 but JAC postponed it in April following the government's directive. Over seven lakh students are due to appear in JAC’s matric and intermediate exam, which was originally scheduled to take place from May 4 across 2200 centres. However, due to the outbreak of the second wave of Covid-19 in April, the JAC announced postponement of the exams till further orders stating that it will take a call after reviewing the situation on June 1. Ajay Rai, president of Jharkhand Abhibhavak Sangh hailed the decision. He said, "We have been demanding for cancellation of exams since long as covid situation is still not over. We appreciate the state government's decision."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
10-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand counters vaccine wastage numbers, points to data update lag||Jharkhand is said to have recorded the maximum wastage of Covid-19 vaccines at 33.95 per cent, according to Union government data, a claim that the Hemant Soren government vehemently denied on Thursday, saying the figures were wrong since real-time data was yet to be updated on the Co-WIN portal. "The reports are untrue. It's a matter about data reconciliation," said health department’s IEC nodal in-charge Siddharth Tiwary. He was reacting to Thursday’s PTI report from New Delhi that cited government records to say that while Kerala and West Bengal recorded negative wastage of vaccines, Jharkhand topped the list of states on vaccine wastage. The report said that Kerala reported -6.37 per cent and West Bengal recorded -5.48 per cent vaccine wastage. Chhattisgarh reported 15.79 per cent vaccine wastage while Madhya Pradesh reported 7.35 per cent, the report said. The national average of vaccine wastage is around 6.3 per cent. A Jharkhand health department official said as on June 9, the state’s wastage stood at 3.6 per cent. Sharing details of the wastage, he said, “Till now, Jharkhand has been allocated 56,72,450 vaccine doses of which 47,29,484 have been used. As of June 9, we had 7,66,680 vaccine doses available with all districts. The number of utilised doses may have reduced by now as today’s (Thursday) data is yet to arrive from all the districts.” He added that some Jharkhand districts had reported negative wastage. “For example, Jamtara has negative wastage of 17 per cent, Koderma -33 per cent, Ramgarh - 4.2 and Chatra - 3.8. The state has been using vaccines judiciously. In reality, Jharkhand is among the top states with less wastage,” he said. A state vaccination cell official admitted that jab numbers had not been updated. “Figures on the Co-WIN portal have not been rectified yet. We are looking into it,” he said. Jharkhand officials said a similar “misrepresentation” by the Centre occurred in the last week of May when data released by the Centre’s Press Information Bureau (PIB) claimed in an official communication that there was 37.3 per cent vaccine wastage in Jharkhand. At the time, both chief minister Hemant Soren and state health minister Banna Gupta had issued strong rebuttals. The chief minister’s office said the actual wastage was at 4.65 per cent, lesser than the national average. “As per total vaccine doses availability with Govt on Jharkhand till today (May 26), the current vaccine wastage proportion is only 4.65%. Vaccination data could not be fully updated to the central Co-Win Server/ Platform due to technical difficulties/glitches & the updation is in process," CM had tweeted. The Congress, a member of the ruling JMM-led alliance government, criticised the Centre for “defaming” Jharkhand. “The latest media report is baseless. It is an attempt to defame Jharkhand. Last time too, such an attempt was made but after the state government countered with facts and the claim was taken back. In reality, our vaccine coverage and wastage is better than the national average,” a senior leader said on Thursday. Thursday’s PTI report said states like Punjab, Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra registered 7.08 per cent, 3.95 per cent, 3.91 per cent, 3.78 and 3.63 per cent and 3.59 per cent vaccine wastage respectively. The data showed that a total of 790.6 lakh vaccines were supplied to states and UTs in May out of which total vaccinations were 610.6 lakh while 658.6 lakh shots were utilised and the closing balance was 212.7 lakh. The vaccination in May was less as compared to April in which a total of 898.7 lakh vaccinations were done, 902.2 lakh vaccines were utilised and the closing balance was 80.8 lakh. India's first dose coverage of the 45-plus population till June 7 was pegged at 38 per cent with Tripura's coverage being 92 per cent, Rajasthan and Chattisgarh 65 per cent each, Gujarat 53 per cent, Kerala 51 per cent and Delhi 49 per cent. Tamil Nadu's first dose coverage of the 45-plus population is at a low of 19 per cent, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh at 24 per cent each and Bihar at 25 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
10-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to host women's football camps||The All India Football Federation is once again looking at Jharkhand for hosting women's team national preparatory camps for the FIFA Under-17 World Cup and AFC Asian Cup, to be held in the country next year. The national football body is believed to have initiated talks with the state government in this regard. The dates of the camps will be finalised once the state government gives its nod. The under-17 preparatory camp was scheduled in Jharkhand in October last year but was postponed due to the pandemic. Later the AIFF, along with the under-17 camp, also included one for the AFC Asian Cup earlier this year, which also met the same fate for similar reasons. Ranchi will be the preferable venue for the camps and Jamshedpur could also be in the reckoning. "The AIFF is in talks with the state government regarding the programme for the camps, which could be lined up sometime in August. The Covid should wane out in Jharkhand by that time. But things would only make headway if the Covid-related situation actually improves," an official at Jharkhand Football Association said on condition of anonymity. The AIFF will organise the camps after approval from the ministry of youth affairs and sports. But, before getting the approval, the national body wants to do the spade work by holding talks with the Jharkhand government. JFA president Nazm Ansari confirmed the development. “The AIFF has initiated talks with the Jharkhand government. The camp was scheduled earlier this year but could not be conducted owing to the pandemic," he added. The AIFF will first get the campers vaccinated before conducting the camps. Chief minister Hemant Soren was very keen to host the camps in Jharkhand when it was supposed to be held earlier this year. The expenses of the camps would be borne by the state  government while AIFF and JFA would be extending technical support. The camo would be conducted under the supervision of Sports Authority of India (eastern centre). Eight footballers from Jharkhand are on the list of probables for the under-17 World Cup. The Indian senior women's team had gone for exposure trips to Turkey and Uzbekistan earlier this year. They played five international friendlies following which their preparation for the Asian Cup was stalled by the second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
10-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand focus on fire safety at Covid hospitals across state ||The Jharkhand government has directed district administrationsof the state to share details of action taken to ensure fire safety at Covid hospitals. A letter addressed by National Health Mission (NHM) Director to all the deputy commissioners stated that the districts should submit details regarding the measures taken for monthly fire safety audit of all Covid hospitals, appointment of nodal officers for fire safety at each  and ensuring fire safety NOC for the hospitals. A detailed report on the compliance of fire safety norms in Covid hospitals will be shared by the districts with the health department in a virtual meeting scheduled on Saturday, officials said. “As per the apex court’s directive, all Covid hospitals will have to appoint a nodal officer for fire safety and conduct fire safety audit every month to avoid any lapses in future,” said Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer for health department’s information, education and communication (IEC) wing. “The districts will have to share compliance reports in a meeting on June 12,” he added. The Supreme Court in December last year had directed all states to conduct fire safety audits of Covid hospitals and ensure that all such facilities get fire safety NOCs from the concerned fire department within a month. Several fire incidents have caused death of patients in many Covid hospitals across India in the past couple of months, according to media reports. Sources at the health department said that Covid facilities were prone to fire breakouts due to “overburden” on hospitals running with limited resources. At least 24 fire incidents at hospitals have killed around 93 people, mostly Covid patients, since the Covid-19 pandemic hit India last year, highlight media reports. Most of the fires were reported from Maharashtra and Gujarat, leading to suo motu cognizance taken by the high courts of the two states. However, no major fire incident at Covid hospitals have been reported in Jharkhand since March 2020, when the deadly virus made its entry in the state, officials said. As per government records, at least 15 hospitals in the state were running full-fledged Covid care facilities with ventilators and ICUs. Officials said that hospitals with ventilator facilities were more prone to fire incidents due to short circuits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
10-06-2021||Jharkhand||13-year-old drowns at Central govt housing site||The body of a 13-year-old boy was found floating in a trench dug for residential flats under Prime Minister Awaas Yojana at Birsanagar on Thursday morning. The body was recovered by police and was later identified as that of Vishnu Raha, son of Biplab Raha, a resident of adjoining Arjun Nagar. Vishnu was one of Raha’s five children. He was a Class VI student at a government-run school. Filled with rain water, the trench is situated in the middle of the PMAY site at Zone No B-2 of Birsanagar, about 500 metres away from Arjun Nagar. In a statement to the police, Raha told the police that his son had stepped out of his house at about 11 am on Wednesday, stating that he was going to take a bath in the trench along with his two friends. But as Vishnu did not return home by evening, Raha and his family members started searching for him. On Thursday morning, a local discovered the floating body in the trench and informed the police. The OC of Birsanagar thana, Tarun Kumar said,"The trench in which the tragedy took place was dug for laying the foundation of a multi-storeyed apartment under the PMAY in March this year. But the construction work stopped in the past three months due to some litigation. Recently, there was a spell of heavy showers here, causing the trench to get filled up in rain water, leading people from the adjoining slums to go to the trench for taking bath." The body has been sent to MGM medical college for post mortem and an investigation has been launched in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
10-06-2021||Jharkhand||With monsoon at its door, Jharkhand braces for heavy rain ||India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast heavy rain in several parts of Jharkhand from Saturday, June 12, indicating an early onset of the monsoon season in the state. Weathermen said a cyclonic circulation over  northwest Bay of Bengal extending upto the mid-tropospheric levels is likely to intensify into a low-pressure system during the next 24 hours. " his would result in heavy rain in most parts of Jharkhand for three days between Saturday and Monday," said a duty officer at Ranchi Meteorological Centre. IMD officials also hinted at early onset of southwest monsoon in Jharkhand. "The low-pressure system would assist in early onset of monsoon in Jharkhand. Earlier, we were expecting monsoon's arrival in Jharkhand around June 15. But, the low- pressure system would make conditions favourable for the onset of monsoon in the next two to three days," said Abhishek Anand, head of Ranchi Met Centre. A bulletin issued by IMD-New Delhi suggests that as of Thursday ( June 10), the southwest monsoon has further advanced into some more parts of south Gujarat, remaining parts of Maharashtra, Telangana,  Andhra Pradesh, some parts of south Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh,  southern Odisha, remaining parts of central Bay of Bengal and most parts of North Bay of Bengal. Conditions are favourable for further advancement of southwest monsoon into some of the remaining parts of Chhattisgarh and Odisha, entire West Bengal and Jharkhand and some parts of Bihar and east Uttar Pradesh  during the next 48-hours. Ahead of the monsoon onset, most Jharkhand districts are likely to experience fairly widespread thunderstorm, lightning, accompanied by dense clouds, in the next two days. Pre-monsoon showers began in several places since Wednesday. Met data indicated rain at a few places durring the past 24 hours. Kurdeg in Simdega recorded 73.4 mm rain while Jamtara recorded 64 mm of rain. Several other places, including Ranchi, Ramgarh, Jamshedpur, Hazaribagh, Koderma and Latehar, also witnessed rain during the past 24 hours. IMD's Patna Met Centre also issued an alert of lightning and thundershowers in Jharkhand for the next 48 hours. It warned residents not to venture out during rains and  not take shelter under trees in case of lightning .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
10-06-2021||Jharkhand||Wedding planners seek allowance for labourers ||Coal town wedding planners are planning to submit a petition to the Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner demanding provision of free food grains until the next wedding season for labourers working in the sector, as majority of them are deprived of ration cards. The state government has made no announcements on relaxation in restrictions during wedding events. More than 80 thousand labourers working with different wedding planners, including generator operators, electricians, dishwashers, servers and band party members have been facing extreme financial crises since the lockdown commenced. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, President of Dhanbad Zila Decorator Association,  Pradeep Kumar Singh said,“We had a bumper lagan (marriage) season from March to July 2021 during which over 20 thousand marriages were scheduled but is seems that the entire season was washed out as 90 per cent marriages were cancelled and the rest 10 per cent were held with restrictions.” “As per the government diktat, the marriages are not to be organised in marriage halls and or hotels and rather to be held at home with a maximum presence of 11 persons, there is no scope for any tent laying or banquet and rather light decoration, floral decoration and cooking for feast is also being carried out by family members itself, leaving no scope for us,” said Singh. Echoing Singh’s sentiments, Dwarika Tiwari, another caterer and also the former General Secretary of Dhanbad Zila Decorator Association said, “ Majority of 80 thousand workers engaged with over 1200 wedding planners of Dhanbad depend on the seasonal income of marriages and were hopeful of clearing the debts taken during last year’s complete lockdown and with no income this season they are now facing extreme penury.” “As the lagan season was quite long this summer of over five months many of us were expecting the situation to improve during the last leg of July with gradual improvement in the pandemic situation and some of the marriages scheduled from April, May, June were also rescheduled in July anticipating some improvement,” said Jadav Dutta, a well known caterer of Jharia and added with the continuation of restrictions even during the unlock-2 the last ray of hope has turned into despair. Biru Thakur, a labourer working with a caterer of Jharia during marriage functions said, “I used to earn enough to manage family expenses with the seasonal work in marriages and at construction sites till 2019 but with the gradual deterioration in the situation I am finding it difficult to manage even the food expense.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
10-06-2021||Jharkhand||Sindri hospital to be revived as Covid facility ||The revival of the 205-bed FCI hospital of Sindri has begun as Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited, establishing a Rs 6500crore fertilizer factory, has agreed to renovate the hospital as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility work at the suggestion of the district administration. Inaugurated in 1952 by the then union health minister Rajkumari Amrit Kaur, the hospital had over 2000 visitors daily as it was the biggest hospital of the coal belt and used to serve as a referral hospital for other hospitals of surrounding areas like Chasnala Hospital of BCCL. The hospital was closed down in March 2003, two months after the closure of the factory on December 31,2002. The district administration has demanded an NOC and a 30-year lease of the hospital from the FCIL administration for its revival. The appointment of doctors and other staff at the hospital will be carried out by the district administration through the District Mineral Foundation Trust (DMFT) fund. Earlier, a joint team of FCI, HURL and district officials carried out a recce of the closed FCI hospital on June 3 and it was concluded that the hospital spread over around 100 acres of land can be developed into a state-of-art Covid hospital. The team further observed that as the ground floor of the hospital is lying in good condition, it can be readily renovated to launch the Covid hospital with separate facilities for male and female patients. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh, who wrote a letter to the state Health Medical Education and Family welfare department in this regard said, “The old OPD section of the hospital can be immediately used following some minor renovation for launching three OPDs for the non Covid patients at the initial stage and diagnostic centre can also be launched at the hospital.” As the administration is working to consolidate its medical infrastructure in preparation for the third phase of Covid and working to increase ICU beds to 300 and establish 50-bed Paediatric ICU in the district, the FCI hospital can prove to be of great help in this regard. “We have requested the unit charge of FCI Sindri, Umesh Chandra Gaur for NOC and 30 year lease of hospital as HURL can launch the renovation work of the hospital through its CSR fund only after getting NOC and lease of hospital,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
10-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Active caseload drops below 5,000 in Jharkhand||The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped below the 5,000-mark in Jharkhand on Wednesday as the state reported twice as many recoveries as fresh cases of infection on the day. Three more deaths took the Covid toll to 5,076, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, 302 people were found infected by coronavirus on Wednesday, while 615 recovered from the infection, bringing the active caseload down to 4,783. The state tested swab samples of over 40,000 residents on the day and the positivity rate was less than 1 per cent. None of the 24 districts in Jharkhand reported a triple-digit-spike in cases on the day. East Singhbhum, as per government data, reported the highest spike of 48 cases, but 61 recoveries brought the active caseload there down to 796. One Covid patient died during treatment in East Singhbhum on Wednesday, taking a Covid toll there to 1028. The remaining two deaths were reported from Bokaro and Pakur on the day. Ranchi, the district which has reported the highest number of Covid deaths in the district so far, did not report fresh casualties on Wednesday. As per NHM data, only 34 residents of the state capital were found infected on the day and 92 Covid patients recovered, bringing the active caseload here down to 1,367. So far, Covid-19 has claimed 1,572 lives in Ranchi. Bokaro reported 11 cases against 38 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported 16 cases against 34 recoveries. At least 21 people were found infected in Koderma and 38 patients recovered there. Hazaribag reported 31 cases against 47 recoveries on the day. The growth rate of infection dropped to 0.11 per cent in Jharkhand against the national average of 0.26 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state rose to 648.97 days against the national doubling rate of 271.77 days, the NHM stated in its bulletin. The state on Wednesday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 48,619 residents and as many as 26,844 of them were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. The second dose was administered to 5,956 beneficiaries on the day, mostly people above the age of 45 years. So far, over 3.42 lakh people have been infected by coronavirus in the state and more than 97 per cent of them have recovered. The Covid mortality rate in the state was, however, 1.48 per cent against the national average of 1.20 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
10-06-2021||Jharkhand||Webinar organised on the 121st death anniversary of Birsa Munda||If the Prime Minister can express his Mann Ki Baat, you can also do Apno ko Yaad every Sunday. Election could be conducted at remote booths in the thick of a pandemic, so vaccination camps can also be organised at far-flung areas for protecting the people. Only a free and universal, not insurance-based, healthcare system can help the poor survive.  So, it must be strengthened. Such opinions were expressed by the speakers at a webinar organised on Wednesday, the 121st death anniversary of Birsa Munda, the tribal icon who had died this day in 1900, that had ‘Mahamari aur Tanasahi se jujhta Bharat’ (India battling against pandemic and authoritarianism) as its topic. “We all have recently lost a lot of our near and dear ones due to Covid that spread because the government did not take timely action and their memories will be with us forever,” said Dipankar Bhattacharya, the general secretary of the CPI-ML, that organised the webinar. He added that if the Prime Minister can express his Mann Ki Baat, everybody could do their Apno Ko Yaad (Remembering own ones) every Sunday. At the end of the webinar, over 150 persons who attended it resolved to do Apno koYaad and post its contents on social media every Sunday this month. “If the government could hold the election at booths in remote areas in the thick of a pandemic, it can also organise vaccination camps at such places,” Bhattacharya further opined, demanding registration for vaccination should also be made physically at those camps as rural people are not comfortable with digital recordings. “Instead of giving exact figures, the government says only negligible percentage of our population died of Covid,” he further said, adding even that negligible percentage was a huge number in a populous country like ours. “Still, it was due to the care they received at the government-run facilities like Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi that many poor who had to be hospitalised following Covid-19 infection survived,” Ramesh Sharan, development economist and former vice-chancellor of Vinoba Bhabe University (Hazaribagh), said while speaking at the webinar. They could never afford to go to private hospitals and would die if these government-run hospitals were not there, the professor pointed out, adding such facilities were needed to be improved. The infrastructure at those facilities should be strengthened, manpower increased and new recruits properly trained so that they can treat the community in a better way, he suggested. “A free and universal healthcare system and not an insurance-based one is what the country actually needs,” Sharan said, adding that would involve much less cost compared to private hospitals even if a patient has to make nominal payments for certain services. But these facilities are mostly run by the state governments that are now starved of funds, the economist further pointed out, demanding “the Union government must pay the states their dues on account of GST compensations so that they get some funds to spend on public welfare schemes”. “The pandemic caused huge job loss and the markets are dry as people have no money to spend,” Sharan pointed out, adding the Union government must encourage spending to revive the economy by injecting money into markets, “even by printing notes, if need be”. The webinar was also addressed by about a dozen others, including politicians, activists and social workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
