11-06-2021||Calcutta||Hands of Help||When the pandemic began last year and the lockdown was announced, most people went into shock. No one knew how to react, where to seek help and everyone was scared. But a few among us gathered their wits, looked beyond themselves and rose to the occasion. These neighbours are now cooking meals for Covid patients or serving Rs 10 lunches to hundreds of domestic helps and labourers. They are running helplines to find oxygen cylinders and hospital beds for patients. Some have purchased an ambulance to ferry patients around and one has turned his own car and scooty into an ambulance. Turning point Arijit Mukherjee runs a vet clinic Cats & Dogs in CK Block and had three 10l oxygen cylinders and a concentrator for his operation theatre. Those in the know started calling him for help as Helpl cases surged and oxygen became impossible to source. Then one night a lady he did not know called up, in tears. “She asked me to take all the gold jewellery she had in her locker but to find her gasping 84-year-old husband some air to breathe,” says Arijit. “That call changed my life. I took a cylinder over and stayed with them the whole night. The man survived and I decided to buy more cylinders to help others.” Last July, five friends — mostly living around BJ and AJ blocks — decided to help the helpless in the pandemic. “We organised camps for blood donation and antibody test and then from November began a Rs 10 lunch scheme at Route 206 bus terminus in AJ Block,” says Anish Majumdar. His friends were Chandan Biswas, Subhankar Basu, Mithun Pramanik and Saikat Saha. For a couple of months, they paid a BJ Market restaurant to cook the meals but as the scale grew, they shifted to a New Town kitchen. Bidhannagar Shramjibi Canteen now serves nearly 200 people daily at Route 206 bus terminus and has spread wings to CK Market, Karunamoyee, opposite Big Bazaar and CA Market. The strength of their volunteers has also increased to over 60 people. NeeDonors are another group formed by college students from Falguni Abasan. “Six of us formed the group at the peak of the second wave in April. The scarcity of hospital beds and oxygen was so acute and since we don’t have to attend college now, we decided to help with online searches for their availability,” said Swayam Das, who founded the group with friends from the complex Saptarshee Mondol, Sirsha Saha, Bishak Sarkar, Saikat Saha and Tamojit Mishra of Kankurgachhi. Swechcha Dhara Dasgupta, a Class XII pass-out of Sraboni Abasan, had started a Facebook page and YouTube channel on cooking last year. Her mother and she got Helpl in the meantime and when the second wave came, she could relate with patients. “I knew how weak one becomes with Helpl and how difficult it is to cook in such a state. I knew the kind of diet needed for recovery and also how to make such meals tasty. I started a home delivery service,” she says. The family has never had domestic helps but Swechcha and her parents are pulling through happily. All in a day’s work The first call the NeeDonors of Falguni got was from a friend whose aunt and aunt’s son were down with Helpl and needed Fabiflu. “Saptarshee and I had to look for it in three or four chemist shops before we found a strip and delivered it at their Digantika Abasan doorstep,” says Swayam. But once a post was up in Facebook with contact numbers of two of them, Saptarshi and Swayam’s phones have not stopped ringing. “Between 7am and lunchtime, we receive about 200 calls,” says Swayam, a third year mechanical engineering student at Techno Main Saltlake. Towards the first few weeks, the calls were all for bed, oxygen or medicine. “A woman called from Purbachal saying her parents in another cluster of the housing estate were down with Helpl. So were her husband and in-laws isolating elsewhere. Her father needed help but she could not go as she had a small child. He had fever for five days already. So we arranged for a tele-consultation and took the doctor’s prescription to the chemist so he could start taking the medicines right away. Then the search started for a hospital bed. Once we found a vacancy, we were ready to accompany him but the NGO which sent the ambulance said they would take care of the formalities,” recalled Swayam. Volunteers of New Town Forum & News have been providing stellar support to residents of the township ever since the pandemic broke out, so much so that they started getting calls from across the city. But what started as a bed and oxygen enquiry assistance has escalated to full-fledged service with the social service group, formed by New Town residents, acquiring an ambulance and becoming the joint promoters of a community-based Helpl isolation centre with oxygen support. They have also undertaken to vaccinate 10,000 residents of New Town over the week in camps they are organising by themselves or jointly with residential complexes. The forum has a group of volunteers attending to calls on its helpline number. “Some would seek an oxygen cylinder without bothering to mention who it was for, what state he was in and if a doctor had prescribed one. In most cases, they had just tested positive and want to keep a cylinder at hand. We have also had situations where the patient is gasping for breath but the caller thinks just a bit of oxygen would revive him. Some say they have started taking medicines on the basis of someone else’s prescription. They are not even aware that they need to tele-consult a doctor during home isolation,” recalled one of them, who stays in New Town’s Mallika Malancha. Some callers left an impression, mostly for the wrong reasons. A lady from Bowbazar, seeking a cylinder, insisted that the patient was healthy. On enquiry, it was learnt he had both typhoid and Helpl, and his oxygen level was 89 per cent. “When I suggested immediate hospitalisation, she got irritated and hung up,” the NTFN volunteer recalls. Another day, the wife of a 45-year-old diabetic called from Jadavpur. “They had gone all the way to Barrackpore to get themselves tested as they wanted to keep the news from their neighbours. With the husband’s oxygen level down at 85 per cent, she was calling for a cylinder. He had been offered a bed at MR Bangur but was unwilling to admit him. We had to counsel them that oxygen was a stop-gap arrangement, not a treatment. Thankfully she listened.” The volunteers also witnessed acts of irresponsibility. The Mallika Malancha resident took a call from an elderly couple staying in a co-operative flat near Biswa Bangla Gate. Their son had left to stay with a friend as soon as his father had Covid symptoms.  “The wife took the feverish husband to a government dispensary which handed them some medicines. There was no Covid test done.” On Day 4, he developed diarrhoea. “On Day 5, when she called me to keep a hospital bed on standby if needed, the man had still not got any medicine for diarrhoea. I gave them some tele-medicine contacts. On Day 7, the son, who had finally returned, called to report that the father had tested positive and his diarrhoea had got so severe that they had decided to take him to a doctor. They had not contacted any doctor over phone nor had mother and son got themselves tested. I had to beg them not to go out and spread infection,” the lady recalled. Another volunteer from the forum had received a call from a daughter settled abroad who was seeking help for her elderly parents. “I went over in PPE and heard that both had fever for a week, had not got tested for Covid and instead had gone to the NKDA vaccination centre to get the first dose. They thought getting the vaccine would cure Covid!  They must have spread the infection among other elderly residents too at the inoculation venue!” he said. If Covid positive families from the middle and upper middle classes pass through various stages of panic while sometimes paying a price for ignorance, the poor have no idea what hits them when they get Covid and withdraw further into a shell. The volunteer who stays in Action Area I went over close to midnight to attend to a family of construction workers down with fever, who were being shunned in the area. “Along with Paracetamol, I took a pulse oxymeter along and taught them how to use it,” he said. The forum has since created an oxymeter bank to lend to families that cannot buy one. Ambulance on scooty When ambulances were scarce and demanding Rs 10,000 for rides within the township, Arijit had started giving free rides to patients in his car. “But my driver leaves at 7pm and I can’t drive. So if I get any call after that I have to take my scooty,” says the man who has ferried three residents of CK, AE and HB Block to hospital on his scooty, tied to him with their wives’ saris. “One was vomiting on me the entire way,” he recalls. Arijit’s most poignant case was spending three nights at a Rajarhat home near Derozio Memorial College providing oxygen to a 14 month-old baby, who ultimately survived. Food for thought Swechcha’s food service has come to the rescue of many. “There was this 94-year-old Purbachal resident who had never eaten anything but his wife’s cooking, but the lady was in the ICU. Their son called up nervously, asking us to prepare very light food — he only ate lady’s finger and soya bean — and had to be served at 11.30am sharp. My mother was so particular about him that she would cook his food before ours!” Then there are patients who are touchy about their gadas or petis. “This one BF Block lady — whose entire family was down with Covid — ordered from us for two days but then called to cancel further orders,” Swechcha recalls. “We thought they didn’t like the food but it turned out the lady had been sneaking the meals into the house on the sly. Her father-in-law found out and refused to eat food from outside. So despite being crippled with Covid, this lady would have to trudge into the kitchen.” Aid from strangers The Shramjibi Canteen has had strangers stopping their cars and dropping off sacks of rice and potatoes, neighbours handing over cheques for Rs 10,000 and acquaintances sponsoring a day’s meal in memory of their parents or to celebrate birthdays. Ditto for Arijit, who received two oxygen concentrators from a stranger in Delhi. “And when the shop I refill cylinders at found out I was a cancer patient lending out cylinders free of cost, they started giving me a discount,” he says. The Falguni group has increased in volunteer strength, with Bitan Dey, Ashmita Chakraborty, Shirin Anwar, Sridip Saha and Rajarshi Roy joining in from the housing complex. Saikat, a psychiatry Masters student at Rajabazar Science College, roped in his classmates. They as well as 10 clinical psychologists are offering free counselling. Swechcha has started a helpline and when some friends wanted to donate to Covid relief through her, she initiated a Mrinalini Dasgupta Memorial Fund, named after her great-grandma, also a social worker. “With the money raised through it, we are handing out PPEs, N95s and sanitisers to Red Volunteers who are going door-to-door. I’m sure my great-grandma would be proud.” Covid crooks The volunteers are also coming across crooks through their work. To help the NeeDoners, Falguni Abasik Samity purchased three oxygen cylinders for free-of-cost use of residents as well as outsiders. “They are also sponsoring our PPE kits and sanitisers. The cylinders are being let out for a maximum of six days else we were having situations where impoverished people were taking one away, claiming they could not afford to pay and were refusing to return it. They were simply renting it out,” says Swayam. The boys need the PPE as they are also going to set up the cylinders when relatives of the patient cannot come. Kushan Niyogi, a college student of DB Block, is part of a helpline called Calcutta Anti-Covid Belt and at its peak, they were updating data every hour. “Some of us were taking counts of free hospital beds and oxygen cylinders and others were speaking to patients. We were then connecting the two. Most hospitals never even picked up and some of us came across frauds who took online payment for oxygen but never delivered,” he says. Joy of giving Not all cases handled by the volunteers have happy endings. “A pregnant woman living next to Saptarshee’s place expired. Nor could we save Sabita mashi, who had practically raised Bishak, despite getting her oxygen and a hospital bed,” Swayam says. NeeDonors are now busy arranging for vaccination camps at Falguni Abasan on June 10 and 11. “Some are shying away on hearing they have to pay and that too in advance,” he says. But some are eager to get the jab, like an impoverished outsider who has enlisted himself. “He was wearing a torn banyan and handed us a bunch of crumpled notes of small denomination. When he comes for the shot, we have decided to refund his money and pay for him ourselves,” he says. Swechcha couldn’t be happier on hearing a customer — who would order “patient food” for days — finally ask for Mangshor Jhol with generous doses of tel-masala. “It means they have recovered and that I could be by their side throughout their journey, through their food,” smiles the girl whose relatives would initially ask her to concentrate on her Class XII studies instead of running a helpline and home delivery. “But my mother believed this was the right thing to do. Helping others is more important than getting extra marks.” Majumdar, one of the volunteers of the Shramjibi Canteen, is also active in organising BJ Block’s Durga puja. “And my family often chides me for it, asking me to quit all that and spend time at home instead. But with this canteen, no one is saying a word,” he smiles knowingly. Some volunteers of this canteen are Left-minded but many of the 60-odd members have joined simply to do some good. “The people eating at the stand had initially thought we were doing this for votes and, in fact, the day after the election results we had very few people turn up. They had thought we would discontinue the canteen now. But we kept it running and now they return in great numbers for a fish, chicken or egg meal for Rs 10,” Majumdar says. How important has been the role played by volunteers in this pandemic? Write to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6 Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
11-06-2021||Calcutta||Photo studios see rush for portraits||Business is down in all sectors but in a cruel turn of events, photo studios are inundated with calls. With so many deaths in the Covid second wave, there are that many families requiring framed photographs of the deceased for funerals. Studios are doing the best they can, working within the short hours they are allowed to stay open, with the limited staff who report for duty, but the depressing nature of the work is taking a toll on the mental health of these technicians. “It would be wrong to count money at such a time. We are not looking for business but just trying to help the bereaved,” says Mukul Khan of Studio Maa in Ramdhenu Complex opposite New Town’s Coal Bhawan. Online orders Many bereaved families are still Covid positive and unable to go over to order or collect the pictures. Not taking a chance, EC Block’s Photo Centre has banned entry of customers. “We are asking people to email or WhatsApp the pictures and they are later sending drivers to pick up the frames from outside the store,” says proprietor Somnath Dey, who lives on the floor above the studio. Before the pandemic, the studio used to cover various assignments, especially for schools. “Now, much as I shudder to admit, our work is reduced to printing funeral pictures,” Dey shakes his head. Portrait Digital Photo Studio in New Town’s Eden Shop says funeral photos used to be 10 per cent of their business before but it is now 80 per cent. “We are taking orders online and asking customers to get them delivered using Swiggy and Uber apps,” says Prativa Praharaj, who runs the studio. Lack of equipment Then again smaller studios, that lack their own printing setups, are suffering as the stores they would rely on are shut. “We would get large printouts from Dharamtala. With our in-house equipment we can only print A4 size photos, which is much smaller than the standard funeral picture. But so desperate are times that we have had a couple of orders even for those,” says Vikash Kumar Rana of VKR Studio in DF Market near Kolkata Gate. Without proper printing backup, business has slumped such that Rana had switched to delivering milk and bread. But he had a scooty accident and is now on bed rest. “My wife is managing whatever little funeral picture orders we are getting at the studio,” he says. Staff crunch Praharaj says only one out of her four staffers is able to commute amid the transport restrictions. “Even then, the working hours are short and odd — 8-10am and 12-3pm. It’s not enough,” she reasons. Jayanta Dutta, who runs Studio Raj in Ultadanga, says they are struggling to complete work in just three hours a day that they can open for. Judging from the ominous Covid trends earlier this year, the proprietor of a large studio in the heart of Salt Lake had anticipated the spike in deaths and, hence, the requirement for funeral photos. “I made arrangements for my staff to stay back at the office during the lockdown. The staff are home delivering some photos now or friends of Covid-positive families are coming to pick them up through our back door. We are scared for our own safety as we are dealing with those in contact with patients, but can’t stop this service, not when our customers need us most,” says the man, asking not to be named. Studio Maa is able to stay open beyond curfew hours as the store doubles as a cyber cafe, providing an essential service. Depressed at work Aura Studio has shut its BD Block store to save on rent but continues to take orders over phone. “It’s heart-breaking to make funeral pictures of customers we have known for years,” says Surupa Sircar, who runs the service. “A lady whose maternity pictures we clicked last year has now died, leaving behind her year-old Covid positive baby. Her mother-in-law has died, father-in-law is on the ventilator, brother-in-law is hospitalised. Families like these are placing orders for pictures of multiple members.” The owner of the large Salt Lake studio says his staff are slipping into depression, having to all day crop out funeral mug shots out of happy wedding pictures. “In place of one or two funeral picture orders a day in the pre-Covid world, we are now getting 10 to 15. And in this second wave it’s not just the aged who are passing away. We are living with the horror of making funeral photos for people in their 30s and 40s. Many husband-wife couples are both departing. It’s taking a toll on our mental health,” he says. Khan too is alarmed by the number of orders he is getting for people in their 30s and 40s. “The ratio of this age group to senior citizens is about 2:3 in the second wave,” he says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
11-06-2021||Calcutta||Govt sets up retail store in CA block||After more than a year of sending out vending vans to sell pulses, vegetables, meat and the like, the government authorities have set up a retail store in CA Block, a stone’s throw away from the market. The store also has a kitchen counter to serve snacks. Named Nature Bazar, the shop is in the lane facing the Mother Dairy booth outside CA Market. It is being operated by the state Comprehensive Area Development Corporation (CADC), under the panchayats and rural development department and was inaugurated by minister Subrata Mukherjee on June 8. “With the vans, we have been able to take the market to people’s doorsteps across Salt Lake and New Town. People lower bags from the first floor balconies and pick up vegetables from the vans without having to step out. This store format will surely be beneficial too,” Mukerjee said. The store will open to public on June 16 after the lockdown and for starters, timings will be 8am to noon and 4 to 8pm. “But after the pandemic we will be open 9 to 9,” said Soumyajit Das, special secretary to the department and administrative secretary of the CADC. The store has various varieties of rice like Fine Baskati, Tulaipanji, brown rice as well as pulses, mustard and refined oil, spices, ghee and honey. Fruits and vegetables are sourced directly from farmers — Himsagar mangoes from Ayodhya Hills, watermelons from Sonamukhi, onions from Sukhsagar etc. “No chemicals are used in growing these. We use neem oil and cow urine as pesticide and vermicompost for fertilisers. So they are much healthier than chemical vegetables that look shiny and appetising but lack in nutritional value,” explained Das. Chicken will be available in curry cuts, lollypop, wings and boneless options and the dark-tinged Kadaknath chicken, said to be rich in iron content, will be available too. In fact, they are selling it at Rs 175 for 500g — at a discount of Rs 100. Parse fish will cost Rs 250 for 500g, chicken Rs 95 for 500g and a litre of mustard oil Rs 170. Authorities claim prices of fruits and vegetables will not fluctuate on a daily basis as in markets. Besides fish and mutton, they will stock lamb, crab, duck and fish like mourola which will be cleaned and made available in ready-to-cook vacuum packs that can be used up to three weeks later. “These products are also available in our vans but they cannot stay at a point all day so one can miss them,” said Das. The authorities are also betting big on the kitchen counter. “Two schools — Salt Lake School and Haryiana Vidya Mandir — are within walking distance from this outlet. They have a combined strength of some 7,000 students, not to mention the guardians who accompany them. When this population returns to campus after the pandemic, they shall have a new outlet to eat in,” said Das. The kitchen has an induction cooker, fryer and OTG so expect Fish Finger, Egg Devil and kebabs. The department already runs a home delivery outlet from its head office in DD Block’s Mrittika Bhawan and some of the staff there will look after this CA Block counter too. There isn’t space to sit and eat but a foldable table-top pulls out of a wall for diners to rest their plates and eat. Local ward co-ordinator Rajesh Chirimar encouraged the outlet. “This store will provide healthy competition to vendors of CA Market. Prices will be competitive, quality will improve and the ultimate winner will be consumers,” he said. CA 204, where the shop has come up, happens to be the residence of the secretary of the CA Block association, Jibadip Bhadury. “This space used to be a tea shop and after they wound up I felt this would be a good idea. People have faith in products that have the government’s stamp on it,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
11-06-2021||Calcutta||Residents take vaccine without wait for PM rate||Blocks left, right and centre are tying up with private hospitals to conduct Covid vaccination camps at community halls. Thus far the jabs were priced between Rs 950 and 1,200 per head but the Prime Minister’s announcement of the Centre supplying free vaccines to states earlier this week tilted the balance somewhat. Come June 21, private centres will have to cap theirs prices at Rs 780 for Covishield, Rs 1,410 for Covaxin and Rs 1,145 for Sputnik V jabs. This will include the Rs 150 service charge hospitals can charge. At government hospitals, jabs will continue to be free. Techno India Dama hospital, that has been conducting numerous camps, including those in Salt Lake, say they have been getting call from organisers. “Many want to postpone their camps to after June 21 to avail of this discount,” said Sujoy Biswas, director and CEO of Techno India University and Techno India Group. “But vials cannot be stored till then and we are utilising them as and when we are getting bookings.” Biswas added that it would be a challenge to cover their cost of nurses, syringes, transport and other expenses within Rs 150. “We shall toe the government’s line as this is a matter of saving lives but it will be difficult.” Goutam Bandyopadhyay, general manager, AMRI Hospitals said they were yet to receive a formal notice from the government. The Salt Lake branch of AMRI is inoculating about 500 people a day at outdoor camps and they have bookings till June 15. “Thereafter we shall take a call on how to proceed. If costs cannot be covered we may have to discontinue camps,” he said. Price advantage EC Block has postponed its camp for now. “There are many homes in our block where four or five members would be needing jabs and Rs 1,000 for each of them is too much too ask for in the middle of an economic slump. We have postponed our camp till after June 21,” said Mouli Nath Maji, secretary of EC Block. AE (Part 2) got a call to cancel a  booking at their camp too. “It was a BK Block lady and it seemed like she wanted to wait to avail the price cut,” says secretary of AE Block Samaj Kalyan Sangha, Tapas Sengupta. “I explained to her that our block was offering the jab at Rs 900, perhaps the cheapest in the township. The PM’s announcement lacked clarity and will take time to get implemented. But she cancelled her enrolment nonetheless,” Sengupta says. Other blocks want to wait and watch. “We are thinking of holding a second camp soon but would people come if they have the option of getting the jab free of cost after June 21?” asks president of BJ Block Umashankar Ghosh Dastidar. Rajesh Chirimar, co-ordinator of ward 39, conducted a camp for some 800 people at CB Block last week. It was organised jointly by two associations he is part of — Siddhartha Shankar Ray Foundation and Nandlal Chirimar Memorial Trust. They provided about 300 free jabs to the needy of Duttabad. “If the new move really materialises, I shall hold a free camp for 500 people in Duttabad. They are the most vulnerable as they are moving about as auto drivers or visiting homes as domestic helps,” Chirimar said. The camp also inoculated teachers of Hariyana Vidya Mandir. “There were eight vaccination tables, of which one was allotted to us. Twelve of us were on the list for the post-lunch slot I was in,” said Papia Das, a teacher who stays in Highland Woods Maple. Sooner the better Most blocks said they would not wait for the price cut and would go ahead with their camps before that. “We had a walk-in registration on Monday and even after Modi’s announcement, got 100 more calls,” said Tapesh Majumder of AC Block. Their camp was on June 9 with nearly 300 people. “Salt Lake residents aren’t that price sensitive. They just want their jab as soon as possible.” Mainak Datta, president of the BH Block association, agrees. “In posh areas like Salt Lake and New Town people will not wait till June 21,” he said after holding their first camp on Sunday. “We want to hold a camp for those needing second jabs in end-June or early July but the price will have nothing to do with it.” Partha Chakraborty of AA Block said the price meant little to residents. “Some people who had paid in advance didn’t show up for our camp last weekend. When we called them up they said they had got a chance to get the jab sooner elsewhere and took it. We gave them a refund with no hard feelings as we realise how desperate times are. Rs 1,000 is a small price to pay for a jab in a world where money cannot buy oxygen anymore.” Similar was the case at CK-CL Block, that held their camp Monday. “Let alone residents, even the man who cuts grass in our park paid Rs 950 from his own pocket for a jab. I told him I would arrange him a free jab at the government hospital later but he wouldn’t wait,” said secretary Shanti Ranjan Paul. Paul said they got 40 more calls on Monday even after the PM’s announcement. “People will forgo a meal at a restaurant if it means paying for a jab they get instantly. And free vaccines could invite crowds large enough to usher in the third wave. No one wants to jostle through that crowd when they can get a jab in minutes in a spacious air-conditioned community hall,” Paul said. Greenwood Sonata in New Town will not allow in support staff from next month unless they are vaccinated. “Our vaccine camp is open to them as also local hawkers. Those who cannot afford it may approach us,” said Sudipto Mukherjee, the complex president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
11-06-2021||Calcutta||For the love of trees||Madhumita De is proof that if there is a will there is a way. Dismissing the lack of space as an excuse, the lady has brick by brick converted a stretch of her living room into her temple of plants. Erica Palms, Snake Plants, Cacti…she has an indoor collection that she has laid out beautifully and one that is as satisfying to nurture as a garden on a sprawling lawn. My plant collection started quite unexpectedly. My husband and I would love travelling to weekend destinations — Santiniketan, Digha etc — and I started bringing home plants from nurseries there. Our balcony is small so I started keeping them on a table and later bamboo shelves in the living room. People warned me about insects but let alone insects, these plants don’t even attract mosquitoes. But of course I am also particular about their cleanliness. I water them carefully so it never overflows and I place the pots inside bamboo and cane baskets to doubly ensure no water seeps down to the living room floor. In the pre-pandemic world, I would love to visit Bidhannagar Mela, Saras Mela and any other fair nearby to buy plants, and pots and baskets to keep the plants in. I’ve also placed clay dolls among the plants for a rustic feel and have put up a weaver bird nest (babui pakhir basha) replica I bought from Puri. Then again, some Bulbuls have built a real nest on the window next to these plants! The birds chew the Money Plant intertwined in the grill but I don’t mind. I love both plants and birds and Money Plants grow easily. The living room has now become my favourite part of the house. I also can’t deny how convenient it is to be able to look after the plants sitting on my couch under the fan. I find myself returning to this room to read, watch TV, do yoga — all in the company of my greens… The plants have even inspired me to write poetry. But a major reason I love them is because they remind me of my childhood in Alipurduar, where we had everything from Mangoes to Cashew growing in our lawns. If you have a garden you tend to yourself, send your address and contact number to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6, Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
11-06-2021||Calcutta||New Town’s bamboo garden offers  oxygen walkway to visitors||They had the option of growing any plant they wanted but chose bamboo as it produces 30 per cent more oxygen than others. New Town’s bamboo garden officially opened just before the current lockdown and would be open to visitors once the lockdown lifts. The project is part of the green verge adoption programme by New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) and the plot is in BE Block next to Biswa Bangla Gate on the Smart Street side. “NKDA had identified multiple plots for this project but we found this one suitable mainly because of its shape. The plot is an elongated one with a winding walkway that would allow visitors to stroll up and down,” said Nayan Mitra, founder-director of Sustainable Advancements, a company working for the environment, that will be looking after the plot for 11 months. Thereafter the agreement is renewable. The 1.39 acre land has a walkway with solar lights on either side and the bamboos have been planted alongside. The five-odd minute walk through the garden is being called a rejuvenating “oxygen walk” since the bamboos will be providing lots of it. “Bamboo trees have a calming effect and visitors will be able to inhale fresh air and release their tensions here,” Mitra said. “Bamboo is in fact known as a golden crop due to its myriad uses. It is even a great replacement for plastic boxes, crockery, cutlery etc.” They were helped in the project by Clan Earth, a group that makes plastic-free items and plants five trees for every sale. Once lockdown restrictions are lifted they will put up boards and placards and NKDA chairman Debashis Sen will be invited to plant the 100th bamboo sapling. “The inaugural ceremony had to be scaled down due to the surge in Covid cases in April. Mr Sen usually plants the first sapling at such occasions but we wanted him to plant the 100th one to show that we already had an established ecosystem of 99 plants before that. Since he could not make it back then, we are nurturing his plant elsewhere so he can plant it later on,” Mitra said. They want to plant 100 more trees soon and the plot in fact has capacity for even more. Covid challenges The plot in question used to be vacant before this and Sustainable Advancements had to clean it out and de-weed it before planting the trees. “Buying the saplings was the cheapest part of this project, with each saplings priced between Rs 50 and 100 a piece,” explained Mitra. “What really has us paying through the nose is maintenance. Local gardeners spend an hour a week in New Town and Salt Lake homes watering 10-odd pots and take home a cool Rs 1,000 a month for it. But this is an urban forest and the scale is massive. We can’t have gardeners charging by the hour,” she explained. They had appointed farm workers from Barasat for the project but they were initially scared of coming to town due to Covid and are having trouble commuting now due to transport restrictions. “We spoke to the residents’ association of BE Block, where the plot lies, and they have happily arranged for their caretaker to water our plants for an interim period. Plus it’s been raining off and on. Once monsoon comes, the plants will be settled in,” she says. If it wasn’t for the pandemic, Mitra would have roped in the many colleges in the area and worked out a programme for student volunteers to come water the plants and take care of them. • Bamboo is one of the world’s fastest-growing plants and some species can grow up to 36 inches in a day. This makes bamboo a great choice in afforestation programmes. • The largest timber bamboo can grow over 98ft high and be thick as 12 inches in diameter. • Not only are bamboo shoots a favourite meal of pandas but it is also an important ingredient for kitchens in many regions, including in northeast India. Many dishes are cooked inside the hollow of the bamboo too. • Bamboo releases about 30 per cent more oxygen than other trees. •The plant is also used for scaffolding, to build simple bridges, fences, weapons, musical instruments, furniture and handicraft. They are also used to make utensils, pens and textiles. •The flowering of the bamboo is a curious affair. The trees flower seldom and unpredictably — some species at intervals of up to 120 years. This has widespread effects in places like some of the northeast states of India, 30 per cent of which are covered by wild bamboo forests. Called mautam, the flowering there occurs roughly every 50 years and the resultant fruits and seeds feed rodents that multiply fast. The rats may cause plague and once they devour the seeds, they leave the forests to forage on grains stored by farmers, leading to famine. The most recent spate of flowering there was in May 2006, when the state government and Indian Army had to step in to prevent famine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
11-06-2021||Calcutta||A centenary party for EC block resident ||Most people receive cake, gifts and wishes on their birth “day”. But when you turn 100 the festivities continue over three days. Ask Mihir Kumar Chatterjee, centenarian of EC Block. “Dadu’s birthday was on May 5 but he had so many well-wishers wanting to come over that I had to create time slots for them over three days. No doubt this was due to Covid restrictions but we also didn’t want him getting exhausted,” said Mita Basak, who looks after him. By noon on the second day, all three shelves in their fridge sat a cake each and one even had to be stuffed into the freezer! Chatterjee lives alone with his domestic helps who work in shifts but no way is he lonely. On May 4, he was visited by the block’s ladies club, that, among other gifts hung up a floral board outside his home with their wishes. The next day came juniors from BE College Ex-Students Club, Bidhannagar, the institute he had graduated from in 1945. “Mihirda had asked for books by Shankar this time. We made a special request to Dey’s Publishing in College Street for some titles in the middle of lockdown,” said Saumitra Kumar Maiti, one of the alumni who dropped by at the book store. Another alumnus was Dipankar Sarkar, whose father was a couple of years junior to Chatterjee. “They had both worked in PWD and then settled in EC Block,” Sarkar said. He also got mangoes from his garden and wife Sucharita had sent his favourite home-cooked fish. When the alumni informed the birthday boy about a virtual Nazruljayanti they would be hosting the next day Chatterjee, from memory, recited a self-composed piece on the rebel poet for them to record and screen to others. He followed it up with some Tagore poetry and verses from The Bhagwad Gita and Sarada Ma. When members from EC Block Residents’ Association came the next day, he reminded them to save him a slot at the upcoming Independence Day event. “I want to deliver a speech there,” he smiled. Not just oratory, Chatterjee enjoys writing too and the latest magazine by the BE College association begins with his article. “Till three or four years ago, dadu would walk to my house once a week. In fact, he would visit seven different neighbours on all seven days. Besides chatting, he would ask what was cooking and then tell us to pack a portion for him without mentioning a word of it to his son in Delhi!” laughed EC Block secretary Mouli Nath Maji. His family could not come for the big day due to the pandemic but Chatterjee began his birthday with a two-hour long Zoom call with 50 members of his family from across the globe. “A neighbour Chandan Pradhan (Babai) came and set the meeting up on his laptop,” smiled Mita. Strong foundation Born in Bankura in 1921, Chatterjee is an alumni of Presidency College, Bengal Engineering College and worked with PWD till 1979 as housing commissioner. Salt Lake’s Karunamoyee was, in fact, built under his supervision. The centenarian’s memory is sharp, he suffers from nothing more than a degree of hearing loss and even walks about the house by himself. Due to the many visitors last weekend, however, he was being wheeled around. “Simple living, high thinking,” said Chatterjee, who makes an annual donation of a lakh a year. One beneficiary is Bidahnnagar Chhatrabas Trust, that runs a home for needy college students in CK Block. Members of the trust had come to wish him too. Last year Chatterjee had donated Rs 90,000 to the chief minister’s relief fund to fight Covid and he is articulate about the effects of the pandemic on the economy. “Many steps taking to tackle Covid have been extreme. They have caused unemployment and starvation,” says the man who does not wish to be vaccinated. “I’m a believer in God. If death is not destined, it will not happen. You are felicitating me for staying alive but it is really through deeds that we live on.” Rudradeb Mukherjea, vice president of EC Block, read out a plaque they gifted him: “May you be with us for as long as you wish,” he smiled, adding in jest: “But from today, you are the official thakurda of EC Block!” Do you have a message for Mihir Kumar Chatterjee? Write to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6 Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
11-06-2021||Calcutta||Summer Camp (Part II)||Since childhood, I have been interested in art and craft. I wanted to pursue a career in fine arts but it remained a dream. Though this pandemic has brought untold miseries to all of us, it gave me an opportunity to pause and reflect on things which are important and close to my heart. This lockdown gave me a window to rekindle my interests and hobbies. The first project I undertook was restoring wooden statues of Lord Jagannath, Balaram and Subhadra (see above). My parents bought these for me over 25 years ago when I visited Puri as a child with them. The second is a string art (see pictures below), made with nails and coloured strings/thread on a wooden plank. The first string art I did was 15 years back. Then this pandemic gave me an opportunity to return to it. String art is a simple yet fun way to make your own artwork. It requires a ply broad, nails, a small hammer, spray paint, coloured strings and of course a design (in my case an Owl). First draw your desired design on a piece of paper and place it over the ply broad. Then hammer the nails along the border of the design at equal intervals. Once all nails are hammered, remove the paper and paint the ply broad and let it dry. Then begin filling using the coloured strings by crisscrossing and wrapping from nail to nail. In spite of the sufferings all around, I find solace in my art and craft work. Santanu Kar, 40 years, Greenwood Sonata, New Town In the lockdown period, I am dividing my time between studies, chatting with my grandparents in the evening and speaking to my father on video call. I am doing my Class XII studies online and preparing for upcoming competitive examinations. My father gets me to write articles on the pandemic. Often he posts my articles on Facebook. One such article got more than 300 likes and 150 comments. I also do yoga and meditation, photos of which he likes to post as well. Before the lockdown, I used to swim, play with my friends, go for training in summer sports coaching camps. All that has gone for a toss. Stuck at home, we are missing the things which we used to do before the pandemic, like visiting public places, celebrating festivals, playing, visiting relatives etc. But we are making the sacrifices for our good. If we maintain Covid protocol strictly, we will surely win the battle against the pandemic. Rudroprasad Bandyopadhyay, 16 years, BJ Block In my summer holidays, I am enjoying doing many things. I read many books like Tiara Friends, the full collection of the Wishing Chair, Tom Gates, the Secret Seven and Famous Five stories to name a few. I even watched a few good movies like The Chronicles of Narnia and Dennis the Menace on Google Play Movies. Apart from just playing, I also joined a cookery workshop by Rakshita Dwivedi ma’am. We learnt to make choco fudge and home-made mayonnaise. Both of these items involved fireless cooking and I had a lot of fun making both of them. I have learnt cycling without the balance wheels. It was much easier than I thought. Earlier, I just didn’t want to cycle. But now, I love it so much that I want to cycle all day. I am enjoying coding and drawing a lot. I prefer drawing in the afternoon. I was doing a hackathon quiz conducted by PETA and Wise Owl Learning. Not only did we solve a quiz, but we also attended many wonderful workshops and made a project on building our jungle camp too! A few days ago, when my parents had gone for Covid vaccination, it was Sunday and so I sketched a girl like me. It was my first pencil sketch and my daddy was very happy. I have started painting with poster paint, acrylic paint and water pastel. I prefer water pastels because it’s the easiest. I love playing tea-parties with my doll Angela. I’ll be attending a five-day pencil shading workshop this month and I am really excited about it. I like my daddy’s company wherever I go. I love playing and spending time with him. I am lucky to have him with me. I am enjoying my holidays and hope they’ll never end. Vasundhara Biswas, 9 years, FD Block||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
11-06-2021||Calcutta||Shootout: Names emerge in connection with New Town flat||The following names have emerged in connection with the flat at Shukhobrishti, in New Town, where the shootout happened. Here’s what The Telegraph has learnt about the individuals after talking to police sources and others. There is no suggestion that everyone mentioned in this context has done something illegal. Bharat Kumar A resident of Sahnewal in Punjab’s Ludhiana, Bharat was arrested in Rajpura town in Patiala district. A .30 bore pistol and a Honda Accord were seized from him. Bharat was arrested for allegedly providing logistic support to Jaipal Bhullar and Jaspreet Singh in Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh, when the duo were on the run after killing two cops. Jaipal and Jaspreet were killed in a police raid at Shukhobrishti on Wednesday afternoon. After Bharat’s arrest, police came to know that his in-laws lived in Calcutta and that the fugitive gangsters might have taken shelter in a housing complex in the city. Bharat had taken on rent flat 201 of Block 153 at Shukhobrishti, where the slain duo stayed, as Sumit Kumar. Sumit Kumar Sumit Kumar aka Bharat Kumar had introduced himself to the owner of the apartment as a trader dealing in automobile parts in Calcutta. The phone number Sumit used to contact property dealer Sourav Kumar seeking accommodation on rent is registered in the name of Akash Paul, who apparently lives in West Midnapore. The SIM card was activated on May 17, two days after the gangsters had gunned down two cops in Punjab. Sourav Kumar He works in a real estate company. Sumit Kumar had contacted him on May 22 through an online property hunting site, seeking an “urgent” accommodation on rent. Sourav told Sumit that he did not deal in rental properties and passed on the phone number of another broker, Sushanta Saha. Sushanta Saha The resident of Shukhobrishti arranged a one-bedroom flat in a day for Sumit Kumar. Saha was used as bait on Wednesday to make the gangsters answer the doorbell during the police operation. Akbar Ali The owner of flat 201 of Block 153 at Shukhobrishti lives at 14/1 Sir Syed Ahmed Road in Entally. Saha had contacted Ali and finalised the deal in favour of Sumit Kumar. Ali had on May 23 signed a contract to rent out his 480sq ft flat for 11 months at a rent of Rs 10,000 a month. An advance of Rs 20,000 was paid. Ali told The Telegraph he had no clue who his tenant had allowed to stay in the flat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
11-06-2021||Calcutta||New Town shootout: Gaps in rent norm enforcement at Shukhobrishti housing complex ||The norms mandated by the police to rent out flats were followed by the owner of apartment 201 of Block 153 at Shukhobrishti housing complex in New Town where two gangsters were gunned down in a police raid on Wednesday afternoon. The chain of events that led to the entry of Jaipal Bhullar and Jaspreet Singh, the slain gangsters from Punjab, into the apartment reveals there is little one can do if a tenant allows others to stay in the property. Police said the apartment owner had followed all norms in renting out the property. He had signed a rent agreement with the tenant and collected identity documents of the person for police verification. Following Wednesday’s shootout it came to be known that the tenant was not among the persons who were staying in the flat. Techno City police station, in whose area falls Shukhobrishti, did not have any identity papers of Jaipal and Jaspreet, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. The police station had a copy of the Aadhaar card and passport of Sumit Kumar, who had taken the flat on rent through Sushanta Saha, a property broker. “Kumar was not staying in the flat,” the officer said. Residents of housing complexes across New Town said that it was a common practice for tenants to invite friends and other acquaintances to share apartments with them. “More often than not an owner signs a rent agreement with one person. The tenant then asks friends or colleagues to stay in the flat and splits the rent with them. In most cases the identity documents of these people are not handed to the police,” said Mainak Kanrar, the secretary of a residents’ association at Shukhobrishti. “The practice is rampant at our complex,” said Rahul Roy, another resident of Shukhobrishti. “Tenants scout for flatmates even on social media.” Shukhobrishti has around 12,000 dwelling units. Kanrar said no records were available with the association on the number of tenants living at the complex. The owners of a large number of flats at most housing complexes in New Town live in other parts of the city and let out their flats for some extra income. Among the tenants are thousands of young professionals working in New Town and Sector V as well as students. In most cases owners who live outside New Town often engage brokers to rent out their properties. Often the brokers have keys to the flats. “The owner and the tenant never meet. We just arrange a phone call with the owner once a person agrees to take a flat on rent,” said Sahidul Molla, a broker in New Town. Another broker said a rent deal in New Town could be fixed within hours. Most agents have rent agreements and stamp papers with them. In an “urgent case”, an agreement can be inked and documents submitted to the police station and the housing society’s maintenance office within a span of hours. “We have good terms with police stations. In most cases documents are signed and stamped as soon as they are submitted,” a broker said. An officer of the commissionerate said it was difficult for them to monitor who was actually staying in a flat or a standalone house that had been rented out. “A person who has taken a property on rent can ask a relative or a friend to stay with him…. There is little we can do if we don’t have the documents of all the persons staying in a flat,” said the officer. Ranjan Basu, the president of Rosedale Garden Apartment Owners’ Association, said they had a set of guidelines to try and ensure nobody apart from tenants could stay in the flats rented out. “Before a flat is let out we ask the owner to submit a list of names of the tenants and their identity documents…. We do not allow anyone else to move in,” Basu said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
11-06-2021||Calcutta||US embassy’s visa section to open interview slots for students on Monday ||The US embassy’s visa section will open interview slots on Monday for students in need of travel to the United States to start or resume their courses. The interviews will take place in July and August. The announcement was made by the embassy’s minister counselor for consular affairs Don Heflin, who is in charge of visa operations at the embassy and the four consulates in India, including Calcutta, in the course of a live interaction with visa applicants on social media on Thursday. Entry of foreign nationals who were physically present in countries like India, Brazil and the UK, within 14 days prior to their attempted entry into the US was suspended in accordance with a Presidential proclamation on April 30, 2021. “Consular sections had significantly reduced services for the sake of health and safety of staff and customers. This affected our ability to provide appointments to students in need of visas to travel to the US,” Heflin said. In addition to honouring approved emergency visa appointments, the visa section intends to start an intensive two months of student visa interviews from July 1. “We will interview as many students as we did in the summer of 2019, the last normal year. On Monday, we will open tens of thousands of student visa appointments around the country for July and August. In addition, we hope to open appointments at our visa application centres for those eligible for interview waiver or drop box processing,” he said. Heflin advised applicants to check ustraveldocs.com/in for appointment availability. Students traveling for programmes starting August 1 or later may travel up to 30 days prior to the start date listed on their I-20 form without seeking a National Interest Exception. Those who are continuing studies and have a programme starting earlier than August 1 have been advised to discuss options with their college. But tourist and travel visas are practically off the table, even for those wanting to travel with the students. Heflin said more slots would open up in July and August once they were confident that the staffing was adequate and there was not another wave of Covid. There is no requirement for vaccination to get a visa, just a negative RT-PCR report within 72 hours of flying and another test within three to five days of landing. There will be no need to quarantine if the second report comes negative. “There is a big debate around whether US colleges will accept Indian vaccines. Each college will take its own decision,” he said. The municipal commissioner of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation or an official authorised by him will check the documents of students and professionals who have offers from institutions abroad before allowing them to get their second dose of Covishield 28 days after the first, the health department said on Thursday. In the districts, the task has been assigned to the respective chief medical officers of health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
11-06-2021||Calcutta||New Town shootout: Bharat-Sumit twist to gangster trail ||The Bharat Kumar who was arrested in Punjab on Wednesday on the charge of helping gangsters Jaipal Bhullar and Jaspreet Singh flee is Sumit Kumar who rented the New Town flat where the duo stayed in hiding and was gunned down, sources said. Police have found a purported passport and an Aadhaar card in the name of Sumit Kumar in the possession of Bharat Kumar, who was arrested in Ludhiana. Also, a rent agreement signed between Sumit Kumar and the owner of flat 201 of Block 153 at Shukhobrishti housing complex was found in Bharat’s possession, the police said. “We are looking into the authenticity of the identity documents. One thing is clear - Bharat Kumar and Sumit Kumar are the same person,” said an officer of the Bengal special task force, which carried out the raid that led to the death of the gangsters. The police said they had learned that Bharat, alias Sumit, had brought Jaipal and Jaspreet to Calcutta in a car and arranged for them to stay at a hotel in New Town Action Area 1C for two nights and at a hotel on Main Arterial Road in Rajarhat for three nights before shifting them to the Shukhobrishti flat. Kumar was staying at a hotel near City Centre 2 all this while. During their stay in one of the hotels, Jaipal and Jaspreet had visited a hookah bar in the city, police sources said. All bars in the state are supposed to be closed because of Covid curbs. The police said they had collected CCTV footage from the hotels where the duo had put up. “Jaipal and Jaspreet changed hotels while Kumar was looking for a flat for them to avert suspicion. Kumar contacted a property dealer named Sourav Kumar through an online portal but Sourav said he was not dealing in rented accommodations and passed on contact details of Sushanta Saha, another broker. Saha lives at Shukhobrishti,” said an officer. Saha got Kumar connected to the owner of flat 201 of Block 153, Akbar Ali, and a rent agreement was signed between the two on May 23. The police later learned that the SIM card that Kumar had allegedly used to contact Ali or Saha was issued in the name of Akash Paul, a resident of Rampur in Pingla in West Midnapore. It was still not clear how Kumar obtained the SIM card. The bodies of Jaipal and Jaspreet underwent a magisterial inquest at the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital on Thursday. Sources said four bullet heads were found in the upper part of Jaipal’s body and the rest had apparently passed through the body. Jaspreet’s body had no bullets. “All the bullets that hit him exited the body,” an officer said. Samples for viscera and DNA tests have been collected. Jaipal’s father reached Calcutta on an evening flight and went to Techno City police station on Thursday night to submit documents to claim the bodies. The police said he would be taken to the RG Kar hospital morgue on Friday to identify the bodies. Late on Thursday, the owner of the New Town flat, Akbar Ali, and his brother Sabir Ali were summoned to Techno City police station with property related documents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
11-06-2021||Calcutta||How commando shoots down two gangsters in New Town flat||A man Jaipal Bhullar and Jaspreet Singh were familiar with was made to knock on the door by police when they went to catch the two “most wanted” criminals from Punjab, dead or alive, on Wednesday afternoon. Hiding behind the man, later identified as Sushanta Saha, stood inspector Kartick Ghosh and an assistant sub-inspector of the special task force of Bengal police. To Saha’s left stood the inspector general of the STF, Rajesh Yadav, and crouching below was a commando of the special strike force clad in a bullet-proof jacket, sources said. Of the two men inside the second-floor flat at Shukhobrishti housing complex in New Town, Jaspreet, alias Jassi, looked through the peeping hole and opened the door to Saha, who had arranged their accommodation. The moment the door opened, inspector Ghosh pushed Saha aside and barged into the one-bedroom flat to confront the gangsters. The cop was greeted with a hail of bullets, said an officer of the Bengal STF. Jaipal, who had a bounty of Rs 10 lakh on him, was inside the room. He immediately fished out a gun from under his pillow and fired at Ghosh, who lives in the same complex. But before Jaipal and Jassi could react further, the commando dragged Ghosh out of the room and opened fire that left the two gangsters riddled with bullets, dead. “What went in our favour was that it was a one-bedroom flat. Had there been multiple rooms, there would have been a possibility of someone attacking us from another room. In this case there were no surprise attacks. There were no missteps on our end, too,” said a senior IPS officer. Apart from the team that was at the doorsteps of flat 201 of Block B153, another 35-odd officers of the Bengal STF and the special striking force had positioned themselves around the tower and the adjoining towers to secure the location. Teams were also positioned at the staircase on the first and third floors of the building where the duo were staying, while one team was at the parking lot. “All of them were armed with automatic weapons. The idea was to secure all entry and exit points and minimise collateral damage. That it was a residential area with more than 10,000 flats posed a real challenge. We did not want any residents to be harmed in any way,” said an officer. Sources said cops had placed themselves all over the adjoining towers so they could have an overview of the flat where the gangsters were holed up and relay information to their colleagues on the ground if the accused tried to flee. Seconds after the operation had started around 3.30pm, residents heard multiple gunshots and male voices shouting. Cops who had positioned themselves outside Block 153 to ensure no one approached the building ran towards the entry-exit point and saw that an injured Ghosh had already come downstairs. Colleagues said he was bleeding from his left shoulder. A bullet fired by Jaipal had pierced his body below his left scapula. The raid, which lasted barely a few minutes, was planned within a short span of time on Wednesday after receiving specific inputs from Punjab police. The recce had started around three hours before the “striking time”. Several officers entered the premises in plainclothes to keep an eye on the movement of the occupants of flat 201 of Block B153. (This newspaper had mistakenly mentioned the Block as B in Thursday’s report). Earlier in the day, Punjab police had shared details of the possible location of the duo with the Bengal STF and sought their help. Thereafter, the Bengal STF planned an operation to nab them and went well-prepared keeping in mind the fact that the accused had been involved in arms and drugs smuggling.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
11-06-2021||Calcutta||Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya to conduct 40-minute online entry test on June 20||Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya, Narendrapur, has cancelled its on-campus entrance test for admission to Class XI on June 20 because of the pandemic. A notice signed by headmaster Brahmachari Turiyachaitanya said instead, a 40-minute online test (MCQ pattern) will be conducted on June 20. A list of candidates who clear the test and qualify for the online interview will be published on June 21. The interviews will be held in end-June. The school has 120 seats at the higher secondary level of which admission tests are conducted for 70. Students from the school’s secondary section are admitted to the other 50. “The state government has cancelled the Madhyamik (secondary) and higher secondary exams because of the pandemic. It won’t be advisable to ask aspirants to come to the campus for the test because of the health risk. So, students will be tested online,” said Brahmachari Turiyachaitanya. The school decided to hold the online test on the same date because a delay would make it difficult to complete the syllabus, an official of the school told The Telegraph. “Since the CBSE had cancelled their Class X board exams in mid-April, they could start classes. The state government announced the decision on Madhyamik this Monday. We usually hold the tests after Madhyamik. Any delay in holding an online test would pose a problem in completing the syllabus,” the official said. Brahmachari Turriyachaitanya said since travel restrictions are in place because of the pandemic, they did not want to inconvenience the students and their families by making them travel to the campus for the test. Presi VC The higher education department in consultation with the chancellor extended the tenure of Presidency University vice-chancellor Anuradha Lohia by two years on Thursday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
11-06-2021||Calcutta||Santragachhi jheel not fit for wildlife and fish, says report||The Santragachhi jheel, an abode of migratory birds, has become extremely polluted and is no longer fit to harbour any wildlife and fish, showed a recent West Bengal Pollution Control Board report. The report, based on water samples collected on March 31, showed that all critical environmental parameters in the water body have surged past nationally permissible limits. According to the report, the BOD (biochemical oxygen demand), a parameter of waste water and sewage pollution, was found to be 10.63mg per litre. The limit is 3mg. The fecal colliform level was 20,000 per 100ml — 40 times the maximum permissible limit, which shows that domestic sewage has been continually entering the water body. The dissolved oxygen level was found to be 3mg per litre. A minimum of 5mg is required to sustain aquatic animals. “The status of key parameters show that the water body has turned significantly polluted. Forget bathing, it is not even fit to harbour wildlife, including fish,” said Arunabha Majumdar, a water pollution expert and former director-head, All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health. “The report shows how toxic the water body has become. I will take up the issue with the National Green Tribunal,” said environment activist Subhas Datta. The study was conducted as per the NGT’s directive based on a public interest litigation on Santragachi jheel pollution filed by Datta. “The report shows major deviations from the national water quality criteria. Unless rectified at the earliest, the consequences can be disastrous,” said a water pollution expert. “The authority must submit an action plan for betterment of the lake water quality. This is undoubtedly a threatened ecosystem and required to be restored at all costs.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
11-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Calcutta Municipal Corporation to suspend chatbot booking, cites lack of vaccines||The WhatsApp chatbot used to book slots for Covid-19 vaccines at health clinics run by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation will be discontinued from Monday. Civic officials said uncertainty over vaccine availability was one of the reasons for discontinuing bookings through the chatbot, where people could get their appointments days in advance. The officials fear that if enough doses are not available, appointments will have to be cancelled and that will lead to arguments and chaos. “Since vaccine supply is very erratic, the health clinics cannot say in advance how many people they can vaccinate on a given day,” an official said. Before the chatbot facility was launched, people queued up from as early as 4am to get the shot. Someone who joined the queue late was not sure whether she or he would be vaccinated that day even after waiting for hours. The number of people to be vaccinated at any health clinic on a day depends on the number of doses the clinic receives that day, which is known only the night before. Bookings through WhatsApp chatbot had done away with this uncertainty. “The bookings through the WhatsApp chatbot will be discontinued from Monday. Uncertainty over vaccine supply is one reason for discontinuing the service, at least for the time being,” said a CMC official. “We will give the shot to those who have already booked for Friday and Saturday. But the chatbot will not take any bookings from Monday.” Another reason for discontinuing the chatbot was that a large number of people from outside the Calcutta municipal area were taking vaccines from the CMC’s health clinics. The civic body wants to devise a way that will allow only residents of the Calcutta municipal area to get shots from the health clinics. It had earlier said there would be no restrictions on people from outside the Calcutta municipal area to get inoculated at its clinics. But erratic supply and lack of enough doses have forced the authorities to rethink the policy. The CMC had to shut the drive-in vaccination site at Quest Mall for the same reason. Corporate vaccine Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals and Inox Swabhumi on Thursday started an initiative to vaccinate employees of corporate houses that lack space on their office premises to set up a workplace vaccination site. The employees will be vaccinated at Inox Swabhumi. “There are many regional offices of pan-India companies that work with a small staff strength in Calcutta. They may not have enough space in their office premises to set up a vaccination site. These companies can approach us to vaccinate their employees and families of employees,” said an official of Apollo Gleneagles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
11-06-2021||Calcutta||Panel launches app to file complaint on child rights’ violations||The state child rights commission has launched an app on Wednesday to enable an individual or organisation to register a complaint on violation of child rights. The app — Sishu Suraksha — will also track the status of a complaint. Though the commission would know the identity of the complainant, officials said it would be kept anonymous. Launched on Wednesday by the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights during an online programme to observe the state child protection day, the app also allows minors to register a complaint. “Individuals who reach us through the helpline or mail us often want to know the status of their complaint. So, this app will not only allow one to register a complaint online but also track its status like what action has been taken or was it pending,” said Ananya Chatterjee Chakraborti, the chairperson of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights. “Any one can download the app and register a complaint without stepping out of his/her home,” she said. Once a complaint is registered on the app, the WBCPCR will process the “complaint and take action in accordance with laws, rules and procedures”. The commission will share the details of the complaint with the directorate of child rights and trafficking. In a question-answer session organised by the commission, children from government-run child care institutions across the state spoke to women & child development and social welfare minister Sashi Panja about their needs, aspirations and problems.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
11-06-2021||Calcutta||Cylindrical column of wind on Hooghly river triggers panic among residents||A cylindrical column of wind that seemed to connect dark clouds in the sky and the Hooghly off the Sagar Island in South 24-Parganas triggered panic among residents. The system that looked like an elephant trunk was spotted by residents of Bamankhali and Mandirtala villages, around 120km from the heart of Calcutta, around 9am on Thursday. Eyewitnesses said the system stayed over river water for half-an-hour, moving around a stretch of a kilometre before collapsing at the confluence of the Hooghly and the Muriganga rivers. No casualty was reported. As videos of the system became viral on social media, netizens started comparisons with a similar rotating mass of winds that had swept the Naihati-Bijpur-Halisahar belt in North 24-Parganas and parts of Hooghly district on May 25 — a day before the landfall of Cyclone Yaas — killing at least two persons and damaging scores of homes. The Met office called Thursday’s system a waterspout, a whirling column of air and water mist. “It is similar to a mesocyclone or a mini-tornado that was reported on May 25. The previous one was on land. This one was on water,” said G.K. Das, the director of the India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. The area where it was first spotted is around 2km from where the Hooghly meets the Bay of Bengal. Sugata Hazra, a professor at Jadavpur University’s School of Oceanographic Studies, said the system looked like a fair weather waterspout. “Mini-tornadoes and waterspouts are not unheard of in Bengal. The rising sea surface temperature, one of the important ingredients of any sea storm, has increased the frequency of cyclones and other storms,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
11-06-2021||Business||Finance minister to chair GST Council meet on Saturday||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will on Saturday chair the meeting of the GST Council, which is expected to decide on tax relief for COVID-19 essentials and black fungus medicine. The 44th GST Council meeting will be attended by Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur, besides finance ministers of states and Union territories and senior officers from Union government and states, the Union finance ministry tweeted on Friday. The Council will discuss the report of the Group of Ministers, headed by Meghalaya Deputy Chief Minister Conrad Sangma, on GST concessions on COVID-19 relief items like medical grade oxygen, pulse oximeters, hand sanitisers and ventilators, among others. Besides, GoM also looked into vaccines, drugs and medicines for COVID-19 treatment and testing kits for its detection. Some state finance ministers in the GoM are understood to have pitched for a rate cut on COVID-19 essentials. UP Finance Minister Suresh Kumar Khanna, who is also a member of the GoM, had on Wednesday said the state is in favour of cutting taxes on COVID-19 essentials to facilitate patients, but will accept the decision of the GST Council on tax rates. The GST Council in its previous meeting on May 28 left taxes on COVID-19 vaccines and medical supplies unchanged after the BJP- and Opposition-ruled states sparred over whether the tax cut benefits will reach the common man. The GoM was set up to recommend rates for COVID-19 essentials. The Congress party- and other Opposition-ruled states have been demanding a reduction in taxes but the central government felt the move may not result in tangible gains for people. Currently, 5 per cent GST is levied on domestically manufactured vaccines, while it is 12 per cent for COVID-19 drugs and oxygen concentrators. In the meeting on May 28, GST was exempted on import of Amphotericin B, a medicine used for the treatment of black fungus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
11-06-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty jump to lifetime highs||Equity benchmark Sensex climbed 174 points to close at its all-time high on Friday, tracking gains in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, Infosys and TCS amid a largely positive trend in global equities.  After touching a record intra-day peak of 52,641.53, the 30-share BSE index ended 174.29 points or 0.33 per cent higher at 52,474.76.  Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 61.60 points or 0.39 per cent to its lifetime peak of 15,799.35.  Dr Reddy's was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 3 per cent, followed by PowerGrid, TCS, HCL Tech, Infosys and Reliance Industries.  On the other hand, L&T, IndusInd Bank, Bajaj Finserv and Bharti Airtel were among the laggards.  "Domestic equities extended gains with key benchmark indices Nifty and Sensex recording fresh all-time highs," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities.  A sharp rebound in IT, metals and RIL supported benchmark indices. Expectations of sharp recovery in economic activities and indications from government to roll out capital expenditure programme for FY22 faster lifted sentiments, he added.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Tokyo were in the red, while Hong Kong and Seoul ended on a positive note.  Equities in Europe were largely trading with gains in mid-session deals.  International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.22 per cent higher at USD 72.68 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
11-06-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 250 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 250 points and touched a record intra-day high of 52,578.07 in early trade on Friday, tracking gains in index-heavyweights Reliance Industries, Infosys and HDFC Bank amid a positive trend in global equities.  The 30-share BSE index was later trading 241.05 points or 0.46 per cent higher at 52,541.52 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 72 points or 0.46 per cent to 15,809.75.  PowerGrid was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Reliance Industries, ONGC, HCL Tech, Sun Pharma, Infosys and HDFC twins.  On the other hand, Bajaj Finserv, HUL, Bajaj Finance, Titan and Tech Mahindra were the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex finished 358.83 points or 0.69 per cent higher at 52,300.47, and Nifty climbed 102.40 points or 0.65 per cent to end at 15,737.75..  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,329.70 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data.  Improving business environment from the beginning of June, led by phased withdrawal of business curbs by the states has lifted sentiments among investors, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.  High frequency key economic indicators are likely to see remarkable improvement from current month onwards, which should sustain premium valuations of the market, he noted.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were in trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the red.  US equities finished with gains in the overnight session.  International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.55 per cent lower at USD 72.12 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
11-06-2021||Business||Tata Digital to acquire a majority stake in 1mg Technologies||Tata Digital, a wholly-owned arm of Tata Sons, on Thursday said it will acquire a majority stake in 1mg Technologies, an online healthcare marketplace. The company, however, did not disclose the financial details of the transaction. Just days after the company said it will invest $75 million (Rs 550 crore) in fitness-focused Curefit Healthcare for an undisclosed stake, Tata Digital said its investment in 1mg is in line with Tata Group’s vision of creating a digital ecosystem which addresses the consumer’s needs across categories in a unified manner. Tata Digital said e-pharmacy, e-diagnostics and tele-consultation are critical segments in this ecosystem and have been among the fastest growing ones in this space as this sector enabled access to healthcare during the pandemic. The overall market is worth around $1 billion and is expected to grow at 50 per cent compound annual growth rate, driven by increased health awareness among consumers and greater convenience. This category will form a key element of the Tata Digital ecosystem offering. “The investment in 1mg strengthens Tata’s ability to provide superior customer experience and high quality healthcare products & services in the e-pharmacy and e-diagnostics space through a technology-led platform,” said Tata Digital CEO Pratik Pal. 1mg co-founder and CEO Prashant Tandon said the investment by the Tatas “marks a significant milestone in 1mg’s journey to make high-quality healthcare products and services accessible to customers across India”. Last month, the Tatas had acquired a majority stake in BigBasket.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
11-06-2021||Business||Yes Bank to raise up to Rs 10,000 crore by issuing debt securities||Yes Bank on Thursday received board approval to raise up to Rs 10,000 crore by issuing debt securities. The board of directors at its meeting on Thursday considered and approved seeking shareholders’ approval to borrow funds in Indian/foreign currency up to Rs 10,000 crore by issuing debt securities, Yes Bank said in a filing. The Yes Bank shares closed 3.03 per cent up at Rs 14.64 apiece on the BSE. HDFC move Mortgage lender HDFC Ltd will raise Rs 2,000 crore through 10-year debentures at a coupon rate of 6.88 per cent. The secured redeemable non-convertible debentures will be open for bids on June 14 and will close on the same day. The issue has been rated AAA by Crisil and Icra. “The objective of the issue is to augment the long-term resources. The proceeds will be used to finance/refinance the housing finance business requirements of the corporation,” HDFC said. Stock of HDFC traded at Rs 2,561.75 apiece on BSE, up 0.67 per cent from the previous close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
11-06-2021||Business||Credai seeks bagful of benefits from the Centre and states||Credai, an apex body of real estate developers in India, has sought a bagful of benefits from the Centre and the states after publishing a nationwide survey that claims the second wave of the pandemic has hit the business hard, leading to project delays and affecting homebuyers. According to the survey, which had sought feedback from 4,813 developers from 217 cities, 90 per cent of the respondents said the second wave was more devastating for the business than the first and 95 per cent of the developers feared project delays without any sops. The demands of the developers, some of which are already with the states and the Centre, include a fresh look at GST imposed on under-construction projects, one-time restructuring of loans and moratorium on the principal and interest for six months for the builders. They also hope that the states will provide some reduction in stamp duties to boost demand. “We wanted to show the depth of the pain being felt by the industry across the board. This is a very comprehensive survey done by Credai and shows the debilitating effect of the second wave,” said Harsh V. Patodia, president of Credai. The developers want the input tax credit to be restored for the industry or at least for those opting for it even at a higher rate. Developers should be given the option to choose between a 12 per cent GST with ITC (assessment scheme) or 5 per cent without GST (composition scheme). Patodia pointed out how spiralling prices of steel and cement were putting pressure on construction cost. “The government should put in place a mechanism to control the cost,” he said. While 75 per cent of the developers in the survey claimed a drop in customer enquiries, established players are still managing to sell more units than unbranded or Grade B developers. Biplab Kumar, vice-president of NK Realtor, said the brokerage did the same amount of bookings in April-May 2021 as in the same period of last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
11-06-2021||Business||Franklin tells unitholders Sebi’s two-year ban will have no bearing on existing plans||Franklin Templeton AMC has told its unitholders that Sebi’s two-year ban on new debt schemes  will have no bearing on its existing plans. Early this week, market regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) restricted the fund house from launching any debt scheme for two years even as it imposed a penalty of Rs 5 crore for violating regulatory norms in the case of winding up of six debt schemes in 2020. In a June 8 e-mail to investors, Franklin Templeton AMC president Sanjay Sapre said Sebi’s order did not impact the current monetisation process of the six debt schemes being wound up by the liquidator. “The order is also not related to and has no impact on the other debt, equity, hybrid and offshore schemes managed by Franklin Templeton. We continue to manage over Rs 61,000 crore of AUM (as of March 2021) for over 2 million investors in India,” he said. In the letter Sapre added that the decision by the trustee in April 2020 to wind up the schemes was due to the severe market dislocation and illiquidity caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and was taken with the sole objective of preserving value for unitholders. The six schemes being wound up have distributed Rs 14,572 crore to unitholders as of April 30, 2021 and an amount of Rs 3,205 crore was available for distribution on June 4, he disclosed. After the distribution in the first week of June, the total disbursement would reach Rs 17,778 crore, which is 71 per cent of the AUM as on April 23, 2020. Sapre pointed out that Franklin Templeton's immediate priority and focus remains on supporting the court-appointed liquidator in liquidating the portfolio of the schemes under winding up and distributing monies to the unitholders at the earliest, while preserving value. The fund house is set to appeal against the SEBI order at the Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT). Sebi, in its order, said it had found that Franklin Templeton has committed serious lapses/violations with regard to a scheme categorization by replicating high–risk strategy across several schemes. Further, it committed violations in respect of non–exercise of exit options in the face of emerging liquidity crisis, securities valuation practices, risk management practices and investment related due diligence, the regulator added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
11-06-2021||Business||Mehul Choksi's abduction meant to deny him UK legal cover, says lawyer||Fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi’s abduction in Antigua was meant to deny him the right to appeal before London’s British  Privy Council, his lawyer alleged on Thursday. The British Privy Council is the highest court of appeal in Antigua and Barbuda, where the Queen is the titular head, unlike in Dominica, which led to Choksi’s removal from Antigua to Dominica. In a media interaction through video conferencing, Michael Polak, a human rights lawyer who is part of Choksi’s legal team, said Choksi has the right to approach the Privy Council as a last resort in cases on his citizenship and extradition. The charge came on a day the Dominican government reportedly declared the diamantaire a “prohibited immigrant”, which could help India in its extradition efforts. Choksi’s legal team had earlier filed a separate complaint in the UK Metropolitan Police, asking that his abduction be investigated. According to Polak, under Section 134 of the UK Criminal Justice Act, the British police can investigate cases of torture anywhere in the world and its courts can also hear such matters. They have reportedly named four individuals who were part of the alleged induction of Choksi. Choksi has alleged that he was picked up from Jolly Harbour in Antigua on May 23 evening and taken on a yacht, which took him to the waters of Dominica the next day, where he was handed over to the Coast Guard of Dominica on boat. In November 2018, a constitutional referendum was held in Antigua and Barbuda on whether the Caribbean Court of Justice should be made the final court of appeal, replacing the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council (JCPC) in London. However, this was defeated as more people voted to stay with the London-based court. Queen Elizabeth II is the head of state for Antigua and Barbuda. However, in 2015, Dominica had dropped the Privy Council as the final court of appeal. Reiterating his charge that Choksi was kidnapped and assaulted during the journey, Polak said that Choksi is an Antiguan citizen and should be sent backthere where his rights are protected. Choksi’s lawyers had filed a habeas corpus petition at the high court of Dominica after they were allegedly not given access to him. They are separately considering a bail application which will be heard on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
11-06-2021||Business||Tata Consultancy Services sees surge in tech spend||The IT services industry has only just begun to see a multi-year tech upgradation cycle, and Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) is well positioned to capture the potential. This was the key message from the top brass of TCS at its 26th annual general meeting (AGM) that was held virtually. The onset of the pandemic in March last year had initially hit the industry. However, it staged a remarkable recovery as enterprises undertook several technology-led initiatives to connect with their customers amid the nationwide lockdown. Addressing shareholders at the meeting, TCS chairman N. Chandrasekaran said after a poor start to 2020-21, TCS quickly recovered to post a sharp growth over the next nine months following the initial lockdown related disruptions. The company ended the year on a robust note with better market share, industry-leading profitability and record order book. During the fiscal, its consolidated revenue grew around 5 per cent in rupee terms to Rs 1,64,177 crore even as operating margins were at an industry leading 25.9 per cent. The TCS chief added that the company has weathered the pandemic very well and has emerged stronger because of the agility, resilience and adaptability of its delivery model. He pointed out that during the year, enterprises adopted various technology initiatives as they wanted to shift to digital channels and contactless interactions with their customers. “The company is very well positioned to benefit from this multi-year technology upgradation cycle, and help customers translate their transformative visions into reality,’’ Chandrasekaran said. TCS managing director and CEO Rajesh Gopinathan also said that the company delivered industry leading operating margins during the year and that it is just witnessing the start of a multi-year tech upgradation cycle. For the year, the board of directors of TCS recommended a final dividend of Rs 15 per share, taking the total pay-out to Rs 38 per share. The TCS chairman added that it has also completed a Rs 16,000-crore share buyback at Rs 3,000 per equity share. Both combined, there has been an aggregate outflow of Rs 33,873 crore through dividends and buyback, or a pay-out of 95 per cent of the free cash flow. According to Chandrasekaran, investors have got a return of over 3000 per cent on TCS shares since its initial public offering in 2004. “Looking back, if an investor had invested in one TCS share at the issue price of Rs 850 in the maiden offer in 2004, the value of that investment today in a period of 17 years, would be around Rs 28,000, a return of over 3,000 per cent on your investment,’’ Chandrasekaran said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
11-06-2021||Business||Govt to auction unmonetised large ONGC and OIL oil and gas fields||The government will auction unmonetised large oil and gas fields of state-owned ONGC and OIL to boost the country’s hydrocarbon production, petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan said as the government launched the third round of auctions for discovered small fields (DSF-III). “There will be no DSF next time. Next time, it will be a ‘major’ round (auction of large fields),” Pradhan said. Pradhan said companies cannot indefinitely sit on resources they may have discovered. These resources actually belong to the nation and they will be monetised by bidding them out to interested entities. For a nation that imports 85 per cent of its oil needs, resources lying idle for a long time cannot be permitted, he said. In the current DSF round-III, 32 oil and gas blocks with 75 discoveries have been offered. These small and marginal fields were discovered by ONGC and Oil India Ltd (OIL) but they were not economically viable to be developed because of their size. These exploratory fields spread over nine sedimentary basins cover an acreage of 13,685 square kilometres and have a potential of approximately 232 million tonnes. This is the largest number of discoveries on offer in any of the DSF rounds so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
11-06-2021||Business||GST Council meet to consider tax reliefs for Covid materials, vaccines and black fungus medicine||The GST Council will meet on Saturday to consider tax reliefs for Covid materials, vaccines and black fungus medicine based on the recommendations of a ministerial panel. The other big issue is the demand by states that the Centre extend the compensation cess period by another five years, which was recently articulated by Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra. Opposition-ruled states are also expected to quibble over the estimates of GST shortfall this year and mount pressure on the Centre to borrow the amount and pass it on to them. Last year, the Centre borrowed Rs 1.11 lakh crore but is less keen to borrow a huge sum this year as it assumes the responsibility of providing free vaccines country-wide. The recommendations of the group of ministers on Covid reliefs are yet to be made public, but it is learnt that the panel has proposed the GST on vaccines should stay at 5 per cent. It also wants a uniform rate — also 5 per cent — on all Covid items such as oxygen concentrators and pulse oximeters. M.S. Mani, senior director, Deloitte India, said: “While rate reductions on all essential medicines, including those used in the treatment of Covid, are a good welfare measure, it is necessary to ensure that the reductions are passed on in the form of lower prices to the patients.” Rajat Bose, partner, Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co, said, “It is good to see that the Council is showing an urgency to decide on critical issues. Hopefully, they will balance out the concerns of revenue collections and impact on the common man and take an informed decision on the rate cuts.” Uttar Pradesh finance minister Suresh Kumar Khanna, who is also a member of the GoM, has said the state is in favour of cutting taxes on Covid essentials to help patients. Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra had earlier written to finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman proposing zero-rated tax on Covid-related items at least for a fixed period of time or taxing them minimally at 0.1 per cent to avoid any hurdles during the implementation stage. Sitharaman, however, had said a zero rate would mean domestic producers of these items would be unable to offset the taxes paid on their inputs and input services. They would pass these on to the end consumers by increasing their price. In a series of tweets she had said: “A 5 per cent GST rate ensures that the manufacturer is able to utilise ITC (input tax credit) and in case of overflow of ITC, claim refund. Hence exemption to vaccine from GST would be counterproductive without benefiting the consumer.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
11-06-2021||India||ICMR to conduct fourth round of sero survey in June, says Centre||The ICMR's fourth round of national-level sero survey to assess the intensity of the spread of Covid-19 in India will begin this month, but all states/UTs should also be encouraged to conduct them so that information from all geographies can be collected, the Centre said on Friday. At a press conference, NITI Aayog member (Health) V K Paul said the Covid situation in the country appears to be stabilising with decline in daily and active cases and the positivity rate coming down to almost 5 per cent. He, however, urged people to continue following the Covid appropriate behaviour and social distancing norms. "The ICMR will begin work for the next sero survey this month which will help assess the intensity of spread of Covid-19. But if we want to protect our geographies, we cannot depend on one national sero survey alone and will have to encourage states/UTs to do sero surveys at their levels also," Paul said. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the sero survey will be held across 70 districts in 21 states and will include children aged 6 years and above. Speaking about the improving Covid scenario in the country, Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, health ministry said almost 78 per cent decline in daily new Covid-19 cases has been noted in India since the highest reported peak in daily cases on May 7. He also said that there has been a 74 per cent decrease in weekly Covid-19 positivity rate since the highest such rate was reported between April 30-May 6 at 21.6 per cent. The official noted that there has been a 70 per cent decrease in active cases, by more than 26.2 lakh, since the peak was reported on May 10. The Centre underlined that breaking the chain of transmission ensures lesser strain on the health infrastructure and better quality of care. “There should be no laxity. Gatherings have to be avoided and partying time has not yet come,” Paul said. On the US's Food and Drug Administration (FDA) denying Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) to Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, the health ministry said, “We respect each country's regulatory system, but it will have no impact on India's vaccine programme. In a setback that could potentially delay the launch of Covaxin in the US, the FDA there has "recommended" Ocugen Inc, the US partner of the Indian vaccine maker, to go for Biologics Licence Application (BLA) route with additional data.” Commenting on the development, Paul said each country has its own regulatory system which India respects and hoped that the manufacturer will be able to comply with it by doing whatever requires to be done. "Each country has its own regulatory system. Some parameters might be common while some might be different which we respect. Our country's regulatory system also takes decisions in a similar manner. The scientific framework is the same but nuancing is in context... These are scientific considerations, especially in those countries where science is strong and for us manufacturing is strong. "We expect that our manufacturer will be able to comply with it by doing whatever it requires to be done. It will have no impact whatsoever on our programme clearly. We are satisfied our regulator has approved it. We have so much data on safety and so much data on phase-3 trials that have been screened by them," he added. He further said that the phase 3 trial publication of Covaxin will also come in the next 7-8 days. "We are doing very well. We respect their decision, but it will have no bearing on our track at this moment," he added. Paul said in the next six months, Biological E's vaccine can come and Zydus Cadilla's DNA vaccine is likely to come too, and Genova RNA vaccine and J&J production can take place here. "The vaccine development uses cutting edge technology which has helped in increasing Indian scientific community's grasp over the subject and two specific example is mRNA technology and this is a very significant development and BioE has adapted technology with a Canadian firm, and these mRNA vaccines will be made and they can also tackle the variants. This technology is not of a company, but of the country, and as and when need arises it will be cloned," he said. "Then there is DNA technology which is being brought forward by Zydus. The whole trial has been done and it is path breaking and if it succeeds then a new platform will emerge. So this effort made in the country is extraordinary, exceptional and unprecedented," he added. On vaccine passports', Agarwal said technical discussions are going on in WHO over it. "Vaccine passport is having a common understanding under which vaccines you have been administered gets approved, now the issue is the World Health Organisation (WHO) which is supposed to take this initiative...technical discussions are going on there and its evidence is being studied," he said. Regarding travelling abroad, he said, the focus around the world is to undertake testing before one goes out and that model will continue. On increase in gap between the first and second dose of Covishield, the official said Covishield's length of period based on existing evidence was increased, but for those who have to go abroad it was changed so if one month has elapsed then they can go.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-68
11-06-2021||India||Modi meets Amit Shah, Nadda amid buzz of Cabinet expansion||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been holding in-person meetings with Union ministers in different groups apparently to take stock of the work done by them in the past two years and amid a buzz of a possible Cabinet expansion, sources said on Friday. Three such meetings have been held so far at 7, Lok Kalyan Marg, the official residence of the prime minister, which was also attended by BJP president J P Nadda and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Almost all meetings lasted for more than five hours, the sources said. These meetings were called after the second wave of Covid-19. A presentation was also given by several ministers, the sources said. So far, ministers -- both cabinet and their deputies -- holding the charge of agriculture, rural development, animal husbandry and fishing, tribal affairs, urban development, culture, statistics and programme implementation, civil aviation, railways, food and consumer affairs, jal shakti, petroleum, steel and environment were among those who were called for the meetings, they said. These meetings are expected to continue for several days, the sources added. The Cabinet meeting, which is chaired by the prime minister, is usually held once a week and that of the council of ministers once a month. The cabinet meeting is being held virtually every Wednesday. These meetings with the Union ministers were preceded by similar meetings that Modi held with the presidents of various wings of the BJP and with the party general secretaries. Both meetings lasted for more than four hours. Nadda and BJP general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh were also present at the prime minister's meetings with the party office-bearers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-68
11-06-2021||India||Vaccine wastage should be below 1 per cent to inoculate more people: Govt||Covid-19 vaccine is an essential public health commodity with global scarcity and therefore, its wastage must be reduced and kept to a minimum level which will further help inoculate many people, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. Referring to some media reports stating that the ministry's insistence on keeping vaccine wastage below 1 per cent is unrealistic and undesirable, it said several states have organised vaccination in such a way, that not only there is no wastage but they are able to extract more doses from the vial and thus show a negative wastage. "Hence, the expectation that vaccine wastage should be 1 per cent or less is not at all unreasonable. It is reasonable, desirable and achievable," the ministry said. It also said that vaccination against Covid-19 is important in protecting people from coronavirus infection and associated mortality and morbidity. Equitable access to safe and effective vaccines is critical in ending the Covid-19 pandemic. "Vaccine development takes a lot of time and demand for these vaccines exceeds the supply many times. Thus, it is important to monitor and ensure that this precious tool to address the pandemic should be used optimally and judiciously. Covid-19 vaccine is an essential public health commodity with global scarcity. Therefore, vaccine wastage must be reduced and kept to a minimum level which will further help vaccinate many people," the ministry said in its statement. It said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also time and again emphasised on ensuring minimum vaccine wastage, to ensure that the vaccine reaches the maximum number of people. "Any reduction in wastage means inoculating more people and leads to strengthening the fight against Covid-19. Each dose saved means vaccinating one more person," the statement said. India is using the Covid-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-WIN) with the inbuilt eVIN (Electronic Vaccine intelligence network) system, a digital platform, which not only registers the beneficiaries but also tracks the vaccines and facilitates real-time monitoring of storage temperatures across 29,000 cold chain points at the national, state, and district level. The current Covid-19 vaccines being used do not have an 'open vial policy' i.e., it has to be used within a stipulated time once the vial has been opened. The vaccinator is advised to mark the date and time of opening each vial and all open vaccine vials need to be used/discarded within 4 hours of opening, the statement said. Further, all states and union territories have also been advised that each vaccination session is expected to cater to a at least of 100 beneficiaries, however, in the case of remote and sparsely populated areas, the state could organise a session for a lesser number of beneficiaries while ensuring that there is no vaccine wastage, the statement said. A session may be planned only when adequate beneficiaries are available. The government of India has been supporting the efforts of states and UTs for an effective vaccination drive under the 'Whole of Government' approach since January 16 this year, it said. There have been certain media reports alleging 'vaccine hesitancy' in rural areas among health workers, the ministry stated. "It is informed that vaccine hesitancy is a globally accepted phenomenon and should be addressed by scientifically studying and addressing the issue at the community level," it said in a statement. Keeping this in mind, a 'Covid-19 Vaccine Communication Strategy' covering details on vaccine hesitancy was shared with all states and UTs at the beginning of the Covid-19 vaccination drive. This strategy was also shared with mission directors of the National Health Missions of all states on January 25 as part of the orientation of state immunisation and IEC officers on Covid-19 Vaccination Communication Strategy. All states and UTs are following the same and adopting the strategy as per the local requirement, the statement said. Several IEC materials and prototypes for all media print, social and electronic have been prepared and shared with the states for suitable adaptation at their level. The Union Ministry of Health is working closely with all states and UTs in addressing the issue of vaccine hesitancy on a regular basis. Further, it has communicated to all states and UTs to create awareness in tribal communities through IEC materials on Covid-19 vaccines and Covid appropriate behaviour, the statement added. The ministry is also working in close coordination with the Ministry of Tribal Affairs in this regard, it stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-68
11-06-2021||India||SC to order closure of proceedings against Italian marines accused of murder||The Supreme Court Friday said it would pass orders on June 15 on the closure of proceedings in India against two Italian marines, accused of killing two fishermen off the Kerala coast in February 2012, and the disbursal of Rs 10 crore compensation to the heirs of the victims. Referring to the international arbitral award and the terms of the agreement among India, Italy and the Kerala government, a vacation bench comprising justices Indira Banerjee and M R Shah said the case against marines Massimilano Latorre and Salvatore Girone for the offences would be now pursued by Italy there. As per the scheme on disbursal of compensation, the top court was informed by the Kerala government that Rs 4 crore each would be given to the heirs of two deceased fishermen and the rest Rs 2 crore would be paid to the owner of the fishing vessel St. Antony on which the two were shot dead. Keeping the plea of the Centre seeking closure of the case here pending for orders on Tuesday, the bench said it was of the view that the compensation money be transferred to the Kerala high court for disbursal and ensuring that the amount does not fritter away. In February 2012, India had accused the two marines on board the MV Enrica Lexie -- an Italian flagged oil tanker -- of killing two Indian fishermen who were on a fishing vessel in India's Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ). At the outset, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, told the bench that Republic of Italy has deposited Rs 10 crore with it over and above the ex-gratia paid earlier and the same has been deposited by the Union Ministry of External Affairs with the apex court's registry as directed. There was an award by the International Tribunal, which we as a Nation have accepted. The agreement is among the Republic of Italy, India and the Kerala government, the law officer said, adding, Now, the question of apportionment of the compensation amount remains and it can be left to the Kerala Government. The dispute before the international tribunal was as to which country, Italy or India, has the jurisdiction to prosecute the marines and it was decided that both the nations have the concurrent jurisdiction , Mehta said. But based on facts it was decided that India would not pursue the criminal case and proceedings would be started in Italy, he added. Senior Advocate Sohail Dutta, appearing for Italy, urged the bench to pass an order to quash the criminal proceedings pending against the marines as per the award of the International Tribunal. Earlier, the Centre had told the court that Italy had initiated the transfer of Rs 10 crore and as soon as the money is received, the government will deposit it with the apex court as per the April 9 direction. The Centre had earlier told the top court that Italy has assured the Indian government that it would prosecute the marines there as per law and that maximum compensation will be ensured to the victims' family members. The Centre had referred to the last year's ruling of the Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA) at The Hague which held that India was entitled to get compensation in the case but can't prosecute the marines due to official immunity enjoyed by them. It had said the arbitration under United Nation Convention on the Law of Sea (UNCLOS), which was instituted on a request from Italy, has delivered its Award on May 21, 2020. Latorre, who had suffered a brain stroke on August 31, 2014, was first granted bail and allowed by the apex court on September 12, 2014 to go to Italy for four months and after that, extensions have been granted to him. In Italy, Latorre underwent a heart surgery after which the top court granted him extension of his stay in his native country. On September 28, 2016, the apex court had allowed Latorre to remain in his country till the international arbitral tribunal decided the jurisdictional issue. On May 26, 2016, Girone was also granted bail with certain conditions and allowed by the top court to go to his country till the jurisdictional issue was decided. The complaint against the marines was lodged by Freddy, the owner of fishing boat 'St Antony' in which two Kerala fishermen were killed when marines opened fire on them allegedly under the misconception that they were pirates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-68
11-06-2021||India||Prashant Kishor meets Sharad Pawar, sparks off political speculations||Political strategist Prashant Kishor on Friday called on NCP president Sharad Pawar at the latter's residence here and held talks with him for around three hours, setting tongues wagging in political circles. NCP sources said apart from discussing the prevailing political situation, Pawar hosted lunch for Kishor. The meeting got over by around 2 pm, but neither Kishor nor Pawar spoke to the mediapersons gathered outside 'Silver Oak' (NCP chief's residence). This is Kishor's first meeting with Pawar after the victory of the DMK and the TMC in the Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu and Bengal respectively. He had helped craft the election strategy for these parties in the Assembly elections. After the Assembly poll results, the election strategist had said that he was "quitting this space". Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar downplayed the meeting, saying that Kishor has already said he will not be a political strategist any more. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said many leaders are in touch with Kishor, while NCP's Chhagan Bhujbal said he was not aware of the agenda of the meeting. Stating that Kishor was a successful political strategist, Bhujbal said he was sure that Pawar would take into account Kishor's suggestions. Kishor had met Uddhav Thackeray in 2019 before the latter became chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-68
11-06-2021||India||Delhi court extends judicial custody of Sushil Kumar till June 25||A Delhi court on Friday extended the judicial custody of Olympic medallist wrestler Sushil Kumar till June 25 in connection with the alleged brawl at Chhatrasal Stadium in which a young wrestler died. Sushil Kumar was produced before Metropolitan Magistrate Reetika Jain at the end of the nine-days judicial custody. The international wrestler is facing charges of murder, cupable homicide and kidnapping. He, along with his associates, allegedly assaulted Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends at the stadium on the intervening night of May 4 and 5 over an alleged property dispute. Dhankar, 23, succumbed to the injuries later. Police has alleged Sushil Kumar the main culprit and mastermind of the murder and said that there is electronic evidence wherein he and his associates could be seen beating Dhankar. Sushil Kumar was nabbed on May 23, along with co-accused Ajay Kumar Sehrawat. He has already undergone custodial interrogation of 10 days. A total of 10 people, including Sushil Kumar, have been arrested so far in connection with the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-69
11-06-2021||India||Nobel winner Abhijit Banerjee calls for bigger government cash payments to Covid-hit poor ||Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee has stepped up to the firing line by arguing the government should make bigger direct cash payments under the MGNREGA scheme to help people who have slid into poverty due to the pandemic. The government has already indicated it’s not keen on larger direct cash transfers, saying people would only park the money in bank accounts and not spend it. “I contest the view of those who say at this time that we require at this time a direct cash transfer. All that income transfer would result only in higher bank deposits and not in higher consumption spending, and that is what we don’t need,” Niti Aayog Vice-Chairman Rajiv Kumar stated earlier this week. Banerjee, a pioneer in research in reducing poverty, pitched strongly for hiking workdays under MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme) to 150 days from 100 days. The MIT professor says: “The people who have gone below the poverty line were actually the people who were just above the poverty line before (the pandemic).” He added firmly in an interview to NDTV late Thursday: “It won’t take much for them to go back to normal.” He added: “If the sectors – hotels, manufacturing, construction – where unskilled labourers are employed are revived quickly, then the situation may improve.” Kumar, who represents the government’s line of thinking, contradicts this. “Where is the guarantee that ‘helicopter money,’ if dropped, would result in higher consumption and will lead to a virtuous cycle of higher consumption, higher investment, higher growth? I don’t belong to that school of thought,” he told Moneycontrol. Instead, Kumar argues the government needs to focus its efforts and cash on the vaccination programme and until that’s done it will be futile to hand out cash directly to individuals. As long as “consumers have a fear of moving out and interacting, whatever you do, will not result in higher consumption, higher aggregate demand and higher economic activity,” he says. The Indian government has faced mounting criticism for focusing on loans to hard-hit businesses rather than direct cash handouts to vulnerable households. There are worries that the devastating second wave which engulfed poor rural areas could lead to fresh disaster for the population. Banerjee, though, notes that the US government, the UK, and EU governments have been borrowing massively to alleviate the effects of the pandemic through unemployment benefits and other payments, unlike poorer countries. Some 100 million more people are now living in extreme poverty than before the pandemic, he estimates. Developing countries “contemplating lockdown are caught in a double bind between economic disaster (in India, for example, the first lockdown cost the country almost a quarter of its GDP) and overflowing morgues and mortuaries,” Banerjee and his wife Esther Duflo, who jointly won the Nobel Prize in 2019 for their work in development economics, wrote in a separate article for The Guardian. Speaking to NDTV Banerjee added: “The European Central Bank is known to be very conservative, yet they went with doing whatever it takes. They actually printed money to distribute it.” Banerjee is the latest to call for the government to step up its assistance to the poor. Last month, billionaire banker Uday Kotak said the time had come for the government to expand its balance sheet and print money to help “those at the bottom of the resources pyramid” and to protect jobs. There are differing estimates about the impact of the lockdowns and the economic disruptions resulting from the pandemic. A study by Bangalore-based Azim Premji University reckons that the lockdown from last March “put around 100 million people out of work, with around 15 per cent unable to find jobs even by the end of the year.” Similarly, a study in March by Washington-based Pew Research calculates that 32 million people fell out of India’s middle class last year because of the pandemic-induced economic downturn. Pew also estimated the number of poor people in India earning $2 or less daily, has gone up by 75 million because of the Covid-19 recession. Pew pointed out that the number of people who have signed up for MNREGA had risen to a 14-year high. There are worries that the devastating second wave which engulfed rural areas could lead to fresh disaster for the poor. Rajiv Kumar paints a rosy picture of economic growth when the country emerges from the pandemic. He says: “The strength of the economic recovery will surprise all of us. Therefore, I will still hold on to a double-digit growth estimate for FY22.” He adds confidently: “By the time the third quarter comes, people who have reduced their estimates today will be revising them upwards again.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-69
11-06-2021||India||Yogi Adityanath visits Modi, submits report on migrant crisis||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi on Friday. Adityanath met Modi at his residence, a day after meeting Union Home Minister Amit Shah. The chief minister, who is on a two-day visit to the national capital from Thursday to meet the BJP top brass, is also scheduled to meet party president JP Nadda in the afternoon. His visit comes close on the heels of the party holding a series of review meetings in Lucknow, which had fuelled speculation of a ministerial reshuffle in the state. There have been reports of simmering discontent in the state unit over his style of leadership in the run-up to Assembly elections. During his meeting with Shah, Adityanath presented a copy of the report 'Solution of Migrant Crisis'. Party insiders confirmed that the unscheduled meetings were tied to the Uttar Pradesh polls, due next March, which have become crucial for the BJP after the Covid mismanagement battered the government’s image and the crushing defeat in Bengal dimmed Modi’s “aura”. His visit to the national capital started a day after Jitin Prasada quit the Congress and joined the BJP. After Adityanath met Shah, Prasada called on the Uttar Pradesh chief minister in New Delhi. BJP MLC A K Sharma, a former IAS officer who is seen as a trusted hand of Modi, is also in Delhi to meet party leaders and allies. Though there is no official word on whether there will be a Cabinet expansion in Uttar Pradesh, sources said Prasada, who comes from a noted Brahmin family of the state with political heft, and Sharma may be accommodated in such an eventuality. BJP's general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh had earlier this month visited the state to review the party's preparations for the assembly elections and held meetings with key ministers and organisation leaders. Senior BJP leader Radha Mohan Singh, who is in-charge of the party's affairs in Uttar Pradesh, had also visited the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-69
11-06-2021||India||Respite for Mumbai after two days of incessant rains||After two days of continuous showers, the residents of Mumbai got some respite on Friday morning as rains took a break in the city and its suburbs, civic officials said. The transport services in the city, including the suburban trains and buses, are running as per their normal schedule, they said. The south-west monsoon had arrived in the city with a bang on Wednesday as heavy rains caused flooding on roads and rail tracks, disrupting suburban train services. The first rains of this year's monsoon season in Mumbai had also caused water-logging in various parts of the city on that day. In the last 24-hours, the eastern suburbs of Mumbai received 51.76 mm rainfall, followed by 43.42 mm in the island city and 34.33 mm in its western suburbs, an official of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. Another official said that after two days of continuous rain, showers have stopped in the city and suburbs since around 9 am and the citizens also got to see sunlight. On Wednesday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) had issued an "orange alert" for Mumbai, predicting "heavy to very heavy rain" at isolated places till Sunday. The civic administration was on its toes as a high tide of 4.34 metres was expected at around 12.54 pm on Friday. But as the rain has stopped, they have heaved a sigh of relief. At least 12 people, including eight children, were killed and seven others injured after two floors of a three-storey residential building collapsed on an adjoining single-storey house in Malwani in suburban Mumbai around 11.15 pm on Wednesday, when Mumbai experienced heavy rains throughout the day. Besides, one person died in a separate incident of house crash on Thursday evening at Dahisar, a western suburb of Mumbai, civic officials said. Meanwhile, chief spokesperson of Western Railway, Sumit Thakur, said, "Trains are running normally on Western Railway's suburban section on Friday." Central Railway's chief spokesperson Shivaji Sutar said that suburban services on the main line were affected briefly between Thane-Mulund around 9.30 pm due to track fracture, but it had nothing to do with rain. According to BMC officials, the IMD has predicted "moderate rainfall in the city and suburbs with possibility of heavy to very heavy falls at isolated places" for the next 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-69
11-06-2021||India||Biophore seeks DGCI nod for emergency use of Covid drug||Biophore India Pharmaceuticals on Friday said it has applied to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for obtaining emergency-use approval for Aviptadil, used in the treatment of moderate to severe cases of COVID-19. The Hyderabad-based firm said it has developed the product which is backward integrated with its in-house API (Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient). The company plans to commence commercial production of the product immediately after the approval is received, it added. Aviptadil is a synthetic form of Vasoactive Intestinal Peptide (VIP) that, when administered, results in rapid clinical recovery in patients with severe SARS-COV-2 infection. These observations are based on results of multiple trials of Aviptadil against COVID-19 globally in patients with respiratory failure and the same have been submitted to DCGI for their review. "The company has developed this highly complex peptide in a very short period of time, primarily due to the extensive focus of the company in prioritising COVID related products over the last one year," Biophore CEO Jagadeesh Babu Rangisetty said in a statement. Aviptadil is a very promising treatment option for COVID, especially in severe hospitalised cases where trials have shown a high recovery percentage, he added. "We hope to be able to quickly make it available through this approval," Rangisetty noted. Biophore was one of the first few manufacturers to have received approval for an antiviral agent, Favipiravir, in the country during the first wave of COVID-19 and is also the only Indian manufacturer to be producing multi tonnage volumes of Sulfobutyl Ether beta Cyclodextrin (SBECD), which is a key excipient in the manufacturing of Remdesivir Injections. Apart from these, the company said it has invested significantly into the research and development of other anti-COVID products over the last one year. "While we are optimistic that the pandemic will end soon, we have to be prepared for the exigencies. We need to keep evaluating and adding newer products against this virus to ensure better preparedness by having more options for the treating physicians and thus avoiding shortages. Our aim is also to make the cost of treatment affordable, especially for hospitalised patients," Rangisetty said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-69
11-06-2021||India||India's daily Covid caseload stays below one lakh four days on the trot||The daily COVID-19 count in India remained below the one-lakh mark for the fourth consecutive day with the country reporting 91,702 fresh cases, while the daily positivity rate dropped to 4.49 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. With the fresh cases, the total tally of cases has climbed to 2,92,74,823. The COVID-19 death toll climbed to 3,63,079 with 3,403 fresh deaths, the data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases further declined to 11,21,671 comprising 3.83 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 94.93 per cent. A net decline of 46,281 cases has been recorded in the COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 20,44,131 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 37,42,42,384. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 4.49 per cent . It has been less than 10 per cent for the 18th consecutive day, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has also declined to 5.14 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for 29th consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,77,90,073, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.24 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 24,60,85,649 COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 3,403 new fatalities include 1,915 from Maharashtra, 358 from Tamil Nadu, 194 each from Karnataka and Kerala. A total of 3,63,079 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,03,748 from Maharashtra, 32,485 from Karnataka, 28,528 from Tamil Nadu, 24,748 from Delhi, 21,597 from Uttar Pradesh, 16,642 from West Bengal, 15,367 from Punjab and 13,285 from Chhattisgarh. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-69
11-06-2021||India||Covid: Ganga samples collected for virus test in Bihar||A team of scientists from various central institutions has started collecting samples from the Ganga in Bihar to test the presence of coronavirus in the water. The move comes after the Centre initiated a study to assess the presence of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, in the Ganga after bodies of suspected coronavirus victims were found floating in the river. The corpses were found floating in the Ganga at various places in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh in May, though it is not clear whether the kin of the deceased dumped them after being unable to carry out cremation or whether they were thrown by officials to allegedly escape the responsibility of cremating them or to hide the death count during the second wave of the pandemic. Around 40 bodies were found floating in the Ganga near Buxar in Bihar in May. “Samples were collected from different places in the state by a team comprising experts from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Indian Institute of Toxicology Research (IITR) and the Jal Shakti ministry. They will conduct tests on the presence of coronavirus in water. Our officials assisted them in the collection of samples,” Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB) member secretary S. Chandrasekar told The Telegraph. BSPCB officials said that the team collected samples from Buxar, Patna, Saran and Bhojpur. “The samples from the Ganga were collected between June 1 and 5. We are now waiting for the test reports,” BSPCB scientist Navin Kumar told mediapersons. The central government had asked the Uttar Pradesh and Bihar governments last month to prevent dumping of bodies in the Ganga and its tributaries. It had termed the reports on dumping of bodies in the rivers as “alarming”. BSPCB officials said the IITR, Lucknow, will conduct various tests to determine the presence of coronavirus in the Ganga since there is a worry that a large number of people living in villages and towns along the river may get infected as they bathe in it everyday and many also use its water for prayers and cooking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-69
11-06-2021||India||Weather report, forecast: Monsoon hits Odisha, imminent flood threat||The southwest monsoon has finally hit Odisha with several districts such as Malkangiri, Koraput, Nabarangpur. Kalahandi, Naygarh, Khurda and Puri witnessing moderate to heavy rainfall on Thursday. Heavy rainfall has triggered fears of flash floods with the administration gearing up to tackle the threat. A low-pressure area developing in the Bay of Bengal is likely to create favourable conditions for advancement of the monsoon to the interior parts of the state. All the coastal districts have been put on alert because of the flood threat. “Conditions are favourable for further advancement of southwest monsoon into the remaining part of Odisha during the next 48 hours,” said the India Meteorological Department (IMD). With a low pressure likely to form over the northwest Bay of Bengal, the monsoon aided by this is likely to cause heavy rain in many parts of the state till June 14, officials said. Special relief commissioner P.K. Jena has asked all the district administrations and municipal corporations to gear up for a possible flood because of heavy rainfall. “There are also chances of landslides in the hilly regions and some other parts of the state. We have asked the administration to be extremely cautious and take all possible steps for the safety and security of the people,” officials said. The water resource department has asked all its officials not to leave the headquarters and open a round clock control room. The department has asked its officials to carry out patrolling and inspection of all the river embankments. In a related development, chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday announced financial assistance to the Cyclone Yaas-hit farmers. According to the announcement all the small and marginal farmers who have sustained losses of over 33 per cent to their crops in the cyclone will get input subsidy and their Kharif loans will be converted into medium term loans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-69
11-06-2021||India||Covid: Rath Yatra in Puri to be held without devotees||The Odisha government on Thursday announced that like last year this time, too, the “rath yatra” (chariot festival) of Lord Jagannath and his siblings in Puri will be held sans devotees in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Only a limited number of sevayats (servitors) armed with RT-PCR negative reports, will be allowed to pull the chariots during the yatra, the state’s showcase religio-cultural event that is scheduled to take place on July 12. Special relief commissioner (SRC) P.K. Jena announced the government’s decision recalling that the festival had been held in a similar manner last year when the Supreme Court , after a long spell of uncertainty, had allowed the state to go ahead with it without the participation of devotees. The SRC also made it clear that rath yatra of the deities will not be allowed to take place in any other part of the state due to the prevailing Covid situation. In Puri, where the local administration will be advised to impose a curfew on the day of the pulling of chariots to ensure complete adherence to Covid protocol, only 500 sevayats will be allowed to pull each of the three chariots. “Only the sevayats who are able to show negative RT-PCR reports or having final vaccination certificate will get the opportunity to pull the chariots,” said Jena adding that strict adherence to Covid-19 norms would be observed. The SRC also maintained that all the rituals connected with the festival would be performed without the participation of devotees. The three chariots of lord Jagannath (Nandighosh), his brother Balabhadra (Taladhwaj) and his sister Subhadra (Darpadalan) are pulled by the devotees during the Rath Yatra, which is the biggest festival in Odisha’s cultural almanac. The Grand Road in Puri, on which the chariots roll, turns into a virtual sea of humanity during the yatra with people from across the country thronging the place. Odisha recorded 6,097 new Covid-19 cases during the past 24 hours. While the positive case tally has risen to 8,37,226, the real worry is the high death toll which has remained above 40 for the past few days. During the past 24 hours, 44 Covid-19 patients died taking the total death toll to 3,167.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-69
11-06-2021||India||Delhi riots: Two women describe how they coped in Tihar||Two imprisoned young women’s accounts of how they defeated the authorities’ efforts to “strip away” their “autonomy and humanity” form part of an online booklet released on Thursday to mark a year of their incarceration in Delhi riots cases. Women students’ group Pinjra Tod released the booklet, which contains artwork and excerpts from letters to family and friends that JNU students Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal penned from Tihar jail. Devangana, 31, and Natasha, 32, were arrested on May 23 last year for participating in a dharna in northeast Delhi against the new citizenship matrix on February 22, a day before communal violence broke out. They were later booked in other cases for the protests, including one that invoked the anti-terror law Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, under which bail is rare. They are accused of inciting riots through their protests. Natasha’s father and retired scientist Mahavir Narwal died of Covid last month before her three-week bail came through. The booklet, One Year of Injustice — Sab Yaad Rakha Jayega, whose title is drawn from the iconic poem by Aamir Aziz on the citizenship protests, calls for the release of all “political prisoners”. One of Natasha’s letters published in the booklet says: “You know basically prison is an extension of, the logical end of all the unfreedoms in the society one has been fighting against, everything meant to crush one’s autonomy.” The letter says: “But I have seen, even in a place like this which is meant to strip away one’s autonomy and humanity, reduce people to bare life, people still manage to retain some, hiding them in nooks and corners, hiding them from always prying eyes. They still manage to laugh, cry, sing together, form intimacies and friendships, dream about another future.” Devangana has depicted Vaikom Muhammad Basheer’s Malayalam novel Mathilukal (Walls), and Begum Rokeya’s Bengali story Sultana’s Dream in Gond-style artwork in her letters. One of her letters says: “Every day I draw strength from the women who have been here for many years, women who have no one ‘outside’, who are endlessly waiting through long trials, women who are from faraway countries and don’t even speak English or Hindi, women who have delivered their babies here and bring them up here, women who do not have money to hire lawyers and patiently negotiate the arduous process of the government legal aid system, women who have not spoken to anyone in their families for months because they just cannot remember or find a contact number and no one responds to their letters ‘home’, women who are as much ‘criminals’ as prisoners of structural oppressions.” The booklet also contains artwork from, and photographs of, protests held demanding the release of the two women and several other students and activists jailed in these cases. It also lists the multiple pleas for prison reforms the two women have made, with mixed success so far, including those for Covid vaccination that has benefited all prisoners, meetings between prisoners and families, and access to education and multi-speciality medical care. Natasha and Devangana — doing a PhD in history and an MPhil in women’s studies, respectively, at JNU — have been able to continue their studies in prison through a successful court plea. Natasha served as a librarian in jail and now helps at the legal aid cell. Both women also help in the creche, one of their friends said. A Pinjra Tod activist from JNU told The Telegraph the organisation planned to print the booklet after translating it into Hindi. “It celebrates their resolve and resilience and calls for justice for all those wrongfully imprisoned,” the activist said. At a webinar on Tuesday, Devangana’s mother Kalpana had said: “Today we are really missing Mr Narwalji who was our real strength. When we used to get into distress, we used to call him and his voice would assure us.” Natasha’s brother Aakash said: “I was very surprised and proud of her when she raised her fist and (chanted) slogans while going back to Tihar jail after our father’s demise. Natasha’s strength and composure helps me, it gives me strength.” Gujarat MLA Jignesh Mevani was part of the webinar. “(The) UAPA is a mechanism to lock away voices that trouble the government. Successive governments have deployed it: its use is not restricted to the BJP,” he said. “We need to demand an end to draconian laws, as such.... There is no action against police and government officials who slap false charges on people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-69
11-06-2021||India||Adityanath reaches Delhi, gets into 90-minute meeting with Amit Shah||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday dashed to Delhi to meet the BJP leadership amid simmering discontent in the state unit over his style of leadership in the run-up to Assembly elections. After arriving here in the afternoon, Adityanath was huddled with Amit Shah for 90 minutes, apparently laying the groundwork for his meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday. The chief minister is also expected to meet BJP president J.P. Nadda. Party insiders confirmed that the unscheduled meetings were tied to the Uttar Pradesh polls, due next March, which have become crucial for the BJP after the Covid mismanagement battered the government’s image and the crushing defeat in Bengal dimmed Modi’s “aura”. Friday’s meeting will be Adityanath’s first face-to-face interaction with Modi since many party functionaries and lawmakers in Uttar Pradesh complained to the central leadership about his “autocratic” functioning, pro-Kshatriya bias and Covid mishandling. Several of them have spoken to the media about the state government’s alleged insensitivity towards people’s sufferings at a time corpses floating in rivers were making international headlines. Party insiders, however, ruled out any change of leadership in Uttar Pradesh, saying Modi and Shah had summoned the chief minister to discuss “course correction” and election strategy. After his “courtesy meeting” with Shah, the normally bellicose Adityanath appeared extremely polite. “Met the honourable home minister, Amit Shah, and received his guidance. I am obliged that the honourable home minister gave me his valuable time,” he tweeted. As Adityanath was closeted with Shah, Nadda was at the Prime Minister’s residence, strengthening the idea that the party leadership’s focus was on Uttar Pradesh, the most politically significant state with 80 Lok Sabha seats that the BJP is desperate to retain. Several other meetings took place on the sidelines. Jitin Prasada, a Congress politician and a Brahmin from Uttar Pradesh who had joined the BJP on Wednesday, paid Adityanath a “courtesy call”. The party hopes to foreground Jitin to assuage the influential Brahmin community’s frustration with the Kshatriya Adityanath. After Adityanath, BJP ally and Apna Dal chief Anupriya Patel, an MP from Uttar Pradesh who is believed to be annoyed with the chief minister, met Shah. Last week, the BJP national general secretary in charge of the organisation, B.L. Santosh, and the party’s Uttar Pradesh minder Radha Mohan Singh were in Lucknow for a round of stocktaking. Santosh held a series of meetings with ministers and state BJP leaders from June 1 to 3, asking them whether they had access to Adityanath and whether party workers had his ear, buttressing the impression that the chief minister’s performance was under review. Singh met governor Anandiben Patel and Assembly Speaker Hriday Narayan Dikshit. Earlier, RSS general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale had visited the state to seek feedback about the BJP’s poll prospects. Many other confidential meetings between the BJP and the RSS have taken place, all focused on the Uttar Pradesh polls. “We don’t have an alternative face to match Adityanath’s,” a party source said. “The focus now is on taking corrective measures, addressing concerns and ensuring the party organisation works like one cohesive unit.” Sources said that during his two-day stay in Delhi, Adityanath would discuss with the leadership a possible expansion of his cabinet, with a few new faces brought in. A BJP leader in Uttar Pradesh, asking not to be named, said Modi, Shah and Nadda were expected to try and persuade Adityanath to appoint former bureaucrat Arvind Kumar Sharma as his home minister. Sharma, who had worked for two decades under Modi in Gujarat and Delhi, joined the BJP early this year following his retirement. Additional reporting by Piyush Srivastava from Lucknow||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-70
11-06-2021||India||Covid: Delhi requests Beijing to allow Indians to travel to China||India on Thursday requested Beijing to allow Indians to travel to China, saying two-way traffic should be facilitated considering Chinese nationals are able to come here even during the pandemic. China had “temporarily suspended” travel from India in November after a dozen passengers on board a Vande Bharat flight tested positive on arrival at Wuhan. New Delhi has made the request in view of the fact that several Indian nationals are awaiting visas even after complying with China’s insistence that they get Chinese-made vaccines. In March this year, the Chinese embassy had issued a notification stating that it would facilitate visas for those taking vaccines made in that country. Although several Indians, according to the external affairs ministry, have applied for Chinese visas after getting vaccinated with made-in-China vaccines, they have not yet been issued visas. A PTI report on June 7 said that over 300 Indians had travelled to Nepal, the Maldives or Dubai and stayed on for more than a month to receive two doses of Chinese vaccines, incurring huge expenditures. Chinese vaccines have not yet been cleared by India. Responding to questions on the continuing bar on travel from India to China, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said: “We have been in touch with the Chinese side in order to seek an early resumption of travel by Indian citizens to China, especially for those who work or study there. While we recognise the need to ensure safety and strictly follow Covid-related protocols, essential two-way travel should be facilitated, especially keeping in view the fact that Chinese nationals are able to travel to India.” Just ahead of the second wave of the pandemic in India, CEOs of Indian businesses and industries in China had communicated their concerns over the continuing travel restrictions to India’s ambassador in Beijing, Vikram Misri, stating that their operations were being hampered by the ban. Several students studying in Chinese universities are also affected by the travel ban, as are Indians who work in China and had returned when the temporary suspension was announced in November. They have recently petitioned the Chinese embassy, seeking permission to travel back to their workplaces in China.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-70
11-06-2021||India||Carnatic vocalist TM Krishna contests IT rules||Carnatic vocalist T.M. Krishna has moved Madras High Court challenging the new information technology rules of the central government. He urged the court to declare the new rules ultra vires of the Constitution and the parent Information Technology Act. Krishna said the rules offended his rights as an artiste and cultural commentator by both “imposing a chilling effect on free speech and by impinging on my right to privacy”. Krishna’s petition, which also pleaded for an interim stay on the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, notified on February 25, came up before the bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy on Thursday. According to Krishna, the new rules breach equality of law, freedom of speech and expression, the liberty to practise any profession and protection of life and personal liberty. The case will be heard after four weeks, the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-70
11-06-2021||India||Covid: Leap in Bihar death numbers shows audit need||Bihar’s Covid death figures jumped from 5,478 on Tuesday to 9,429 on Wednesday evening, the increase of 3,951 or 72 per cent resulting from a data revision directed by Patna High Court. Senior health department officials said the state government had carried out a three-week audit that the high court had ordered amid allegations that the authorities were hiding the number of coronavirus infections and deaths. The sharp rise in the death toll following the revision will not just vindicate those who had questioned the transparency and reliability of the Bihar government’s Covid data, it will also mount pressure on other states like Uttar Pradesh that too have been accused of fudging figures. The foreign media and sections of the domestic media — such as the Divya Bhaskar in Gujarat — have been accusing the central and state governments of underreporting Covid deaths. The New York Times last month suggested the actual Covid infections in India could be 20 to 26 times the government figure, and the death count could be 5 to 13 times the official toll. A division bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S. Kumar had rapped the Bihar government in May after noticing inconsistencies in the death tolls for Buxar district provided in separate affidavits by the chief secretary and the Patna divisional commissioner. Additional chief secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit admitted on Wednesday that the previous figures were incorrect. “We found that the death toll figures were not being sent from the districts. Committees were formed at the various medical colleges and hospitals, and also in the districts, to verify the exact number (of deaths). They have submitted their reports and included the post-Covid deaths of patients,” Amrit told reporters. He promised an inquiry and punishment for officials guilty of dereliction. Amrit tried to explain the high revised toll by saying it reflected the deaths at private hospitals, deaths during transit to hospitals, deaths in home isolation and deaths from post-Covid complications. He did not explain why all the deaths had not been counted before. Media reports suggest that even the revised toll may not be correct. The logbooks at Patna city’s three crematoriums alone show at least 3,000 Covid deaths since March last year — which is far higher than the revised official figure of 2,303 for the entire Patna district — journalists who have collated these figures say. The revised figures suggest the death toll has been much higher in Bihar during the second wave. They show 1,600 Covid deaths between March 2020 and March 2021, and over 7,800 between April and June 9 this year. Patna remains the worst-hit district, followed by Muzaffarpur with 609 Covid deaths and chief minister Nitish Kumar’s home district of Nalanda with 463. The audit has found unreported Covid deaths in 35 of the state’s 38 districts: 1,070 in Patna, 316 in Begusarai, 314 in Muzaffarpur, 292 in East Champaran and 222 in Nalanda. Arwal, Siwan and Munger were the only districts where no unreported deaths were detected. According to state government figures, Bihar has witnessed 7.15 lakh Covid cases so far, with the number of active cases totalling 7,353 on June 9. The revised death toll brought the recovery rate down from 98.13 per cent on June 8 to 97.65 per cent on June 9. Opposition politicians attacked the state government, with Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Yadav blaming the chief minister. “Nitishji, don’t lie and make others lie so much that you will never be able to stand up again. You increased the death toll by 4,000 suddenly in a day after getting trapped. The Nitish government is fake, hence its data will also be fake,” Tejashwi said. Congress politician Prem Chandra Mishra said: “Why was the government lying on the issue so far?” Jan Adhikar Party leader and former MP Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav alleged a “death scam” by the state government and demanded identification of “the person in the health department involved in fudging the death toll”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-70
11-06-2021||India||‘Pakistan call to eastern India’ helps bust phone exchange in Bangalore||A call from a Pakistani spy agency to an army installation in eastern India has led to the unravelling of an illegal telephone exchange in Bangalore, officials said on Thursday. The racket was busted by the Military Intelligence wing of the army’s Southern Command which had intercepted the call received at the army installation in eastern India a few weeks back. During the call, a spy from Pakistan was asking about general details while posing as a senior officer. On further investigation, the intelligence sleuths found that some other offices located in various formations such as the Movement Control Office as well as the Principal Comptroller of Defence Accounts were also receiving such calls seeking details from them. A deeper probe led to uncovering of the scam in which Pakistan-based intelligence operatives exploited such illegal exchanges to route their calls to connect with Indian citizens and obtain information of military installations. The officials said Pakistani intelligence operatives have adopted the modus operandi of investing in illegal call exchanges that switch Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) calls to normal Indian mobile calls. To execute this illegal operation, SIM boxes are used which run a parallel illegal telephone exchange. Operation of these illegal exchanges not only incurs losses to the cellular networks but also to the government as it is an unregistered operation, and the money generated is unaccounted and non-taxable. The racket came to light after the arrest of two men who ran an illegal phone exchange in Bangalore, converting international calls to local ones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-70
11-06-2021||India||AIIMS begins issuing admit cards for postgraduate entrance exam||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has begun issuing admit cards to over 80,000 students for its entrance exam for postgraduate courses, joining several other institutions in going ahead with exams amid the pandemic despite objections from students. AIIMS will hold the Institute of National Importance Common Entrance Test on June 16. The admit cards mention that the institute will not be responsible for any kind of travel restrictions in any state. Lockdowns and similar restrictions are in force in many states. The AIIMS exam will be a computer-based, three-hour test to be held in centres across India. Delhi University (DU) is conducting exams for the award of degrees. Despite protests by students’ and teachers’ groups, the university started the online open-book exam on Monday for final-year students. The Bar Council of India (BCI) has accepted the recommendations of an expert committee that had said LLB exams be allowed to be conducted by the institutions keeping in mind the availability of resources and the pandemic situation in respective areas. Students questioned the decision to push ahead with exams when nearly a lakh Covid cases are being reported every day. Students have said they are not prepared for online exams as well because many students and their family members are down with Covid, others have lost nears and dear ones to the disease, and not to mention the toll the pandemic has taken on mental health. Last week, a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi cancelled the CBSE Class XII board exams because, according to a media release, “students, parents and teachers are naturally worried about the health of the students in such a situation”. The CISCE, the other national school board, also scrapped this year’s ISC exam the same day. The Class X exams of both boards had been called off earlier. “The number of daily Covid cases is still very high. The situation has not changed much over last week. Students have launched a campaign against the AIIMS entrance exam. A case has been filed in the Supreme Court too. But AIIMS is determined to hold the entrance exam,” a student said. “School board exams have been cancelled. Why this double standard for us? Moreover, many states have lockdowns till at least June 15. The Odisha lockdown will continue till at least June 16. AIIMS has conveniently said it has no responsibility if students face any difficulty in reaching the exam centres,” the student added. Academics said universities and other higher educational institutions were no longer considering cancellation or deferment of exams as an option. Former DU Executive Council member Abha Dev Habib blamed the central government and the University Grants Commission (UGC) for varsities going ahead with exams. She said Covid had affected most families in Delhi and other cities in one way or the other. “Students are not in a position to appear for exams. But DU is conducting exams for final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students. “The UGC had last year asked the universities to hold exams amid the pandemic. That decision has not been revisited. Most universities are headed by in-charge vice-chancellors. Even otherwise, no university would dare to deviate from the norms set by the UGC,” Habib said. She also highlighted the lack of transparency in online exams. “The students are sitting at home. There is hardly any proctoring. The quality of the exams is under question,” she said. A DU official said many students wanted the final-year exams to be held since they would prepare for entrance tests for master’s and other courses. “Students are largely comfortable with exams now. They want degrees. Delay in award of degrees or conduct of exams will affect their career objectives,” the official said. The BCI panel headed by Justice Govind Mathur, former Chief Justice of Allahabad High Court, has recommended that each university and centres of legal education should conduct exams for intermediate and final-year law students as per their own discretion, depending on the availability of resources and the impact of Covid-19 in that region, a BCI press statement said on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-70
11-06-2021||India||Covid: UP panchayat chief held for hindering vaccine drive||A panchayat chief in Lakhimpur Kheri district, Uttar Pradesh, has been arrested for allegedly asking villagers not to get vaccinated against Covid-19 and misbehaving with the medical team. Santosh Maurya, who has been accused of hindering the vaccination drive in Rautapur and Kachiyani villages, has, however, complained of gross negligence by the health department officials. “Something grossly wrong is going on here. The entire world knows that people may develop fever and body pain after taking the vaccine. There were at least three people from our village who were hospitalised a few days after taking the first dose of vaccine in a local health centre. They would have died had their relatives not taken them to costly private hospitals in Bareilly. But these health department members didn’t come here to ask why and how they fell ill,” Maurya told reporters on Wednesday before the case was registered against him in the evening. “There is also a provision to give paracetamol to those who have been inoculated. However, they neither gave the medicine nor alerted people about the side-effects.” Dr A.N. Chauhan, superintendent of the local community health centre, claimed they had been giving free medicine to those who take the jab. “A medical team had visited Kachiyani village (adjacent to Rautapur) on Wednesday. Maurya was there and he misbehaved with the team members when they sought his help to motivate the villagers for vaccination. He snatched the mobile phone of one of the team members and deleted some pictures of the drive,” Dr Chauhan said. Maurya has been booked and arrested under Pandemic Act. “He was sent jail on Wednesday,” Anil Kumar Saini, station house officer of Mitauli, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-70
11-06-2021||India||Pfizer vaccine ‘works’ against variants, say US researchers||Antibodies generated by the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine can neutralise the coronavirus variant B.1.617.2 and several others first identified in India and implicated in the country’s second wave’s rapid surge, US researchers said on Thursday. Their lab tests have found that immune sera — the clear portion of blood containing antibodies — taken from people who had received two doses of the vaccine “efficiently neutralised” all the variants they studied, although neutralisation was modestly reduced. The study by Pei-Yong Shi, professor of molecular biology at the University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, and his colleagues indicate the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine is likely to confer adequate protection against these variants that have spread to over 40 countries. The researchers tested immune sera against B.1.617.2, B.1.617.1, and B.1.618 — all detected first in India — and the B.1.525 variant first detected in Nigeria. These variants have genetic mutations that allow the virus to spread faster than other variants and evade some immune responses. Among the four variants of Indian origin tested, B.1.617.1 was the least neutralised, the researchers said, probably due to the presence of two mutations L452R and E484Q, that appear to help the virus gain resistance to neutralisation by the antibodies. “Nevertheless all variants were still neutralised by all the tested sera at titres of 40 or higher,” the researchers said, specifying the levels of antibodies in the sera at which the neutralisation occurred. Their study appeared on Thursday in the journal Nature. The Indian government is currently in talks with Pfizer on the terms for importing the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine into the country. India has already waived the need for any clinical trials, but the company has sought indemnity from legal proceedings linked to adverse effects from the vaccine. Indian health officials have said they are examining the request that has already been granted by countries across the world. The two-dose vaccine costs $19.50 (Rs 1,424) per dose in the US, but Pfizer has not announced a price for India yet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-70
11-06-2021||India||Covid: Civil services interviews from August 2||The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) has decided to commence from August 2 the interviews for the civil services examination, 2020, which were deferred due to a surge in Covid-19 cases, according to an official statement. The civil services examination is conducted annually by the UPSC in three stages — preliminary, main and personality test (interview) — to select officers of the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Foreign Service (IFS) and the Indian Police Service (IPS), among others. The UPSC had in April this year deferred interviews for the examination due to the increase in coronavirus cases. “After reviewing the situation, the commission has decided to commence the personality test of the civil services examination, 2020, from 02.08.2021,” according to the statement issued by the UPSC. The e-summon letters of personality tests (interviews) of the candidates will be made available shortly, which may be downloaded from the commission’s website www.upsc.gov.in and www.upsconline.in, it said. “No request for change in the date and time of the personality test (interview) intimated to the candidates will ordinarily be entertained,” the commission said. On the basis of the results of the civil services (main) examination, 2020, declared by the UPSC on March 23 this year, the commission decided to commence the personality tests (interviews) of the civil services (main) examination, 2020, from April 26. “However, due to unprecedented growth in the number of people infected with novel coronavirus (Covid-19) countrywide, as a precautionary measure, the Union Public Service Commission deferred the personality test of the civil services examination, 2020, which were scheduled to commence with effect from 26.04.2020,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-70
11-06-2021||India||Minimal rise in foreign student count, says All India Survey on Higher Education for 2019-20 ||India has made minimal progress in the first two years of launching an effort to increase the number of foreign students to two lakh by 2023. The All India Survey on Higher Education (AISHE) for 2019-20 released on Thursday found that there were 49,348 foreign students enrolled in institutions in India against 47,427 in the 2018-19 academic year. The ministry of human resource development (now known as the ministry of education) had in 2018 launched the Study in India programme, showcasing its top higher educational institutions to the world to achieve the enrolment of two lakh foreign students by 2023. The government selected top-ranked 160 higher educational institutions under the programme to create additional seats for foreigners. The government has identified 30 countries, which follow a similar education system like Indian institutions, and has approached them for mutual recognition of each other’s academic degrees. These countries include China, Nepal, Afghanistan, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Iraq, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, United Arab Emirates, Oman, Yemen, Syria, Jordan, Egypt, Tunisia, Morocco, Algeria, Nigeria, Sudan, Tanzania, Ethiopia, Rwanda, Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan and Tajikistan. The survey report, based on the feedback from educational institutions, stated that foreign students came to India from 168 different countries. However, 64 per cent of the students were from 10 countries that included Nepal (28.1 per cent), followed by Afghanistan (9.1 per cent), Bangladesh (4.6 per cent) and Bhutan (3.8 per cent). While 74.3 per cent of the total foreign students were enrolled in undergraduate courses, 16.6 per cent were pursuing post-graduate courses. Professor Furqan Qamar, former secretary-general of the Association of Indian Universities that inter alia issues equivalent certificates to academic degrees obtained from foreign institutions, interprets the nominal increase in the number of international students as normal incremental growth. He said popularising and promoting Indian higher education abroad was necessary. Without that, prospective students and their parents would remain unaware of the benefits of studying in India. To this extent, schemes such as the Promoting Indian Higher Education Abroad (PiHEAD) launched during the late 90s, or the Study in India programme launched recently, can play a critical role in generating awareness and in facilitating the identification and admission of foreign students. “However, to attract international students in a large number, we shall have to invest heavily in improving quality and promoting excellence in our higher education. It is the promise, prospect and assurance of quality education that serves as the magnet,” he said. “Even though tuition and living costs in India are much cheaper than the developed countries, the students are expected to meet the total cost out of their pockets as we are unable to offer them opportunities to earn while learning to support their expenses. We have also not been able to offer income and employment opportunities to international students that they are able to access liberally in many other countries,” he said. N. Sai Balaji, a research student in Jawaharlal Nehru University, said many public universities, including the JNU, have increased their tuition fees for foreign students in the last two years. “The quality of public institutions has deteriorated due to vacant posts of teachers and poor funding by the government. The fees have increased in the public institutions for foreign students,” Balaji said. A JNU faculty member said there had been instances of attacks on foreign students, particularly those from the African countries. “Moreover, most of the institutions in India do not have international hostels. Accommodation is a huge problem for foreign students. They have security concerns. Some efforts should be made to expose them to Indian cultural heritage. Also, there should be proper projection about Indian institutions before foreign students,” the faculty member said. The survey report found that the enrolment in higher educational institutions had increased from 3.74 crore in 2018-19 to 3.85 crore in 2019-20. Similarly, the gross enrolment ratio, which means the percentage of youths in the age group of 18-23 years enrolled in higher education, has increased from 26.3 per cent to 27.1 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-70
11-06-2021||India||Jitin Prasada’s defection may have done more good than harm to Cong||A young and impatient Jitin Prasada’s defection to the BJP may have done more good than harm to the Congress, triggering a churning within the party over the essence of politics and the significance of ideology. When Jyotiraditya Scindia, who too enjoyed a personal rapport with the Nehru-Gandhi family, delivered a similar shock, it was seen more as a betrayal in the power game. Besides, these feelings got overshadowed by the subsequent political battle to salvage the Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh. Jitin wasn’t entangled in any such political machinations and his exit is being analysed purely in ideological terms. Party veteran Salman Khurshid summed up the mood. “There is more to politics than one’s personal career. There should be. Participation in politics is not merely about personal aspirations,” Khurshid told The Telegraph. “And aspirations in politics are not merely personal — aspirations could be to support an idea, to contribute to creating a particular kind of society, to fight forces that can imperil your idea of the nation and society.” Khurshid conceded that Jitin’s exit had saddened him since Jitin’s father, like Jyotiraditya’s, had been a close friend and a comrade in opposing the ideology their sons have now embraced. “It’s a matter of attitude. Some people think of ideology while taking critical decisions, some people think of their career. But these are extraordinary times. The Congress is going through a crisis,” he said. “But a bigger crisis has hit all of us — about the future of India. We are here in the Congress to fight for the idea of India we believe in. We are willing to sleep outside, under the sky, in this battle. Some people need to (sleep) inside a tent. It’s their choice.” Because Jitin was a signatory to the letter the famous G23 (group of 23 leaders) had sent to Sonia Gandhi on the miserable plight of the Congress, the spotlight has once again fallen on them. Asked if others among the disgruntled G23 would join the BJP, a senior leader considered one of the architects of that initiative appeared offended. “Does that outrageous, scandalous question deserve an answer? Did we raise questions about the Congress ideology?” he asked. “Our concerns are related to the structural reforms in the party, about how to strengthen the organisation. We are committed not only to the Congress ideology but also to fighting the RSS ideology till our last breath.” Kapil Sibal, another key member of the G23, came out to speak to the media on the subject. “I’m not commenting on Jitin’s decision to walk out of the Congress but I will comment on his decision to join the BJP. You are entitled to leave a party if you are not comfortable but you are not entitled to embrace an ideology you shunned all your life,” he said. “I won’t leave the Congress ideology even if I’m asked to leave the party. And joining the BJP! No, never....” Sibal added: “People join the BJP for prasada (rewards); you have seen it in Bengal. Those who defected from Trinamul want to come back. We have seen how MLAs joined the BJP for prasada in Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka…. This is dangerous. People will lose faith in the elected representatives. I am for ideology-based politics. People joining another political ideology for posts, position, money poses a threat to democracy.” The leader of the G23, Ghulam Nabi Azad, had declared he could join the BJP if the snow on the Himalayas turned black, implying it was an impossibility. Jitin’s departure has caused consternation among the younger leaders too. “The naked political opportunism makes us extremely sad. Politics cannot be devoid of your philosophy, your ideological convictions,” party spokesperson Supriya Shrinate told this newspaper. “How do people sleep at night after such betrayal? How do you find peace with yourself after such a brazen compromise with your core value system? Politics is not a petty game of vested interests.” Shrinate had left a flourishing career in journalism to join politics. Asked what’s wrong with ambitious people looking at politics as a career and wanting to grow fast, she said: “I too have chosen a career in politics. But politics is a means to an end. I want to serve the people, to serve my nation, to protect my idea of a nation. I don’t have to jump ship to do that. I don’t have to junk my ideology to serve the people.” Many among the younger leaders insisted that they were in politics only from ideological conviction, which had taken firmer shape after 2014 when the RSS-BJP established control over the nation. Expressing outrage at what Jyotiraditya and Jitin have done, they argued that the “ugly betrayal” had only strengthened their conviction, prompting many young party workers to rededicate themselves to the cause they had joined politics to espouse.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-71
11-06-2021||India||UP Women’s Commission member asks mothers to check daughters' mobile phones   ||A member of the Uttar Pradesh Women’s Commission has asked mothers to keep tabs on daughters and check their mobile phones regularly to know with whom they talk. “I keep saying this to everybody. There are many cases before me where the girl used to talk to a boy and then eloped with them. Their parents come to me for solution,” Meena Kumari told reporters in Aligarh on Wednesday. “While we are trying to take strict action in such cases, the society should also keep a watch on it. The mothers must keep a close watch on their daughters —where do they go, which boy they hang out with, who do they talk with on mobile phones,” she said. As the video of her statement went viral on social media on Thursday, the women panel’s member said she did not make any controversial statement. “Whatever I said was based on facts. I have got some tapes (video clips) that girls made friendship with someone through mobile phones and got married. They posted their pictures on social media. So I said that the mothers of teenaged boys and girls should know with whom their children talk on mobile phones. They should check the mobile phones every evening. Parents come to me after they suffer because of all this,” she said. Meena said her statements were mostly meant for innocent rural girls who were being trapped with the help of mobile phones. “I am talking about both boys and girls. I am not against their using mobile phones. But the parents must see what they do with it,” she added. Approached by reporters, Anju Chaudhary, vice-chairperson of the commission, tried to steer clear of the controversy. “Whatever Meena Kumari said is her personal view. The commission shouldn’t be dragged into it,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-71
11-06-2021||India||Covid: Bar Council of India rejects pleas of thousands of students to deter law exams  ||The Bar Council of India (BCI) on Thursday announced that it is mandatory for all universities and law schools to conduct exams either offline or online, rejecting the pleas of thousands of students against tests amid the pandemic. The students had urged the BCI, the regulator of legal education and lawyers, to mark them on the basis of internal assessments. The decision in favour of exams despite the Covid crisis was taken following a report submitted by a BCI-constituted 14-member committee headed by former Allahabad High Court Chief Justice Govind Mathur that recommended that tests be held either in the offline or the online mode. However, the timing of the exams has been left to the respective varsities and law schools, depending upon the pandemic situation in the area. The BCI had in a resolution dated May 29 said it did not wish to involve itself in the matter of exams and it was for the universities to take their own decisions depending on the local conditions. However, the BCI received thousands of letters from students of universities and law colleges, seeking its intervention in the cancellation of exams. Some heads of institutions had also sought the guidance of the BCI on exams and promotion of LLB students. The majority of the students had pleaded that they be promoted on the basis of past performance or through some other method of assessment. Many final-year LLB students had also sought grading on the basis of internal assessments. However, the BCI-appointed committee, which submitted its report on June 8, declined to grant any such concession to the students. The report said: “The members deliberated at length regarding the mode of evaluation/examination for the promotion from intermediate semester to the next semester and for the award of the law degree. “After detailed discussion and deliberations, the committee unanimously agreed that each university/centres of legal education shall conduct examination for intermediate and final-year students, as per their own dispensation, depending upon the availability of resources and the impact of Covid-19 in that region. “It was unanimously agreed that an end-term examination is mandatory to be conducted by all law schools/universities. It was further decided that universities/centres of legal education are free to determine the mode of examination (online/ offline/blended/ online open-book exam (OBE)/ assignment-based evaluation (ABE)/ research papers).” The committee also recommended that the universities and other centres of legal education should ensure that sufficient time gap exists between regular and backlog exams to avoid inconveniencing the students. The committee took note of the earlier resolutions adopted by the BCI on May 27, September 6, October 5 and November 1, 2020, laying down guidelines for the conduct of exams and mentioning that institutions were free to determine the mode. Accepting the committee’s report, BCI secretary Srimanto Sen said in a statement: “The council has considered and deliberated over the report submitted on 08.06.2021 and this council resolves to accept the report of the committee in toto.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-71
11-06-2021||India||Covid: JNU files FIR against students for library entry||Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) authorities have alleged that a group of students forcefully entered the library and continued to sit inside in violation of Covid guidelines. In a circular, the JNU registrar said an FIR has been lodged against the students who are occupying the library space since Tuesday. “This has caused health risk for the library staff and even other students residing in the hostels, since these unruly students return to hostel for lunch/dinner or other purposes. When no amount of persuasion by the librarian and the security personnel convinced these students against violating the law and Covid-19 guidelines, the JNU security office lodged a police complaint in view of the seriousness of the issue,” said the circular. Students blamed the university for disallowing their entry into the library which has been kept open for the staff. Saket Moon, a student, said that the varsity has been denying entry to students to use the reading room since April. But the library is open for officials who come for duty. “The students are demanding permission to use the reading room space by following Covid protocols. The Covid situation has improved now,” he said. N. Sai Balaji, a research student in JNU, said the students are handicapped if they are not allowed to use the varsity library. Many students are at the fag end of their research work and they need to use the library for finalisation of their theses, he said. In the circular, the varsity said no new guidelines have been announced regarding the resumption of normal academic activities on the campus. The chief proctor’s office has been tasked with taking necessary disciplinary action against these students according to the university rules. “The students occupying the library space are not permitting the library staff to sanitise the library for making it safer for students who will use the library after restoration of normalcy. All these students are hereby instructed to vacate the library immediately,” the circular said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-71
11-06-2021||India||Telangana High Court boost after CJI interaction with PM||Telangana High Court is set to witness a 75 per cent hike in its sanctioned bench strength from 24 to 42, a two-year-old demand coming to fruition after new Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana had a one-to-one interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Justice Ramana has for over a month been vigorously pursuing with Modi also the subject of filling up the 40 per cent vacancies in the country’s high courts, now working with 650 judges against a combined sanctioned strength of 1,080. The backlog of cases with the country’s 25 high courts runs into millions, with the Modi government frustrating several past Chief Justices of India’s (CJI) efforts to have them filled. The demand to increase the sanctioned bench strength in Telangana High Court, and not just fill the vacancies there, owes to its disproportionately high backlog of 2.37 lakh cases (2.03 lakh civil and 34,000 criminal cases). However, the Centre sat on the proposal for the past two years despite requests from then Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, the chief justice of Telangana High Court and the chief minister. After assuming charge as CJI in late April, Justice Ramana took up with Prime Minister Modi and law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad a host of issues concerning the judiciary, including Telangana High Court’s request. Both Modi and Prasad agreed to get the matters examined promptly. Justice Ramana then took up the subject of Telangana High Court specifically with Prasad in writing on May 27. He underlined in his letter that the proposal for a hike in the sanctioned bench strength had been hanging fire since February 2019, and stressed that filling the current vacancies would not be enough to clear the case backlog. Quoting from earlier communications, Justice Ramana affirmed that the necessary infrastructure was in place to accommodate 42 high court judges in Telangana. The law ministry conveyed to the CJI on June 6 that it had accepted the proposal. Justice Ramana gave his requisite final approval to the proposed hike on June 8, clearing the decks for the law ministry to issue the necessary notification. Sources said the proposal had been sent to Prasad as far back as February 13, 2019, by the then chief justice of Telangana High Court. The chief minister and the then Telangana governor had endorsed the suggestion. But the Union law ministry, after examining the matter in detail, kept the proposal in abeyance. It revisited the matter on a reference from the Prime Minister’s Office after the chief minister wrote to the Prime Minister. After the re-examination, the ministry wrote to the then Telangana High Court chief justice on November 15, 2019, that preference would be given to filling up the vacancies first. Thereafter the matter remained dormant till Justice Ramana’s intervention. Thirty-two of the 42 judges in Telangana High Court will be permanent judges and 10 will be additional judges, with 28 judges elevated from the Bar and 14 from the judicial services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-71
11-06-2021||India||Owner of collapsed building in Mumbai loses 9 family members||Rafique Siddiqui is too dazed to comprehend whether to thank his luck for surviving after the Mumbai building where he lived collapsed or to mourn the loss of his wife and eight other family members in the tragedy. Siddiqui, 45, who owned the three-storey building and lived there with his family, had stepped out to buy milk minutes before it collapsed. When he came back, he found his world turned upside down as nine members of his family, including his wife, brother, sister-in-law and six children from the two families, had died in the incident. Another family member suffered injuries after getting trapped under the debris and was hospitalised, Siddiqui told reporters. He is now left with his 16-year-old son, who had gone out to buy medicines when the tragedy struck. “I had gone out to buy milk for morning tea when the incident took place. I did not know the building was in a bad condition. My family members did not get any time to move out of the house when the building collapsed,” he said. Siddiqui said that when he returned, he saw a number of locals removing debris from the spot before the rescue teams arrived. A local claimed that most of the shanties in the area were set up illegally and later converted into three and four-storey structures without permission from the civic body. Most of the shanty owners live elsewhere and have rented out their premises here to poor people, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-71
11-06-2021||India||Lakshadweep islands to provide food kits to tide over Covid||The council for the Lakshadweep collector has given an undertaking before Kerala High Court that the administration would take all necessary steps to ensure people are provided food kits to tide over the Covid-19 lockdown. The relief in the form of the assurance by the district collector came as the high court division bench of Justices K. Narendran and Ziyad Rahman heard a PIL filed by K.K. Nasih, a native of Amini island and a former member of the Lakshadweep Waqf board. In its order, the court noted that the counsel for collector S. Asker Ali, who is also the chairman of the disaster management authority, has undertaken “that the administration would take necessary steps to ensure that there is no shortfall in the supply of food kits and other necessary provisions to the residents of all the islands, during the period of lockdown”. In his PIL, Nasih had pleaded for relief such as adequate supply of food kits until the lockdown is lifted. Once a green zone with no Covid cases, Lakshadweep has been under lockdown since April 28. Senior lawyer Mohammed Shah, who represented the petitioner, told The Telegraph that the court also observed that anyone with any grievances could approach the collector. “The panchayat has already filed an application before the collector. Now the people may also file similar applications,” the lawyer said alluding to the order. Nasih termed the order as a “huge relief” since the residents of the islands were suffering because of lack of income and food. “The collector has been claiming that the people are being provided ration. But that’s a blatant lie since providing some rice is not enough for the people to survive,” he told this newspaper. “At least now the administration would have to ensure they provide food kits to the people,” he said. The petitioner had pointed out how states like Kerala have been distributing free food kits comprising cooking essentials and Union Territories were making direct cash transfers to the people to purchase essential commodities. A series of contentious executive orders and draft legislations have led to massive protests in the isles. Banning beef from school midday meals, shutting down dairy farms to facilitate the entry of Gujarat-based Amul, a Goonda Act that allows the police to detain anyone for a year without trial in a place with one of the lowest crime rates, a law that empowers the administration to take over anyone’s land are some of the controversial reforms made by Praful Khoda Patel, the administrator who assumed charge in December. The administrator on Wednesday withdrew an equally controversial order to place government officials on each fishing boat to gather intelligence and monitor the activities of fishermen. But the administration did not explain why the order was being withdrawn, although popular perception was that it is practical to spare thousands of officials to board the boats that leave around 3am and return at 5pm after fishing in the sea.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-71
11-06-2021||India||Narendra Modi to attend outreach sessions of G7 summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will participate virtually in the outreach sessions of the G7 summit on June 12 and 13, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Thursday. This is the second time Modi will participate in a G7 meeting. India was invited by France in its G7 presidency to the Biarritz summit in 2019 as a 'Goodwill Partner' and he participated in the sessions on 'Climate, Biodiversity and Oceans' and 'Digital Transformation'. Last month, the MEA said Modi will not travel to the UK to attend the summit of the G7 grouping in view of the prevailing coronavirus situation in the country. The Group of Seven (G7) comprises the UK, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the US. As chair of G7, the UK has invited India, Australia, South Korea, South Africa to the summit as guest countries. "At the invitation of UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will participate in the outreach sessions of the G7 summit on June 12 and 13 in virtual format," MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said. He said the theme for the summit is 'Build Back Better' and the UK has outlined four priority areas for its presidency of the powerful grouping. "These are leading the global recovery from coronavirus while strengthening resilience against future pandemics; promoting future prosperity by championing free and fair trade; tackling climate change and preserving the planet's biodiversity; and championing shared values and open societies," Bagchi said. He said the leaders are expected to exchange views on the way forward on global recovery from the pandemic with a focus on health and climate change. Last month, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar travelled to London to participate in the G7 foreign ministers' meeting. However, he could not attend the meeting in person after two members of his delegation tested positive for Covid-19. The external affairs minister attended the meeting in virtual format.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-71
11-06-2021||India||Karnataka limits financial grant to Hindu priests||The Karnataka government has withdrawn its earlier plan to provide a one-time financial grant to priests of all religions in view of the pandemic and limited it to Hindu priests following objections raised by the Vishva Hindu Parishad. Minister for Muzrai (religious affairs) Kota Srinivasa Poojary has issued a revised instruction to the Hindu religious institutions and charitable endowments department to release the one-time grant of Rs 3,000 each only to Hindu priests by ending the decades-old tradition of helping priests, irrespective of religion, in times of trouble. Poojary had recently issued an order following the precedent set in the 1970s to allow the grant for priests of all places of worship taking into account the pandemic that has hit them hard. But the VHP, in a memorandum submitted to the minister who is from the Dakshina Kannada district, had urged him not to use funds from the Hindu endowment to help priests of other religions. “Out of 34,500 Hindu temples in Karnataka, 27,000 temples receive Rs 48,000 each every year, totalling Rs 133 crore as Tasdik grants,” he said in a video message. Tasdik grant is a compensation under Karnataka Inam Abolition Act, 1955, paid to religious institutions for their land vested in the state government. Congress lawmaker Rizwan Arshad slammed the BJP for being “a puppet in the hands of the Sangh parivar that doesn’t have the courage to stand by its own decisions”. He said there was no information on whether the government planned to disburse the grant to non-Hindu priests through any other department. “They are not giving this one-time grant out of their pockets. Neither is the state fund their ancestral property. It is taxpayers’ money that is being used to provide some relief to the needy and it’s high time this government realised that,” Arshad said. “The decision to limit the grant only to one section once again shows how hollow and shallow their ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas’ slogan is. I can only say it’s very sad and unfortunate that we are having to debate such issues in the 21st century,” he added. Imam of Juma Masjid of Bangalore, Maulana Mohammed Maqsood Imran, said he couldn’t believe his ears when he heard about the revised order. “It is very unfortunate since we are all Indians in our nation. Elected representatives should not think they are there to help only those who voted for them. Once they are elected, they represent everyone,” he told The Telegraph on Thursday. He said the state Waqf board paid salaries of around 14,000 imams and muezzins. “Like temple priests, imams and muezzins are also paid Rs 4,000 per month. What the minister announced was a one-time payment,” he said, adding even street vendors, autorickshaw drivers and all daily wage earners should be paid some money to tide over the situation. The imam expressed hope that chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa would help the suffering priests of all religions. “I have faith in the chief minister who always gives us time to meet him to address our problems and concerns. I had met him thrice already since the onset of the pandemic,” he said. Shivananda Mendon, VHP secretary of Mangalore, contented that they had only objected to the use of Hindu endowment department’s funds to pay priests of other religions. “Why use the Hindu endowment department’s money to make these payments? We have no issues if the government wants to pay them through the Waqf board or any other relevant department,” he told this newspaper. “The minister told us that the practice of using the Hindu endowment’s money for such payments is in force since the 1970s. All we wanted was to stop using the Hindu endowment money to pay non-Hindu priests,” said Mendon, one of the VHP leaders who met Poojary in Mangalore on Wednesday to submit the memorandum. Asked what was wrong in using the Hindu endowment department’s money to pay non-Hindu priests as it was government money, Mendon said: “That’s not right.” Congress lawmaker and former minister U.T. Khader termed the entire episode as the “BJP’s attempt to further polarise the people by sowing seeds of doubt in the majority community who might get the wrong impression that money from temples are being spent on mosques”. “I want the minister (Poojary) to clarify that it is the taxpayers’ money that is used to provide such relief to various communities and sections of the society,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-71
11-06-2021||West Bengal||In Bengal, the question BJP leaders are asking is, ‘After Mukul, who?’||Mukul Roy’s exit from the BJP on Friday afternoon has triggered a churning within the party in Bengal, especially among a section of leaders who were perceived to be close to him. Now, the question on most BJP leaders’ minds is after Mukul, who? Who else from the Trinamul camp will leave BJP? The disarray within the Bengal BJP was evident on Friday when at least four public representatives in North 24-Parganas district skipped a meeting called by the party’s Bengal president Dilip Ghosh. Ghosh refused to comment on Roy’s exit from the party, which is being seen as another victory for Mamata Banerjee over the BJP. “What can I do? Many of our workers are under attack in the districts. Our priority is to ensure they can return home. I don’t have the time to think about who is joining and who is quitting,” he said. Many former Trinamul leaders who had joined the BJP appeared to be treading cautiously while trying to send out signals. One of the reasons behind the sudden noises _ critical and conciliatory  _ from Trinamul turncoats in the saffron camp is that no one is sure how the BJP’s national leadership _ Narendra Modi and Amit Shah _ will respond to the developments in Calcutta. BJP MP from Bishnupur Saumitra Khan did not name Roy but called him “Mir Jafar”. “It is because of Bengal’s Mir Jafars that BJP is in such a state. The sooner they leave the better. We were foot soldiers of the BJP and we will remain so. No traitor can break our spirit to fight,” Khan tweeted. Incidentally, Khan’s entry into Parliamentary politics was by holding the hands of Roy in February 2014 when he defected from the Congress to Trinamul ahead of Rajya Sabha elections. After Roy switched to the BJP, Khan too had joined him. Apart from Khan, Arjun Singh, Nisith Pramanik, Anupam Hazra, Sabyasachi Dutta, Wilson Champramary, Sunil Singh, Biswajit Das and Mihir Goswami joined the BJP on Roy’s insistence. Another TMC turncoat in the BJP, Vaishali Dalmia, has asked BJP’s new-found poster boy in Bengal Suvendu Adhikari to get rid of the “garbage” in the party. Dutta, the former Bidhannagar mayor, has been critical of the BJP’s state leadership. At a meeting earlier this week, Dutta was vocal about his opposition to bringing leaders from outside Bengal to campaign and the party's failure to project a Bengali face against Mamata Banerjee. “I am sticking to what I have said,” Dutta said. Both within the Trinamul and the BJP, Dutta is known for his proximity to Roy. Another pro-Roy leader, Anupam Hazra, who has been sulking since he lost the 2019 Lok Sabha polls from Jadavpur contesting on a BJP ticket, has asked the BJP leadership to stop “lobbying” and involve leaders according to their skills and qualities. “Showering excessive attention to one or two leaders during the polls and sidelining other qualified leaders should be stopped… I had joined the BJP when it was under duress and I will stay here,” Hazra said in a social media post in an attempt to stall, for now, any pre-emptive strike by the BJP leadership. Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee has already made it clear that those who had betrayed the party before the elections and spread canards against it were not welcome. She was hinting at Suvendu Adhikari and his father, Sisir. Several others who had quit Trinamul before the elections, like Sonali Guha and Dipendu Biswas, have already appealed to Mamata to take them back, while others like Rajib Banerjee have started speaking out against the BJP leadership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Dilip ‘unsure’ of Mukul’s significance in BJP, Anupam Hazra blames saffron camp||Senior BJP leader Mukul Roy's return to the TMC evoked mixed reactions in the saffron camp on Friday, with its state unit president Dilip Ghosh asserting that the move will have no impact on his organisation, and former MP Anupam Hazra claiming that "lobby politics at play is adversely affecting the party". BJP state general secretary Joyprakash Majumder, on his part, extended his best wishes to Roy, and said that he should immediately quit all saffron party posts. "Mukul babu is a veteran leader, he is a known face in Bengal politics. We wish him the best in his new innings, but shouldn't he forthwith quit from the primary membership and all other posts of the BJP? Shouldn't he not resign as the MLA as he had won a seat on Lotus (BJP) symbol," Majumder said. Roy along with son Subhanshu was on Friday cordially welcomed back to the TMC by party supremo and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and other senior leaders. He had quit the TMC in 2015, after being removed from the post of the party's national general secretary, and subsequently joined the BJP two years later. Ghosh, while talking to reporters, said he was not sure if the BJP would lose anything from Roy's decision, given that he was "unsure whether we gained anything" from his entry three-and-half years back. "Right now, we are bothered about more serious issues as the cycle of violence goes on unabated in the state. We are bothered about the safety of our workers, who are being targeted by TMC activists," he added. Hazra, earlier in the day, said lobby politics with the saffron camp has led to such a situation, hours before Roy made his re-entry in the Mamata Banerjee camp. Taking to Twitter, he contended that it was high time that the state unit of the BJP put an end to the practice and utilised leaders according to their merit. The former MP, who had switched over from the TMC to the BJP in 2018, however, asserted that he will continue to be a part of the saffron camp under all circumstances. "Too much importance has been accorded to one or two leaders while ignoring and humiliating the rest. That has led to the present sad situation. There is also no trace of the royal passengers who had taken a chartered flight," the academic-turned-politician, who had unsuccessfully contested the Lok Sabha polls in 2019, said. Hazra was possibly referring to TMC turncoats Baishali Dalmiya, Rajib Banerjee and Prabir Ghosal, who had taken a chartered flight to Union Home Minister Amit Shah's residence in Delhi earlier this year. He further said, "Please don't give me the tag of a disgruntled leader for this post. I am with the BJP and will remain in the BJP. But the dirty lobby politics should come to an end. This is all I want." A section of state BJP leaders are of the view that Roy and other senior leaders, including Sabyasachi Dutta, were not accorded due importance by the saffron party top brass during the assembly elections, and only a handful of leaders, such as Suvendu Adhikari and actor-turned-politician Mithun Chakraborty were given all responsibilities. Hinting he was not made a part of important meetings, Hazra said, "Hoping to get an invite to state unit meetings of the BJP as per protocol."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Mukul Roy, the ‘prodigal son’, returns home to Trinamul||Former all-India general secretary of the Trinamul Congress Mukul Roy and his son Subhranshu returned to the party after more than three-and-a-half years of joining the BJP on Friday, ending weeks of speculation on the “return of the Prodigal”. “I can say that I am very happy to be back here in this room and seeing the old faces,” said Roy before addressing Mamata Banerjee as “our leader, India’s leader” at the Trinamul Bhawan, where he had held fort before many election campaigns. “I couldn’t continue in BJP. I don’t want to continue in BJP. That is why I have returned to my old home,” he said. “I will issue a detailed statement on why I had to leave the BJP.” Roy, who was the second-in-command till his fall from grace at TMC, was given a seat between Mamata and her heir-apparent Abhishek Banerjee. Roy and Abhishek shared a hug before Mamata handed over the microphone to him. “I have quit BJP. Nobody will remain in that party… We will see how many will come (to the Trinamul),” said Roy, who had been appointed as a national vice-president in the BJP but had little role to play in the Bengal unit in the last two years. While welcoming her old lieutenant, Mamata made it clear that the bonhomie that existed between the two was now a thing of the past, as she reminded one and all that the party had just won a landslide victory. What was left unsaid was that the Trinamul victory came while Roy was still in the BJP. “Our party is already strong,” she said when asked how Roy’s return would strengthen the Trinamul. “We have just won a landslide victory… Nobody can stay in BJP. Mukul was also pressured (to join BJP), threatened with agencies,” Mamata said. “Mukul did not say a word against us. There are moderates and extremists. Those traitors who quit the party before elections for money and other gains and abused us, we will never accept them back,” Mamata said, making it clear the Trinamul door was shut for the Adhikari family. She added that with Roy’s exit the BJP would fall like a house of cards. Architect of victory Two summers ago, Roy was being hailed as the “architect” by none other than the number two in the BJP, Amit Shah, after the party’s spectacular performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, when it bagged 18 seats. But seeds of his decision to return to the Trinamul were possibly planted in the months between the Lok Sabha and the Assembly elections. “I couldn’t continue in BJP. I don’t want to continue in BJP. That is why I have returned to my old home,” said Roy, while his son sat behind him. In November 2017, Roy was then the prized catch of the BJP and was made the head of the party’s election committee. While BJP had its own brand of home-tutored RSS-backed leaders, none of them could hope to capture the attention of the masses. Not that Roy himself was a mass leader. Only once in his life had he contested an election in 2001 but lost from the Jagaddal Assembly seat. Yet, from his days in the Trinamul, Roy was hailed as an organisational man, a strategist who knew the ins and outs of each and every polling booth of Bengal. Vice-president without a role Long before BJP turned poaching Opposition lawmakers into a national strategy, Roy had mastered it. “Though Mukul da was made a national vice-president, he did not have a specific role in the BJP. He was always a back-office man and that is what he did without being told to,” said an aide. Roy kept one eye on the organisation and another on leaders in the Trinamul who had joined politics either by clutching his hands or owed their rise to him. Barrackpore MLA Arjun Singh, Cooch Behar Trinamul leader Nisith Pramanik went on to become MPs in the BJP. Roy had entered the saffron fold holding the hands of the late Arun Jaitley and Kailash Vijaywargiya, but he never did enjoy a good rapport with the old guard, especially the Bengal unit chief, Dilip Ghosh. For the most part of his stay in the BJP, he remained inactive, while Ghosh and his men called the shots in the party. ‘Wrong tactics’ Things took a turn for the worse after the Lok Sabha results. “Though he never said it explicitly, he was not happy with the way the party was being run. He would say BJP is using the wrong tactics,” said another Roy aide. After the Lok Sabha election, the BJP opened an office at Hastings where Roy met supporters and journalists over a cup of tea in the afternoon. “There were hardly any BJP leaders who joined him there. Dada would have preferred to be in the back-office deciding on strategy, but no one was asking for his opinion,” the aide said. If that wasn’t enough, Roy found himself restricted to the Krishnagar North Assembly seat from where the BJP gave him a ticket, facilitating his maiden victory in electoral politics. His son Subhranshu lost from the Bijpur Assembly seat contesting on a BJP ticket. Saradha scam Long regarded as the Number Two in Trinamul scheme of things, Roy’s fallout with Mamata started around September 2014, when the heat of the Saradha scam was scorching the Trinamul leadership. Roy’s attempt to distance himself from a deal signed between the railway subsidiary IRCTC and Saradha during Mamata’s tenure as railway minister had irked the chief minister. One after the other, Roy’s key men were removed from their positions, and he himself was sidelined. Till December 29, 2014, Roy was the sole in-charge of handling membership and renewals, after which a six-member scrutiny committee was announced. Roy had stayed away from the first meeting of the committee held on January 1, 2015. After much speculation in November 2017, Roy formally joined the BJP, the same party, one of whose leaders had coined the slogan: “Bhag Mukul Bhag”. On Friday, Mukul ran away from the BJP to return to the Trinamul. “As long as he was in the party, he focussed himself on the organisational role. He was not hankering after personal glory. He did whatever he was told. Though differences had cropped up, he never worked against the interest of the party,” said a Trinamul source. In better light This gesture of Roy showed him in a better light against the likes of the Adhikari family. Sisir Adhikari continues to be a Trinamul MP, while campaigning for the BJP in the Assembly polls. It is expected Roy will formally quit his maiden Assembly seat Krishnagar North, like he did with the Rajya Sabha seat which he resigned from after quitting Trinamul. The buzz in Trinamul is that Roy could be offered either of the two Rajya Sabha seats vacated by Dinesh Trivedi and Manas Bhunia. While Trivedi has joined the BJP, Bhunia is a minister in the Mamata cabinet. Mukul Roy's " homecoming" has dominated speculation in Bengal for weeks, ever since the state election results that returned Mamata Banerjee to power with a landslide against the BJP's challenge. The buzz intensified last week when Abhishek Banerjee, the nephew of Mamata Banerjee and a key leader of her party, visited Roy at the hospital where his wife is admitted. The very next day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi reportedly spoke to Roy on the phone to ask about his wife's health. Roy's silence and his absence from a key BJP meet in Calcutta were seen to be big hints that the reports were true.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Pranab's son quashes rumours of joining TMC||Dispelling rumours, Late President Pranab Mukherjee's son, Abhijit Mukherjee, on Friday made it clear that he is not leaving the Congress unlike his friend Jitin Prasada. Television channels and a few newspapers had reported he would be joining the Trinamool Congress on Friday afternoon. "I remain in the Congress and reports that I am joining Trinamool or any other party are not correct," Mukherjee, a former Lok Sabha MP and Congress Campaign Committee chairman during the assembly elections, told PTI over phone. Mukherjee had good relations with Jitin Prasada when they were colleagues in the Congress Parliamentary Party, and the Late President was also known to be fond of him and his father Jitendra Prasada. Mukherjee, an engineer-turned politician who won twice from Jangipur constituency, said in a lighter vein: "I am nearly 300 km away from the Trinamool Bhavan right now, sitting in Jangipur House... so, unless someone can teleport me, it would be impossible for me to join any party this afternoon." He said the rumours probably arose after some of his father's former Congress colleagues "who are now in Trinamool" had come to have tea with him. "They included MP Khalilur Rahman from Jangipur, MP Abu Taher Khan from Murshidabad and TMC ministers Akhrruzzaman and Sabina Yesmin. "But, I have known them for long, as they were close to my father... to speculate that just because friends came to meet me, I will join TMC, is stretching it too far," Mukherjee said. Pranab Mukherjee had won from Jangipur twice in 2004 and 2009, before becoming President of India. Several projects started by him, including a branch of the Aligarh Muslim University in the district, an Army cantonment and a management college, are now bearing fruit. Abhijit Mukherjee said he had also been involved with some of these projects as an MP, and most of his interactions with state leaders are based on these developments, "besides normal social relations with old friends".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Mukul on way to Trinamul office, the buzz he is quitting BJP ||Senior BJP leader Mukul Roy is likely to return to his parent party, the All India Trinamul Congress after more than three and-a-half years, sources close to him said in Friday amid widespread speculation over the last couple of weeks. “Yes, I am going to Trinamul Bhawan,” Roy told newspersons outside his Salt Lake residence a little after 2pm. Chief minister and Trinamul supremo Mamata Banerjee has called a meeting with key party  leaders at the party headquarters, where the issue of turncoats "returning home" is likely to be discussed, at 3pm. Long regarded as the Number Two in Trinamul scheme of things, Roy’s fallout with Mamata started around September 2014, when the heat of Saradha scam was scorching the Trinamul leadership. Roy’s attempt to distance himself from a deal signed between the railway subsidiary IRCTC and Saradha during Mamata’s tenure as railway minister had irked the chief minister. One after the other, Roy’s key men were removed from their positions, and he himself was sidelined. Till December 29, 2014, Roy was the sole in-charge of handling membership and renewals, after which a six-member scrutiny committee was announced. Roy had stayed away from the first meeting of the committee held on January 1, 2015. After much speculation in November 2017, Roy formally joined the BJP, the same party, one of whose leaders had coined the slogan: Bhag Mukul Bhag. Mukul ran to the BJP and on Friday was likely to be making a reverse journey to the Trinamul. “As long as he was in the party, he focussed himself on the organisational role. He was not hankering after personal glory. He did whatever he was told. Though differences had cropped up, he never worked against the interest of the party,” said a Trinamul source. This gesture of Roy makes him stand in a better light against the likes of the Adhikary family. Sisir Adhikary continues to be a Trinamul MP, while campaigning for the BJP in the Assembly polls. It is expected Roy will formally quit his maiden Assembly seat Krishnagar North, like he did with the Rajya Sabha seat which he resigned from after quitting Trinamul. The buzz in Trinamul is that Roy could be offered either of the two Rajya Sabha seats vacated by Dinesh Trivedi and Manas Bhunia. Trivedi has joined the BJP and Bhunia is a minister in the Mamata cabinet. Sources said Roy had told close associates about feeling "suffocated" in the BJP and that his frustration grew with the BJP's defeat in the Bengal election. The former Trinamool MP has concluded, said sources, that the BJP's political culture and ethos was alien to Bengal. "No one has their finger on their pulse of the people like Mamata Banerjee," sources close to Mukul Roy said quoting the leader as saying. "Certainly not the BJP or those who have jumped from Trinamool," he reportedly said, reported ndtv.com. Mukul Roy's " homecoming" has dominated speculation in Bengal for weeks, ever since the state election results that returned Mamata Banerjee to power with a landslide against the BJP's challenge. The buzz intensified last week when Abhishek Banerjee, the nephew of Mamata Banerjee and a key leader of her party, visited Roy at the hospital where his wife is admitted. The very next day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi reportedly spoke to Roy on the phone to ask after his wife health. Roy's silence and his absence from a key BJP meet in Calcutta were seen to be big hints that the reports were true.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Nadia siblings lose parents to Covid||For 80-year-old Sandhya Saha, life has thrown before her an unprecedented challenge. The octogenarian who lost her son and daughter-in-law to Covid-19 barely within two weeks of each other now wants to live longer so that she can take care of her grandchildren Souvik, 16, and Soumit, 8. The challenge has become even more tough for Sandhya in Nadia’s Aranghata as she awaits help from the district administration and wants some Good Samaritans to step forward. The uncertainty of Sandhya and her dependents will linger on for some time as the administration has no idea what to do for the children who lost parents to Covid. On May 19, Sandhya’s son Utpal, 51, a readymade-garment seller, died at a Covid hospital in Kalyani. On June 4, Utpal’s wife, Kajalrani, succumbed to Covid at the same hospital. Souvik was scheduled to appear in this year’s Madhyamik examination, whereas Soumit will move to Class II. Sandhya’s husband is no more and she has another son who lacks financial means to take care of Souvik and Soumit. The deaths of their parents have created a survival crisis for the young siblings, for whom neighbours have come up in support. “I don’t know how they will survive. We have almost no resources apart from the house. Neighbours are helping us. I am praying to God to keep me alive so that I can take care of them,” said Sandhya and added that she had approached the local panchayat member, Rekha Ghosh, but did not receive any assurance. “I am trying to help them personally, but I have no idea how to arrange for official benefits to ensure their (the children’s) well-being,” said Ghosh. Last week, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPRC), in an affidavit submitted to the Supreme Court, stated six-step schemes to monitor the well-being of children orphaned by the pandemic. According to the affidavit, as of May 29, there were 1,742 children whose both parents died of the novel coronavirus. At the same time, the women and child development ministry has issued guidelines for the rehabilitation of such orphan children. The ministry stated in a notification that if any child lost both parents to Covid with no one else to look after them, the child needed to be produced before the District Child Welfare Committee (CWC) within 24 hours. “The CWC shall ascertain the immediate need of the child and pass appropriate orders for rehabilitation of the child, either to restore the child to caregivers or place her/him in institutional or non-institutional care, on a case-to-case basis,” the notification stated. However, even five days after the two brothers’s parents died, the CWC has remained in the dark. The chairman of the Nadia District Child Welfare Committee, Tiya Biswas, said: “I have no idea. Nothing has also been communicated to me by district authorities so far.” Ranaghat subdivisional officer Rana Karmakar said: “I have heard about the incident and advised the local BDO to share details. But nothing has been reported to me so far.” Repeated calls made by this correspondent to the Ranaghat 2 BDO went unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul leaders in Darjeeling and Kalimpong seek elected rural faces||Trinamul leaders in Darjeeling and Kalimpong hills have decided to underscore the necessity of having elected panchayat functionaries in the hills before central leaders of the party. They also seek to inform senior state ministers like Subrata Mukherjee that having elected panchayat boards in the hills would help the Mamata Banerjee government expedite implementation of social welfare schemes in the rural areas. In the hills, the area under the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council (DGHC) earlier and now under the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), the last panchayat samiti election was held in 2000. The region comprises Darjeeling district, minus Siliguri subdivision, and the entire Kalimpong district. After the DGHC was formed in 1988 through a constitutional amendment, the three-tier panchayat system changed to two-tier, without the uppermost tier or the zilla parishad, and with gram panchayat and panchayat samiti remaining. “However, since then, elections for the panchayat samiti (the second tier), have never been held in hills. The only election was for 70 gram panchayats spread across eight blocks. As elections in the panchayat samiti were not held after 2000, there is no elected representative in the panchayats since 2005. For past 16 years, these rural bodies are being managed by officials and employees,” said a veteran in hill politics. Also, after the GTA was formed in 2012, its board members were elected. However, the tenure of the elected board of GTA expired in 2017, and since then, there is no elected member. For almost three years now, the GTA is being run by a board of administrators. L.B. Rai, the president of Darjeeling (hills) Trinamul, said they would soon pass a resolution in the party on the issue. “We will send the resolution to the chief minister, also our party chief, that it is a must to have elected rural bodies in the hills. A delegation of the party will meet state panchayat and rural development minister Subrata Mukherjee on the issue. The rural polls in hills are important as it would help in faster implementation of social welfare and infrastructure schemes and help the state reach out to the rural populace,” said Rai. A senior Trinamul leader in the hills said that young voters hardly know about panchayat elections and it was time rural bodies are revived.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Villagers vow to save embankment in coastal North 24-Parganas||Thousands of villagers in coastal North 24-Parganas, including a part of the Sunderbans, are spending a sleepless night on the eve of the high tide set to hit Bengal’s coastline on Friday evening. Ignoring repeated appeals to shift to safe locations, these villagers at Hansnabad, Sandeshkhali, Hingalganj, and Minakha have decided to lodge themselves close to the earthen embankment of rivers like Raimangal, Bidyadhari, Dasa, and Goureswar by erecting tents so that they can pitch in to save the dykes and take immediate protective measures, if possible, if high tidal waves cause a breach. Around 1,000 families had been evacuated from these areas a day before Cyclone Yaas on May 26. These families have returned home some two days ago and begun repairing their damaged properties. As high tides are expected to lash the areas on June 11 and 26, they were told by the district administration to move to shelters, but most refused. “It’s useless to move to the rescue centre. Survival is a burden without home and livelihood. So, we decided to stay back despite the odds and have vowed to fight to save the embankment if necessary,” said Suchitra Mandal, a homemaker, as she sat inside a tarpaulin tent mounted on trees on the banks of Goureswar river. Homemakers Anupama Mondal, Anita Barui and Bandana Mondal echoed Suchitra. “We came home on Wednesday after staying at the flood shelter since May 25. Officials today (Thursday) came and asked us to return to the shelter before Friday’s high tide. But we won’t move. Unless we can protect the embankment, our survival will be forever at stake,” a woman said. “Most of the dykes here are very weak as they have been freshly repaired. These could be damaged again. We will try to protect these stretches during the high tide with sandbags and mud,” a villager said. An official of North 24-Parganas district administration in Basirhat said: “Repair of embankments is on and we have assured villagers of all possible protection. We have asked them to leave villages in coastal belts but many have refused to oblige.” After Yaas wreaked havoc on May 26, chief minister Mamata Banerjee expressed displeasure about the quality of the irrigation department’s work to repair embankments. In view of the impending high tides, she had advised officials to complete repair of damaged dykes by June 9. But work remains incomplete at most places where Yaas had hit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal cabinet clears proposals on thika tenancy land to convert into lessees of state govt||The Bengal cabinet on Thursday cleared four proposals from tenants on thika tenancy land in Calcutta to convert them into lessees of the state government, a move that would enable the beneficiaries to avail themselves of bank loans to develop their dwelling units. “The state government had brought in an amendment to the West Bengal Thika Tenancy (Acquisition and Regulation) Act in 2019 to allow tenants on the land to become lessees. The cabinet today cleared first four proposals after the amendment,” a minister present at the cabinet meeting told The Telegraph. Several big slums in south and north Calcutta and Howrah are located on thika tenancy land, which the government had acquired from zamindars after the Independence. However, the government had allowed the tenants to continue to occupy the land. The 2019 amendment enabled the tenants to become the lessees who have rights to develop their homes on the thika land. In Calcutta, there are about 2,000 acres of thika tenancy land, while Howrah has 517 acres. So far, the tenants and sub-tenants of the plots could not apply for bank loans to build homes. “As they will be lessees of the government now, they can secure bank loans and develop houses, majority of which are in a shambles. This will definitely change the landscape of the slums,” said an official. As the state government has already removed the height cap of 9.5 meters of structures on these plots, the tenants and their sub-tenants would be able to construct taller buildings, sources said. “So far, four tenants had applied through the rent controller to convert them into lessees. The applications were forwarded to the cabinet which okayed them. All the applicants are living on two to three cottahs of land. We hope we will get more applications from the tenants in near future,” said the minister. The state government has also fixed an easy term to convert the tenants into lessees. “They have to pay a salami of Re 1 only and their annual lease rent would be 0.3 per cent of the current price of their plots,” said an official. The sources have said nearly 20 lakh families are living on thika tenancy land in Calcutta, Howrah and Asansol. Although one can sub-lease their plots, it is unlikely that private builders would be interested in the land located in some of the prime areas of Calcutta, the sources said. All the families hold a very small quantity of land — upto 3 cottahs — and major private builders would not be interested in investing in very small plots. “Our target is to ensure that tenants get bank loans to develop their homes. This can change the landscape of the slums. We don’t want the entry of private builders in the slums to protect the interest of the poor,” said the minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata keeps pre-poll pledge, hikes farmer aid from Rs 6,000 to Rs 10,000 ||The Bengal cabinet on Thursday stamped  its seal of approval on chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s pre-poll promise to enhance the annual financial assistance to farmers to Rs 10,000 from Rs 6,000 under the Krishak Bandhu Scheme. The saffron ecosystem has been attempting  to question the Trinamul government’s commitment to farmers. “The cabinet cleared a proposal put forward by the agriculture department to enhance financial assistance to Rs 10,000 under the Krishak Bandhu Scheme.… The chief minister had promised this ahead of the polls in the manifesto and now is the time to deliver,” said a minister who attended the meeting at Nabanna on Thursday. This direct benefit transfer scheme for the farmers, added the minister, would establish that the Trinamul government is more concerned about the well-being of the farmers than the Narendra Modi regime at the Centre that offers Rs 6,000 under the PM Kisan scheme. Sources in the agriculture department said that all the 62 lakh farmers, registered under the state scheme, would benefit from it as it is not conditional. “All the farmers who have more than one acre would get Rs 10,000 annually. Those who have less than an acre would at least get Rs 4,000 annually. Even sharecroppers are eligible under the scheme,” said the official. On the other hand, the central scheme offers Rs 6,000 annually to the farmers. Those farmers who have income tax payers, government employees, retired government employees with over Rs 10,000 monthly pension, doctors, engineers, chartered accountants, lawyers and architects in the family are not eligible under PM Kisan. Sources in Nabanna added that the state scheme is more lucrative because of some other factors. “The state scheme has several other benefits, including compensation of Rs 2 lakh, in case of premature death of a farmer. As the state scheme does not prevent any farmer from getting assistance from any other scheme, the farmers can avail of both the central and the state schemes,” said an official. The enhancement of the assistance under the state scheme comes at a time when the central PM Kisan scheme has also been launched in Bengal and more than seven lakh farmers got their first instalment of Rs 2,000 in May this year. For the past two years, the central scheme could not be implemented in the state due to the Trinamul government’s resistance. But in November last year, the chief minister had agreed to implement PM Kisan in the state after 23 lakh farmers had applied for the scheme. The PM Kisan had become a political issue during the Assembly poll campaign during which scores of BJP leaders, including Modi, had accused the Bengal government of depriving farmers in Bengal by not implementing the scheme. In his campaign rallies, Modi had promised to release two years’ backlog under the scheme if the BJP formed the government in Bengal and transfer Rs 18,000 to the accounts of all the farmers. “The chief minister had countered the allegation by claiming that the state’s scheme was better than the central one. Now, she has proven that,” said a senior official. Another official said that the move would help the ruling party to strengthen its support base in the rural areas, where agriculture remains the sole means to earn livelihood. “Trinamul performed well in the rural belts of Hooghly, Birbhum and East Burdwan though it had faced electoral debacle in these areas in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. So it is clear that Trinamul is trying to consolidate its position in these areas,” said another official. Sources in Nabanna also said that they were expecting to bring more farmers under the state scheme by relaxing the norms for registration. “There are 73 lakh farmers in the state. The scheme so far covered 62 lakh farmers. We expect to reach out to more farmers soon as the eligibility norms have been relaxed,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Infection from wild elephant’s leg removed surgically in Bankura ||A wild elephant, which had been roaming with an iron chain tied to the right front leg for the past two years and developed an infection, was tranquillised and operated on successfully in Bankura on Thursday evening. Forest officers said the 25-year-old tusker had been caught and chained after tranquillisation in 2019 after it had killed three persons in Bankura. But the animal fled with a chain on the right front leg on regaining senses when efforts were on to release it into a forest in Purulia’s Bandwan. “Before the last chain was released, the elephant regained senses and fled with a chain still attached to the front right leg. As its muscles grew, the clamp of the chain began to sit tightly on the leg and a sore developed,” said a forest officer. Kalyan Rai, the divisional forest officer of Bankura north division said: “Our team which had a vegetarian tracked down the animal last month and cut the chain today (Thursday). The elephant was released after antibiotics were administered on the wound and it is under observation in the Bankura forest.” Sources said the full-grown male elephant was from Dalma range of Jharkhand and had entered Bengal through Purulia. Officers said the operation was crucial as infections could make wild elephants lose mental balance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal reports rise in total active cases by 17 after a gap||Bengal on Thursday reported the first rise, albeit by 17, in its total of active Covid-19 cases since May 21, 20 days ago, as only 5,170 recoveries were logged, compared to 5,274 new infections detected. The state also recorded 87 deaths. Total active cases, peaking at 1,32,181 on May 21, had fallen by around 89 per cent till Wednesday, before Thursday’s minor rise. Bengal has a total of 14,719 active cases now. “There have been enough positive indicators for weeks now for us to assume that this  mini spike is an aberration and that we will stay on course to completing the turnaround after the second wave peak,” said a minister. Recovery rate was static, for the first time after a 39-day spell of rise, at 97.83 per cent, also the all-time high this pandemic. The national recovery rate too remained 94.71. Bengal has 1.25 per cent of the national total of active cases, and was 13th among states with the most active cases. Daily confirmation rate, which had peaked in the second wave at nearly 33 per cent, fell to 7.96 per cent on Thursday. The state now has a total of 14.48 lakh cases, since the first was reported on March 17 last year. It includes 14.16 lakh recoveries, and 16,642 deaths. Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.14 per cent, while the nation’s is 1.23. Of the 87 deaths reported on Thursday, 24 each were from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. While Calcutta logged 485 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 966. The total of active cases in the two districts, which was over 53,000, is less than 4,000 now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Wife of Covid victim continues food distribution initiative among needy||Nandita Sinha, wife of Kajal Sinha, the main patron of the Khardah Sanskriti Mancha, a social outfit in North 24-Parganas, who died of Covid during the eight-phase Bengal polls, distributes food among the needy. Sinha, a Trinamul candidate from Khardah, and his aides had started this much-needed service during the Covid-induced lockdown. After his demise, his wife and followers have carried on with the initiative of distributing food among the poor by running community kitchens. “These (lockdown-like) restrictions have created hardship for the poor by robbing them of livelihood opportunities...We are trying to help them by providing food packets to at least 1,200 people belonging to the marginalised sections (in a day),” said Nandita.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari pushes for CAA pill to recharge BJP||BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari has reportedly urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah to expedite the process of implementing the CAA in Bengal. Several BJP insiders this reporter spoke to said stress on implementing the CAA was viewed by state unit leaders as the most potent way to revive the party’s fortunes in Bengal. “Our leaders, including Suvenduda, believe dividing the electorate on religious lines is the only way to expand the BJP in Bengal. To do so, there can be no better weapon than to bring the CAA back in the political discourse,” a state BJP office bearer said. “This is why he lobbied with the Union government for its immediate implementation.” In Delhi on Tuesday and Wednesday, Suvendu called on Modi, Shah and BJP’s national chief J.P. Nadda. He also met two BJP MPs from Bengal, Saumitra Khan and Arjun Singh, on Wednesday on how to start a fresh political movement in the state around the CAA. At a time several elected BJP MLAs are in touch with Trinamul and scores of foot soldiers have become idle or switched over to the Trinamul, the CAA can recharge the saffron party in Bengal, many believe. Though the BJP got 77 seats in the Bengal polls, it fared well in the Assembly segments inhabited by social groups that support the CAA. It won 30 of the 54 Assemblies in north Bengal and 12 of the 14 Assemblies under Bongaon and Ranaghat Lok Sabha seats. While most seats that the BJP won in north Bengal are dominated by the Rajbanshis, the Matuas hold sway in the Bongaon and Ranaghat Lok Sabha areas. Both Scheduled Caste communities, they vocally support the CAA. On the other hand, Trinamul performed exceptionally well in Muslim-dominated districts of Malda and Murshidabad, earlier traditional Congress bastions. Leaders in the Trinamul have often pointed out that results in these areas went their way as the Muslims believed that only Mamata Banerjee could stop the implementation of the CAA. “Poll data bear proof that the electorate can be divided over the CAA. If we wish to increase our vote share to an extent where we can finally wrest power in the state we have to tread the CAA path ,” a state leader said. The BJP is hoping talks of rolling out CAA will trigger a chain of reactions such as Mamata hitting the streets and the Muslim community protesting against the Act. “The moment these two things happen, polarisation will start.... That's the ideal situation for us,” said a source. The Union home ministry is yet to frame the rules to the implement the CAA. But last month it issued a gazette notification granting powers under existing rules to authorities in 13 districts of Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Haryana and Punjab to accept, verify and approve citizenship applications from members of minority communities hailing from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh. The parliament had given the home ministry an extension till July 9 to frame rules for the law. However, sources said Bengal BJP wants the Centre to implement CAA in Bengal fast.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Government starts rehabilitation of vulnerable families in Sunderbans||The state government has started a process to rehabilitate hundreds of families which are perennially exposed to vagaries of nature as their homes are situated on an island surrounded by two rivers and the Bay of Bengal. The process started with 35 families being shifted from Ghoramara — a small island at Sagar in South 24-Parganas. A 6.5km stretch of an embankment on the island was washed away by Cyclone Yaas on May 26. The rehabilitation has been kicked off ahead of high tides on June 11. Sources said the 35 families would be taken to a government land in Dhaspur-Sumatinagar 2 gram panchayat in Sagar and would be initially sheltered at government accommodations. This is the first time that the government has taken an initiative to rehabilitate people from any vulnerable island in the Sunderbans. Ghoramara, which is among small gram panchayats in Bengal and has a population of roughly 5000, is located around 92km from Calcutta. The island is surrounded by the Hooghly and the Battala rivers and the Bay of Bengal. “We will shift 35 families from the island to a safe place in Sagar because of the vulnerability of their homes, which are situated close to river embankments. There are many other families which need to be shifted from the island but we will do it in phases,” Sunderbans affairs minister Bankim Hazra said. Sources said the decision of rehabilitation was taken after the island had faced severe damage during back-to-back cyclones in the past three years. However, the local people say the impact was highest in Cyclone Yaas as a large stretch of the embankment was washed away. “It has become a challenge for us to save the lives and livelihood of around 1,150 families living on this island. Most of the families have bought land at several places like Kakdwip and Sagar. We are now identifying those who have no money to shift themselves from here,” said Sanjib Sagar, the chief of Ghoramara gram panchayat. Officials said several of those families were facing problems of livelihood as saline water kept entering the island after the breach in the embankment. The coming high tides will further affect means of livelihood at Ghoramara, said a villager. Before Yaas, the government had shifted around 2,500 people from the island and sheltered them in different cyclone centres by boats. After the warning of high tides, a process to shift the rest of the families has been started. “We had appealed to the government to shift as many families as they can from this island. Most of the people lost their houses in Yaas just a few days ago. Now, they are being evacuated again. Is it possible to flee from your house every fortnight?” asked Surajit Kar, a resident of Ghoramara island. The officials said many families from the island had already moved out of Ghoramara to Sagar or Kakdwip in the past 10 years as means of livelihood on the island were at stake. “But there are a lot of poor people who have nowhere to go. The government will provide them with land to set up houses outside the island,” said an official. Asked about the state of the breached dyke, an irrigation department official said they were trying to save the island by reconstructing the damaged embankments. He, however, admitted that earthen embankment could not be a permanent solution to protect the island from natural calamities. “We have already landed machines and started reconstruction of the embankment on the Ghoramara island,” said Kalyan Dey, the executive engineer of the irrigation department in Kakdwip.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Chinese national held by BSF in Malda’s Kaliachak||A Chinese national was nabbed by the BSF in Malda’s Kaliachak on Thursday morning, soon after he crossed the Bangladesh border illegally to enter India. BSF sources said it was not clear why Han Junwei of Hebei province, north China, had entered India without a visa. He crossed fences of the India-Bangladesh border at Milik-Sultanpur village under Akondabaria panchayat of Kaliachak around 6am. “From the border, he was taken to the BSF camp where he was frisked. It was found that he was carrying Indian, Bangladesh and US currencies. In addition, a laptop, a Chinese passport, a visa issued by the Government of Bangladesh and electronic gadgets, including three mobile phones, were found on him,” said a BSF source. No Indian visa, however, was found in his possession. “We are trying to know if he had a proper Indian visa. It appears he was trying to infiltrate India with a definite motive. He is being grilled on his purpose of infiltrating India,” a senior BSF official said, choosing not to be named. BSF authorities, however, did not issue a formal statement about nabbing Han. Sources said Han was under BSF custody and had not been handed over to Malda district police till Thursday evening. Police refused to comment on the issue. However, sources said the BSF officials were looking into all aspects of the situation. “This (infiltration) appears unusual. It is being probed if he was denied an Indian visa and hence was trying to get inside India via Bangladesh, and entering India through Malda which has a long stretch of porous border with Bangladesh,” a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Three persons held for illegal sale of blood units in Malda||Three persons, including a contractual employee of a blood bank, allegedly involved in illegal selling of blood units were arrested in Malda on Wednesday night. Alok Rajoria, the superintendent of police, Malda, said that Sujit Roy, Moloy Kundu and Debabrata Dutta had been picked up from the blood bank premises of the Malda Medical College & Hospital. “Preliminary investigations have revealed that Roy was a contractual employee of the blood bank at the MMCH and two others are his associates,” the police chief added. Sources said the demand for blood in the district went too high during the second wave of the pandemic. “On one hand, there was a high demand for blood and its components while on the other hand, less number of blood donation camps were held because of the Assembly polls and the pandemic. Altogether, the situation made the crisis formidable,” said Uttam Jha, secretary of the Malda District Voluntary Blood Donors’ Association. “To take advantage of the crisis, a racket became active and unfortunately, with the help of people like Roy, who have access to the blood bank, they started illegally selling blood. It has been alleged that they have sold a unit of blood for Rs 2,000 to Rs 3,000,” Jha added. Majibul Haque, in-charge of the blood bank of the MMCH, said that strong action would be taken against Roy, the contractual employee of the blood bank. “A departmental enquiry has been ordered against the accused contractual staff,” Haque added. The police said a probe had been initiated to find out details of the crime and also to trace other members of the racket.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Vaccine priority for health workers family members||The Bengal government has asked district administrations to vaccinate family members of health care workers directly involved in the treatment of Covid patients on a priority basis, terming them as “at risk” and “potential spreaders”. The state health and family welfare department has also directed the district magistrates and chief medical officers (health) across the state to undertake similar vaccination drives for family members of informal health care providers (IHCP) who have been tending to Covid patients in the rural areas. “This decision should have been taken by the state government much earlier. Many family members of doctors, nurses and other health care workers had tested positive and also died. However, it is a good decision which should be implemented fast”, said a doctor attached to a government-run hospital. On May 25, the state health department issued a list of categories of people who needed to be vaccinated on a priority basis stating them as potential super-spreaders. The state government enlists over one lakh health care workers including doctors, nurses, medical technologists, pharmacists, GDA, and ambulance drivers. The number of informal health care providers across the state is around 2.5 lakh, who have been included in the Covid patient support programme in the rural areas. Manoj Chakraborty, state president of the Progressive Rural Physician Welfare Association, West Bengal, an organisation of the IHCP, said: “Vaccination of family members of all categories of health care workers involved in Covid management was our longstanding demand. We are thankful to chief minister Mamata Banerjee for considering our demand.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
11-06-2021||North East||Himanta Biswa Sarma harps on birth control||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Thursday said the state government will soon take “more steps” to encourage population control and sought the help of the minority community in its endeavour. Sarma made the comments while reacting to the demand by a few organisations to rehabilitate people evicted by the administration from Darrang, Hojai, Sonitpur and Karimganj districts. The new government completed a month in office on Thursday, and it became clear from Sarma’s views that population control will be a priority area of his government. While justifying the recent eviction drive from government and forest land, Sarma harped on the fact that population growth was the root of many social ills such as poverty and encroachment and these can be checked only if birth control measures are adopted in the right earnest, especially by the Muslim community. Assam’s population growth between 2001 and 2011 was over 17 per cent, which government documents say may become unsustainable in the long run. Sarma also tried to convey the same with his stress on growing population pressure on land and jobs in the absence of industry. “One section is saying there should be no eviction but we cannot allow people to encroach temple and forest land. I think organisations such as the AIUDF and AAMSU have to think about population control.… Instead of criticising the government, they (critics) should think about how to ensure small family size,” Sarma said, making it clear eviction will continue. The AIUDF, led by Dhubri MP Badruddin Ajmal, fought the recent Assembly elections as part of the Congress-led mahajot and is often accused by the ruling BJP of espousing the cause of immigrant Muslims while the All Assam Minorities Students Union (AAMSU) is a leading student organisation representing both the religious and linguistic minorities. Revealing the government’s decision to expedite granting of land pattas (documents) to tribal people as “they are protecting our forests”, Sarma said: “The Assam government is going to take few more steps which will encourage population control and I want to work with AAMSU and AIUDF on this front.” Sarma said a population policy was already in place and the government would implement it soon. “We are working on it (population policy) but more particularly we want to work with the minority Muslim community to reduce population, the root cause of social issues such as poverty and encroachment. We can remove these if the immigrant Muslims adopt decent family planning policy. This will be my appeal to them.” Assam’s Muslims are estimated to constitute over 34 per cent of its over 3.2 crore population. Sarma added: “To reduce poverty we have to spread education among Muslim women, control population. We are there to support them (Muslim organisations) in women’s education and reducing poverty but that cannot be reduced without controlling population. We are ready to work with them. They have to respect the government’s thinking and work accordingly.” The state Assembly had in 2017 adopted the Population and Women Empowerment Policy of Assam. In 2019, the state cabinet headed by Sarbananda Sonowal adopted the two-child norm for government jobs and initiation of action against those with permanent jobs going for a third child. The two measures were to become effective from January 1, 2021. AAMSU president Rejaul Karim Sarkar welcomed Sarma’s appeal. “We are on the same page with government on checking population growth and according importance to the education of Muslim women. Besides education, the government should also improve health and transport in sar (sandbar) and other underdeveloped areas,” he said. Sarkar also appealed to Sarma to undertake a survey and rehabilitate the landless people before carrying out eviction drives. “According to us there are over 25 lakh people who lost their land due to erosion. They are also Indians and they need to be rehabilitated. We have written a letter to the chief minister seeking to meet him to convey our problems. We hope we will get the appointment soon. We also hope the government implements measures to check population growth soon, ” Sarkar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-2
11-06-2021||Opinion||At long last||Sir — The prime minister was left with no other option but to engage in course-correction by announcing free vaccines for all above 18 and relieving states and Union territories of the burden to procure vaccines for themselves, after a rap on the knuckle from the Supreme Court on the vaccination policy (“About-turn”, June 9). Last week, the court had observed that the policy of the Centre of conducting free vaccination for groups under the first two phases, and then replacing it with paid vaccination for states and private hospitals for people between 18-44 years was prima facie arbitrary and irrational. With private hospitals still being allowed to take 25 per cent of the vaccines, the Centre also needs to lay down a policy to prevent a handful of metro-based private players with no rural presence from cornering disproportionately high quantities of vaccines for themselves. The need to vaccinate those in rural India must be recognized and acted upon. Patting its own back for combating this pandemic and unfairly blaming the states for the policy mess-up, the prime minister is not willing to even own up the moral responsibility for the loss of thousands of lives, whether for want of oxygen or of hospital beds. One must now wait for the Centre’s affidavit to be filed, as directed by the apex court, including its road map to vaccinate the entire population. S.K. Choudhury, Bangalore  Sir — Narendra Modi has at last realized that providing vaccines to all the citizens for free is the Centre’s duty. All earlier dispensations had figured out that infectious diseases can spread across states and affect people in all parts of the country. So they tried to contain diseases like measles, tuberculosis and polio in all states. Now Modi, too, has understood that he would not be able to confine the coronavirus to Opposition-ruled states only. Few countries have witnessed a scenario where the same vaccine is sold to different buyers at different prices. Even the apex court could not hide its anguish, failing to comprehend the rationale behind this plan. Modi tried his best to highlight his own prudence in taking this decision, justifying his earlier stance by saying that the Centre did not make any arrangements because the states wanted to collect the vaccines at their own expense. But this step came only after the apex court, the press and the Opposition parties raised questions about the Rs 35,000 crore earmarked in the budget for Covid management. Anyway, better late than never. Somak Ghosh, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
11-06-2021||Opinion||Flickering flame||After pronouncing that “every journalist is entitled to protection” from charges of sedition, the Supreme Court may soon begin a review of the constitutional validity of Section 124A. It’s axiomatic that the abolition of seditious libel will help in protecting certain kinds of free speech. But the bigger question is this: is the law of sedition the only or, for that matter, the biggest impediment in our path to a freer future? More pertinently, what is the role of the higher judiciary beyond reading down or striking off a statute? Does our Constitution instruct that the Supreme Court should exercise the counter-majoritarian power of judicial oversight rarely and sparingly? Or is it a living Constitution that mandates eternal judicial vigilance? It’s not just the indiscriminate use of Section 124A that is stifling free speech and diminishing our democracy. It’s the systemization of harassment and the weaponization of every possible piece of law to persecute opponents and critics of the government that are extenuating individual freedoms and civil liberties. So even if Section 124A goes, the punishment of ‘seditious libel’ will continue in one form or the other. Governments of all stripes have sought to suppress dissent. But some governments go further, they systematize the witch-hunt of those they consider ‘disloyal’, ‘subversive’ or ‘traitors’. The government of the US president, John Adams, prosecuted dozens of Republican senators, journalists and writers under the Alien and the Sedition Acts of 1798 for “false, scandalous and malicious writing”. One  hundred and forty years later, at the height of the ‘red scare’, the Harry Truman government set up a House Committee to investigate ‘disloyalty’ and ‘rebellion’ among private citizens. From 1950 to 1954, the senator, John McCarthy, carried out an unprecedented purge of ‘communists’. But what puts the Narendra Modi regime in a league of its own is that there is hardly an example of a constitutional democracy weaponizing ordinary laws like those on corruption, money-laundering, income tax evasion, information technology and rules on foreign exchange to crush the Opposition and muzzle the dissenters as the Modi government has done. Section 124A is only one of the quivers in the vast legal armoury deployed against ‘urban-naxals’, ‘sickularists’, ‘anti-nationals’ and ‘agents of Pakistan’. More commonly (mis)used laws include the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, Prevention of Money Laundering Act, National Security Act, Public Safety Act, Prevention of Corruption Act, Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act, Information Technology Act and provisions of the Indian Penal Code like Sections 153B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national-integration) and 505(2) (statements conducing to public mischief). The sheer range of laws misused, abused and misapplied by this government is bewildering. The witch-hunt is so legally evolved, strategically sophisticated and tactically calibrated that it grinds down the regime’s opponents to either submission or decimation. NDTV, Newsclick, Lawyers Collective, Teesta Setalvad, and Amnesty International India, for instance, were not booked on charges of sedition. They were, instead, charged with money laundering, financial impropriety or embezzlement. Many legislators and ministers of the Trinamul Congress, the former aides of the Kerala chief minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, several MLAs and ministers of the Aam Aadmi Party (like Satyendra Jain), and Congress leaders like P. Chidambaram and D.K. Shivakumar are also facing charges of corruption and/or money-laundering brought by specialized agencies like the Central Bureau of Investigation and /or the Enforcement Directorate. The family of Ashok Lavasa, who handed 11 dissent notes against inflammatory election speeches by Narendra Modi and Amit Shah, is facing investigations by the ED and the IT department. The list of the victims of governmental abuse of power and laws is long and counting. The latest targets are Twitter, Facebook, WhatsApp, Signal and Telegram. It took a great political fightback and a spirited election campaign mounted in defence of free speech and democracy by Thomas Jefferson to end the oppression unleashed by John Adams. McCarthyism was contained by the US Supreme Court. Under Fred M. Vinson as chief justice (1946-53), the court largely rubber-stamped government action against those accused of being ‘communists’ and ‘subversives’ (The Supreme Court and McCarthy-Era Repression by Robert M. Lichtman). But in 1953, Earl Warren took over as chief justice and brought about a constitutional revolution’. The Warren Court (1953-1969) decided dozens of cases involving alleged subversives and dissenters and set aside the abusive proceedings. In 1962, the court formally rejected the crime of ‘seditious libel’ as fundamentally incompatible with the freedom of speech guaranteed by the First Amendment. The Warren Court changed the course of history of the United States of America by advancing equal protection, civil rights, and democratic governance. ‘Constitutional revolution’ was brought not by the occasional brilliance of striking down a statute here or a penal provision there, but by the court constantly blunting and frustrating governmental abuse and weighing in on the side of religious minorities, political dissenters, the blacks, the poor, and the disadvantaged. Contrast it with the functioning of the Supreme Court of India since 2014. Overwhelmed by the ascendance of a ‘nationalist’ and seemingly indefeasible government, the court arguably took shelter under ‘mechanical jurisprudence’. To put it mildly, the court has been in an ultra-conservative mode. In almost every politically sensitive case, the government came out victorious. Take a brief survey of some of the recent apex court rulings: this court has limited jurisdiction to review defence contracts (Rafale verdict); financial planning is the government’s prerogative and “no one could question it” (judgment on PM-Cares Fund); Sahara-Birla diaries “constituted random loose sheets of paper on the basis of which high public functionaries occupying important offices cannot be subjected to investigation”; the scheme of electoral bonds is operating “without impediment” since January 2018 and the court does not see any justification for staying it (Electoral bonds case); the question of validity of the restrictions imposed in Kashmir to be assessed by a review committee set up by the government that imposed the curbs in the first place (the case involving the editor of Kashmir Times, Anuradha Bhasin). Apart from being an ‘executive-minded’ court, the top court’s foot-dragging over seminal constitutional questions, such as the validity of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act of 2019, the abrogation of Article 370 and the 2019 UAPA amendment act, reeks of judicial indecisiveness. Dozens of habeas corpus petitions were frustrated by judicial inaction. With no judicial oversight to invigilate its actions, a majoritarian Central government has packed all institutions of import — administrative, investigative, constitutional and statutory — with political weaklings who act in a blatantly partisan manner. The Supreme Court’s quashing of the sedition charges against the journalist, Vinod Dua, and its move to carry out a fresh judicial review of 124A are welcome. But to reignite the fast extinguishing flame of civil liberties and fundamental freedoms, it will need nothing short of a constitutional revolution. Can the court make human rights and civil liberties the dominant constitutional theme? Rather than reinforcing the status quo, can it weigh on the side of the disadvantaged and the persecuted? It is on this anvil that the court will be tested and assessed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
11-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Just grading||Competition is healthy when the goal is positive. The Indian government initiated the Performance Grading Index for school education in the states and Union territories from 2017-18 to improve school teaching. To avoid discouragement, states are being graded in groups, not ranked individually, according to their schools’ performance under 70 parameters. The most recent report, 2019-20, which records the pre-Covid year, already shows some shifts between grades — Kerala, Punjab and Tamil Nadu have gone up to Level II, while the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and others have improved their grades by 20 per cent — suggesting that the PGI is nudging states to do better. The idea is to expose the areas where a state or an UT would need to intervene to improve performance. The parameters, grouped under five sections including access, governance and management, infrastructure, equity and learning outcomes, are detailed enough to present a clear picture of needs and achievements. The other gain from this system is the scope to share best practices — or creatively build on them, because the requirements of schools in different regions of the country are as diverse as its people. The approach is an ideal or idealized one. Schools in India are beset by problems of a shortage of teachers and inadequate teacher training, shortage of principals and administrative staff, lack of the required infrastructure, weak governance, irregular flow of funds and so on. A large part of such issues could be resolved with sufficient finances and a comfortable set-up for teachers. A committed state government can make best use of the transparent data provided by the PGI up to a certain point only; there must be a committed Centre too. Since the Centre reduced the budgetary allocation to the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan by Rs 8,000 crore, urging states and UTs to improve their schools sounds odd, to say the least. The states need money; it does not help that some need it more than others. Besides, the smoothness assumed by the PGI has already been assailed by the exposure of deep inequalities during the closure of schools in the course of the pandemic. The need for digital access and infrastructure has acquired a new and urgent dimension. The PGI will lose its point unless equitable solutions are first found for these problems.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
11-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Exit sign||Data need not always be dubious in New India. Several studies, including those by the Association for Democratic Reforms, have indicated that defections continue unabated in the country and that the Bharatiya Janata Party, India’s ruling regime whose political ascendancy is indisputable, has been the biggest gainer in this respect. The Congress, the BJP’s principal opponent, has suffered the most, losing governments and leaders to its political adversary. After Jyotiraditya Scindia, it is now the turn of Jitin Prasada, yet another young gun, to bid adieu to India’s Grand Old Party. Interestingly, Mr Prasada’s departure reveals the different challenges confronting the Congress and the BJP. The Congress has been functioning like a rudderless ship for a while now, plagued by a disinterested leadership, petty rivalries, ideological confusion and inertia. An additional impediment is the top-heavy nature of the party: the Congress has too many leaders and too few workers. The ‘Group of 23’ — senior Congress functionaries who had, in an unprecedented step, demanded sweeping changes in the party — may have raised valid questions but it is equally true that most of them do not possess the political capital or the public charisma to win elections. A combination of unwarranted personal ambition as well as lust for power has prevented the Congress from taking advantage of the serious lapses committed by the Narendra Modi government. The result is there for all to see. The Congress is allowing itself to be bled dry and its fragmentation is, in turn, complementing the emergence of an electoral autocracy in the country. Mr Prasada’s exit may deepen the rot by sharpening the internecine struggles in the party. This is not to suggest that the BJP finds itself in a reassuring spot in a country lashed by the pandemic. Mr Prasada’s entry into the BJP could well be a signal of the latter’s desperation to mobilize the Brahmins in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. This is a constituency which, it is believed, is seriously cut up with the Yogi Adityanath government for being favourably disposed towards Thakurs. For the BJP then, Mr Prasada is merely a card to set the caste equations right in a crucial state. Of course, neither the BJP nor the Congress is likely to be worried about the broader concerns with defection. The malaise defies electoral mandates. Most worryingly, an ideological or an effective legal deterrent against defection remains elusive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
11-06-2021||Opinion||Covid: New model for elementary education||For a second year in a row, students across India are unlikely to go to schools. While this has not affected the education of students in private schools, which swiftly transitioned to the online medium, students in government-run public schools have been denied access to education. As per Unesco, of the 320 million school students in India, only 37.6 million students have been continuing their studies through the online medium. Even after months, government schools have not been able to make the digital transition. Covid-19 has merely widened the existing educational divide between the rich and the poor. Even before the pandemic, government school students were facing the consequences of a crumbling education system battling teachers’ absenteeism, political intervention, lack of basic infrastructure, and poor quality of education. Learning outcomes have deteriorated, while additional public expenditure per pupil has not resulted in any benefit. The inability to make the digital transition is a consequence of the Indian State’s inability to run schools. Weak areas It is an established position in developmental economics that governments should avoid engaging in policies that involve a high number of transactions and allow high discretion to state officials. Since the government oversees the day-to-day functioning of public schools, it needs to oversee an exorbitant number of transactions involving salaries, sanctioning of funds for provisions, infrastructure spending and so on. Such high-frequency transactions stretch the State’s capacity and provide ample opportunities for mismanagement and corruption. When emergencies arise, schools lack the agility to transition to new modes of teaching. Operating schools also requires providing significant discretion to such functionaries as teachers, administrators, appointment authorities and other staff. Greater discretion leads to dereliction of duty and corruption. The State is thus unable to regulate the quality of schools and its staff. Additionally, since the State is both the regulator of quality and also the provider of educational services, there is a failure of accountability. Delhi has been able to address this problem by creating accountability systems and appointing dedicated supervisory teams. Delhi, however, is an exception given the prevalence of education as a key electoral issue and political commitment for the same. Changed ways What is required is to make better use of existing State capacities by reducing the number of transactions and individual discretion in favour of accountability and regulatory systems. This can be done by outsourcing daily operations of public schools to private entrepreneurs and non-government organizations. Peepul, an NGO which took over the running of schools under the South Delhi Municipal Corporation, has transformed them to institutions providing fee-free, quality education. The government can then focus on creating infrastructure, sourcing quality service providers, and regulating them. This will also separate the State from service providers, enabling parents to approach State regulators if the service-providers fail in their duties. Such a strategy would also make public schools nimble enough to transition to the digital medium since the State can invite service providers that have the relevant expertise. I am not advocating privatization of elementary education. The government would continue to be responsible for funding schools and ensuring that students do not have to pay a fee. Given the collapse of public schooling on account of Covid, the government must contemplate such a transformation of the public school system to bridge the educational divide.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
11-06-2021||Opinion||The century of wars||The beginning of the year, 2000, had brought great excitement among people of all continents. That was the year marking the beginning of not just a new century but also a new millennium. Many names were suggested as historical tags for the new century; but, probably, the one that was received with the greatest enthusiasm was ‘knowledge century’. But no one talks of the present century now using that term. The world has meekly accepted to look askance at what is in store for Homo sapiens. At this juncture, the future looks so embattled. We are surrounded by so many newly-unfolding war fronts. Let me begin with news reports about a strange war that appeared in several newspapers in Karnataka.  Some 800 elephants roaming in what is known as the ‘elephant corridor’ of the Western Ghats have started a systematic war with the human inhabitants there. The conflict has been recorded by forest officials since 2014. During the ‘war’, so many humans have been maimed by elephants and so many elephants have been shot dead. The tension between the two warring sides is so acute that the forest officials in Hassan district have decided to instal sensors to alert the inhabitants of the presence of elephants in their vicinity. A siren begins when these sensors pick up the presence of elephants and humans run to the nearest safe-shelter, reminding one of Londoners getting into tube stations when Hitler’s military planes hovered over the city during the Second World War. Before the news about the elephants in the forests in India, one had read about the outburst of forest fires in Australia. They had spread for over nearly 110,000 square kilometres and had caused the death of 33 persons. Australia is not the only continent where forest fires have besieged humans. The North and South Americas, East Africa and Southeast Asia, have witnessed an increase in the frequency of wildfires. As if war with elephants and forest fires were not enough of strange news, one was stunned to read that a professor of astronomy at Harvard, Avi Loeb, had claimed that the floating object spotted in outer space in 2017 was not natural but launched by another intelligent species. In his provocative book, Extraterrestrial: The First Sign of Intelligent Life Beyond Earth, Loeb warned the world that to not take the existence of an extraterrestrial species seriously could prove to be a fatal mistake. The object he discusses is given the name, ‘Oumuamua’, a word from the language of an indigenous community. Loeb’s argument is that the orbit through which the object moved did not follow the laws of gravitation. It clearly showed that a ‘non-gravitational force’ was directing its movements. He believes that it is a spaceship powered by solar power generated by using huge mirrors set on its body. His conclusion is that the existence of extraterrestrials, a subject of science fiction and movies, can no more be seen as just a figment of imagination or fantasy. Another professor has brought in even more disconcerting news for humans. Idan Segev of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and his team of scientists are busy forming artificial human brain cells. His research will feed into placing the intelligent machines on a par with the most innovative humans. Combined with the rampant use of artificial intelligence by State powers for surveillance, the scientific advancement visualized by the researchers in Israel reveals before us the spectre of having a mix of intelligent machines and humans as the ‘ruling class’ in the coming decades. The coronavirus disease spell has made the shortage of oxygen for medical purposes big news. But just before the outbreak of Covid-19, we had seen that schools in Delhi had to be locked down as there was not enough oxygen in the air for children to breathe freely. But before the big economies of the world find a solution to this seemingly irreversible problem, David Beasley of the World Food Programme has given a stern warning that over 83 crore people in the world — that is one in every 10 humans — have lost their food security. Agriculture and fishing as conventional methods of food production have become unviable livelihood choices. The utter disregard of the Indian government for the farmers’ discontent is not just an expression of its characteristic arrogance. It is also a reflection of how low agriculture now ranks in the economic policies of governments. What do these apparently diverse calamities threatening human existence indicate? The wars fought by us centuries ago were mostly faith-based. The wars fought during the 19th century were nationalistic in character. The wars fought during the last century were driven by ideologies combined with economic interests. The wars waiting for us on the horizon are of a different character and of a different order. These will be wars for or with the environment, with the forces of natural evolution, with non-human intelligence and with life and objects that belong to a different framework of matter and motion. Sadly, governments remain in the old world mindset; they are prisoners of terribly dated political ideologies focused on faith-based divisions, territorial contestations and narrow nationalism. Although the proponents of ‘Cosmopolitan Democracy’ have made a beginning by thinking about political systems necessary for equipping humans to fight these new wars, their voice is still very feeble. But time is ticking fast. There are unprecedented wars waiting for us. It is now time for humans to unite, learn adaptation, respect the logic of evolution and manage to survive Covid and much more through this century of wars. G.N. Devy is a literary critic and cultural activist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
11-06-2021||Jharkhand||Congress protests fuel price hike across Jharkhand ||The Congress Jharkhand unit staged protests at petrol pumps across the state on Friday against steep rise in prices of petrol, diesel and domestic gas, accusing the BJP of creating another disaster in the form of rising inflation to hurt common people in the country. State party president Rameshwar Oraon took part in the agitation at Bariatu fuel station for two hours while other workers, MPs and MLAs did so in different places holding banners and posters criticising the Narendra Modi government. Oraon said that the steep rise in fuel prices is directly proportional to inflation in other sectors, mainly essential items. “When was the last time one heard about the fall in prices of petrol and LPG gas? Rise in fuel prices lead to increase in transportation cost, which further ups the prices of all commodities. At a time when people are battling job losses, salary cuts due to the covid-19 pandemic, prices of all items are only going upward. The BJP government in the Centre is responsible for this price mayhem. The party demands rollback of the price hikes,” said Oraon. The protests were held for over two hours from noon. Party spokesperson Alok Dubey accused BJP of creating one after another disaster in the country. “Price hikes are a disaster. The Modi government hasn’t just proved to be a disaster in tackling covid-19 pandemic owing to its shoddy policies, but it has also succeeded in creating another disaster named inflation. Days are not far when aam-admi will hit the streets against the price hikes,” he said. At present, petrol and diesel prices in Ranchi are Rs 92.08 and 91.58 respectively. Citing the intensity of fuel price hikes, Lal Kishorenath Shahdeo, another senior party worker, added, “Between May 4 to June 9, fuel prices have been increased 21 times. Since January 2021 so far, prices have been hiked 47 times. Ironically, all the hikes are taking place when global crude oil prices have fallen. This clearly indicates the poor economic management of the Modi government, whose only agenda is to loot commoners through various taxes and inflation to fill coffers of their corporate friends,” he alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
11-06-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad youth wins state under-14 chess festival||Ishant Kumar of Dhanbad claimed the state under-14 championship, part of the online chess festival. Ishant Kumar and Adhiraj Mitra of East Singhbhum scored 5.5 points each (out of 7 games) and tied for the top honour. However, Ishant was declared winner on better tie-break. Both made it to the Jharkhand squad for the National Under-14 Open Chess Championship to be played on digital platforms from June 16. In the under-14 competition for girls, there was a four-way tie between Aditi Raj (Ranchi), Dyuti Chakraborty, Saara Jain and Dishita Dey (all from East Singhbhum) with four points each. Aditi and Dyuti had a better tie-break and got through for the virtual national meet which begins on June 19. Apart from selected players, others who fulfill the participation criteria, are also allowed to participate in the nationals as a special entry by paying Rs 2500 to All India Chess Federation (AICF) directly by registering online through Federation's website: www.aicf.in. Entry closing day for the open nationals is till 5 pm of June 12 (for boys) and till 5 pm of June 15 (for girls). Adhiraj, the youngest international Fide-rated chess player in Jharkhand, and Kriti Kumari of East Singhbhum had emerged champions in the state under-18 championship played earlier. Shashwata Paul and Aditi claimed the top slots in the event for the under-16 age group. The chess festival organised by All Jharkhand Chess Association (AJCA) for under-12 and under-10 age groups is underway. State chess outfit secretary Neeraj Kumar Mishra said the chess festival gave much-needed opportunity to the players to tune -up for the nationals. "Offline events are out of the scene due to the pandemic and the virtual events were the only way out to keep our players engaged in competitions," Mishra, an International Master, added. The players representing Jharkhand in the nationals are expected to perform well, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
11-06-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Motors gives ambulances to Gujarat||Automobile major Tata Motors Limited on Friday supplied 25 Tata Winger ambulances to the health department of Gujarat, as part of the larger order of 115 ambulances. The official vehicle induction ceremony, which was held in Gandhinagar, was attended by various dignitaries from the Gujarat state cabinet including deputy chief minister of Gujarat, Nitin Patel . The 25 Tata Winger ambulances are equipped with basic life support and will be deployed for the aid of patients at Gandhinagar and other cities of Gujarat. Tata Motors won the bid for the order under the Government e-Marketplace and the vehicles are designed for patient transport as per AIS 125 Part 1 (a national ambulance code  recommended by the Central Motor Vehicles Rules -CMVR). Tata Motors will phase-wise supply the remaining 90 ambulances, as per the contract. Vinay Pathak, vice- president, Product Line, SCV, Tata Motors, said, “The Tata Winger ambulance is designed keeping in focus the needs of the patient and the healthcare system. The Winger ambulance has proven to be a trusted partner to healthcare organisations and has saved countless lives as a result of its ergonomic, efficient design and performance. Tata Motors’ thorough understanding of customer requirements for different applications and ability to design the vehicle basis these requirements is what sets the brand apart from its competitors. Tata Motors is firmly committed to bringing top-notch healthcare mobility solutions to hospitals and healthcare facilities in the country and support the governments in their fight against this pandemic.” The Tata Motors Winger ambulance is designed and can be adapted to cater to all types of patient transportation, including Basic Life Support and Advanced Life Support range. The ambulances are made especially for Covid-19 patients  with a driver partition. A company spokesperson said with monocoque chassis in addition to the independent suspension, the ambulances offer a smooth and comfortable driving experience apart from ensuring swift transportation of patients. Tata Motors offers the most comprehensive range of ambulances -- Magic Express Ambulance, Winger Ambulance and LP410 Ambulance which has double stretcher facility.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
11-06-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant promises fair probe in death of woman cop ||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren, who has already ordered a judicial probe into the alleged death by suicide of Sahebganj women police station in-charge Rupa Tirkey last month, assured her family members on Friday that the inquiry will be fair and impartial. A delegation comprising Tirkey's mother, Padmavati Oraon, father Devanand Tirkey and MLA Bandhu Tirkey among others called on Hemant during the day showing dissatisfaction in the probe so far and stating that they suspected 'murder' of Tirkey and not suicide. The chief minister said that the Jharkhand government has constituted a one-member inquiry commission to investigate the case of unnatural death and justice would be ensured at all cost. Those found guilty will not be spared, Hemant said. On June 8, the state government had issued a notification with regard to forming a judicial probe team under section-3 of the Commission of Inquiry Act. The commission was formed at the instance of the chief minister. A police sub inspector of the 2018 batch, Tirkey had allegedly died by suicide in early May at her government residence in Sahebganj. Retired former Chief Justice of Jharkhand High Court Vinod Kumar Gupta has been given the responsibility of the probe and has been asked to submit the report within six months. The commission will look into all the matters related to the alleged suicide by Tirkey. The opposition BJP in the state had been demanding a CBI probe into the matter. On Monday, Jharkhand Governor Draupadi Murmu had summoned Director General of Police, Jharkhand, Neeraj Sinha to take the details including probe undergoing in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
11-06-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town's historic water body to get a makeover||The foundation stone for the comprehensive beatification project of the historic Raja Talab of Jharia was laid on Friday by Jharia MLA Purnima Singh in presence of Dhanbad MP P.N. Singh and others. Developed in late 1920 by the erstwhile king of Jharia estate, Late Durga Prasad Singh, the pond served to be the centre of all religious activities of the district be it Navpatrika Snan Puja ahead of Durga Puja or immersion of idols after Durga puja and offering of Arghya during Chhath Puja. The administration’s negligence led to encroachment of the pond’s ghats by residents who constructed houses. The dumping of garbage and sewage into the pond turned into one of the dirtiest ponds of the state during the recent years. A survey of different water bodies of Dhanbad conducted in 2007 by the Environment Engineering department of IIT (ISM) revealed that the water of Raja Talab had turned alkaline and its pH value rose to 8.4 and Cations and Anions are also beyond the permissible limit of WHO. The project, divided into two phases, including  first phase worth Rs 2crore as per which bouldering, gravelling and pitching of pond bank besides staircase construction, plantation, concrete recliners laying for seating arrangement, boundary wall construction on the three sides of the pond situated over 8.64 acres will be carried out by Dhanbad Municipal Corporation. “The pond beautification assumes great significance for Jharia from both ecological and environmental point of view besides historical point of view as the pond is like a heritage for the town,” said Purnima Singh. Divulging more details, she said, “The beautification work will be carried out in two phases, during the phase 1 of which work will be carried out only on three sides of the pond which are encroachment free and thus there is no dispute.” “ Once the people like the work carried out in phase 1, we are sure that they will themselves support for the second phase of work during which beautification will be carried out by clearing some encroachments,” said the Jharia MLA. “The bouldering and pitching work besides the staircase development on the ghat carried out as part of phase I of the work will be of great help to thousands of women who perform puja and offer Arghya to Sun God during Chhath festival,” said Singh. When asked about the failures of several earlier attempts to carry out beautification of the pond, Singh said, “We are hopeful that the work this time will be carried out as per the plan and responsibility for monitoring the successful completion of the project on time lies with the common people of Jharia.” “We will also carry out regular monitoring of the execution of the project as I am also the chairman of district development coordination and monitoring committee,” said Dhanbad MP P.N. Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
11-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand vaccine wastage 2.68%, final figure likely to be lower||Jharkhand's vaccine wastage percentage stands at 2.68 as of Thursday night, state health department announced on Friday in the light of  disparities with numbers issued by the Union ministry of health, but clarified that the final percentage was likely to be lower once all data was uploaded on the Co-WIN portal. "We received 57,15,600 vaccine doses for 18 plus and 45 plus age groups of which 47,32,426 were used. The balance is about 8,30,630 doses. Considering these figures, the wastage is 2.68 per cent. The calculations are based on the updated figures till the night of June 10. The wastage figure is still tentative because the process of updating data on the Co-WIN portal is still on. We are hoping that the wastage percentage will come down  more,” state health department’s IEC wing’s nodal officer Siddharth Tirpathi told the media on Friday. He said the Union health ministry had now authorised the state government to update data on the Co-WIN portal too. “Earlier, the data had to be sent to the Union government which in turn used to update it. However, we have now been allowed to make corrections from our end directly on the portal. As a result, even districts can update data from their end,” he said, adding that the mismatch of state and central data over vaccine usage and wastage was due to delay in updating data and typing errors. “At the ground level, many data entry operators aren’t tech savvy. Also, typing errors often take place while updating data. For example, in case of 11.20, if someone updates 11,20 or 112.0, it changes the whole thing. But such errors can be easily rectified from our end immediately,” he explained. On Thursday, a Jharkhand health department official had said that as on June 9, the state’s vaccine wastage stood at 3.6 per cent, but clarified that data reconciliation was still on while countering Union government data that claimed Jharkhand had recorded the highest wastage percentage at 33.95 per . "The reports are untrue. It's a matter about data reconciliation," said Tiwary while reacting to Thursday’s PTI report from New Delhi that cited government records to say that while Kerala and West Bengal recorded negative wastage of vaccines, Jharkhand topped the list of states on vaccine wastage. The report also said that Kerala reported -6.37 per cent and West Bengal recorded -5.48 per cent vaccine wastage. Chhattisgarh reported 15.79 per cent vaccine wastage while Madhya Pradesh reported 7.35 per cent, the report said. The national average of vaccine wastage is around 6.3 per cent. A Jharkhand health department official also noted that some Jharkhand districts had reported negative wastage too. “For example, Jamtara has negative wastage of 17 per cent, Koderma -33 per cent, Ramgarh - 4.2 and Chatra - 3.8. The state has been using vaccines judiciously. In reality, Jharkhand is among the top states with less wastage,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
11-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to set up 24x7 rapid test booths at transit points||Jharkhand government has decided to set up 24x7 rapid antigen testing booths at all major transit points in the state to scan every incoming visitor, deciding not to take any chances even though daily Covid cases and fatalities have shown a downward trend, On Friday, health department officials said the idea was to continue to check every visitor to ensure early detection and tracking of suspected cases to prevent another spread of the virus. While inter and intra- district buses servies have been stopped as part of the state's ongoing partial lockdown, operation of trains and flight services has continued uninterrupted. But with state government gradually heading towards wasing more restrictions on public movement, all transit points will start seeing footfall again. Hence the decision to maintain 24x7 vigil across transit points, explained officials and indicated that the decicion was based on apprehensions of a third wave later this year. Additional chief secretary of the state health department Arun Kumar Singh had written to all deputy commissioners on Thursday, directing them to make necessary arrangements to set up the booths. “While Covid-19 cases are dipping, it is imperative that everyone follows the principles of 'test, track, isolate, treat and vaccinate' to tackle the pandemic. Several experts are also predicting a possible third wave. Therefore, all districts are directed to set up permanent rapid antigen testing (RAT) booths at all railway stations, airport, and bus stands,” he said. Singh suggested the testing booths must work round-the-clock. “All districts must deploy sufficient number of testing staff per booth on eight-hour shifts to ensue 24x7 testing activities,” he said, directing local police to provide security at the sample collection venues. Since the outbreak of the second wave in the last week of March, cases soared to dangerous levels in Jharkhand. As per the health department’s data, 1,09,210 people were found to be infected with the coronavirus in April this year and 1,557 died. In May, the total infection count was 1,04,363 with 2,321 deaths. Currently, there are around 4,514 active cases as per Thursday's night bulletin. The state’s positivity rate stands at 3.83%.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
11-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Active caseload drops below 4,500 in the state||While the active caseload of Covid-19 dropped close to 4500 in Jharkhand on Thursday, at least five more Covid casualties took the toll in the state to 5081, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), at least 293 people were found infected by novel coronavirus in the state on Thursday, while 557 Covid patients recovered, bringing the active caseload down to 4514. Barring East Singhbhum, which reported a spike of 67 cases, none of the remaining 23 districts reported a spike of more than 50 on the day. However, recoveries outnumbered fresh cases in East Singhbhum as well and the active caseload there dropped to 770, the NHM stated in its bulletin. The district reported 92 Covid recoveries and one Covid death on the day. At least 68 Covid recoveries against 30 fresh cases of infection brought the active caseload in Ranchi further down to 1329. One patient died during treatment in the capital, taking the toll here to 1579. Despite recoveries outnumbering fresh cases of infection every day in Ranchi, the district still accounted for more than 30 per cent of the active cases in the state. The state tested swab samples of 44,591 residents on Thursday and around 0.5 per cent of them were found infected. Jharkhand has been reported a positivity rate of less than 1 per cent in the past one week, health officials said, indicating that the second wave of the pandemic was on the decline in the tribal state. Among other districts, Bokaro reported a spike of 10 cases against nine recoveries, while Chatra reported 22 cases and zero recoveries on Thursday. At least 17 people were found infected in Dhanbad while 55 patients recovered there. Dhanbad, West Singhbhum, East Singhbhum, Ranchi and Pakur reported one Covid death each on the day. Hazaribag reported 22 cases against 38 recoveries, while 15 people were found infected in Gumla and 41 patients recovered there. Barring Ranchi, the active caseload was below 1000 in all the remaining 23 districts in Jharkhand. The growth rate of Covid-19 also dropped to 0.10 per cent in Jharkhand against the national average of 0.24 per cent on Thursday, while the doubling rate in the state reached 700.50 days against the national doubling rate of 287.58 days, highlighted government data. As per NHM data, over 3.42 lakh people have been infected by Coronavirus in the state so far and 97.20 per cent of them have recovered. However, the Covid mortality rate in the state was 1.48 per cent, which is higher than the national average of 1.20 per cent. The state on Thursday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to as many as 61,957 residents, including 45,441 in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. The second jab was administered to 3944 beneficiaries on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
11-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkhand prepares manual for third wave||Two doctors turned IAS officers have prepared a manual of operational guidelines to prepare for the possible third wave of Covid-19 making Jharkhand the first state to come up with such a document. The 257-page document titled, “Manual for Preparation, Prevention and Planning for Covid-19 Third Wave in Jharkhand, the Way Forward”, has been prepared by an empowered committee led by Dr Shantanu Agrahari as the chairperson and Dr Bhuvnesh Pratap Singh as the vice-chairperson. It was released by chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday. Dr Agrahari completed his MBBS from the Sarojini Naidu Medical College (Agra, Uttar Pradesh) in 2008 before working as a junior resident doctor in a Delhi-based hospital for two years. He cracked the UPSC exam in 2012. Dr Singh did his MBBS from Al-Ameen Medical College (Bijapur, Karnataka) in 2007 and worked between 2010 and 2012 at Max Super Specialty Hospital in Delhi before passing the UPSC exam in 2012. The empowered committee was constituted in mid-May and the report was tabled by the end of that month after consultations with experts not only from the country but also from Singapore and London. “The document will be strategically used for conventional preventive and treatment strategies to increase immunity against Covid-19. These guidelines could help reduce the severity of the viral infection in children with special focus on the nutritional needs to boost the immune system,” said Dr Agrahari. “The manual is intended for health system administrators, health workers and other decision-makers to guide them in the care of Covid-19 patients as the response capacity of health systems is challenged, to ensure that Covid patients can access life-saving treatment without compromising public health objectives and safety of health workers. We are happy to be the pioneer among states in making the manual,” said Dr Singh. The manual points at district-wise estimation of cases and bed requirements based on various epidemiological models during the third wave, guiding principles of management of pediatric population, guidelines for child-friendly wards (play area, pediatric emergency unit, high dependency units, pediatric intensive care units, requirements for intubation procedure and emergency drugs required in HDU). It also delves on a training plan for pediatric Covid management, equipment planning and procurement, nutrition and dietary guidelines for infants and children with Covid, psychological support and grief counselling, disinfection protocols and telemedicine. It also points out guidelines for multi-system inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) and suggests for PICU at every district hospital and bigger PICU (20-bed) at commissionary headquarters with facilities of ventilator therapy, high-flow nasal canula, and continuous, positive airways pressure therapy, training of human resources (doctors, nurses and healthcare workers), awareness programme among parents, general masses and caregivers, availability of special medicines with plans for timely identification of danger signs and referral and availability of well-equipped ambulance with nurse and doctor. It also proposes upgrade of malnutrition treatment centres into pediatric high dependency unit (PHDU) and fixes role of civil surgeons in ensuring all facilities at the health centre. On Tuesday, Jharkhand registered 13 deaths due to Covid-19 taking the total casualties to 5,073 and recorded fresh 603 cases taking the active caseload to 5,099. Health department nodal officer Siddharth Tripathy said that following a direction from the Union health ministry, the state will administer the second dose of Covishield vaccine before the prescribed time interval (after 28 days but before 84 days) to persons intending to undertake international travel for education or employment and for India’s contingent to the Tokyo Olympics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
11-06-2021||Jharkhand||Army buys farmer's watermelon harvest after he offers it for free||Unable to sell his watermelon harvest due to the Coronavirus-induced lockdown, a 25-year-old Jharkhand farmer offered five tonnes of his produce to soldiers of the Sikh Regimental Centre at Ramgarh, who in turn, bought it at the market price. Touched by the gesture of Ranjan Kumar Mahto, a Ranchi University graduate who chose farming as a profession, SRC officers including Commandant Brigadier M. Sri Kumar visited his farm in adjoining Bokaro district and bought the produce. The soldiers and their family members visited the 25- acre farm at Kander with gifts, groceries and food packets for farm labourers and took the 5-tonne produce in their own vehicles to SRC, located 15km away. "It was heartening to see drip irrigation on 25 acres of land but unfortunately, the poor farmer could not sell the produce. We saw women workers too. "We came to know that he had launched the venture two years ago but suffered losses due to the COVID-19 pandemic and cyclone Yaas," Brigadier Kumar, also the president of the Ramgarh Cantonment Board, told PTI. Mahto had decided to make agriculture his profession after failing to get a job. He took the 25-acre land on lease at an annual rent of Rs 5,000 per acre and undertook watermelon cultivation on six acres with an investment of Rs 15 lakh. A majority of his total 120-tonne watermelon harvest is still in the fields waiting for buyers. "There were no buyers during the lockdown. The crop started to rot. Nobody in the village was ready to buy it even for Rs 2 per kg. We sought help from various circles but to no avail. "Finally, I decided to offer the produce to our brave soldiers for free and approached the cantonment," he told PTI. Mahto has employed around 40 women labourers and also planted capsicum, brinjal and other vegetables. Jharkhand leads in the cultivation of watermelon, tomatoes, peas, beans, cabbage, okra and cauliflower.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
