12-06-2021||Calcutta||Young Metro: Students pay tribute to bard’s vision||Students of Asian International School celebrated Rabindra Jayanti in four phases, virtually. The school staged musical performances and skits, recited poetry and even organised an adda session. The focus was on the bard’s vision and self-discipline that the students could relate to in their current situation. Students of classes V to VIII staged Amal O Doiwala, an excerpt from Tagore’s play Dakghar. The choir sang several songs, while there was also Hindi recitation of the poet’s translated works. An icing on the cake was a boithaki or interactive session on “Tagore’s rhythms”. The school’s primary section took part in the celebrations, dancing to his songs such as Fule fule dhole dhole. “Students presented songs and skits that highlighted on self-discipline, patience and love for nature. They are now relating to the bard’s ethos. You need to be self-disciplined and independent to carry on with online study,” said principal Vijaylaxmi Kumar. Students of Shri Shikshayatan School celebrated Rabindra Jayanti virtually over a period of four days. They paid obeisance to various aspects of Rabindranath Tagore’s works such as women empowerment, education, life and nature. There were dance performances, rendition of Rabin-drasangeet and recitation of the poems. Students also made a Power Point presentation to let the audience know about the early life of Tagore and his contribution to the world of literature, music, education, art and culture. The junior section celebrated Rabindra Jayanti and International Workers’ Day jointly. Students from the NGO school, Bhantuali Ekal Vidyalaya, Falta, also participated in the celebration. The Group D staff members and the admin department of the school also performed on the occasion. “We celebrated the occasion over four days, because Tagore has plethora of works on every aspect of life and we wanted to motivate people in all those aspects. What Tagore had told or written about a century ago is still relevant,” said principal Sangeeta Tandon. Students of Ruby Park Public School paid homage to Rabindranath Tagore on Rabindra Jayanti with a virtual cultural programme and art activities. Students from pre-primary to Class VIII engaged in various art and craft activities such as making portraits of Tagore, doodle art on magazine paper and face-colouring on paper. A pre-recorded video compilation of the students’ cultural performances was uploaded from the school’s Facebook page. It showed a musical presentation, recitation, dance performances and artwork by the students to celebrate the life of Tagore. “Celebrating Gurudev’s birth anniversary has been the tradition of Ruby Park Public School. The students take pride and delight while taking part in this special celebration. From singing the beautiful lyrics written by the Nobel laureate to performing dances, everything was done by our students,” said principal Joyita Majumder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
12-06-2021||Calcutta||Manovikas Kendra holds jab camp for students and parents||A rehabilitation and research institute for individuals with disabilities conducted a vaccination camp on their premises for students, their parents and caregivers this week. The one-day camp at Manovikas Kendra eased the process of getting the Covid jabs for students since it is a “familiar environment”. On Tuesday, 200 individuals that included 96 students with autism, cerebral palsy, Down syndrome and those with hearing impairment were administered the first dose of Covidshield. The parents and caregivers of the students were also inoculated at the institute. “These students need assistance, patience and care which could be difficult to get at any other vaccination centre. These individuals also find it difficult to wait for a long time for their turn,” said Anamika Sinha, the director of Manovikas Kendra. “Also, being in a familiar setting makes the process easy as they get stressed around strangers.” At the institute, they were surrounded by their teachers and many students enjoyed coming back to their campus even if it was for a jab, an official said. “We approached Swasthya Bhawan about a month back and it was the (state health) department that did the liaison with a private hospital (Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals), which administered the Covishield doses,” said Sinha. The hospital sponsored the doses for 50 students, while Manovikas Kendra bore the cost of the remaining 46 doses. The parents and caregivers paid for their jabs. Long queues and difficulty in getting a slot had made some parents approach the institute to organise a camp on their premises. Before making the arrangements, the institute held a meeting with the parents. “I was waiting for the institute to organise the camp because I cannot take my son to a public centre. My son (who has autism) could not have stood in a queue,” said Partha Sarathi Mukherjee, who got vaccinated at the institute along with his son. It was a hassle-free experience for Anuradha Pal Choudhury to walk in with her 38-year-old son. “I did not want to take my son to a hospital because the staff might not be able to give special care to him,” she said. She said those administering the vaccine at the institute were very patient with some of the students who were getting a bit restless.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
12-06-2021||Calcutta||Barricades set up to raze Vivekananda Road flyover||Work on erecting barricades along the stretch of the Vivekananda Road flyover that will be pulled down in the first phase, began on Friday. Labourers dug holes on Strand Road to put up bamboo poles. Police asked shops and godown owners to take necessary precautions so that no one sneaked in. The state government has set itself a target of demolishing the Vivekananda Road flyover in eight months, from June 15. Senior officials of the urban development department said the demolition would be carried out in three phases. It would start with the portion over Strand Road and end with the stretch over KK Tagore Street. On Friday, engineers from the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), the implementing agency, set up a temporary site office opposite Old Mint in Posta. Over the next few months, this office will serve as the meeting point for engineers and experts who will oversee the demolition. By Sunday night, police said, officials from the Mumbai-based Edifice Engineering, which would execute the work, would move in with their men and machinery. “Godown and shop owners have been asked to use their rear entrances on Strand Road for the time being,” said a senior officer of Posta police station. Lalbazar has worked out an extensive plan to divert all vehicles headed for Posta from Strand Road through Central Avenue and Rabindra Sarani. The vehicles can take Beadon Street, Nimtola Ghat Street and Strand Bank Road to reach Posta. Parking of vehicles along Strand Road, KK Tagore Street and Raja Katra for loading and unloading of items will be restricted. Posta-bound buses will be diverted towards MG Road. “An alternative parking space is being readied near Jagannath Ghat. By the night of June 13, when machines start moving in, the movement of heavy vehicles will be restricted,” said a senior officer at Lalbazar. In the first phase, some of the iron girders near Strand Road, which have no concrete deck slabs on them, will be pulled down, engineers of the urban development department said. Once this “relatively easy” task is completed, the second phase will entail bringing down the structure that goes past Old Mint towards Posta. On June 15, the demolition work is scheduled to begin on the stretch between Napit Patty and the entrance to KK Tagore Street from Strand Road at 10am. Traders have been asked to ensure that labourers don’t move around the area when work starts. “All loading and unloading will have to be stopped,” said Pawan Shrivastava, an owner of an automobile lubricant shop. “Some of us have been living in perennial fear that the structure would collapse. Once the structure is demolished, the fear would be gone,” said Deepak Agarwal, who owns a tyre shop on KK Tagore Street.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
12-06-2021||Calcutta||Monsoon set to arrive in Calcutta on Saturday||The monsoon reached the doorstep of Calcutta on Friday and should set foot in the city over the next 24 hours, said Met officials. A low-pressure area over the northwest Bay of Bengal on Friday is expected to move in a west-northwest direction, propelling the monsoon into most of south Bengal, Odisha, Bihar and Jharkhand. The monsoon had set foot in north Bengal on June 7. “Southwest Monsoon has advanced into more parts of West Bengal today, 11th June, 2021. The Northern Limit of Monsoon (NLM) passes through Balangir, Puri (both in Odisha), Canning, Krishnanagar and Malda,” said a statement from the India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. Canning in South 24-Parganas is around 80km from the heart of Calcutta. “Most of the conditions for the onset of the monsoon are visible in Calcutta. The southwesterly winds are here. The clouds that gathered over the city on Friday are monsoon clouds. But there has to be a spell or two of uniform and widespread rain for us to declare that the monsoon has reached Calcutta. The city should get that over the next 24 hours,” G.K. Das, director, IMD Calcutta, told The Telegraph in the afternoon. For most of Friday, the sky was overcast over Calcutta. Several pockets like Dum Dum, Salt Lake, Alipore and Behala saw some rain. The clouds became more prominent towards the evening and a fresh spell of rain started around 6.30pm. Till evening, the showers did not live up to the expectations. “The system is headed towards Odisha. That is why the impact was less than expected in south Bengal,” said a Met official. The wet spell and overcast conditions will stay for the next 3-4 days, he said. High tide The possibility of heavy rain under the impact of the low-pressure area, combined with high tide on Friday, had triggered fears of a rise in the water levels of the Hooghly and waterlogging of the low-lying areas of the city. But since the city did not get even moderate rain for most of the day, waterlogging was not reported. “The high tide period was from 9am to 2pm. The lock gates were shut from 11.30am to 3.30pm,” said Tarak Singh, a member of the board of administrators of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. Another high tide was expected between 11pm on Friday and 3am on Saturday. “Waterlogging is inevitable if the closure of lock gates coincides with heavy rain,” said a CMC official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
12-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Scottish Church College to waive fees for students who lost parents||Scottish Church College has decided to waive fees for the ongoing and forthcoming semesters for students who have lost a parent to Covid. The college has been waiving tuition fees for students whose families have suffered income loss during the pandemic. A notice signed by principal Madhumanjari Mandal says: “Under the prevailing pandemic situation those students who have lost either of their parents or both due to infection of Covid-19 shall be waived off all pending college fees for all semesters ahead on applying to the principal.” Since the notice was issued on June 1, the waiver will come in force from the current semester, called even semester. “A student who is now in the second semester won’t have to pay any fees till graduation if either of the parents or both have died of Covid. Such a loss is bound to put a student in a serious financial distress and force him or her to quit studies,” Mandal said. A fee structure posted on the college website says a microbiology honours student has to pay Rs 42,636 in the second semester, which continues from January to June. The amount covers lab fee, lab development fee, academic development fee, tuition fee and annual fee. A physics honours student in the second semester has to pay Rs 15,136. Principal Mandal said they had received eight applications for full waiver till Friday. “Teachers learnt from students about the severe economic distress they are in and their inability to pay the fees. Our governing body then took the decision,” she said. An official of the college said many students have lost close family members during the second surge of Covid infections. “So we have scaled up the extent of waiver to stand by our students,” vice-principal Supratim Das said. A teacher of Scottish Church College said continuance of classes on digital platforms was resulting in a rise in the expenses of the institution. Campuses are closed now and classes are being held on digital platforms as a precaution against Covid. Last year, the state government had barred colleges across the state from collecting money from undergraduate aspirants for application forms and prospectuses. “In addition to that, last year we had to open the online admission portal repeatedly to keep admitting students following an instruction from the government. The company that manages the portal charged us for the entire duration the portal was operational. Our expenses are rising but we will continue extending help to students in distress,” the teacher said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
12-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: State govt’s decision to help private healthcare units get vaccines starts showing effects ||The state government's decision to help private healthcare units get Covid vaccines from manufacturers has started showing effects with at least one hospital being able to procure doses on Friday for which it had been trying for weeks. Peerless Hospital received 12,000 doses of Covishield from the Serum Institute of India on Friday morning following the state government’s intervention. The hospital had paid the Pune-based manufacturer around Rs 76 lakh on May 19 for the doses. “The company had initially promised to deliver the doses by the end of May. But later they kept saying that they would send the doses in due course of time. Earlier this week, the state government told us that it would talk to the manufacturer and help get the doses,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. The state government had on Wednesday asked private vaccination centres to submit their demands for vaccines, which it would pass on to the manufacturers through the Centre. Big hospital chains can keep procuring doses centrally. An official of the state government said that till Friday evening, private healthcare units had submitted demands for around 30 lakh doses of Covishield and about seven lakh doses of Covaxin for June, July and August. “We are holding video conferences with the Covid vaccine manufacturers, asking them to supply the doses to the private centres. The manufacturers are obliging big corporates (hospital chains) that are placing orders for five or six lakh doses. Smaller hospitals and nursing homes which don't have the capacity to order in bulk... are not getting any commitment from the manufacturers,” said state health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam. “We are providing a bigger picture to the manufacturers, showing the large market they have when demands from smaller vaccination centres are combined.” He said the health department was collating demands from private centres and would send a combined list to the Centre, who would in turn forward it to the manufacturers. “We have placed an official to coordinate with the private centres,” said Nigam. Another health department official said once the demands were placed, they would pursue with the manufacturers for an early supply of the doses. Some of the smaller vaccination centres, which till now were unable to get any commitment from the manufacturers, said they were now hoping to get the supplies. “When the state government was providing the doses, even if we asked for 100 doses, we would get them. But since May 1, we have not received anything from the manufacturers,” said Sk Alhajuddin, the chairman of the Progressive Nursing Homes and Hospitals Association and the owner of The Sun Nursing Home in Burdwan. The nursing home has sent a demand for 8,000 doses to the state government. Suraksha Diagnostics had received 96,000 Covishield doses about two weeks back. But it has not received any word from Bharat Biotech, the manufacturer of Covaxin. “We got the doses after pursuing Serum Institute for more than six weeks. We have placed a demand for another one lakh doses with the state government,” said Somnath Chatterjee, the director of Suraksha Diagnostics. “The vaccination drive is not gaining momentum, especially in small towns, because small private players are not getting access to the manufacturers. This (the state government's intervention) is helping the small units more than the bigger chains,” said Rupak Barua, the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
12-06-2021||Calcutta||Three young men on bike arrested for snatching, assault near Panchanantala bus stop||A motorcyclist alerted a traffic police team about some trouble around a taxi on Dhakuria bridge early on Friday. The police team was rushing towards the bridge when they met the taxi driver. He told them he was robbed by three men on a scooter. The police found the three men arguing at the landing of the bridge near the Panchanantala bus stand. When questioned, one of them said he was walking along the bridge when he saw the other two on a scooter trying to rob the taxi driver. He claimed he rescued the driver. The other two said they were riding along the bridge when they saw the third man trying to snatch money from the taxi driver. The duo claimed they saved the driver. Finding the claims suspicious, the cops handed the three over to Lake police station. It emerged that minutes before the incident on the bridge, the trio had tried to raid the Gariahat outlet of Spencer’s and fled after assaulting the security guard. Around 7.15am, inspector Moloy Roy, additional officer in-charge of south east traffic guard, and sergeant Anupam Majhi were patrolling near Dakshinapan shopping complex when they were alerted about the commotion on Dhakuria bridge. Before they reached the spot, they saw a taxi coming in their direction. Driver Kishan Singh, 65, told them three men on a scooter had robbed him. He showed his torn chest pocket. The cops continued their journey and found three young men on a scooter near the Panchanantala bus stop, arguing. “One said the other two were on the scooter and robbed the driver. The other two said the third person attacked the driver for money,” an officer said. Soon after the cops handed the trio over to Lake police station, Spencer’s reported the incident at their outlet. It emerged that the same trio had allegedly tried to forcefully enter the store while it was closed and assaulted the security guard when stopped. Two of the accused are teenagers and the third is in his 20s. Lake and Gariahat police stations have registered two separate cases — one for snatching and the other for assault and wrongful restraint of the security guard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
12-06-2021||Calcutta||New Town shootout: Search for missing link in gangster case||Police are looking for a man who allegedly introduced Jaipal Bhullar, who was gunned down in a police raid along with an accomplice on Wednesday, to Sumit Kumar alias Bharat Kumar and asked him to arrange the gangsters’ stay in Calcutta. An officer said the suspect they were looking for might have fled the country. Senior officers of Punjab police said findings of the investigation suggested that this man, whose identity the police refused to divulge, was the only missing link in the whole episode, starting from the shooting of two Punjab cops by Jaipal and Jaspreet on May 15 to their death in police firing in a New Town flat more than 2,000km away. Multiple teams of Punjab police were dispatched earlier this week to look out for the gangsters and the linkmen who were helping them escape. A section of the police feels Jaipal and Jaspreet had been able to evade arrest and travel from one state to another because of Jaipal’s conning and cloning skills. “Jaipal had started growing hair and used to have his long hair in a ponytail, while Jaspreet had grown a French cut beard. They did this to look different. Eighty plastic cards that are used to forge identity documents were found in the flat at Shukhobrishti housing complex where the duo had been staying and were shot down,” said an officer. On their way to Bengal with Sumit Kumar, Jaipal and Jaspreet were carrying documents that identified them as “Rajiv” and “Bhushan Kumar”, respectively. An officer said Jaipal was suspected to have obtained a fake Aadhaar card for Sumit Kumar that had fictitious details of one Akash Paul. The fake card — according to which, Akash is a resident of Pingla in West Midnapore — was used to procure a SIM card. “The address on the Aadhaar card was false. It seems Jaipal had manufactured the card,” said an officer. Sumit had allegedly used the SIM card that was obtained against “the fake Aadhaar card” to call a property dealer while he was searching for a hideout for Jaipal and Jaspreet. Kumar was tracked down hours before the encounter with the help of his vehicle. The police said they had information that Kumar was travelling to Delhi in his Honda Accord that had a Bengal number plate but was not registered in his name. He was arrested in Punjab on Wednesday, hours before he shared the location of Jaipal and Jaspreet with Punjab police. The police have found clothes and some pen drives containing Hollywood action and thriller films in the flat where the gangsters were holed up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
12-06-2021||Business||GST council slashes tax rates on Covid medicines, equipment but not on jabs||The GST Council on Saturday slashed tax rate on COVID-19 drugs such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab as well as on medical oxygen and oxygen concentrators but ignored demands for reduction in taxes on vaccines. The Council, acting on the recommendation of a group of ministers from different states, cut to nil GST on COVID-19 drug Tocilizumab and black fungus medicine Amphotericin B, from existing 5 per cent. Besides, hand sanitiser, pulse oximeter, BiPAP machine, testing kit, ambulance and temperature check equipment were among the 18 items on which GST rates were lowered. A 5 per cent GST levy on vaccines will continue which will allow manufacturers to get benefit of settling taxes paid on inputs. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman explained that the 5 per cent levy will not put any additional burden on common man as the government was procuring all vaccines and giving them to citizens for free. The reduced tax rates were based on a recommendation of a group of ministers, headed by Meghalaya Deputy Chief Minister Conrad Sangma, and would remain effective till September 30, 2021. "It was felt that the GoM's recommendations has brought in a lot of substantial change. Many items, that were at 18 per cent and 12 per cent, brought down to 5 per cent. So there was a lot of substance in the recommendation made by GoM. The Council largely agreed to go with GoM's recommendation...," Sitharaman said while briefing reporters after the 44th GST Council meeting here. Goods and Services Tax (GST) rate on Covid vaccines was, however, retained at 5 per cent as the Council felt that majority of the vaccine procurement was being done by the Centre and given free to people. "Central government is purchasing 75 per cent and is paying GST also. But the impact of this GST on people will be nil since people would be getting vaccines free of cost at government hospitals. Centre is purchasing and it is given free to people," Sitharaman said. Revenue Secretary Tarun Bajaj said vaccines would continue to attract 5 per cent rate and the GST Council discussed that the Centre is purchasing all the vaccines -- at least 75 per cent is being purchased by the Centre. "The GST will also be borne by the Centre. But out of the income from GST, 70 per cent will be shared with the states... As far as people are concerned who are coming to get their inoculation done, it is tax free. It is not an issue with the people, they are not paying any tax, cost of the vaccine. So it is free for them," Bajaj said. He said the notification of lower GST rates would be issued "tomorrow or day after". While GST on Tocilizumab and Amphotericin B is slashed to nil from 5 per cent, the rate on Remdesivir and anticoagulants like Heparin is lowered from 12 per cent to 5 per cent. GST rate on ambulance has been cut to 12 per cent from 28 per cent. Tax on medical grade oxygen, oxygen concentrator (including personal imports), ventilators, BiPAP machines and high flow nasal cannula (HFNC) devices has been cut to 5 per cent from 12 per cent. Also, tax on Covid testing kits, pulse oximeter (including personal imports) has been brought down to 5 per cent from 12 per cent. Hand sanitisers, temperature check equipment, gas/electric furnaces for crematoriums too will attract lower 5 per cent tax, compared to 18 per cent earlier. In the previous meeting of the GST Council on May 28, taxes on COVID-19 vaccines and medical supplies were left unchanged after the BJP- and Opposition-ruled states sparred over whether the tax cut benefits will reach the common man. An 8-member GoM, under Sangma, was set up to recommend GST rate on Covid essentials. The other members of the GoM are Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister Nitinbhai Patel, Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, Goa Transport Minister Mauvin Godinho, Finance ministers of Kerala (K N Balagopal), Odisha (Niranjan Pujari), Telangana (T Harish Rao) and UP (Suresh Kr Khanna). To a query on Congress saying that they were not made part of the GoM, Sitharaman said, "... I don't want to comment on what was said outside. In the Council, the three Congress ministers said that in the future at least you should consider having us in GoM. The selection into a GoM is never made on party basis, neither is the exclusion. There are several GoMs and several ministers are made members of the GoM. All states are given representation in one or the other GoM. Neither the inclusion, nor the exclusions happen on political party affiliations." Industry chamber PHDCCI said the calibrated reduction in the rates of GST on Covid relief essentials will go a long way in treating Covid cases and to provide required relief for treatment of infections. "PHDCCI looks forward to the continued reform measures by the government to mitigate the daunting impact of Covid on people and to make India free from the pandemic," it said in a statement. EY Tax Partner Abhishek Jain said majority population will not be affected on account of no GST rate cut on COVID vaccines as most people are opting for free of cost vaccinations from the government. "For the limited few considering getting vaccinated at the private hospitals, the 5 per cent GST will continue to be a cost," Jain added. Deloitte India Partner Mahesh Jaising said with a growing demand for vaccines, while a deemed export option could have resulted in zero taxes for domestic vaccines, the GoM seems to have taken a balanced approach of retaining it at 5 per cent. "This is particularly as the GST credit chain is not broken and in any case, a significant portion of vaccine procurements is by the government itself," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
12-06-2021||Business||Fooza Foods to divest 5 per cent stake for Rs 35 crore to fund expansion||Food delivery start-up Fooza Foods on Friday said it is divesting a 5 per cent stake in the company for Rs 35 crore to fund expansion. The company plans to foray into Mumbai, Delhi, Noida, Gurgaon, Bangalore, Jaipur, Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Hyderabad and Chennai. Dibyendu Banerjea, founder and managing director, Fooza Foods Private Limited, said the funds raised would come from both institutions as well as friends and family. The funding round is expected to be closed by the end of this month with a minimum ticket size of Rs 1 crore. “We are hopeful about the new venture and expansion plans. We have consciously decided to start with Calcutta for Fooza and gradually move pan India. We plan to expand to a new city every three months. We will start with Mumbai and expand further,” he said. At present, the platform has 50 riders delivering all over the city with around 350 orders a day. A dedicated fleet along with features such as pre-ordering of food have helped the start-up garner orders on the platform. Banerjea said that the platform was initially launched during the pandemic period as many chefs were looking for a marketplace to deliver quality cooked meals from home. Subsequently there was also demand for such a platform from home chefs and restaurants were brought on board to make the model sustainable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
12-06-2021||Business||Supreme Court refuses to pass direction on plea to redress hardship of borrowers amid Covid-19 wave ||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to direct the Centre and the RBI to grant any fresh financial stimulus or moratorium on loans during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, saying it is in the realm of policy decision. “The government has many things to do. They have to spend money on vaccine, they have to spend money on migrant labourers. We cannot do it like this,” the apex court said, adding that it is for the Centre and the RBI to consider the issue. “These are all in the realm of policy decision. These are issues having financial implications and we are not the experts,” a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and M R Shah told advocate Vishal Tiwari, who has filed the petition. The top court was hearing the plea that sought directions to the Centre and the RBI to take effective measures, including fresh loan moratorium, to address the financial stress of borrowers during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. During the hearing, Tiwari referred to the reports on how the second wave of the pandemic has affected the Indian economy and said the situation is much worse as compared with last year. The bench noted in its order that the petitioner has also annexed last month’s circular by which the RBI had issued a resolution of Covid-19 related stress for micro, Ssmall and medium enterprises. “The petitioner appearing in person submits that the circular does not sufficiently address the hardship of the borrowers. Be that as it may, financial relief is in the domain of the government and essentially related to policy matter,” the order said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
12-06-2021||Business||ED issues showcause notice to India's largest cryptocurrency exchange||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday said it has issued a showcause notice to the country’s largest cryptocurrency exchange for undertaking transactions worth over Rs 2,790 crore in alleged violation of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (Fema). Mumbai-based WazirX is a domestic crypto currency and bitcoin exchange start-up registered under the company name Zanmai Labs that was incorporated in December 2017. The notice issued by the central probe agency under various sections of the Fema names the exchange (WazirX), the company and directors Nischal Shetty and Sameer Hanuman Mhatre. The exchange and its promoters denied any wrongdoing and said they are “in compliance with all applicable laws”. The ED issued a statement saying that it stumbled upon the transactions of the exchange during an ongoing money laundering probe into “Chinese-owned” illegal online betting applications. The showcause notice is for transactions worth Rs 2,790.74 crore, the ED said. Shetty, also the CEO of the exchange, took to Twitter and said WazirX was yet to receive any showcause notice from the ED as mentioned in media reports.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
12-06-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India extends risk-based internal audit system to HFCs||The Reserve Bank of India on Friday extended the risk-based internal audit (RBIA) system to certain housing finance companies (HFCs) in a bid to enhance the quality and effectiveness of their audits. In February this year, the banking regulator had issued a circular mandating the RBIA framework for all deposit taking non-banking finance companies (NBFCs), all non-deposit taking NBFCs with an asset size of Rs 5,000 crore and above and all urban co-operative banks (UCBs) having an asset size of Rs 500 crore and above. On Friday, the RBI included HFCs to this list. The provisions will apply to all deposit-taking HFCs, irrespective of their size. It will also cover all non-deposit-taking HFCs with an asset size of Rs 5,000 crore and above, the central bank added. These HFCs have been asked to put in place an RBIA framework by June 30, 2022. According to the central bank, an effective RBIA is an audit methodology that links an organisation’s overall risk management framework and provides an assurance to the board of directors and the senior management on the quality and effectiveness of its internal controls, risk management and governance-related systems and processes. In the February circular, it added that the essential requirements for a robust internal audit function include sufficient authority, proper stature, independence, adequate resources and professional competence. As part of the norms, the central bank has said that the audit committee of the board or the board itself will have to approve an RBIA plan to determine the priorities of the internal audit function based on the level and direction of risk as consistent with the entity’s goals. The risk assessment of business and other functions of the organisation should at least be conducted on an annual basis. RBI has also said that every activity or location, including the risk management and compliance functions, shall be subjected to risk assessment by the RBIA. ``The senior management is responsible for ensuring adherence to the internal audit policy guidelines as approved by the Board and development of an effective internal control function that identifies, measures, monitors and reports all risks faced. It shall ensure that appropriate action is taken on the internal audit findings within given timelines and status on closure of audit reports is placed before the ACB/Board’’, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
12-06-2021||Business||Index of industrial production falls to 126.6 in April||The index of industrial production fell to 126.6 in April from 145.5 in March — a decline of 12.9 per cent. “Whichever way we may look at the IIP data the level of industrial output of April 2021 does not provide an encouraging picture,” said Sunil Kumar Sinha, principal economist, India Ratings and Research. He attributed the fall in industrial output to the second wave of the coronavirus, which led to lockdowns in some states. The government has held back the release of the complete IIP data for April, as was done for the same month last year because of the Covid-19 induced lockdown. “It may be noted that the nationwide lockdown and other measures implemented to restrict the spread of Covid-19 pandemic from the end of March 2020, had led to a majority of the establishments not operating in April 2020 and consequently, there were many units which reported ‘Nil’ production, affecting comparison of the indices for the months of April 2020 and April 2021,” the NSO said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
12-06-2021||Business||Coal India changes e-auction policy to allow domestic buyers to export coal from India||Coal India has made changes in its e-auction policy to allow domestic buyers, including traders, to export coal from India. The board of directors of the public sector miner has given its nod to the move that could lift coal offtake further. The change will be effective from June 8. Coal India officials said this is a major development since the introduction of spot e-auction of coal in 2007. While Coal India will not directly export, consumers who procure coal can now look at the overseas markets. The miner in turn can get a better premium on coal if demand picks up. The requirement of complying with government rules and all statutory guidelines and legal obligations, however, will lie solely with the buyer and the exporter. The change was brought about by an amendment to the existing clause in the auction policy which said coal procured through e-auction could only be used within the country and not exported. This is effective for two categories – spot e-auction and special spot-auction. Allocation under spot e-auction and special spot e-auction together accounted for 46 million tonnes (mt) of the coal sold in 2020-21, which was 37 per cent of the 124mt allocated for auctions during the year. The highest quantity allocated among all the five auction windows was for spot e-auction at 42.5mt. It fetched a 25 per cent premium over the notified price, again the highest. Special spot e-auction netted a premium of 13 per cent over the notified price. “Though Coal India would not be directly exporting coal, allowing those who procure coal under the two auction windows to export may prove to be catalytic for our sales. If there is a favourable response outside the country, we may witness more active participation as spot e-auctions book higher volumes,” said a senior official of the company. Spot e-auction is meant for all categories of Indian coal buyers, including traders. Special spot e-auction, introduced in 2016, is similar in every way but the booked quantity of coal could be lifted over an extended time period. “We feel upbeat about this development and will hopefully witness an upsurge in auction bookings under the two schemes,” said the executive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
12-06-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India conducts a Rs 26,000 crore government securities bond auction||A large part of the benchmark 10-year bond devolved on primary dealers on Friday as the central bank was not comfortable with the higher yield sought by the participants. The Reserve Bank of India on Friday conducted a Rs 26,000cr government securities bond auction which included the benchmark 5.85 per cent 2030 paper. Against the notified amount of Rs 14,000 crore, the RBI received bids of almost Rs 39,150 crore. However, it accepted bids of Rs 4,024.23 crore, which led to Rs 9,975.763 crore devolving on the primary dealers. Devolvement happens when underwriters are forced to buy the unsold paper. It came at a cut-off yield of 5.99 per cent. Besides, the RBI offered for auction a two-year paper — the 4.26 per cent 2023 bond — amounting to Rs 3,000 crore and a 40-year paper — 6.76 per cent 2061 bond — amounting to Rs 9,000 crore. The central bank accepted bids worth Rs 3,750 crore for the two-year paper as there was a greenshoe option of Rs 750 crore. At the bond markets, the 10-year old benchmark settled at 6 per cent against the previous close of 6.01 per cent. After remaining below the 6 per cent mark for nine consecutive sessions in May, the 10 year paper has been trading above the 6 per cent mark since May 28. However, they have moved in a narrow range. A recent Bloomberg report has said that the RBI holding of the 5.85 per cent 2030 bond has risen to 52 per cent of its outstanding through measures such as  Operation Twist and the two tranches of government securities acquisition programme. Last week, after the announcement of the monetary policy, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das had said the central bank is not fixated on maintaining a 6 per cent level for the 10 year paper. “There is nothing like 6 per cent is sacrosanct. We have talked about orderly evolution of the yield curve and focussing on that,’’ he said. If the results of Friday’s auction are any indication, it is likely to continue keeping them under check. Sensex peaks Equity benchmarks darted up to fresh lifetime highs on Friday as IT, pharma and energy counters saw brisk buying in tandem with a bullish trend overseas. After touching a record intra-day peak of 52641.53, the 30-share BSE Sensex ended 174.29 points or 0.33 per cent up at its new closing high of 52474.76. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 61.60 points or 0.39 per cent to its lifetime peak of 15799.35. During the week, the Sensex jumped 374.71 points, or 0.71 per cent, while the Nifty advanced 129.10 points or 0.82 per cent. Taper talk The US Federal Reserve is likely to announce in August or September a strategy for reducing its massive bond buying programme, but won’t start cutting monthly purchases until early next year, a Reuters poll of economists found. A significant number of Fed watchers also said the central bank would wait until later in the year before announcing a taper, now the main focus for markets fretting over rising inflation as an end to the pandemic in the US is in sight. Booming demand with the U.S. economy reopening is expected to continue and push up consumer prices this year, with the June 4-10 Reuters poll of over 100 economists showing an upgrade to both growth and inflation forecasts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
12-06-2021||Business||PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry proposes to government to issue special Covid bonds to raise funds||Industry body PHDCCI on Friday suggested the government issue special Covid bonds to raise funds and provide economic stimulus. PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry said the coronavirus-induced restrictions in the country have created a difficult time for trade and industry, and the government has to step up with proactive as well as calibrated measures to help them. “To mobilise the fiscal resources of such stimulus support to the economy, the issuance of special Covid bonds could become an appropriate substitute to the market borrowings by the government,” it said. There is a need for effective fiscal measures such as a reduction in the GST rates to create demand in the economy along with Direct Benefit Transfers for the urban and rural poor, in-kind transfers, front-loading of infrastructure investments, among others, the chamber added. “Various governments, banks and financial institutions around the world have often adopted the innovative mechanism of issuing special bonds to raise resources for a speedy recovery in difficult situations,” PHDCCI noted. Such special bonds involve relatively less inflation risk, limit the crowding-out of private investments from other sectors of the economy and form a source of tax-free income for bondholders. FM view Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday asked various ministries to try to spend more than their capital expenditure targets as well as explore public private partnerships for viable projects. At the meeting with senior government officials, the finance minister discussed the road map for infrastructure development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
12-06-2021||Business||Tax cut pitch on Covid essentials ahead of GST Council meet||Ahead of the crucial GST Council meeting on Saturday, leading tax experts on Friday pitched for lowering the rates on Covid items, even as a temporary measure. The council would consider exemptions or reductions on vaccines, Covid items and black fungus medicines based on the suggestions of a ministerial panel. Bimal Jain, chairman of the indirect taxes committee of industry body PHDCCI, said the states may not object to the 5 per cent GST on vaccines as the Centre would procure 75 per cent of the vaccines and supply them to the states. However, the tax rates on Covid items should be reduced to make it affordable to the patients during the pandemic. He was speaking at a webinar organised by the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PHDCCI) on GST input tax credit. The Congress party- and other Opposition-ruled states have been demanding a reduction in taxes but the central government felt the move may not result in tangible gains for people. Jain pointed to several gaps in the credit system: credit is denied because the supplier has not paid GST. It is not available for goods distributed as sales promotion, which is considered as a gift. Input tax credit (ITC) is unavailable on CSR expenses and because of matching ITC with GSTR 2A or 2B. “The government must try to simplify the process of availing credit for all businesses,” Jain said. The input tax credit is a hugely contentious issue complicated by a concertina of rates and exemptions and relaxed reporting requirements for certain categories of companies — mostly small businesses — that slows refunds because of delays in invoice matching. Sanjay Aggarwal, president of PHD Chamber, said input tax credit was a major matter of concern for taxpayers incurring Covid-19 related expenditure as there are doubts on availing ITC on such expenditure. “No relaxation has been provided in the time limit for availing ITC as given under Section 16(4) of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017. The taxpayers can only avail input tax credit for 2020-21 till October 20, 2021,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
12-06-2021||India||Covid: Kerala logs 13,832 new cases, 171 deaths||Kerala recorded 13,832 new Covid-19 cases and 171 deaths on Saturday, taking the caseload to 26,86,630 and the toll to 10,975. A total of 18,172 people recuperated from the disease, pushing the tally of those cured to 25,75,769. Currently, there are 1,29,488 people under treatment. Health Minister Veena George said 1,08,734 samples were tested in the last 24 hours and the test positivity rate was 12.72 per cent. Till now 2,11,26,248 samples have been tested. Among the districts, Thiruvananthapuram recorded the highest number of fresh cases--2,234, followed by neighbouring Kollam with 1,592 and Ernakulam (1,539). "Of those found infected today, 82 reached the state from outside while 12,986 contracted the disease from their contacts.The source of infection of 700 is yet to be traced and 64 health workers are also among the infected," the minister said in a release. There are 5,45,000 people under observation in the state of which 31,103 are in isolation wards of various hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-65
12-06-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh's health services in bad shape, alleges Akhilesh||Health services in Uttar Pradesh are in a very bad shape due to the neglect of the BJP government which has given private hospitals an opportunity to loot people during the Covid crisis, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav alleged on Saturday. In an apparent reference to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's New Delhi visit on Friday, Yadav said BJP leaders are only concerned about staying in power. "There is no control of the government on private hospitals. The black marketing of medicines and injections continues unabated. Corona curfew and lack of oxygen has added to the woes of the people, the SP chief was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the party. Yadav said the condition of the health system is such that a serious patient was carried on a cot for eight kilometres to the hospital in Tilovgaon village in Mirzapur. Under the BJP rule, serious patients are not even getting ambulances, he claimed. The SP government had started the 108 ambulance service but it was ruined by the BJP. There have also been shameful incidents like the one involving a patient being taken to a hospital in Kanpur on a handcart and a garbage truck used to carry a dead body, the former chief minister said. "Private hospitals have left no stone unturned to forcibly rob patients during the Corona crisis. Patients were allowed to die by shutting off oxygen at Paras Hospital in Agra," he claimed, stressing the rates fixed by the government for treatment and sale of essential medicines were not followed anywhere. Attacking the chief minister, Yadav said: "The chief minister was busy in talks with his top leadership in Delhi and people were suffering in the state. Instead of connecting with the pain and suffering of the people, BJP is busy only in staying in power. This is the democracy of BJP. Adityanath had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his residence on Friday. Later, he also met Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president J P Nadda. On Thursday, the chief minister had a meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-65
12-06-2021||India||Centre's 'incompetence' responsible for India's woes during 2nd wave, says Congress||The Congress on Saturday alleged that the country paid the price for the Modi government's "incompetence" during the second wave of COVID-19. "When the Modi government should have finalised public health policy to take on the coronavirus on a war footing, it was busy saving the illusory image of the prime minister," it alleged on its Twitter handle. "We lost our brothers and sisters due to this government's incompetence, we will never forget," the Congress tweeted as the opposition party and its leaders targeted the Centre over the handling of the pandemic with the hashtag "ZimmedarKaun" (who is responsible) and raised the issue of shortage of beds, oxygen and medicines when India was at the crest of the second wave. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the public knows who is sitting silently even after the pandemic, inflation and unemployment. "Every person in the country knows the one who is sitting silently even after seeing all - the pandemic, inflation and unemployment," he tweeted. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra claimed that the world witnessed the prime minister's "incompetence at governance" during the pandemic. "He (the prime minister) simply retreated and waited for the worst to pass. The Prime Minister of India has behaved like a coward. He has let our country down," she said in her statement posted on her Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. The prime minister's "vast capacity for vanity" has been exposed, she alleged. "Indians do not come first for him. Politics does. Truth does not concern him, propaganda does," Priyanka Gandhi alleged and asserted that the time has come for the people to ask the prime minister "Zimmedaar Kaun". In another tweet, Rahul Gandhi called for further strengthening the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) saying the weaker sections of society have benefited the most from it due to the financial crisis after the lockdowns in the country. "The weaker sections of the country are getting relief from MGNREGA this time too. It is necessary to further strengthen this scheme to deal with the financial crisis caused by the lockdown," he said. "Whichever government is there, the people belong to India and public interest is our responsibility," he also said. The Congress has been touting MGNREGA as the previous UPA government's flagship scheme aimed at benefiting the rural poor by providing them social security and a guarantee of work. Rahul Gandhi also tweeted on World Day Against Child Labour and said the children are the future and deserve education and smiles. "Children are the future. They deserve education, health and smiles. Let's make every day #WorldDayAgainstChildLabour," he said on Twitter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-65
12-06-2021||India||Digvijay Singh says Congress will take ‘relook’ at Article 370, BJP reacts||Congress leader Digvijay Singh's comments in a clubhouse conversation that the revocation of Article 370 and stripping Jammu and Kashmir of statehood was an "extremely sad" decision and his party will have a "relook" at the issue have triggered a row, with the BJP accusing him of speaking against India and in agreement with Pakistan. Singh's remarks to a person, who the BJP said was a journalist of Pakistani origin, was seized by the saffron party leaders to hit out at the opposition party with its spokesperson Sambit Patra demanding statements from Congress president Sonia Gandhi and her son Rahul Gandhi on the issue. "The decision of revoking Article 370 and reducing the statehood of J&K is extremely, I would say, a sad decision, and the Congress party would certainly have a relook on the issue," Singh said, according to bits of conversation available on social media. He was responding to a question about the "way forward" on the issue once the Modi government is gone. As the BJP attacked him, Singh posted a tweet in Hindi in an apparent jibe at the ruling party. "This bunch of illiterate people cannot probably differentiate between 'shall' and 'consider'," the former Madhya Pradesh chief minister said. Attacking him, Patra told reporters, "We have all seen how Digvijay Singh is spitting venom on India and speaking in agreement with Pakistan. This is the same person who had dubbed the Pulwama attack as an accident and described the 26/11 Mumbai attack as an RSS conspiracy." The BJP leader cited old comments of other Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi and Mani Shankar Aiyar, to allege that Singh's remarks were part of a larger pattern of the party being "hand in glove" with Pakistan. "This is all part of the toolkit which the BJP had exposed," Patra said in a reference to a controversial document rejected as fake by the Congress. The Congress would go to the extent of collaborating with China and Pakistan to spread "hate" against Modi and India, he alleged. "The Congress should change its name from INC (Indian National Congress) to ANC, Anti-national Clubhouse. This is such a clubhouse whose members have begun hating India while hating Modi," he alleged. Patra asked Sonia Gandhi and Rahul to make their party's stand clear on the issue. He claimed that Rahul Gandhi is the leader of these Congress politicians, adding that Pakistan prime minister Imran Khan had used his criticism of Article 370 as part of his country's dossier against India on the issue in the UN. Union ministers Giriraj Singh and Kiren Rijiju were among other BJP leaders who targeted the Congress in their tweets over the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-65
12-06-2021||India||Govt dismisses claims of Co-WIN hack as ‘fake, baseless’||The government on Saturday dismissed the claims of hacking of the Co-WIN system and data leak as "baseless". In a statement, the Health Ministry said the matter of the alleged hacking of the Co-WIN system has been investigated by the Computer Emergency Response Team of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. “There have been some unfounded media reports of the CoWIN platform being hacked. Prima facie, these reports appear to be fake,” the health ministry said in a press release. Dr R S Sharma, Chairman of the Empowered Group on Vaccine Administration, has clarified, “Our attention has been drawn towards the news circulating on social media about the alleged hacking of the Co-WIN system. In this connection, we wish to state that Co-WIN stores all the vaccination data in a safe and secure digital environment.” “No Co-WIN data is shared with any entity outside the Co-WIN environment. The data being claimed as having been leaked, such as geo-location of beneficiaries, is not even collected at Co-WIN,” he added in the statement. Co-WIN portal facilitates the national Covid-19 vaccination drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-66
12-06-2021||India||Crowd-funding helps child with rare disorder get world's 'costliest' medicine||The generosity of nearly 65,000 people has helped get the life-saving gene therapy treatment for a three-year-old boy from the city, who has been diagnosed with a rare and life threatening genetic disease. Zolgensma, labelled as the "world's most expensive drug," was imported from the US with the donations and administered to little Ayaansh Gupta on Wednesday, at a private hospital in the city. The treatment has given a new lease of life to the child, who was diagnosed with spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) when he was one year old. "This is an extremely rare condition which causes muscle weakness.. the child will be unable to move his hands or legs, sit, stand or even walk. In fact, eating food is also difficult," said the boy's father Yogesh Gupta, working in a private firm here. "The condition is also life threatening and the doctors said that my child's life expectancy was three to four years," he told news agency PTI. It was therefore important to treat the child right on time. At first, it seemed impossible for the boy's parents to raise Rs 16 crore for one dose. But then the couple decided to do it through appeals on social media. In February this year, they started a crowdfunding campaign to save their son's life and family friends also extended their support. In three months, they managed to raise enough money to pay for the treatment. Many celebrities, including Virat Kohli, Anushka Sharma, Anil Kapoor, Ajay Devgan and several from the TV industry came forward to help the couple. "Around 65,000 people made donations. It was made possible on May 22," Gupta said. A family friend reached out to an MP, who raised the issue of cost of the medicine in Parliament following which the central government gave tax exemption to the tune of Rs six crore. With the medicine being administered, Gupta expressed hope that his kid's condition would improve in the coming months. The child was discharged from hospital and follow-up treatment would continue, he said. The boy's father thanked all the 65,000 donors who helped them mobilise funds for the expensive treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-66
12-06-2021||India||Thunderstorm, rain batters Mumbai again ||Heavy rains, coupled with thunderstorm and strong winds, lashed Mumbai and its suburbs on Saturday, leading to disruption of train and bus services as tracks and roads got waterlogged at several locations, officials said. A Central Railway spokesperson said the suburban train services between Dadar and Kurla stations on the main line were suspended after the water rose above the track level, while a Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) official said that several of its buses had to be diverted due to water-logging at some points. At 10 am on Saturday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had issued a thunderstorm warning for a few districts in Konkan region, including Mumbai, for the next three hours from that time. "Thunderstorms accompanied with lightning and moderate to intense spells of rain with gusty winds 30-40 kmph are likely to occur at isolated places," the IMD said in its warning for Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Raigad and Ratnagiri districts of Konkan. It had earlier issued an orange alert' for Mumbai for Saturday. An orange alert implies that authorities should be prepared to handle any situation arising out of severe weather condition. The Central Railway official said, "Due to more than 61.21 mm rainfall in the last one hour, coupled with a high tide of 4.34 metres at 1.32 pm and closing of Mithi river floodgates, water level has been rising on track between Kurla and Sion. The suburban services on the Harbour line also slowed down due to water-logging on tracks near Chunabhatti station as a result of "extremely heavy rain", he said. Trains have been running at a restricted speed for safety reasons, the official said. The operations of local trains on other sections of the main line and other routes, including the Thane-Vashi line, are normal, he added. A Western Railway spokesperson said that the suburban services on their corridors are running without any disruption, but they are closely monitoring the situation. Water-logging was witnessed at several locations in Bandra east, Hindmata, King's Circle, Kurla Kamani and Wadala. The BEST spokesperson said the undertaking diverted its buses on at least 17 locations due to water logging on roads. Mumbai has been witnessing heavy rains since Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-66
12-06-2021||India||Two civilians, two cops killed in militant attack at J&K’s Sopore||Two policemen and as many civilians were killed and at least three others injured on Saturday when militants opened fire targeting security forces in Sopore town of Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said. Militants fired upon a joint party of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and police near Main Chowk Sopore in north Kashmir district around noon, they said. The officials said in the firing, two police personnel and two civilians were killed. At least three others, including a policeman, were injured in the attack, they said. The injured were rushed to a nearby hospital from where the injured policeman was taken to the Army's 92 Base Hospital in Srinagar, the officials added. The security forces have cordoned off the area and further details are awaited, they said. Sajad Lone, chairman of J&K People's Conference, called for an end to terrorism. “Five succumb in Sopore attack. 3 civilians and 2 police men. Mr gunmen— Approximately—5 Kashmiri funerals. 5 widows. 10 grieving old parents. A dozen or more orphans. All Kashmiris. So mr gunmen. Really want to know. Whose bloody side r u on (sic),” he said. “When will this madness end? Guns came to Kashmir in 1989. 32 years down the line. I can unambiguously state. That gun enslaves the very people that it purports to fight for. The gunmen really need to ponder whose war they r fighting,” he said in another tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-66
12-06-2021||India||Sisodia alleges 'secret' friendship between Modi and Punjab CM||AAP leader and Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday alleged a "secret" friendship between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Punjab CM Amarinder Singh, after Punjab was ranked number one in the Performance Grading Index (PGI) 2019-20 by the Centre. "Captain (Amarinder Singh) has got the blessings of Modiji. Delhi's schools have been ranked much below. Nearly 800 government schools in Punjab have been shut down in the last five years and many schools have been handed over to private entities but Punjab has been ranked on the top," he said. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is in opposition in the Congress-governed Punjab where Assembly polls is slated for early next year. Modi's BJP is another opposition party in Punjab. Sisodia alleged that Punjab's government schools have poor educational facilities for students and parents prefer to send their children to private schools. The index is an effort to hide the incompetence of the Punjab government in the field of school education, he alleged. "Maybe later, the government might release a report saying Punjab's hospitals are best. There is a secret friendship between Modiji and Captain," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-66
12-06-2021||India||Shiromani Akali Dal, Bahujan Samaj Party announce alliance for Punjab polls||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) formed an alliance on Saturday for the 2022 Punjab Assembly election. Announcing the tie-up at a press conference, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal described it as a new day in politics of Punjab . "Today is a historic day...a big turn in Punjab's politics,” he said in the presence of BSP General Secretary Satish Chandra Mishra. He said the SAD and the BSP will jointly fight the 2022 polls and other elections together. The Mayawati-led BSP will fight 20 of the 117 Assembly seats in Punjab, while the rest will be contested by the SAD, he said. Among the seats which the BSP will contest are Kartarpur Sahib in Jalandhar, Jalandhar-West, Jalandhar-North, Phagwara, Hoshiarpur Urban, Dasuya, Chamkaur Sahib in Rupnagar district, Bassi Pathana, Sujanpur in Pathankot, Mohali, Amritsar North and Amritsar Central. According to a report by ndtv.com Sukhbir Singh Badal is said to be behind the new alliance who announced last week that his party is open to tie-ups barring the Congress, BJP and the Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). "We cannot align with these parties. We will form alliances and we are open to others. No chance to go with BJP at all," he had said earlier. The SAD earlier had a tie-up with the BJP and the Badal-led party walked out of the NDA over the farm laws issue last year. The BJP used to contest 23 seats under its alliance with the SAD.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-66
12-06-2021||India||Delhi govt preparing on war-footing for 3rd Covid wave, says Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday cautioned that the chances of the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic were quite real, while he asserted that his government was preparing on a "war-footing" to combat it. Indications are coming from the UK on the fear of the third wave. Cases are rising there, despite 45 per cent of vaccination. So, we cannot afford to sit idle, he said. Kejriwal was speaking at an online event during which he jointly inaugurated 22 new PSA oxygen plants at nine hospitals across Delhi. "These new oxygen plants at nine hospitals across Delhi being added today to strengthen our preparations to fight Covid," he said. The chief minster in his address cautioned that the chances of the "third wave of the coronavirus pandemic were quite real" "We cannot afford to sit idle and our government is preparing on a war-footing to combat it," he said. The Delhi government also procuring oxygen tankers to equip system to fight Covid in case of third wave, Kejriwal added. "People of Delhi have come shoulder-to-shoulder in combating the second wave of Covid, and our gratitude to industry sector too for joining the fight," he said. Kejriwal congratulated people of Delhi, saying they have together faced the Covid second wave with struggle and discipline and "succeeded in controlling it". "We pray that the third wave of Covid doesn't hit us, but if it happens, Delhi has to again fight together," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-66
12-06-2021||India||India logs over 84,000 fresh Covid cases, 4,002 casualties in a day||The daily COVID-19 count in India remained below the one-lakh mark for the fifth consecutive day with the country reporting 84,332 fresh cases, its lowest in 70 days, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry on Saturday. With the fresh cases, the infection tally has climbed to 2,93,59,155. The COVID-19 death toll climbed to 3,67,081 with 4,002 daily deaths, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of active cases further declined to 10,80,690, accounting for 3.68 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 95.07 per cent. India's active caseload declined to less than 11 lakh after 63 days while 84,332 new cases reported in 24 hours are the lowest in 70 days, the ministry said. Also, 20,44,131 coronavirus tests were conducted on Friday taking the total number to 37,42,42,384. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 4.39 per cent. It has been less than 10 per cent for the 19th consecutive day, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has also declined to 4.94 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 30th consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,79,11,384, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.25 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 24,96,00,304 COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5; and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11; 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20; and the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore cases on May 4. The 4,002 new fatalities include 2,619 from Maharashtra, 378 from Tamil Nadu, 173 from Kerala and 159 from Karnataka. A total of 3,67,081 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,06,367 from Maharashtra, 32,644 from Karnataka, 28,906 from Tamil Nadu, 24,772 from Delhi, 21,667 from Uttar Pradesh, 16,731 from West Bengal, 15,435 from Punjab and 13,300 from Chhattisgarh. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-66
12-06-2021||India||Dominica HC denies bail to Mehul Choksi||The Dominica High Court has denied bail to fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi in the case of illegal entry into the island country after his mysterious disappearance from neighbouring Antigua and Barbuda where he is staying as a citizen since 2018, local Caribbean media reported. The high court on Friday (local time) gave the ruling by concluding that Choksi was a "flight risk", did not have any ties with Dominica and the court could not impose any conditions which will stop him from leaving the country, news outlet AntiguaNewsroom said. Choksi had approached the high court after the magistrate had rejected his bail petition. The promoter of Geetanjali Gems and other famous diamond brands in India had fled the country weeks before Rs 13,500 crore fraud in Punjab National Bank (PNB) allegedly involving him and his nephew Nirav Modi surfaced. Choksi, 62, who has an Interpol Red Notice against him, had mysteriously gone missing on May 23 from Antigua and Barbuda where he has been staying since 2018 as a citizen after fleeing from India. He was detained in the neighbouring island country of Dominica for illegal entry after a possible romantic escapade with his rumoured girlfriend. Choksi's lawyers alleged that he was kidnapped from Jolly Harbour in Antigua by policemen looking like Antiguan and Indian and brought to Dominica on a boat. He was also brought before a Roseau magistrate, on the orders of High Court Judge Bernie Stephenson, hearing Habeas Corpus matter, to answer charges of illegal entry where he pleaded not guilty but was denied bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-66
12-06-2021||India||Congress holds nationwide protests against fuel price rise||Congress leaders ride a horse cart in New Delhi on Friday as part of a nationwide protest against rising petroleum prices. The Congress on Friday protested against the rising prices of petroleum products at petrol pumps across the country, barring a few districts that are still under complete lockdown. Expressing outrage at petrol breaching the Rs 100 mark despite the low prices of crude in the international market, Congress leaders accused the Narendra Modi government of looting the common man. They said the government had amassed lakhs of crores of rupees in taxes on petroleum products over the past seven years. Most senior leaders and elected representatives of the Congress participated in the protest. The party demanded rollback of the excise duty hike and the passing on of the benefits of reduced international crude oil prices to consumers. They also demanded that petrol and diesel be brought under the GST. Except Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat where police cracked down on protesters, Congress leaders claimed it was an effective show throughout the country. The party also ran a social media campaign under the hashtag ‘BJPLootingIndia’. Leaders posted video messages highlighting the sufferings caused to the people and farmers on account of rising prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-66
12-06-2021||India||Mahant named Ram fails to get  Aadhaar in Uttar Pradesh||Name: Ram (also known as Maryada Purushottam) Son of: Dasharath Address: Ayodhya (just settled by law) Date of birth: Ninth day of Chaitra (celebrated across India as Ram Navami) Phone number: Not known but omnipresent, considering our leaders will have us believe we live in “Ram Rajya”. Mahant Ram Kumar Das had all the details required for an Aadhaar card but faltered on the biometric details of the Lord. That he shares the name of the Lord also did not help. Das, the priest of Ram-Janki Virajman Mandir in Khurhand village of Banda district in Uttar Pradesh’s Bundelkhand region, has claimed a government official had asked him to get an Aadhaar card in the name of Lord Ram when he applied to sell wheat grown on the temple land. “The 40-bighas land on which we grow wheat and rice is in the name of the temple. Ownership details of agricultural land are required to sell produce to the government. The land technically belongs to Ram and Janki (Sita),” Das told reporters on Friday. Das, who used to sell the produce from the land to local traders, had this year decided to take the wheat crop to the government’s Mandi Parishad, from where the state buys directly from farmers. “We use the earnings from the land for the upkeep of the temple,” he said. “Recently, I had registered online to sell the produce at the government-run booth (Mandi Parishad). However, the registration was cancelled by officials after a few days. When I met the sub-divisional magistrate, he said we needed to submit the Aadhaar number of the God (Ram),” Das said. “We tried to get an Aadhaar card done in the name of Lord Ram but couldn’t because biometric verification of the God is not possible,” the priest added. Valmiki’s Ramayana depicts Ram as having long arms whose middle fingers reach beyond the knees (ajanubahu) and Hanuman had described the Lord to Sita as one with “coppery eyes”, but such details are not enough in a technologically driven world that swears by the pinpoint precision of fingerprint and iris scans. Sameer Shukla, an officer at the local Mandi Parishad, said: “Those who are shareholders of the produce can register to sell the crops. But we cannot accept the wheat of a temple as there is no provision for it. However, I don’t have any idea about this particular case.” Asked if he had told Mahant Das to get the Aadhaar details of Lord Ram, Atarra sub-divisional magistrate Saurabh Shukla denied the claim. “The purchase centres of the government are meant for buying grains from farmers. We don’t have any provision to buy the produce of a temple or a trust. And, I never asked him for Lord Ram’s Aadhaar card,” Shukla said. The land of the 200-year-old Ram-Janki Virajman Mandir had been donated to the shrine by some locals. “There was a practice in the past of people buying properties in the name of gods. After the rules changed and it became mandatory to own land in the name of real people, villagers donated land bought in the name of gods to temples instead of applying for change of ownership,” Mahant Das explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-67
12-06-2021||India||Network 18 shelves cartoonist Manjul's contract||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday posted a tweet without naming anyone: “He is scared of everything — truth, questions, cartoons....” Contemporary events in India are so stark that no clues are needed to decipher who “he” is. The tweet came against the backdrop of a filmmaker in Lakshadweep, Aisha Sultana, being charged with sedition for levelling accusations at the Centre and the contract of a popular cartoonist, Manjul, with a media house being shelved days after suggestions emerged that he had got the government’s goat. This in a country where even an erstwhile British ruler comes out as tolerant of the cartoonist’s lash in an anecdote about Shankar, considered the father of political cartooning in India. When Shankar was particularly harsh on the Viceroy, Linlithgow, in a cartoon and the editor was awaiting reprisal, a messenger from the palace turned up with a request: Would the newspaper let the Viceroy have the autographed original? Nowadays palace runners have been replaced with digital messengers. Cartoonist Manjul lost his contract with Network 18, a subsidiary of Reliance Industries that is controlled by Mukesh Ambani, days after Twitter sent him a notice. The notice informed him that Twitter had received a legal request from Indian authorities to take action against his social media profile. Manjul had shared the email he received from Twitter, with the comment: “Jai ho Modi ji ki sarkaar ki (Hail the Modi government). It would have been good had the government mentioned which tweet it had a problem with….” Manjul did not take calls from this newspaper on Friday. Network 18 officials were not available for comment, either. Manjul and Satish Acharya, another cartoonist, have vividly portrayed the grim reality of the Covid second wave and the misery of the people. Lawyer Prashant Bhushan said on Thursday that he had received a notice from Twitter for sharing a cartoon by Acharya as the tweet apparently “violates the law(s) of India”. Bhushan asked: “Which laws, Sir? Sedition? Or the law against looting banks?” The cartoon features a man looting banks and saying: “I won’t empty it, I am not the government.” Rahul had put out another tweet on the “fear” theme on Thursday night. “Alethophobia — the fear of truth,” he had tweeted, along with a report that explained how the central government had amended rules to hinder retired security and intelligence officials from writing books and articles or commenting on issues relating to current policy that fell in the domain of their work during service. This order, criticised by former bureaucrats, came around the same time as the legal framework to put curbs on social media was being enforced. WhatsApp has moved Delhi High Court challenging the clause in the new rules providing for “identification of the first originator of the information”. The traceability provision has been described as unconstitutional and counter to people’s fundamental right to privacy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-67
12-06-2021||India||Sedition FIR against Lakshadweep filmmaker Aisha Sultana||Lakshadweep’s first woman filmmaker, Aisha Sultana, has been booked for sedition over her reference to a “bio-weapon” during a TV debate. Hairs are being split on whether she meant the Centre had deployed a Covid “bio-weapon” in Lakshadweep, which initially had no cases, or whether she was describing the archipelago’s administrator as a “bio-weapon” for his controversial decisions that are believed to have caused a Covid surge on the islands. Police in Kavaratti, the Union Territory’s capital, on Friday asked her to appear on June 20. Amid the crossfire, senior lawyer Kaleeswaram Raj made a pertinent point. There was nothing seditious about the word “bio-weapon”, and that 124A applied “only when the phrase or word is accompanied with an incitement to violence”, Raj said. He said that in Kedar Nath Singh vs State of Bihar (1962), “the Supreme Court had stated that unless the speech contained an incitement to violence there cannot be sedition”. The Supreme Court had last week cited the 1962 judgment by a constitution bench to dismiss sedition charges against veteran journalist Vinod Dua, underlining the accused had not incited people to violence against the State or created public disorder through his statements. Dua had criticised the Centre’s Covid management and aspects of its 2019 poll campaign. Raj said the registration of a sedition case was, however, in itself a sort of “punishment” for the accused. “The process itself is a punishment for the innocent, since he or she has to go through this for years. The trauma one undergoes is enormous,” he said. The FIR against Aisha has triggered protests in Lakshadweep, where administrator and former BJP politician Praful Khoda Patel faces allegations of imposing a “Sangh parivar agenda” on the Muslim-majority islands with a series of controversial decisions, including a crackdown on dissent. Aisha, 37, had used the word “bio-weapon” during a panel discussion on a Malayalam channel on Monday. The FIR was registered on Thursday on a written complaint from Lakshadweep BJP president C. Abdul Khader Haji, who accused the filmmaker of having insulted the nation and its government. Aisha has been booked under IPC sections 124A (sedition) and 153B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration). An audio tape has also emerged, purportedly featuring the voice of a BJP leader in Kerala telling a party colleague in Lakshadweep that the controversy is a godsend. Aisha clarified in a video message on Friday that she had not used the word “bio-weapon” to refer to the Centre or any government but only to Patel. “I didn’t use the word ‘bio-weapon’ against the Centre. I compared Praful Patel to a weapon. The reason for (saying) that is the issues that cropped up after Praful Patel landed in Lakshadweep,” Aisha said in the video. She told The Telegraph over the phone that Lakshadweep had not witnessed a single Covid case till Patel assumed charge last December and relaxed the quarantine norms for people arriving from outside. Now the islands face a Covid surge, with a court petition saying the archipelago of 68,000 people had registered 8,667 cases and 38 deaths since January 4 and now had more than 1,500 active patients. “I never used any word damaging the national interest or the integrity of the motherland,” Aisha told this newspaper. “I don’t harbour an iota of fear about the repercussions for engaging in free speech. On the contrary, I would not mind the sedition charges and they will not silence me.” Section 124A prescribes three years’ jail to a life term for “whoever, by words... brings or attempts to bring into hatred or contempt, or excites or attempts to excite disaffection towards, the government established by law”. At the debate on MediaOne TV, Aisha had said “what they used is a bio-weapon” in an apparent allusion to the Covid spike in Lakshadweep. Her co-panellist from the BJP asks her to withdraw the word, saying it was a “baseless” allegation, but Aisha refuses. “I don’t believe I’ve said anything wrong; you take whatever action you can,” she says. Support has poured in for Aisha from people in Lakshadweep and elsewhere in the country. Activist Saket Gokhale on Friday sent a legal notice to Sharat Kumar Sinha, Lakshadweep senior superintendent of police, seeking withdrawal of the sedition case against Aisha by June 18. If not, Gokale said, he would approach Kerala High Court. “In solidarity with Aisha Sultana. Voices of dissent can’t be suppressed by using sedition,” SFI leader and JNU students’ union president Aishe Ghosh posted on Facebook. One of Ghosh’s predecessors, Kanhaiya Kumar, and two other then JNU students were in 2016 arrested in a sedition case after “anti-national” slogans were allegedly chanted on the campus. Lakshadweep MP Mohammed Faizal of the Nationalist Congress Party promised “all legal and political support” for Aisha. Aisha, who has worked as a model and actress and made her directorial debut with the Malayalam film Flush in 2020, hit out at Haji. “The BJP leader who lodged the complaint is a native of Lakshadweep. While he betrays his place of birth I’ll continue to fight for my place of birth,” she wrote in a Facebook post on Friday. “Now my voice will get even louder. What I don’t have and what they have is ‘fear’.” To this newspaper, Aisha emphasised her commitment to Lakshadweep. She said she had received a certificate of appreciation from the Union Territory administration in 2020 for camping in Kochi and helping evacuate islanders trapped there following the lockdown. Among Patel’s controversial decisions are a move to ban cow slaughter, the lifting of a liquor ban, introduction of a two-child norm for panchayat poll contestants, use of a draconian law to curb dissent, and opening up the ecologically sensitive islands to large-scale tourism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-67
12-06-2021||India||Covid: US declines to evaluate Covaxin under emergency use authorisation||The US regulatory authority has declined to evaluate Covaxin, India’s homegrown Covid-19 vaccine, under the emergency use authorisation (EUA) pathway and recommended an alternative route that would require an additional clinical trial. The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has recommended that Ocugen — the US partner of vaccine maker Bharat Biotech — pursue a biologics licence application (BLA) instead of EUA and requested additional information and data, the companies said. Data from an additional clinical trial would be required to support submissions for the approval under the BLA route, the companies said, adding that the process would take longer than it would have under the fast-tracked EUA pathway. “While this will extend our timelines, we are committed to bringing Covaxin to the US,” Shankar Munsunuri, chief executive officer of Ocugen, said in a statement. “This differentiated vaccine is a critical tool to include in our national arsenal given its potential to address SARS-CoV-2 variants.” Bharat Biotech has already conducted a clinical trial of Covaxin in India involving 25,800 volunteers that, the company has said, has shown an efficacy of 78 per cent in protecting people from Covid-19 and 100 per cent efficacy against severe disease. The FDA’s decision to recommend the BLA route for Covaxin would make no difference to its use in India, said Vinod Paul, chair of the national expert panel on Covid-19 vaccination policy and member of the Niti Aayog. “We respect that decision, and we expect our manufacturer will be able to comply by doing whatever is required. But it has no impact whatsoever on our own programme,” Paul said. “We are satisfied, our regulator has approved (the vaccine.) We have so much data on safety and its efficacy.” India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign has administered nearly 30 million doses of Covaxin. The country’s regulatory authority had approved the vaccine in January on the basis of earlier clinical trials assessing Covaxin’s safety and immune responses. Sections of vaccine researchers say they do not understand what differential advantage Covaxin will provide in the US market that, they say, has sufficient stocks of the Covid-19 vaccines from Moderna, Pfizer and Johnson&Johnson. A query sent by The Telegraph to Bharat Biotech asking what advantages might Covaxin provide over the vaccines already being used in the US market has not evoked a response. Covaxin is made from inactivated (killed) virus, among the oldest of vaccination strategies, while the vaccines from Pfizer and Moderna are both designer mRNA vaccines, and the Johnson&Johnson vaccine is based on an adenovirus. Santanu Tripathi, a former professor of pharmacology at the Calcutta School of Tropical Health, said variants might impact efficacy of the current vaccines in the future. “One expectation is that the whole virion vaccine might be more effective against variants,” he said. But a senior virologist said mRNA vaccines were easier to tweak for variants. “I don’t see an advantage over mRNA vaccines,” the virologist told this newspaper. “This appears like a gamble on Bharat’s part.” Bharat Biotech itself has underlined that no vaccine developed in India has ever received EUA or full approval from the US FDA. “Thus it will be a great leap forward for vaccine innovation from India when approved,” the company said in a media release. The US FDA had on May 25 issued revised guidelines for EUA for Covid-19 vaccines that said it “may decline to review and process further EUA requests other than those for vaccines whose developers have engaged in an ongoing manner with the agency during the development of their manufacturing process and clinical trials programme”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-67
12-06-2021||India||Ladakh: China continues to resist India’s demand for disengagement  ||China’s army has yet not confirmed dates for fresh military talks, continues to resist India’s demand for disengagement and troop de-escalation from the remaining friction points in Ladakh, and wants India to accept the “new” frontier created by its transgressions, sources in the security establishment said. “The Chinese appear unwilling to confirm new dates for military talks; they have not yet responded to India’s request for talks. They are keeping us waiting, and want India to accept the ‘new’ Line of Control in Ladakh,” a security official attached to the Union home ministry told The Telegraph. Retired generals said an emboldened China was refusing to budge from the Depsang Plains or Gogra and Hot Springs because India had conceded too much in the Galwan Valley and the Pangong Lake, retreating within its own territory while leaving the Chinese still entrenched within India-claimed lines. A military veteran said the situation was detrimental to India’s sovereignty. “It’s shocking that the political leadership has been maintaining a stony silence, with the pro-government mainstream media successfully deflecting attention from this serious issue,” he said. A defence ministry official said: “Under a pact in February, the Chinese had agreed to work towards a disengagement process for the Depsang Plains and Gogra and Hot Springs. But now they don’t seem interested at all — they appear to have gone back on their word.” It has been more than two months since the two armies had “inconclusive” talks on April 8. Sources said that at that meeting, China had repeated its claim about the occupied zones in the Depsang Plains, Hot Springs and Gogra being Chinese territory and asked Indian troops to retreat further within India-claimed lines, as at the Pangong Lake and the Galwan Valley. At the strategically crucial Depsang Plains, the Chinese are entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines and continue to cut off the Indian Army’s access to five traditional patrolling points. In Hot Springs and Gogra, the Chinese are said to have built infrastructure including army camps. Even the disengagement and de-escalation at the Pangong Lake remains “hazy” after India and China moved back 5km each from their positions on the north and south banks under a process that began on February 10, veterans said. According to the agreement, neither side can patrol areas within the 10km-wide buffer zone until the two countries have worked out all the modalities in diplomatic and military talks. Military veterans say this means the government has handed over more Indian territory to the Chinese on a platter. “India played into China’s hands by agreeing to vacate the dominating Chushul heights on the Kailash Range first as part of the disengagement process at the Pangong Lake. That was a blunder,” a former lieutenant general said. He said the emboldened Chinese were now prolonging the disengagement dialogue while setting conditions. “So far they have refused to disengage if their demands are not met. Even at the Pangong Lake they can always come back to their earlier positions considering the heavy presence of the Chinese army on the edge of the buffer zone,” he said. What appeared an early suggestion about China’s ownership of whatever territory it is ensconced in had come almost a year ago, and from an unexpected quarter. Four days after a clash at the Galwan Valley killed 20 Indian soldiers and four Chinese on June 15, 2020, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had asserted that no one had occupied or was occupying Indian territory, allowing Beijing to dismiss allegations of border transgressions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-67
12-06-2021||India||Lakshadweep: BJP leaders resign to protest sedition case against Aisha||Around 15 BJP leaders in Lakshadweep have resigned to protest the sedition case against filmmaker Aisha Sultana, sources said on Friday. It is the second major exodus from the party that is only a minor player in the Muslim-majority Union Territory. Eight BJP leaders had resigned from the party in May in protest against Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel’s arbitrary actions that hit normal life in the isles. Former president of the BJP’s Bitra island unit, Abdul Hameed, told reporters that there was no point in continuing in a party “that did no good to the people and never lost an opportunity to harm them”. “Now the BJP president has filed a complaint against a girl who had said something. Instead of just ignoring what she said, they have gone and registered an FIR,” said Hameed. “Why do we need this party when it can’t work for the people? That’s why I am resigning,” he said. Ishaq Hameed, another BJP leader from Bitra island, said he too was on his way out of the party. “We were not informed when the leadership decided to lodge a complaint against Aisha,” he told a channel. Hameed also pointed to the “anti-people” reforms of the new administrator Patel. Another local leader named Hameed from Bitra island released an audio message to the media claiming that many more leaders would quit shortly. “We had asked the party about its response to the misdeeds of the administrator. But there was no response,” he said. “This is the mood in several islands. It’s only a matter of time before more people resign,” he claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-67
12-06-2021||India||Covid: SC rejects medical PG final exam waiver plea||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to entertain a plea for waiver of examinations for final-year post-graduate medical students as it wondered how patients could be left at the mercy of doctors who haven’t completed their exams. The court, however, sought response of the Union ministry for health and family welfare and the National Medical Council (NMC) on the plea of the PG medical students for postponement of final-year exams at least by a month for preparation. “They will be treating patients. How can they (patients) be in the hands of people who haven’t cleared the exams?” Justice M.R. Shah asked senior advocate Sanjay Hegde during the hearing. The bench headed by Justice Indira Banerjee was dealing with a petition filed by a group of PG medical students seeking a blanket waiver on their final-year exams for this year as they are busy treating Covid-19 patients and hence could not prepare. Hegde pleaded that the NMC was also unable to take any decision on the waiver as they are seeking suitable instructions from the National Disaster Management Authority. He said most of the petitioner doctors treating Covid patients have also lost their own family members to the pandemic. He said the doctors were constrained to invoke the Supreme Court’s jurisdiction for enforcement of their fundamental rights under Article 32. “Prima facie we are not satisfied to give such a direction under Article 32 to waive off the examination... It is a completely policy decision,” the bench observed. The court adjourned the matter for further hearing to next Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-67
12-06-2021||India||Covid: Haze over admission to undergraduate courses||Confusion hangs heavy on admission to undergraduate courses this year as the country’s innumerable school boards have not come up with common criteria to assess students with the pandemic clouding board exams. Academics and school principals feel the higher educational institutions should devise a new mechanism instead of the usual practice of considering board marks as the sole determining factor for selection. While national boards such as the CBSE and the CISCE, and several state boards including the one in Bengal have cancelled this year’s Class XII exams, several are yet to take a decision. Internal assessments of schools and marks in previous exams could be considered. The CBSE has set up a committee to suggest rational criteria to assess students. The Chhattisgarh Board of Secondary Education had allowed students to collect the Class XII question papers and answer sheets from exam centres between June 1 and 5, write the answers at home and submit them within five days. The Bihar board had earlier conducted the school-leaving exam in the traditional pen-and-paper mode. Prof. C.B. Sharma, educationist and former chairman of the National Institute of Open Schooling, said there were 1.5 crore Class XII students across the country, including 14 lakh affiliated to the CBSE. The state boards are guided by the state governments. “Arguably, ministers in the states will issue directions keeping in mind the political interests of their respective parties. Hence, each board may have different criteria of assessment and announcement of results. This may create a situation that could vitiate the correlation between students’ merit and their board performance,” Sharma said. “Most universities consider the Class XII score to admit students to colleges. This year these institutions may have to rethink if they should consider board performance as the sole determining factor for selection,” he added. Sharma advocated the creation of a national regulatory body for school education to set national standards. “At the moment, issues concerning board exams are handled at the political level. But education should be kept away from political interference. Therefore, a school education commission should be set up to advise state boards on exams and other academic matters,” Sharma said.Priyadarshi Nayak, principal of Doon Public School in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras, warned that depending on school board marks might not be the ideal option this year. “Each university should develop its own strategy to select students independent of board performance. This will ensure students of a particular board do not get undue advantage over others,” Nayak said. Shri Prakash Singh, faculty member of political science at Delhi University, said DU traditionally conducted marks-based selection for most courses. “But this year they should not follow this mode,” he said. Singh said the universities should either not consider the board marks at all or the boards should come together to follow some uniform criteria. The education ministry is considering a proposal to hold two sets of common entrance exams to select students for undergraduate and postgraduate courses at central universities. An experts’ committee has suggested equal weightage to the entrance score and board marks. Government sources said the common entrance exams could be conducted in August. “The central government or the CBSE cannot force the state boards to follow their criteria. So there is bound to be difference in weightage points to school-based exams, internal assessments and so on…. There is a possibility of schools under some boards awarding marks liberally to ensure its students do not lag behind. All this might create the possibility of bright students losing out,” Singh said. Ameeta Mulla Wattal, principal of Springdales School, and Usha Ram, former principal of Laxman Public School, said the universities should devise their own criteria instead of depending on board marks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-67
12-06-2021||India||Adityanath expresses heartfelt thanks to Modi for meet||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi from his “hridaytal” (bottom of his heart) for taking out time to meet him, amid indications of a determined effort by the top leadership to rein in the bellicose saffron-robed monk. The one-hour meeting with Modi came after a much longer one-on-one with home minister Amit Shah, considered the second most powerful leader of the current regime, on Thursday. Summoned by the party high command, Adityanath had dashed to Delhi on Thursday amid reports of a simmering discontent in the state unit over his style of leadership in the run-up to the Assembly elections early next year. “Today (Friday), I had the privilege of meeting respected PM Modi and get his guidance. I thank him from the bottom of my heart for taking out time from his busy schedule for the meeting and the counsel,” Adityanath tweeted in Hindi after the meeting. He had posted a similar tweet after meeting Shah. After meeting the top two leaders, Adityanath called on BJP chief J.P. Nadda. Later, Shah and Nadda reached the Prime Minister’s residence and were huddled, apparently to give final shape to the “course-correction” measures to be adopted by Adityanath to strengthen the party’s prospect in the Assembly polls. While the meetings have largely been seen as a desperate preparatory exercise to retain politically crucial Uttar Pradesh, party insiders have hinted at a below-the-radar effort to rein in Adityanath, who has been apparently positioning himself as Modi’s successor. Adityanath is widely seen as the new darling of the BJP’s core aggressive Hindutva brigade, reflecting similarities with the “Hindu Hriday Samrat” image of Modi after the Gujarat communal riots. This rise of Adityanath, according to insiders, has spread unease at the top in Delhi and also within a strong section of the Uttar Pradesh leadership. The disquiet over his “assertive” and “autocratic” ways has now taken the shape of charges against him.  The chief minister was summoned to Delhi after an extensive review by the BJP central leadership and the RSS based on feedback from ministers, lawmakers, MPs and party leaders. The review reports have highlighted Adityanath’s “one-man-show” style of functioning, sources said. State ministers and party leaders have accused the chief minister of not taking everybody along, remaining “inaccessible” and ignoring the scope of genuine suggestions. Allegations of bias towards his caste men, the Kshatriyas or Thakurs, have also been levelled against Adityanath. The suppressed misgivings erupted during the recent Covid crisis when the state government was accused of missing in action on the ground, leading many elected representatives of the BJP to publicly vent their ire against Adityanath. These complaints prompted the central leadership to send review teams to Lucknow to assess Adityanath’s performance on various fronts and the party’s prospect in the upcoming polls. The below-expectation performance in the recent panchayat polls, with party-backed candidates losing in Hindutva pockets such as Ayodhya and Mathura, also led the top brass to put Adityanath under the scanner. Sources said the review reports have now enabled the top leadership to push “course-correction” measures in the form of some key changes in the government and the party’s state organisation and use them to rein in the emerging Hindutva face. Sources said Adityanath, during his meetings with Shah and Modi, presented report cards to defend his performance on key fronts and the way he managed to control Covid in the state after the initial surge. Despite apparent misgivings, the top brass has ruled out the option of replacing Adityanath but is determined to put brakes on the leader, who seems to be aiming too high, if he returns to power again. How to achieve this difficult task is a question wrangling the top two leaders, according to indications emerging from party corridors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-67
12-06-2021||India||Covid: Supreme Court defers AIIMS postgraduate entrance exam||The Supreme Court on Friday directed postponement by at least a month of this year’s AIIMS-conducted INI CET postgraduate medical entrance exam, which was to be held on June 16, calling the decision to go ahead with the test amid the pandemic “arbitrary and discriminatory”. The court also noted that doctors were already grappling with the enormous workload of Covid duty, made mandatory by the government, and that holding the exams at such a short notice would be “arbitrary” and “unfair”, as alleged by the petitioners. The court pointed to the fact that the government had already postponed the NEET postgraduate medical exam, conducted on a much larger scale than the Institute of National Importance Common Entrance Test (INI CET), at least till August 31 and many other exams had been cancelled in view of the pandemic. The NEET PG was pushed back after Prime Minister Narendra Modi decided that doctors would have to be on Covid duty for at least 100 days, a period that would end earliest by mid-August. In admit cards that AIIMS had begun issuing on Wednesday, it was mentioned that the institute would not be responsible for any kind of travel restrictions in any state. Lockdowns and similar restrictions are in force in many states. The three-hour, computer-based exams are to be conducted at designated centres across the country, including in Calcutta. Around 80,000 students had applied for INI CET, being conducted this year by AIIMS, for admission to postgraduate courses at government institutions such as AIIMS, PGIMER, Chandigarh; JIPMER, Puducherry; and NIMHANS, Bangalore. The bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and M.R. Shah passed the following order: “These writ petitions have been filed by doctors with an MBBS degree…. It is submitted that the hasty decision taken by AIIMS to conduct INI CET 2021 on 16th June, 2021, has seriously prejudiced innumerable aspirants… who are serving in Covid hospitals in various parts of the country. “Many of them have been rendering services at Covid centres located far away from the examination centres for which they have opted. The petitioners contend that conducting the INI CET at such short notice is arbitrary, unfair on the aspirants… and will cause gross injustice, as the aspirants have got very short time to prepare. “According to the petitioners, the concerned doctors had been assured that they would be given sufficient time, at least a month, to prepare for the admission test. Mr (Arvind) Datar, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners, pointed out that the INI CET is being conducted to fill up 850 MD and MS seats…. “About 80,000 doctors with the MBBS degree are expected to take the INI CET. Postgraduate courses of medical colleges other than those mentioned above (the institutes that take in candidates through INI CET) are through the NEET PG, which according to the petitioners has been postponed beyond 31st August, 2021. “Mr Datar argued that different examinations have been postponed on account of the pandemic, including the civil services examination. It is not clear whether some examinations, including board examinations for this year, will at all be held. “The attention of the court has also been drawn to news reports of extensions of lockdown in many states. It is reported that in Odisha, lockdown has been extended till 16th June, 2021. In Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh and also in Calcutta, the lockdown has been extended till 15th June, 2021. It would be extremely difficult, if not virtually impossible, for many candidates for the INI CET to reach their examination centres from their places of duty. “Many of the doctors are exposed to and are running the risk of contracting Covid-19 and they may have to isolate and/or quarantine themselves. Even otherwise holding the INI CET on 16th June, 2021, will result in spread of the virus and increase in Covid-19 cases. “Having regard to the circumstances pleaded, fixing of the INI CET on 16.06.2021 is arbitrary and discriminatory, more so since other important examinations including Joint Entrance Examinations, board examinations, etc, have been postponed. The impugned notice is, therefore, set aside. The INI CET is directed to be postponed by at least a month from 16th June, 2021. The AIIMS shall fix a convenient date for the INI CET at least one month after 16th June, 2021.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-67
12-06-2021||India||Covid: Agra businessman blames ‘mock drill’ over spouse's death||An Agra businessman has alleged in a police complaint that his Covid-positive wife died on April 27 when oxygen supply was disconnected at the hospital whose owner has admitted to conducting a “mock drill” on patients by cutting off the flow of the life-saving gas. Saurabh Agrawal, an iron chain trader, has submitted along with his complaint at New Agra police station a copy of the WhatsApp conversation his wife Radhika, 36, had from her bed at Shri Paras Hospital with her sister hours before dying. According to the chat records, Radhika had alleged that she had been “tortured” for oxygen through the April 26-27 night. Radhika had written to her sister Monica early on April 27 morning: “1m (I am) dead….” At one point, Radhika wrote: “Raat bhar oxygen ke liye torture kiya. Jaan nikal gai maare (They tortured me through the night for oxygen. I almost died).” Radhika died a few hours later. Agrawal has sent a copy of the police complaint to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath. A video had this week emerged on social media in which a male voice — purportedly that of Dr Arinjay Jain, the owner of Shri Paras Hospital — had claimed that he had conducted a “mock drill” for five minutes from 7am on April 26 by stopping oxygen supply to Covid patients. The voice had said 22 patients had begun to gasp for breath and their bodies had turned blue, adding that they were thus “chhant gaye (segregated)”. Dr Jain has not contested the authenticity of the video but said he had conducted the drill to identify those patients who most needed oxygen amid a shortage. He had said nowhere had he said any patient had died because of the experiment. The police have said four patients died at the hospital on April 26 and three on April 27, the day Radhika passed away, but in no case was lack of oxygen the cause. Dr Jain has been booked under the Pandemic Act and his hospital sealed. Radhika’s WhatsApp message to sister Monica suggests the exercise to cut off oxygen supply may have been conducted again after the morning of April 26. Agrawal said he and Radhika had both tested positive for Covid-19. “I was admitted to Sarvoday Hospital and Radhika to Shri Paras Hospital on April 13. A hospital employee called me up on April 27 morning and said Radhika had died,” Agrawal said. “When I confronted Dr Arinjay Jain over Radhika’s WhatsApp conversation before her death, he threatened me with consequences if I raised the issue,” Agrawal said. P.N. Singh, the district magistrate of Agra, said: “We have received specific complaints and are probing every possible angle, including the video that has gone viral on social media sites. The doctor has already been booked and further action will be taken soon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-68
12-06-2021||India||Tamil Nadu: Mamata Banerjee to wed Socialism||At a wedding on Sunday in a Tamil Nadu village, expect jokes about how the Left has met its match in Mamata Banerjee. To the innocent, it may sound like a straightforward reference to the past few Bengal elections, where the Trinamul Congress chief has first defeated and then decimated the communists. But what will help turn it into a double entendre is a custom among many parents in Tamil Nadu to name their children after famous politicians and communist leaders. At the wedding at Amani Kondalampatti Kattur bordering the steel town of Salem, 335km from Chennai, the bride will be Mamata Banerjee, 19 — an English literature graduate from a local family that has been a huge admirer of Bengal’s Didi. Tying the knot with her will be A.M. Socialism, 25, son of a CPI politician from the same village who had in true communist style put ideology before individuals while giving his children’s names a Red tinge. Naming children after Karl Marx, Lenin or Stalin — the last of them being the given name of Tamil Nadu’s chief minister — is common in the southern state. A similar practice endures in neighbouring Kerala, which once abounded with Jyoti Basus and Subhas Chandra Boses who spoke not a word of Bengali. However, naming one’s son Socialism is unusual, Salem CPI district secretary A. Mohan conceded. But he had an explanation. “In 1992, after the collapse of the Soviet Union, many including the popular media declared that communism was dead,” he told The Telegraph over the phone on Friday. “This prompted me to reflect, and I was convinced that communism and socialism would remain relevant as long as humankind exists.” So Mohan and his wife Lakshmi decided that if their first child was a boy, they would name him Communism and if it was a girl, she would be named Cubaism after Fidel Castro’s island nation. “Our first child was a boy, and so we named him A.M. Communism; the second child, also a male, was christened A.M. Leninism. We named our third son, a BCom graduate who is to be married now, A.M. Socialism,” Mohan said. Mamata, the bride, belongs to a family that has for generations supported the Congress. Her father K. Palanisamy said the family had admired the “courageous leadership” of Bengal’s Mamata Banerjee since her Congress days and the adoration did not dim when she left to form the Trinamul Congress in 1998. So when their daughter was born a few years later, they couldn’t think of a better name. However, Mohan’s Moniker Revolution faced resistance. “Initially, there was resentment in the community over my family naming its children after ‘isms’. Elders would advise me, ‘Why don’t you give them the proper kind of names like Marx, Engels or Lenin? Drop the ‘isms’,’” Mohan said. Mohan met with “a lot of difficulties” while registering his eldest son with the local panchayat office, which was unsure whether it could issue a birth certificate in the name of “A.M. Communism”. During the boy’s admission to the local Kattur Panchayat Union Elementary School, Mohan again faced “light-hearted” jibes and had to do a lot of explaining. “When my first son fell ill at the age of three, a hospital in Salem refused to register him under his own name. It began the treatment after registering the baby in my name,” Mohan said. “When I heard about it, I told the doctor to register the name given to the boy by my family or discharge him.” Well-wishers advised Mohan to desist from such naming, saying his children would otherwise not find jobs when they grew up. Mohan said he had stood firm, telling everyone: “I’m a Communist Party worker and so I have named my children thus.” To critics who persisted, he said: “My children will not seek jobs, they will be self-employed.” Eventually, the resistance and the scorn died down. A.M. Communism is now a lawyer while his two younger brothers run a workshop that makes silver anklets, a traditional craft popular in and around Salem. The wedding, to be held at Mohan’s home, will have a gathering of just 50 in deference to Covid norms. Among the guests will be senior state CPI leaders R. Mutharasan, K. Subbaroyan and Perundurai Periyasamy. It will be a one-minute ceremony, with the groom tying the thali (sacred thread) around the bride’s neck, followed by lunch. There will be no rituals — it will be like any “self-respect marriage” popularised by the Dravidian Movement, Mohan said. How does it feel for a communist to acquire a daughter-in-law whose very name would remind him every day of the Left’s pulverisation in Bengal? Mohan was poker-faced: “It’s slightly disappointing for us that she (Trinamul’s Mamata) defeated the Left parties, but that has nothing to do with this wedding.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-68
12-06-2021||India||Kashmir: Army's  to decision to charge property tax faces stiff opposition||The army is facing stiff opposition to its decision to charge property tax from residents living in the vicinity of its 15 Corps headquarters in Srinagar and its objection to the construction of Kashmir’s maiden All India Institute of Medical Sciences in adjoining Pulwama district. The AIIMS campus is coming up close to the biggest army installation in south Kashmir. Politicians and locals see these developments as an extension of the 2019 decision to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and aimed at further dispossessing Kashmiris. The army has begun charging property tax from people living within the jurisdiction of the Badami Bagh Cantonment Board — home to its sprawling 15 Corps headquarters — spread over Sonwar, Indra Nagar, Batwara and Shivpora. The thousands of locals living in the area own their land. Locals said they were receiving bills ranging from Rs 2,000 to Rs 20,000, charged per annum. Property tax is not charged anywhere else in Jammu and Kashmir. The army has also renewed its objection to the construction of the AIIMS at Awantipora, where it borders the headquarters of the south Kashmir-based Victor Force. The chief spokesman the People’s Democratic Party, Suhail Bukhari, said two years of clampdown in the Valley had already broken the back of the people. “Instead of helping people, the effort is to increase their hardships. The arbitrary decision of imposing property tax should be withdrawn immediately,” Bukhari said. The local BJP leadership has also asked the defence ministry to reconsider the decision amid the pandemic. A Sonwar resident said he had spent his life’ savings to build a small house. “I am a labourer and have been finding it difficult to sustain my family for the past two years. Now I am supposed to pay tax year after year. How can I?” he said. The defence spokesman in Srinagar, Lt Col Emron Musavi, said he had received several queries about the tax since Thursday. “I have raised the queries with the Cantonment Board…. The moment I get details from them, I will share them,” he said. On the AIIMS at Awantipora, the army has said the construction had violated provisions of the Works of Defence Act (Woda). Musavi said the army had been advising the AIIMS authorities “right from the inception stage of the project in 2016” that the Woda guidelines had to be honoured for all projects in the vicinity of army establishments. “The final clearance for all such projects is granted by the ministry of defence. It’s only in January 2021 that the campus construction plans were shared with the army by the CPWD (central public works department) when the construction was already well underway in violation of Woda,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-68
12-06-2021||India||Bihar allies slam BJP  for attack on madrasa||The partners of BJP in the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Bihar have condemned the remarks made by its leaders over an explosion in a madrasa in the state alleging that the party was finding opportunities to engineer communal divide in the society. An explosion destroyed a single-storeyed madrasa at Navtolia in Banka district, around 270km southeast of Patna, on Tuesday killing a maulvi. Banka superintendent of police had said that the explosion was caused by country-made bombs instead of any sophisticated explosive device. A couple of days later, BJP’s Bisfi MLA Haribhushan Thakur Bachaul alleged: “These madrasas teach religion and terrorism. The explosion proves that the children are taught terrorism. Nobody educated in such institutions becomes engineers or doctors. The pupils are indoctrinated against other religions.” Road construction minister and BJP leader Nitin Navin also questioned the role of madrasas and demanded a probe to find out if illegal explosives were being housed there. Party spokesperson Arvind Kumar Singh and other leaders asked why “secular parties were quiet on the issue”. Subsequently NDA member, former chief minister and Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular (HAMS) founder Jitan Ram Manjhi reacted sharply and reminded the BJP of national unity and integration. “If poor Dalits march forward, they are termed Naxals, if poor Muslims study in madrasas they are called terrorists. Brother, come out of such a mentality. It is not good for national unity and integration,” Manjhi said. He also demanded a high-level inquiry into the incident. Chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United’s leader and minority welfare minister Jama Khan expressed anger over Bachaul’s remarks. “I am really upset. Bachaul is like my brother. I fail to understand why he said such negative things. He should understand that mosques and madrasas foster brotherhood among people,” Khan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-68
12-06-2021||India||Lalu celebrates birthday with family after four years||Rashtriya Janata Dal president Lalu Prasad celebrated his 74th birthday on Friday by cutting a cake with wife Rabri Devi at his side at the Delhi residence of their daughter Misa Bharti, the first time in four years that the former Bihar chief minister has marked the occasion with his family. Lalu has been serving time in connection with fodder scam cases and recently obtained bail. RJD leaders celebrated the patriarch’s birthday as “Social Justice and Harmony Day” and fed the poor across Bihar. After he got bail, Lalu was discharged from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, where he had been undergoing treatment under incarceration for multiple ailments. He has been staying at Misa’s Delhi residence since then as his family is unwilling to bring him back to Patna due to the pandemic. Misa tweeted several pictures of the celebrations where Lalu is seen surrounded by his near and dear ones in front of a birthday cake. “Papa se hi hai jahan, papa jahan hain wahin jahan hai (My world revolves around my father. My world is where my father is),” Misa tweeted. In Patna, Lalu’s eldest son Tej Pratap Yadav inaugurated a blood donation camp at the RJD state headquarters. The target was to donate 200 units of blood, but the queue was a long one with several hundred party workers turning up. A cake was also cut there. Posters depicting the important moments of Lalu’s life have been put up in the state capital. The posters call him a “warrior for social justice”. Some RJD supporters were seen riding horses in Patna city. RJD leaders and supporters organised feasts for the poor across Bihar and also gifted clothes and other household items to them. “Laluji has been a bold voice of the poor and downtrodden, hence they were fed by party leaders and supporters across panchayats and towns in the state. Many people also organised prayers for his well-being,” RJD spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said. Leaders cutting across party lines extended birthday wishes to Lalu. Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular leader and former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, who is part of the ruling JDU-BJP alliance in Bihar, was among them. Asked by journalists whether he had greeted Lalu on his birthday, chief minister Nitish Kumar said: “My congratulations. I congratulate everybody.” Lalu served as chief minister of undivided Bihar twice from 1990 to 1997. He was also the Union railway minister from 2004 to 2009 in the UPA I government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-68
12-06-2021||West Bengal||Mukul works on turncoat MPs and MLAs as BJP worries about Trojan horses||The exit of Mukul Roy from the BJP and the looming threat of an exodus from the party in the coming days is being described by a section of the saffron camp leaders as a “cure” to what “ails the BJP in Bengal.” The buzz on Saturday was that Roy was holding dialogues with BJP MPs and at least 10 MLAs from Cooch Behar, Jalpaiguri, Nadia, Purulia, North 24-Parganas and Hooghly. Roy also  held a meeting with the Trinamul all-India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee at his office in Camac street where, presumably this plan  was also discussed. Later on Saturday evening, former state minister Rajib Banerjee held a meeting with Kunal Ghosh, journalist-turned-Trinamul leader. Banerjee, the former MLA from Howrah's Domjur, had joined BJP before the Assembly polls but could not win his seat. Banerjee had privately expressed his desire to return to the Trinamul, skipping meetings called by the BJP leadership. Some days back posters had appeared in Domjur slamming Banerjee for betraying Trinamul. Till the late 19th century, for over 2,000 years, bloodletting was regarded as the standard procedure for treating all kinds of diseases and illness. Elijah Impey, the first Chief Justice of the Supreme Court in British India had in a letter from Calcutta to London referred to the possibility of his recovering from a fever since he had been “bled the previous day.” Little over a month ago the BJP genuinely believed it was going to form the next government in Bengal but is now scurrying to put a fail-safe mechanism in place. The BJP’s Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh is holding a meeting at the party’s office in Hastings. “Many people joined us. We are not worried about those who have left or those who want to leave,” Ghosh said. Sources said the BJP  leadership is watching closely the likes of Biswajit Das, the party’s MLA from Bagda, and among the few Trinamul turncoats who won this time. Das had skipped a meeting called by Ghosh at Bongaon in North 24-Parganas on Friday. Disgruntled BJP leader Tathagata Roy warned about “Trojan horses” being left behind in the BJP. "…what’s done is done. Now the big questions is did Mukul leave back Trojan horses within this Trojan horse,” tweeted Roy, whose differences with the current state leadership are well known. For the BJP, Roy’s exit is a loss of face, but it has no reason to lose sleep over his departure.  A senior leader said the party was paying the price of over-dependence on leaders from outside the Sangh fraternity. “The central leadership felt it needed faces in the micro-level who could manage their election campaign while micro-managing the party’s ideology. They did not have faith in our own leaders and karyakartas,” said a BJP source. Forty-six of the candidates that the BJP had fielded in the Assembly polls were those who had joined the party within two to three months before the elections. Among them only six have managed to retain their seats. “Old BJP workers have saved the day for the party,” a BJP leader said.Party leaders in Bengal point to the upward swing that Mamata’s political career took in the state after the 2006 Assembly polls to impress upon supporters that all wasn't lost. “From 29 in 2006, Trinamul went to 187 five years later. We have 77 seats today. For the first time since 1947 we have got two legislators from Murshidabad (Bengal’s only Muslim-majority district tied in history to the days of the Nawabs of the 18th century),” a BJP leader said. “And the most important factor is there is no other Opposition party in the state. Voters will turn to the BJP in Bengal when they decide to dump Mamata.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-27
12-06-2021||West Bengal||BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy returns to Trinamul||BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy returned to Trinamul on Friday with his son and former MLA Subhrangshu, marking not just another victory for Mamata Banerjee over the BJP but also an attempt to create a national momentum against India’s ruling dispensation. The Roys were feeling marginalised in the BJP and are expected to enjoy some prominence in Trinamul. However, a 67-year-old and ailing Mukul may not have much to offer the robust Trinamul organisation, helmed by the party’s all-India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee. Still, the homecoming by the party’s former second-in-command is significant in the context of both state and national politics. Mukul’s return does not reflect merely an attempt by Mamata to create a counter-narrative about the BJP in Bengal or a humanitarian gesture to an old comrade. “This (Mukul’s return) will have an impact beyond Bengal.... Just see the repercussion at the national level,” Mamata told The Telegraph in the evening. The impact may not be felt immediately as the next big tests before the BJP — the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls next year and the Lok Sabha elections of 2024 — are still some distance away. However, the twin blows Mamata has dealt Narendra Modi-Amit Shah, by trouncing their party in the Bengal polls and then defeating them in their own defection game, seem to have created the sort of anti-BJP momentum the Opposition was desperately looking for. “I sent Prashant Kishor to meet (NCP leader) Sharad Pawar this afternoon and they had a very good meeting,” Mamata said in the evening. Many are looking at that meeting as signifying Mamata’s launch of a plan to challenge Modi by bringing all the anti-BJP groups together before the crucial contests of 2022 and 2024. Taking the Narada-accused Mukul back may also help Mamata expose the BJP’s vindictive politics if the CBI now acts against him as it has against Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee, Madan Mitra and Sovan Chatterjee. “If Mukulda is arrested, she can always highlight how he had been spared as long as he was in the BJP. Besides, she can also raise the demand for the arrest of Suvendu Adhikari if Mukulda is arrested,” a source said. At a news conference and during her discussions with aides, Mamata repeatedly stressed that she had facilitated Mukul’s return primarily because of his poor health, appearing to imply she was offering a long-time associate the benefit of superannuation. It was clear she hadn’t any great expectations from Mukul when she said, in answer to the question how the returning politician might strengthen her party, that Trinamul was already a powerful party. After Mukul joined the BJP in November 2017, having quit Trinamul about two months earlier amid differences with Mamata and heir apparent Abhishek, a new political game that was alien to Bengal’s culture had begun in the state. Following the mandate handed down to him by his masters in Delhi, Mukul began playing the game from Day One, floating the theory that over 100 Trinamul MLAs were willing to join the BJP anytime. His claims — later parroted by scores of BJP leaders including Prime Minister Modi and home minister Shah — helped the BJP spin a narrative that Trinamul was about to collapse like a house of cards. With the power of propaganda triggering a series of defections from Trinamul, a trend that continued till this year’s Assembly elections, the BJP went to the voting booths hoping this strategy of “inorganic growth” would be enough to dethrone Mamata. Eventually, it was Mamata’s charisma and deft poll planning that prevailed, handing the BJP a crushing defeat it seems not to have recovered from yet. But a broader view of the Mamata-Modi battle, counting from Mukul’s original defection and taking in the BJP’s sensational Lok Sabha poll performance from the state, would suggest that a corner was turned on Friday when the chief minister paid the rival party back in its own coin. “He (Mukul) has come back to his roots today. He could not work in the BJP…. One cannot be in that party,” Mamata said, flanked by Mukul and a host of other Trinamul leaders at the news conference in Trinamul Bhavan, off EM Bypass. Mukul corroborated Mamata: “I couldn’t stay in the BJP…. I’m back in my old party because it wasn’t possible for me to stay in the BJP.” When reporters asked the chief minister whether more people from the BJP would join Trinamul in the coming days, Mamata made it clear that the list of potential returnees was long and that the “soft-liners” would be inducted. Juxtaposing Mamata’s comments with Mukul’s leaves little doubt that the chief minister has, at least for now, turned the narrative almost 180 degrees by projecting the BJP as the party likely to fall apart in the state. Trinamul sources said that at least 12 to 15 MLAs were set to dump the BJP and join Trinamul by July 2, when the Assembly session begins in the state. The trickle will soon turn into a deluge, a source insisted, adding that the BJP’s strength in the Assembly would fall significantly from its poll tally of 77 (which has become 76 with Mukul’s desertion). A Trinamul insider said the purported large-scale defections from the BJP would have happened anyway, and that Mukul’s return had just hastened the process. He said Mukul’s utility was unlikely to go beyond this.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-27
12-06-2021||West Bengal||Impossible to be in BJP: Mamata Banerjee on Mukul Roy’s switchback to Trinamul Congress||A 1,316-day cycle was completed on Friday with the ghar-wapsi (homecoming) of Trinamul’s former No. 2 Mukul Roy, welcomed back with an uttoriyo (ceremonial scarf) and an apparently warm hug by current No. 2 Abhishek Banerjee, in the presence of party leader Mamata Banerjee and others. The 1,316-day or 188-week cycle began on November 3, 2017, when Roy left for the BJP to eventually become national vice-president. Roy had left Trinamul purportedly on account of two concerns: his future in Trinamul, given the rise of Abhhishek, Mamata’s nephew, and the hounding by central probe agencies over his alleged involvement in the Saradha deposit-mobilisation default case and the Narada “sting” operation case. Mamata, who answered most questions fielded to Roy in a brief news meet, ruled out the first as “bajey kotha (tommyrot)”, and, for the second, demanded answers from the BJP over its alleged dearth of probity instead. “Our party is already strong…. Mukul is an old boy from our family. He too has faced a lot of torture, intimidation with misuse of central agencies…. I think, coming back here, Mukul got peace of mind. His health had been deteriorating there. Maybe he wasn’t able to articulate it,” Mamata said. “BJP kora jaay na (It is impossible to be in the BJP).” Roy rejoined Trinamul with son Subhranshu, Trinamul’s former Bijpur MLA, who had followed his father to the BJP and contested unsuccessfully from the same constituency this summer. He was surrounded, besides Mamata and Abhishek, by Trinamul seniors Partha Chatterjee, Subrata Bakshi, Subrata Mukherjee, Firhad Hakim and Javed Ahmed Khan. “I feel very good… seeing so many old, familiar faces of the people I worked with. I feel wonderful that I could come out of the BJP…,” said Mukul, who played key roles for the BJP in the 2018 panchayat and 2019 Lok Sabha polls in Bengal, but had been sulking since his role in the 2021 Assembly election was diminished. Roy, who just won the first election of his life as the MLA of Krishnagar North, said he would issue a letter detailing his reasons for quitting the BJP soon. Sources attributed it to his need to secure his son’s political future. The son, who played a pivotal role in engineering his father’s return, could be rewarded with Trinamul candidature from the Krishnagar North seat, for a bypoll, as Roy is likely to resign as MLA and ascend to his more familiar turf of the Rajya Sabha, with two current vacancies for Trinamul. Subhranshu is also likely to be made a working-president of the party’s youth wing, under its newly-appointed state chief Sayani Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-27
12-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal reports rise in active cases for second consecutive day, recoveries drop ||Bengal on Friday reported a rise for the second consecutive day in total active Covid-19 cases, by 473 to 15,192 in all, with the day’s 4,321 recoveries, 4,883 new infections detected and 89 deaths. Although Friday was the first instance of less than 5,000 new infections being detected in a day since April 13, 59 days ago, the renewed rise in the total of active cases since Thursday was a damper. Sources in the state government, however, insisted it was an aberration, largely on account of a drop in recoveries over the two days, from over 10,000 daily to 9,491 in total. Bengal’s recovery rate fell, for the first time in six weeks, to 97.8 per cent. The national recovery rate is 95.02. “The recoveries will get back to what is now normal, soon. There is no cause for worry yet,” said a minister. The total of active cases, at an all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21, had dipped by around 89 per cent till Wednesday, to 14,702. On Thursday, the total in active cases rose by 17, and on Friday by 473. Bengal now has 1.4 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is 13th among states with the most active cases. The daily confirmation rate, which had peaked in the second wave with nearly 33 per cent, fell to 7.8 per cent on Friday. The state now has a total of nearly 14.53 lakh cases, since the first was reported on March 17 last year, and includes 14.21 lakh recoveries, besides 16,731 deaths. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.15 per cent, while the national rate is 1.25. Of the 89 deaths reported on Friday, 20 each were from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, the two worst-affected districts. Calcutta logged 422 new infections, North 24-Parganas 792.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-27
12-06-2021||West Bengal||Youth mounts on train engine to bring down pantograph in Alipurduar, suffers severe burns||Train movement along the main New Jalpaiguri-New Cooch Behar route got disrupted for an hour on Friday afternoon as a youth travelling by the Sealdah-bound Uttarbanga Express suddenly mounted on the engine and tried to bring down the pantograph when the train halted at Falakata station here. Lakshminath Bodo, the passenger from Barpeta district of Assam, caught fire and suffered severe burns. A pantograph is a kind of a power collector mounted on electric trains. Bodo was initially admitted to the super-specialty hospital in Falakata and later sent to North Bengal Medical College and Hospital in Siliguri in a critical condition. Sources said around 3.45pm, as the train reached Falakata station, people suddenly heard a big thud. They then saw an object on the top of the engine that was afire. Within minutes, they realised it was a man. Immediately, power connectivity of the engine was snapped by railway authorities. A fire engine was rushed in. Bystanders and passengers panicked. “As the train reached Falakata, we heard a loud sound and got off the train to see an object on fire on the engine and later realised it was a man,” said Rohit Das, a passenger headed to Calcutta. A railway official said they as well as RPF and GRP personnel rushed to the spot and Bodo was brought down with the help of a ladder and rope. “Preliminary probe revealed the youth had touched the pantograph to bring it down and suffered serious injuries,” said a railway official. Train movement along tracks got disrupted for about an hour. “It is a rare and unfortunate incident. An inquiry has been ordered. We are trying to find out why he tried to grab the pantograph,” said S. Chanda, the chief PRO of the Northeast Frontier Railway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-27
12-06-2021||West Bengal||Mukul Roy switch: Beneath BJP brave face lurk jitters over fallout||Bengal BJP leaders tried to put up a brave face on Friday after the party’s national vice-president and MLA Mukul Roy went back to Trinamul, claiming it would not harm the BJP in the state, but insiders confessed to “jitters” over possible fallouts. Roy, who was the first important leader to make a switch from Trinamul to BJP in 2017, became the first important turncoat to return to Trinamul. Many BJP leaders apprehend this might mark the start of a reverse exodus. Many state BJP leaders said Roy’s exit meant a horde of MLAs might follow suit. It is being rumoured that at least 30 BJP MLAs are in talks with Trinamul. “We thought leaders who came with him would go back first and he would follow them. None of us thought the exodus would start with him,” a BJP state office-bearer said. On Friday, the series of events unfolded so fast that most BJP leaders had no clue on how to react to it all. Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad avoided questions on Roy’s exit. MP Babul Supriyo called it a “personal choice”. State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said: “I can’t say if Mukulbabu’s departure will be a loss for the party, but his arrival surely didn’t benefit us.” Four other BJP leaders called Roy a traitor. Three of them, MPs Arjun Singh, Saumitra Khan — Trinamul turncoats —and Jagannath Sarkar heaved a sigh of relief at Roy’s exit and said the party would function better now. Sarkar even dubbed Roy as the “main conspirator” of the Ponzi scams. The fourth, state BJP vice-president Joy Prakash Majumdar said: “We wish Mukulbabu good luck on the second innings in his old camp, but request him to resign from all posts — BJP’s national vice-president and Krishnanagar North MLA.” Despite this show of nonchalance, it was evident that Roy’s unexpected decision to quit the party has shaken it. Anupam Hazra, a Trinamul turncoat and a BJP national secretary, erupted against state leaders of his party in a social media post. Hazra alleged that leaders like Roy and himself were not allowed to work during Assembly polls. Though he did not name anyone in particular, sources said Hazra was unhappy with how the BJP was “overwhelmed” by Trinamul turncoats Suvendu Adhikari and Rajib Banerjee. “Mukulda had been at the helm of the election committee before the 2018 panchayat and the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. It is because of him that we won 18 seats in the Lok Sabha, even Amit Shah had acknowledged it. Yet he wasn’t allowed to work in the 2021 polls,” a BJP source said. In another social media post, senior BJP leader Swapan Dasgupta urged party workers not to be “dispirited and go into a shell”. Dasgupta also added that the BJP would build on the 2.2 crore votes and enlarge its reach. Several other leaders held BJP’s Bengal unit president Ghosh responsible for Roy's exit. The tussle between Ghosh and Roy was a talking point since the latter’s induction to the party. The conflict would at times go out of hand and on several occasions the top leaders of the party had to mediate between the two. Additional reporting by Subhashis Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-27
12-06-2021||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri’s BJP MP attacked, Trinamul Congress blamed||Jayanta Roy, the BJP MP of Jalpaiguri, was attacked in Rajganj block of the district on Friday evening when he was escorting some families of BJP supporters back home. Roy, along with two other functionaries of the BJP are admitted to the North Bengal Medical College & Hospital (NBMCH), Siliguri. One of the two injured functionaries is reportedly critical. Speaking from the hospital, the MP accused “around 100-odd Trinamul supporters” of attacking them. District Trinamul leaders of Jalpaiguri have denied the charges and have termed the incident as a fallout of the BJP’s inner rivalry. Police have started an inquiry but no arrests have been made so far. In north Bengal, this is the first such attack on a BJP MP after the state polls. Sources said that over the past one-and-a-half months, that is, after the Assembly elections, around 13 members of families from the minority community and BJP supporters, had been staying away from their homes in Bhandarigach village under Binnaguri-II panchayat of Rajganj block. “They had fled their homes as Trinamul supporters had attacked them. We were in talks with the police and it was decided that in presence of a police team, they would be escorted back to their homes,” said the hospitalised BJP MP. On Friday, when Roy and some other local BJP leaders were escorting the families, a group of people attacked them. “There was a police team with us,” Roy said. “As we entered the village, the police team left us and around 100-odd Trinamul supporters attacked us and also the families (being escorted). As I tried to dissuade them, I was also attacked. I have no inkling where the families are now,” the MP added. Trinamul’s leaders of Jalpaiguri district, however, have denied the charges. K K Kalyani, the Jalpaiguri district chief of the party, said the incident was a fallout of the rivalries within the saffron party. “These days, the BJP is not being able to handle their inner differences, and in every case, they are trying to implicate us (Trinamul) in false cases,” said Kalyani. “A probe has been initiated. We are gathering information from the local residents as to what exactly happened. If required, we will also speak with the MP,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
12-06-2021||West Bengal||Residents heave a sigh of relief as high tides spare coast damage in three Bengal districts||Thousands of residents of coastal areas in East Midnapore, North 24Parganas and South 24Parganas and the administration heaved a sigh of relief as high tides on Friday didn’t cause much damage as had been feared earlier. As Cyclone Yaas had breached large stretches of embankments on May 26 and they were yet to be repaired, authorities had feared that high tides on Friday would inundate coastal areas and submerge houses. There were also fears of strong winds which would aggravate the situation. But the high tides were not accompanied by strong winds and the day passed off without much destruction. Ahead of the high tides, the state government had last week issued an alert for the three districts, following which several people were evacuated to safe locations. However, as of Friday evening, no visible damage was observed in the three districts, except at a few places in Nandigram and Chandpur of East Midnapore, where a few dykes were breached. “It has been a big relief for us. We were anticipating something much worse,” said a senior irrigation department official. “No major incident of damage has been reported so far. We were on high alert and are continuing to monitor the situation,” said state irrigation minister Saumen Mahapatra. Barely two weeks after Cyclone Yaas wreaked havoc in the coastal districts, protecting residents of these areas had become an impending challenge for the state and district administrations. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had instructed the irrigation department to repair damaged dykes posthaste. Nonetheless, repairs could not be taken up at several places owing to damage as well as restrictions imposed to contain the spread of Covid19. In North 24Parganas, district officials kept vigil throughout the day in areas, including Hansnabad, Hingalganj, Sandeshkhali and Minakha, alerting residents over loudspeaker to the high tide starting in the morning. “At most places, people were sheltered at rescue centres. But a few of them tried to leave for their homes. Fortunately, there was no tide as of late evening,” an official of the Basirhat subdivision said. An official in the South 24Parganas administration said: “The tide had not caused major problems to embankments and livelihood at all, and water levels were nowhere near those during Yaas.” “We had been waiting for the tide for the past couple of days, and those who were evacuated will be returned their homes tomorrow morning. The first threat was over today and now we are planning for the next high tide in a few days. We will repair all the breached embankments soon after that,” South 24Parganas district magistrate P. Ulaganathan said. The South 24Parganas administration had evacuated 30,000 residents from coastal areas in and around Sagar this week. At the end of the day, the administration heaved a sigh of relief as high water did nothing more than flooding embankments at a few points of Gosaba and Mausuni. The water level, however, receded once the low tide started. In East Midnapore, only a few villages, including Jalpai and Munchal, were inundated on Friday afternoon after water breached dykes along the Haldi river in Nandigram’s Dangapara. Officials of the irrigation department rushed to the spot and repaired the damage within a few hours. Similarly, a few villages near Sankarpur and Tajpur Marine Drive, already battered by Yaas, were waterlogged by a high tidal wave early on Friday. “A strong wind from the east created the high wave that waterlogged the area, but no major damage has been recorded,” Chaitanya Ghorai, a local resident said. District disaster management official of East Midnapore, Mrityunjoy, Halder said: “We had evacuated around 1,500 villagers, who will return home soon if the situation remains normal. There was no major incident of damage or inundation reported from the district as of Friday evening.” Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
12-06-2021||West Bengal||Chinese national ‘wanted’ by Anti-Terror Squad of UP police||Han Junwei, the Chinese national nabbed by the BSF for entering India illegally in Malda district via the India-Bangladesh border on Thursday, is a “wanted criminal,” BSF sources said on Friday. Han, 36, is wanted by the Anti-Terror Squad (ATS) of Uttar Pradesh police, a BSF source said. Officials of the BSF and other intelligence agencies quizzed Han at the Mahadipur camp in Malda and got information that hinted at his links with intelligence agencies in China and some terror groups. “He told us he runs a restaurant in Gurgaon named Star Spring. Some of his colleagues are from China. When he was in China, one of his business partners, Sun Jiang, started sending him Indian mobile phone SIMs which he and his wife received. Recently, San Jiang was nabbed by the Anti-Terrorist Squad of Uttar Pradesh police in Lucknow. He revealed Han’s name to ATS officials and a case was registered against him too,” a BSF official said. “That’s why Han could not get an Indian visa. Han is wanted by ATS, Lucknow,” a BSF source said. On Friday, Han was also handed over to the state police. According to BSF sources, Han said he reached Dhaka on a business visa on June 2 and stayed there with a Chinese friend. He left for Sona Masjid area of Chapai-Nawabganj district in Bangladesh (that shares borders with Malda) on June 8 and after spending two nights there in a hotel, tried to enter India on June 10 by crossing the Pagla river close to Milik-Sultanpur in Malda. Sources said the ATS, Uttar Pradesh and the NIA are in touch with BSF and state police to get Han in custody. “His electronic gadgets, including laptop, are being minutely scanned as it is anticipated that he could be a spy of the Chinese intelligence agency,” a senior official of a central intelligence agency said. Fake notes Fake Indian currency notes amounting to Rs 10 lakh were seized from near the India – Bangladesh border at Sobhapur under Baishnabnagar police station in Malda on Thursday night. The fake notes were in denominations of Rs 500 and rs 2,000. No one could be arrested in the dark but vigil along the international border was been beefed up, said a BSF official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
12-06-2021||North East||Assam becomes the second state with most national parks in India||Assam this week became the second state with most national parks in the country, a development flagged by the re-elected month-old BJP-led state government as one of its key achievements. The number of national parks in Assam went up to seven after the government notified Raimona reserve forest and the Dehing Patkai Wildlife Sanctuary as national parks on June 9. Assam is now behind Madhya Pradesh and the Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands, having nine national parks each, according to forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya, who formally inaugurated the Raimona National Park on Friday in the presence of BTC chief Pramod Boro. Dehing Patkai located in Upper Assam’s Dibrugarh and Tinsukia districts is spread over 234.26sqkm while Raimona in lower Assam’s Kokrajhar district has an area of over 422sqkm. “The two newly created national parks will not only help boost conservation efforts but will also provide fillip to the tourism and agriculture sectors. Both are biodiversity hotspots. It is a landmark initiative towards environment restoration,” Suklabaidya said. The other five national parks in Assam are Kaziranga National Park, Manas National Park, Nameri National Park, Dibru-Saikhowa National Park and Orang National Park. Cabinet minister Pijush Hazarika told The Telegraph that conserving the state’s forest cover is one of the “pro-state, pro-people” steps initiated by the Himanta Biswa Sarma government within a month of assuming charge. The other steps include the launch of the statewide fight against drugs, hiking the interim daily wage of tea garden workers, increasing the government stake in Numaligarh Refinery Limited by investing Rs 2,187 crore, fixing dates for the release of pension to aged, women and disabled, bringing down Covid-19 cases and ensuring the safe release of ONGC employee Ritul Saikia abducted by the Ulfa (Independent). “There are also sustained efforts to prevent corruption and cattle smuggling. We now have guardian ministers to expedite development besides steps to minimise damage from annual flood, provide government jobs to one lakh youth and freeing encroached land to absorb unemployed people in the agriculture sector,” Hazarika said. All these steps were flagged by chief minister Sarma on Thursday, the day the new government completed a month. Dehing Patkai’s road to national park status has been quite stormy. Around the same time last year there was a sustained online campaign — Save Dehing Campaign — to protect the sanctuary, also known as the “Amazon of the East”, from illegal mining. The trigger for the campaign was the nod by the National Board for Wildlife on April 7, 2020, to the North Eastern Coalfields (NEC), a unit of Coal India Limited, to use 98.59 hectares from the proposed reserve forest at Saleki for mining. Three PILs were also filed in Gauhati High Court which on June 4, 2020, issued notices to CIL and Dispur to respond by July 14 on measures to protect the biodiversity hotspot from alleged illegal mining. While the NEC in its response said it has suspended mining operations in the area, the then Sarbananda Sonowal-led government on July 6 announced its decision to upgrade the wildlife sanctuary into a national park for the protection of the biodiversity hotspot. Till date, 47 mammals, 47 reptiles and 310 butterfly species have been recorded in Dehing Patkai. It has unique floral and faunal diversity and the contiguous stretch of forests spanning two districts also houses the last remaining stretches of rainforest in India known as the Dehing Patkai rainforest. Raimona too has had a chequered journey, ravaged by insurgency in the late eighties. It shares contiguous forest patches with the Phibsoo Wildlife Sanctuary and Jigme Singye Wangchuk National Park in Bhutan (1,999sqkm) creating a transboundary conservation landscape of more than 2,400sqkm. Raimona’s new tag will ensure long-term conservation of endemic species such as the golden langur — the mascot of BTC — and endangered species like the Asian elephant, royal Bengal tiger and other varied flora and faunal species. It has over 380 species of plants, 170 species of birds and 150 species of butterflies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-2
12-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Freedom in chains||Stone walls do not a prison make; or so wrote an incarcerated British poet years ago. While the mighty State may fetter the body, it often discovers that it is far more difficult to chain the mind. A booklet containing artwork and excerpts from letters by two university students jailed for their alleged involvement in the Delhi riots seems to attest to the uplifting resilience of freedom. With their accounts detailing institutional attempts to strip them of their “autonomy” and “humanity”, Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal may now find themselves to be part of an illustrious literary tradition of prison writing that has, over the years, given voice to thoughts and lives behind those walls. The repository of prison writings comprises contributions from such luminaries as M.K. Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Nelson Mandela, Fyodor Dostoyevsky, Faiz Ahmed Faiz, Antonio Gramsci, to name a few. Each of these towering figures had turned to writing during their periods of isolation. The richness of this genre can be attributed to the versatility of thought. Don Quixote’s flights of fancy were imagined by Miguel de Cervantes from inside his solitary cell; Nehru penned his encyclopaedic The Discovery of India from inside the Ahmednagar fort; in more recent, post-colonial times, Chris Abani documented his shackled life in Kalakuta Republic. A common theme among these works is the documentation of the illuminating tussle between the State and the captive political prisoner over the autonomy — as Ms Kalita and Ms Narwal put it — of the mind. History has shown that writing has often been the only weapon in the arsenal of the conscientious prisoner to resist the colonization of his or her mind. Little wonder then that Michel Foucault called prison writing a ‘habeas corpus brief’: such texts or, as is often the case, doodles invert and challenge the collective ideas concerning the relationship that binds the State to the citizen, exposing the former’s role in creating penitentiaries meant to discipline, often brutally, the dissenter. The pursuit of civilizing not just the ‘savage’ but also the objector with integrity continues to inform justice and such affiliated institutions as prisons. This is an anomaly because the philosophy behind discipline and punishment is no longer primitive. Indeed, the modern prison is increasingly being seen as a space for reforming — healing — the human spirit. Several experiments that are taking place in this respect in India and the world — the open prison is one example — are encouraging. But the doors can remain shut for long for those who retain the courage to speak truth to power. This constituency wages courageous, everyday — but little-known — battles to keep their minds free and fearless in the face of unprecedented intimidation and restrainment. The prison writings of several defiant citizens, young and old, of New India speak of this raging battle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
12-06-2021||Opinion||Other side: Jitin Prasada joins BJP||Sir — The defection of the senior leader, Jitin Prasada, from the Congress to the Bharatiya Janata Party should not be given much prominence (“Exit sign”, June 11). His former party is in the doldrums on the national stage and his own charisma as a leader is not worth writing home about. But the BJP government at the Centre as well as that in the politically-crucial state of Uttar Pradesh are going through a bad patch owing to the mismanagement of the Covid-19 crisis and the faltering economy. The UP dispensation’s handling of the pandemic, the law and order situation in the state and the distress of farmers have been dismal to witness. The BJP’s recent setback in the local body elections is an alarming development, and the top brass of the saffron brigade is now apprehensive. It is time for rejuvenation and course correction for the party, as the outcome of the assembly polls next year will likely have a bearing on results of the 2024 general elections. Given the absence of the BJP’s investment in any significant welfare schemes and other deliverables geared towards overall development in UP, the party will almost certainly resort to its divisive caste- and religion-based rhetoric to try and overcome the election hurdle in 2022, just like it did in 2017. Given that Prasada belongs to the Brahmin community, his induction into the BJP might bolster the consolidation of the Brahmin vote for the party. The scenario for the ruling dispensation is gloomy — if the results of the panchayat polls are any sign, then a rejuvenated Samajwadi Party is breathing down the BJP’s neck. As such, the BJP must have thought that having Prasada in its fold will give it some leeway. Chanchal Nandy,Durgapur Sir — Jitin Prasada joining the BJP in Delhi points towards opportunism and a hunger for power. His defection occurs at a time that is seen to be rather testing for the BJP ahead of the 2022 assembly polls in UP. Prasada, who had served in the second United Progressive Alliance government and hails from Shahjahanpur, had been at odds with the Congress leadership for a long time. In July last year, he had launched the ‘Brahmin Chetna Parishad’ to give  voice to the Brahmin community. He blatantly said that the BJP stands for the interests of the nation today, all the while knowing very well that the country is in a shambles and lagging behind in all the sectors of public life. Prasada has had ties with several generations of the Congress; as such, his decision to defect was for his own selfish political gains. It amounts to a betrayal of the trust placed in him by his former party. He said that in the last eight to ten years he has felt as though the only truly national party is the BJP; to us, it seems more like a shirking of his responsibilities to the Congress. By joining hands with communal forces, Prasada may have dealt his own political career a severe blow. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — Jitin Prasada’s foray into the BJP may hold significance for UP’s Brahmin community, which has been feeling neglected under the leadership of the Hindutva-espousing chief minister, Yogi Adityanath. With Prasada’s entry, Brahmins may once again forge closer ties with the BJP. This is going to have a sizeable impact on the state assembly polls which are not too far away. Brahmins have been a part of the BJP’s core support base, but after 2017, Adityanath’s policies made them feel cornered. Munmun Bua,Ujjain Clear bias Sir — The recent comments made by the Assam chief minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma, about adopting “decent family planning” measures would have been worth considering had it not been specifically targeted towards the state’s immigrant Muslim community. The problem of overpopulation plagues India as a whole; by taunting only the Muslim community, Sarma has stayed true to the saffron party’s divisive and bigoted agenda. If the Bharatiya Janata Party is so concerned about the effects of overpopulation, then why have leaders like Sakshi Maharaj and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh been known over the years to exhort Hindu couples to have more children? Aditya Konwar,Guwahati||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
12-06-2021||Opinion||Historic event: Britain’s National Theatre to reopen||Britain’s National Theatre has been shut since March 2020 but last week its artistic director, Rufus Norris, announced his programme for the next few months, including The Father and the Assassin, a play about Nathuram Godse which will open in the Olivier Theatre in early 2022. Norris said: “This extraordinary new work has been written by Anupama Chandrasekhar. The play tells how a man called Nathuram Godse was radicalised through the fight for Indian independence from being a devout follower of Gandhi to his eventual assassin in 1948.” When I asked for more details, Norris replied that the Chennai-based “Anupama Chandrasekhar is a wonderful writer known to many London audiences. So we invited her to be writer in residence here back in 2016. And this was the idea she wanted to develop. “It’s fascinating because it’s a little known history. There is actually not that much known about Godse (in the UK), but what there is she has drawn from. There’s a real prescience in the play. It examines the rise of the disenfranchised, right wing in ways that we can see parallels to in the world if we look around it at the moment. So like many history plays, its value is going to be what it reflects back to us about this time.” Incidentally, Gandhi’s secretary, Venkataram Kalyanam, who died on May 4, aged 98 — he was present when Gandhi was assassinated — merited substantial obituaries in The Times and The Daily Telegraph. Growing up Tanika Gupta is full of laughter as she tells me of her new play, The Overseas Student, which covers Gandhi’s life in London from 1888, when he arrived there as an 18-year-old, to 1891, when he sailed back home, having been called to the Bar at the Inner Temple. The 45-minute, one-man play, with the talented actor, Esh Alladi, cast as a young Mohandas, opens at the Lyric Hammersmith in west London in June. The play begins with Gandhi setting out from Bombay in a white dinner jacket. He has promised his mother, “I will not touch meat, women, or alcohol,” and vowed to “learn to speak English as the Queen does, to learn French, to ballroom dance and to be able to play the fiddle. I think the violin is such a beautiful instrument.” Tanika reckons he struggled with all his vows. “It’s much more a coming of age story. I was much more interested in his journey as a teenager. He meets Annie Besant and Madam Blavatsky. He was very active in the Theosophical Society and became president of the Vegetarian Society. He would have gone to hear Dadabhai Naoroji. He read a translation of the Gita by [Edwin] Arnold. England made him an Indian because when he turns up, he just wants to be English.” Tanika, whose parents established The Tagoreans in London and who herself read modern history at Oxford, says: “Most of this stuff comes from my family, from their typical Bengali way of looking at everything slightly upside down or turning it around or asking questions. It’s a living history as opposed to learning about it in university.” Strong bonds One of my first outings post lockdown was to the Victoria & Albert Museum to see its fabulous Epic Iran exhibition covering 5,000 years of Iranian history. From associate curator, Ina Sarikhani Sandmann, whose family has loaned some of the 300 artworks on display, I hear about how the ancestors of Ratan Tata and Adar Poonawalla found refuge in India. A poster, “Zoroastrian Religion”, explains: “To avoid persecution after the Islamic conquest of Iran, many Iranian Zoroastrians fled to India, where their descendants are known as Parsis. Today in Iran, Zoroastrianism is still practised, with the fire temple located in Yazd.” As a country Iran gets a very bad press in the West. But I am encouraged “to look beyond the headlines”, as Ina puts it. Maintaining that “there is an enormous amount in common between the two cultures”, Iranian and Indian, she points out: “When the Zoroastrians left and went to live in India, they took their food with them.” Paradise lost One of the best novels I have read in a long time is Hafsa Zayyan’s We Are All Birds of Uganda, which tells the migration story of one of the families, the Saeeds, from the 30,000 Indians who arrived in Britain in 1972 as refugees after the entire Asian population of Uganda was expelled by its erratic president, Idi Amin. “I’m kind of related to the story via my marriage,” Hafsa says of her debut novel. Hafsa and her husband, Riaz, were both born in the United Kingdom. She is the daughter of a Nigerian father and a Pakistani mother who met at school in Nigeria. Riaz’s Indian family was among those expelled from Uganda. The protagonists are Kampala-born, Hasan Saeed, who writes cathartic letters to his late first wife, Amira, and his UK-born grandson, Sameer Saeed, who returns to Uganda to marry Maryam, the great granddaughter of Abdullah, an African servant boy. Hasan feels betrayed: “We are not natives and we are not Europeans. India has disowned us; Nehru calls us ‘guests’ of Africa. We are not guests. We are Africans of Asian origin.” Footnote Malala Yousafzai, inspirational champion for girls’ education, has been glammed up “in a red Stella McCartney headscarf and matching red lips” for the cover of the British Vogue, barely recognizable as the 15-year-old girl who was airlifted to the Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Birmingham after being shot in the head by the Taliban. She is now 23, an Oxford graduate and Nobel Prize winner and about to start making programmes for America’s Apple TV.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
12-06-2021||Opinion||Applause addiction||China’s Xi Jinping yearns to be loved. Anxiety neurosis, like narcissism, is inherent in the psychology of all absolute rulers. Adolf Hitler, Mao Zedong, Josef Stalin and Pol Pot probably also craved to be called “trustworthy, lovable and respectable”. So does Narendra Modi. The hospitality extended to over 20 hand-picked European parliamentarians who were taken on a jaunt to Kashmir in October 2019 was an obvious exercise in ‘spin-doctoring’, which has been defined as an attempt ‘to explain the government’s message directly to the public without going through the distorting prism of media reporting’. It misfired when Chris Davies, a British Liberal Democrat, disclosed that his invitation was cancelled when he sought unfettered access to go anywhere and speak to anyone he wanted. While the European Parliament distanced itself from the initiative, Davies told the BBC he was “not prepared to take part in a PR stunt for the Modi government and pretend that all [was] well” in Kashmir. Modi’s boast of “made-in-India solutions” that not only “controlled the spread of the virus and improved our health infrastructure” but had also “given a shield not just to India but to many other countries in the world” was another demand for applause. If the applause was less than ringing, it was because the catastrophe of India’s second wave exposed the complacency and vanity of that attempt to cover up a disgracefully inadequate medical infrastructure. The fault is not just Modi’s. But he has done little to repair the dereliction he inherited. All Indian leaders talk incessantly of doing things for India, but seldom for Indians. The promise of a chicken in every peasant’s pot on Sundays by the French king, Henry IV, to which Herbert Hoover gave modern resonance in his 1928 presidential campaign, has never seemed important to our rulers. Surviving public utilities like the railways or postal service are today limping relics of once-efficient colonial undertakings. India desperately needs hospitals, doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, ambulances, equipment and medicines. It needs relief from the fraud of a bureaucrat’s research paper comparing Indian and Chinese public healthcare that trotted out the names of expensive nursing homes in Delhi, Mumbai and Calcutta to illustrate Indian welfare. Perhaps sociologists will find an explanation in an unspoken conspiracy to conceal scabrous reality and maintain a traditional social hierarchy that has not changed drastically, as it has in China. A host of charities bearing the prime minister’s name are mainly a means of legitimizing patronage to buy votes. A failed State assumes the collapse of aspiration and effort. Did either ever exist in India? Was India ever seriously on the brink of superpower status except in A.P.J. Abdul Kalam’s imagination and the condescending rhetoric of American diplomats playing up to our political windbags? The pace at which our bureaucracy works, police operations, the allegations that vitiate political life, unquestioning acceptance of ‘speed money’ at all levels and the vast and criminally growing gulf between rich and poor warn of ramshackle institutions of the State. Richard Nixon, whom we love to hate, thought the wonder was not that India was governed badly but that it was governed at all. Few of his critics know of Nixon’s Quaker grandmother who gave him a life of Mahatma Gandhi that he read over and over again when he was only 17. Or that he was convinced after visiting India in 1953 of Jawaharlal Nehru’s “personal thirst for influence, if not control, over South Asia, the Middle East and Africa”. Nehru himself set the stage for today’s failures with the rhetorical question, “What does independence consist of?”, in the Constituent Assembly on March 8, 1949. “It consists fundamentally and basically of foreign relations,” he answered. “That is the test of independence. All else is local autonomy. Once foreign relations go out of your hands into the charge of somebody else, to that extent and in that measure you are not independent.” Nehru was deluded as a new brown entrant in a white man’s club. Modi seems dazzled by his intimacy with Barack Obama and “Bibi” (Benjamin Netanyahu). All our leaders neglect domestic obligations whose fulfilment alone would have earned respect. They chase foreigners instead. The inevitable comparison with China once prompted Lee Kuan Yew to discuss in Forbes why China’s “peaceful rise” had “raised apprehensions”. Yet India prompted no unease despite an annual growth rate of between 8 per cent and 9 per cent for five years (under Manmohan Singh before the so-called ‘Gujarat Model’ sent the economy crashing) and the ability to “project power across its borders farther and better than China”. Among the reasons Lee cited for the absence of concern were the Indian elite’s fluency in English, troublesome neighbours and the consequent need to watch the border, and democracy not because of abstruse moral reasons but because ruling coalitions of 10 to 20 parties made for an internal system of checks and balances. The suspension of nuclear talks with Washington because of the reservations of 60 Communist parliamentarians would have been inconceivable in China. He contrasted such inevitable periodic “domestic obstruction” with “the singleness of purpose in policy and its execution” China displayed. Lee was anxious not to disparage India. He respected Manmohan Singh. Sonia Gandhi had invited him to deliver the Jawaharlal Nehru Memorial Lecture. He had rubbed shoulders with the global glitterati at two international conferences in India in 2007. Yet, reading between the lines of his Forbes article, it is clear he felt the West was justified in fearing China’s rise but losing no sleep over India’s growth. Whereas “[t]he speed of China’s change and the thoroughness, energy and drive with which the Chinese [had] built up their infrastructure and pursued their goals spring from their culture, one that is shared by the Koreans, Japanese and Vietnamese”, India would not pose a challenge until it got its social infrastructure up to First World standards. Even a democratic China with multiple parties that lagged behind India economically would not allay Western suspicion. The Chinese would still be haunted by the “yellow peril” phobia reinforced by memories of the Cultural Revolution and Tiananmen Square massacres, not to mention objections to censorship. So, spin-doctoring wouldn’t solve Xi’s dilemma even if the Chinese system allowed it. Contrary to Lee’s assessment, however, a world which respects wealth and power will continue to deal with China while also continuing to try to cut it down to size. Xi may have to modify China’s “wolf warrior” (a term taken from a Rambo-style Chinese film) diplomacy whose provenance goes back to the 1793 Macartney Mission when King George III was commanded to “... Tremblingly obey and show no negligence!” But Xi is unlikely to make concessions on Tibet, Xinjiang, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Nor will the West insist. It knows its limitations. India is different. It has no high-powered professional spin doctors like Ronald Reagan’s Michael Deaver or Tony Blair’s Alastair Campbell. Modi, who has never run the gauntlet of a press conference (so far as anyone knows), is wise not to risk a press secretary who might try to upstage him when not angling for employment abroad. But our durbari culture enables every rookie politician and many journalists to operate as spin doctors, hoping their image-building efforts will be noticed and rewarded with a diplomatic assignment, a corporate directorship or a Rajya Sabha membership. But even they can do little to promote an Upper Volta not even with missiles. Nuclear-armed India is not a failed State. It’s a State that never took off. It will not do so either until its leaders realize that foreign policy, like charity, begins at home. The pandemic has exposed massive lacunae. Now is the time to invest in India instead of worrying about reports of China doubling its fleet of destroyers or transforming New Delhi into a ‘Modinagar’ that has eliminated all signs of Muslim or British rule.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
12-06-2021||Jharkhand||Monsoon arrives early in Jharkhand, makes quite a splash||The southwest monsoon arrived in  Jharkhand on Saturday, three days earlier than schedule. IMD's Ranchi and Patna Met Centres issued special bulletins on. Saturday afternoon confirming the entry of southwest monsoon in Jharkhand from northeastern part of the state. Weathermen at the Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Calcutta  said  the monsoon currents had reached Bengal on Friday and that it advanced into Jharkhand on Saturday. As per the new dates worked out by IMD since last year, the normal monsoon arrival date for Jharkhand has been revised from June 10 to June 15. Accordingly, the monsoon has arrived three days earlier in Jharkhand. Last year (2020), the onset of monsoon in Jharkhand was declared on June 13, two days earlier than schedule. "The southwest monsoon has set in over Jharkhand. It entered the state through the north east and covered several districts including Sahebganj, Pakur, Godda, Dumka, Deoghar, Jamtara, Dhanbad, Bokaro, Ramgarh, Ranchi, Khunti, East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum, Seraikela- Kharsawan and some parts of Gumla, Hazaribagh and Giridih. The complete onset over the state is expected in another 24 hours as conditions are favourable," said Abhishek Anand, head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The Northern Limit of Monsoon (NLM) was on Saturday passing through Surat, Nandurbar , Raisen, Pendra Road, Bolangir, Bhubaneswar, Baripada, Purulia, Dhanbad and Dharbhanga. A bulletin issued by IMD - New Delhi said conditions are favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon into some more parts of Madhya Pradesh, remaining parts of Chhattisgarh, Odisha, West Bengal, Jharkhand and Bihar and some parts of east Uttar Pradesh during next 24 hours. Weathermen said the low-pressure area over northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining coastal areas of West Bengal and north Odisha would impact Jharkhand's weather and result in heavy rain in isolated areas in the next three to four days. An associated cyclonic circulation was also  extending upto mid-tropospheric level which would assist in rainfall activity. The Ranchi Met Centre issued an alert for heavy rain in southern, central and north-eastern districts of Jharkhand in the next few days due to an active monsoon coupled with the low-pressure area. The forecast suggested rain in most parts of the state in the next two days.Also, moderate thunderstorm with lightning associated with the onset of monsoon is very likely to happen over several districts of Jharkhand during next two to three days. Weathermen advised people to keep a watch on the weather and protect themselves from lightning strikes. Data suggests Hazaribagh recorded the highest rainfall of 65mm in the last 24 hours (8.30am on Friday to 8.30 am on Saturday) followed by capital Ranchi which notched 51 mm  rain. Several other districts, including Ramgarh, Koderma, Godda, Jamtara, Bokaro, Dhanbad and East Singhbhum, experienced moderate rain in past 24 hours. Met statistics revealed that in  2019, the southwest monsoon reached Jharkhand on June 21, after a delay of 11 days. In 2018, the southwest monsoon had reached the Kerala coast three days early on May 29 but it reached Jharkhand on June 25, after a delay of 15 days, as the monsoon currents were weak. In 2017 and in 2016, it was delayed by six days. After its complete onset, the monsoon normally stretches till the first week of October and the average rainfall in Jharkhand during this period is around 1,100mm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
12-06-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city stadium crumbling, athletes fear injuries||The Mohan Ahuja Stadium’s condition in Bistupur has worsened due to the row between Tata Steel and Jharkhand Badminton Association over the lease of the venue. The stadium, located near Keenan Stadium in Bistupur, has never witnessed any major repairs since it was set up in the 1960s. Though the whole interior portion of the stadium is in a poor shape, the ceiling over the three main wooden courts is posing a serious threat. The ceiling is leaking and water seepage could further weaken the already weakened roof. The JBA had ensured patchwork on the damaged portions of the ceiling three years back, but that too had started peeling, putting a serious question mark over the health of the stadium which has hosted some top-bracket shuttlers, including Prakash Padukone and Saina Nehwal. JBA secretary K.Prabhakar Rao said they were aware about the condition of the ceiling. "The condition of the ceiling is in very poor shape. It needs immediate repair otherwise it would pose a big risk. We are very worried," he admitted. Prabhakar, joint secretary of Badminton Association of India, said condition of the entire stadium was bad and immediate repair was the need of the hour. It is blessing in disguise since the stadium is shut owing to Covid-19 pandemic otherwise lives of aspiring shuttlers and those playing for fitness purpose would have been under threat. The JBA is facing a cash crunch and it would not be possible for it to spend Rs 20-25lakh for the repair of the ceiling as well as other portions of the stadium that also need immediate attention. The tin roof over the practice courts has gaping holes and water gets accumulated on courts when it rains heavily. The plasters on side walls are also peeling, painting a poor picture of the stadium. The origin of the whole problem is the legal tussle between Tata Steel and JBA, which is still sub-judice. Tata Steel, which owns the stadium, had in September 2014 asked JBA to vacate it. But the JBA filed a title suit against Tata Steel at the local court with the plea that the venue had been leased out to it till December 2017. In 2018, Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Ltd (erstwhile Jusco) disconnected electricity supply to the stadium for pending dues amounting to over Rs 50 lakh. The JBA filed a case against the company for illegally disconnecting power supply.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
12-06-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad mukhiya in Covid awareness drive through paintings||A young mukhiya of tribal dominated Dumdumi Panchayat of Topchanchi block, about 30 km away from the district headquarters is creating Covid awareness and dispelling misinformation through his wall paintings. Vikash Mahto, 32, a former student union leader of Guru Nanak College, Dhanbad was elected as the youngest mukhiya of the district at the age of 26 in 2015 from Dumdumi Panchayat after completing his graduation and working incessantly creating awareness about various welfare and development schemes through innovative ways. Talking to The Telegraph Online Mahto said,“We also created similar awareness during the first phase of pandemic  last year, apprising people about the do’s and don’ts regarding Covid by carrying out wall paintings.“ “During the second phase we began the awareness drive ever since the beginning of vaccination drive in the district on January 16 through door to contact but later decided to extend the awareness through wall paintings about a month ago,” said Mahto and added that the young artist of his panchayat, Mahendra Kumar is helping him in making wall paintings as he is not a skilled painter itself. “We chose such places in the panchayat for making wall paintings or carrying out wall writings  where the majority of people visit like panchayat buildings, government school buildings, aanganbadi centres and PDS shops” said Singh. “While some of the paintings and wall writings are meant to dispel the  misinformation about vaccinations and apprising them about the benefits of early vaccinations, in others important toll free numbers and control room number like the district control room number for Covid, toll free for vaccination, control room number for vaccination in rural areas, control room number for After event following immunization etc are mentioned” said Mahto. “In one of the wall writings we have also mentioned the names of common medicines being used during the pandemic period and prescribed doses to be taken as part of Covid awareness,” further added Mahto. “In villages, people due to lack of information, try to conceal their ailments due to lack of information so the toll free helps them to clear the their doubts,” said Mahto and added that in some of the wall painting they highlighted the significance of observing covid protocols like sporting masks and maintaining social distance. “So far it seems that the awareness has had some impact as no person in our Panchayat has been affected due to Covid” said Mahto and added that ever since his student days he used wall paintings for creating awareness. “I also created awareness in the village about environmental conservation through wall painting besides the government schemes like beti bachao beti padhao, campaign against female foeticide etc” elaborated Mahto. Mahendra Prasad Mahto, a villager of Dumdumi Panchayat who operates a Customer Service Point in the village said, “Yes indeed the wall paintings have served the purpose of creating awareness about Vaccination in our village.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
12-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand conducting confirmatory RT PCR tests on symptomatic rural residents||The Jharkhand government has started conducting confirmatory RT PCR tests on the  over 2 lakh rural residents who tested negative for Covid-19 in rapid tests conducted during the 10-day Intensive Public Health Survey (IPHS) from May 25 to June 5, health officials said on Saturday. The confirmatory tests, officials said, was necessary as all the residents who underwent Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) during the survey showed symptoms of Covid-19. As per survey data, of the over 2.63 crore people surveyed during IPHS, at least 2,08,556 showed symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) or Influenza Like Illness (ILA). All the 2 lakh-odd residents with SARI and ILA symptoms underwent rapid tests during the survey, but only 981 of them were found infected by novel coronavirus – a finding that showed unusually low prevalence of Covid-19 in the Jharkhand hinterland. The low positivity rate among such individuals, officials said, could be attributed to the lower efficacy of rapid tests. “We will conduct confirmatory RT PCR tests of all  rural residents who tested negative in rapid tests during the survey. The process has already begun in the panchayats, but we are yet to get data on the confirmatory tests conducted so far,” said Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer of health department’s Information, Education and Communication (IEC) wing. Tripathi admitted that the government decided to conduct rapid tests instead of RT PCR during the survey as the former gave quicker results and the health infrastructure in rural Jharkhand was not strong enough to conduct large scale RT PCR tests on the go. RAT is also done with nasal and throat swab, but it takes only one hour to show Covid test results. On the other hand, results of  RT PCR tests take at least 48 hours. As per data compiled by the health department, the positivity rate in Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) was less than 1 per cent in Jharkhand, while that in RT PCR was 2.3 per cent. The positivity rate in TrueNat test was highest at 7 per cent. “RT PCR tests and TrueNat certainly showed higher positivity rate and will be used for confirmation in symptomatic people who have tested negative in rapid tests,” said Naman Priyesh Lakra, the nodal officer for Covid testing in Jharkhand. The Covid positivity rate during the IPHS was only 0.47 per cent, which was lower than the cumulative positivity rate of over 3.5 per cent in Jharkhand, officials said. During the survey, it was also found that 16,668 of those surveyed showed symptoms of tuberculosis, while 1,17,622 suffered from diabetes. As per the survey data, at least 1,19,026 rural residents suffered from hypertension. As many as 25,869 deaths were reported in rural Jharkhand from April 1 to May 31, the survey findings revealed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
12-06-2021||Jharkhand||BJP youth leader caught in drug smuggling racket||A Chatra police team on Saturday arrested nine brown sugar smugglers including a member of the state executive committee of the BJP's youth wing. The team, formed by Chatra superintendent of police, Rishav Kumar Jha, acted on a tip off and recovered 296 gram of brown sugar, a car, a bike, 8 mobile phones and Rs 7.74lakh from their possession. According to sources, Jha received information that one Dheeraj Kumar residing near Kesri Chowk was carrying brown sugar to supply to its customer. The police team caught Dheeraj with 2.10 gram of brown sugar. Dheeraj, during interrogation, named one Amit Gupta as his supplier. Police conducted a raid at Dheeraj's house but he was not found there. The team traced his mobile number and found out that he was coming to town from Hazaribagh in his SUV. A trap was laid and Amit was caught near Heru River on Chatra-Chouparan road on Thursday night. Other than Amit, police caught Himanshu Kumar, the BJP leader, Anurag Kumar and Chandan Kumar also from the SUV. Police team found 3.20 gram of brown sugar and Rs 7.74lakh in cash. Amit said he was purchasing brown sugar from Nawal Dangi and Prem Dangi of Giddhore. Police made Amit call the duo demanding more brown sugar. Amit was taken to Giddhor and as Nawal and Prem came to Giddhore Chowk to supply the consignment of brown sugar, they were also arrested. After raids carried out at the duo's home, police found 32gram of brown sugar. When Prem and Nawal were interrogated, they revealed the name of Roshan also known as Bhagirath Dangi of Tetaria village under Pathalgadda block as the supplier. Police immediately raided Roshan's house where 10 gram of brown sugar was found. Jha said Amit, Roshan and Prem also named one Abhishek Thakur as supplier who was nabbed from Bakchunba village under Rajpur police station with 240 gram brown sugar. Jha said from May 1 2020 to June 10, 2021, police have recovered 572kg of opium, around 2.5kg of brown sugar and more than nine quintals of marijuana from smugglers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
12-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: 2 Dhanbad students get highest pay packages||Dhanbad: Two students of the five year Integrated B Tech and M Tech (computer science engineering) course of IIT (ISM) have received the highest pay packages till date, from Bloomberg during two separate off-campus drive. While one of the students has received a package of Rs 90lakh per annum another one has received a package of Rs 81lakh per annum. Confirming the development, Pankaj Jain Vice Chairman of Career and Development Cell of IIT (ISM) said, “Yes two of our students have received good packages during the off campus drive but we can’t disclose the names of the students as per All IIT placement committee.” “These are the highest pay packages received by any of our students,” said Jain and added that altogether 675 students of institute belonging to different courses right from B Tech, M Tech, five years BTech and M Tech dual degree programme, MSc Tech, MBA, M Sc and other courses have been  placed. “The off campus placement of both the students took placement during two separate sessions,” said Jain. Notably, seven Computer Science Engineering students of the institute were offered a package of Rs 54.57 lakh about a week ago. Besides the placement offers to 675 students 91 students have also received the pre placement offer while 308 others have received the internship offers during present of placement session of 2020-21. In 2020, altogether 995 students got placed out of which 699 recieved on campus placement, 154 recived off campus placement while 154 recieved higher studies offer. In 2019, on the other hand altogether 643 students received jobs through campus selection including 594 B Tech students, 27 M Tech students and 22 B Tech and M Tech dual degree programme students. (Praduman Choubey) Dhanbad: A 50-year-old farmer, Bhagwan Sao of Purnadih Village in Tundi block of Dhanbad about 40 km from district headquarters, killed his wife, Mala Devi by attacking her with an axe before hanging himself with a rope in connection with family dispute. The incident came to light this morning when family members of the deceased including the younger son of the deceased couple, Kishan Sao spotted thebodies of his parents and informed the other member of the family and locality who in turn informed the police. A team of Tundi Police station led by officer in charge, Santosh Singh which reached at the site took details from the family members and neighbours of deceased, collected some samples from site and then sent both the dead bodies for post-mortem at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital of Dhanbad. Members of the locality in village said that the couple often used to quarrel with each other on different issues and they had also a fight over some acrimonious issue last night. Notably, the two elder sons of the deceased couple, including, Karan Sao (21) and Bharat Sao (19) used to live in rented accommodation at Dhanbad town, away from their ancestral place at Tundi and eke out their living by working as tipper driver while the younger son Karan Sao (17) used to stay with the parents at ancestral place. Officer in charge of Tundi Police station, Santosh Kumar Singh said,“Though prima facie it seems to be case of murder in connection with family dispute but the exact cause is being ascertained by interacting with the family members of deceased, their close relatives and other members of the locality.” (Praduman Choubey) Daltonganj: The Tana Bhagat community, staunch followers of the Gandhian principle that abhors any invasive treatment, have agreed to take the Covid vaccine said sources. The Tana Bhagats have great distaste for medicines and rely mostly on the herb roots and tubers. DC Shashi Ranjan said, “We were too concerned about their vaccination. We were determined to give them their first dose.” The vaccination site was set up at the state upgraded middle school at Pokharia. A final tally of Tana Bhagats vaccinated will be available past 7 on Friday evening. (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
12-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Doorstep vaccination for Tana Bhagats||Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta on Thursday directed the additional chief secretary (health) Arun Kumar Singh to arrange for vaccination camp at the places of residence of Tana Bhagats across the state. Significantly, Tana Bhagats (over 21,000) are tribal and ardent followers of Gandhian philosophy and guided by their motto of simple living and gather around and worship the Indian Tricolour each Thursday. The Tana Bhagats are strictly vegetarians and teetotallers and eat only home-cooked food. “It is fortunate that not a single Tana Bhagats has been infected with Covid both during the first and second wave and it may be due to their high standards of cleanliness and hygiene. The health department will identify the Tana Bhagats and arrange for their vaccination on camp mode either by establishing vaccination camp near to their places of residence or through mobile vans,” said Banna Gupta. Significantly, on Wednesday, Jharkhand added three more deaths due to Covid taking the total mortality figure to 5076 and added 302 more positive cases taking the active caseload to 4,783. Acting on the directive of the Supreme Court order, state health department has directed all Covid hospitals to have fire safety audits. “All district civil surgeons have been asked to ensure that all Covid hospitals have one nodal officer for fire safety, conduct of monthly fire safety audit and obtain no objection certificate from competent fire safety authorities. “All the district civil surgeons will have to provide details about fire safety measures in place at Covid hospitals on June 12 during a review meeting to be held at Ranchi,” said state health department nodal officer Siddharth Tripathy. Meanwhile, state surveillance officer Dr Rakesh Dayal was appointed nodal officer for monitoring of oxygen concentrators provided under PM Care fund for installation at health centres in Jharkhand. Nodal officers were also appointed for biomedical equipment management and maintenance program. The state health department also issued a circular citing the Union health ministry directive on rate fixation of vaccines for private hospitals. “Private hospitals can charge a maximum of Rs 780 for Covishield vaccines and Rs 1410 for Covaxin vaccines as per the directive of Union health ministry,” said Siddharth Tripathy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
