13-06-2021||Calcutta||Chowringhee High School holds relief camp in cyclone-affected Sunderbans||The legacy of a school head, who worked for people beyond the four walls of a classroom, is being carried forward by the school, its students and his family. Chowringhee High School held a relief camp in the Sunderbans in the aftermath of Cyclone Yaas and was able to raise Rs 2.5 lakh within days for the mission. Perminder Dasani, the former administrator of the school who succumbed to Covid in December 2020, had visited the Sunderbans with relief materials after Cyclone Amphan last year. And his daughters thought he would have wanted to do the same if he were alive. In staying true to the image of “a small school with a big heart”, a team from the school and some former students went to Kultali last week with two trucks filled with ration and tarpaulins. They distributed the relief materials among the residents there. Funds started to pour in as soon as Dasani’s younger daughter Nishita posted a message on social media. “...In these difficult times of the Covid-19 pandemic when the entire nation is struggling with medical crises, people in…the Sunderbans have lost their shelters and are facing food shortage again. We carried out a similar project last year in June as well after the devastation caused by cyclone ‘Amphan’ under the guidance of our beloved Johnny Sir (Perminder Dasani)...In such humanitarian crisis Lotus Mission (a club) of Chowringhee High School is planning to work once again for the homeless victims. I...request you to help us on whatever way possible to carry out this initiative, because as our late Johnny Sir always said ‘alone we can do little, but together we can do so much’.” her post said. The Sindhis of Calcutta an association, supported the school in its endeavour. “He (Dasani) extensively worked there last year and we know that he would have reached out even this year. He had always inspired his students to do community work and even when he is not among us they have come forward,” said Harshita Dasani, the principal of the school and his wife. While the alumni group contributed financially to the cause, the present students helped with packing of the ration bags. A Class XII student, Tony Sharma, had accompanied Dasani last year. He went this year too. “He always said that we should do whatever little we can,” said Sharma. “When we went there we understood the plight of these people. Even their livelihood has been impacted because of the stagnant water caused by the storm,” said Nishita. Dasani’s elder daughter, Twinkle, has left her job to help her mother run the school. She is the secretary of the school. Dasani passed away in December but from January itself the school and his family has been carrying on all the projects that he had started. Even when he was in hospital last year, he had spearheaded the blanket distribution on Christmas, an annual event in the school calendar. “We have not stopped any of his projects which includes feeding the poor, organising blood donation camps or providing stationery to the children of a village he had adopted. We have to continue his work,” said Harshita Dasani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
13-06-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta Municipal Corporation will not allow any restaurants to operate in residential buildings||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation will not allow any restaurant to operate from a residential building, Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of CMC’s board of administrators, said on Saturday. Civic officials said that according to law, restaurants cannot operate in a building that has even one residential apartment. A senior official of the CMC said that the law considers restaurants as “hazardous business”, which cannot be allowed to operate from a residential apartment. There are 42 types of “non-hazardous” businesses like grocery stores, which can operate from residential buildings, the official added. Trade licenses of restaurants that operate from residential buildings will not be renewed any longer, Hakim said. Civic officials said that scores of cafes and restaurants that have been set up in several residential apartments are not supposed to function any longer. “Restaurants cannot function from a residential building. We will not allow any restaurants to be set up in a building that has even one residential apartment. There have been instances of fire in such buildings in the past. When a fire breaks out in the ground-floor restaurant, it becomes difficult to evacuate people from such a building. All buildings do not have two staircases, so evacuation becomes a challenge,” Hakim said. “We are not renewing trade licenses of such restaurants that were set up in residential buildings.” Civic sources said that in the past, restaurants were set up in residential apartments and they were given trade licences since there was not much stress on fire safety measures. But after instances of fire in residential buildings that started from restaurants in these buildings, the civic body decided to bring the bar. The civic body has planned to grant 10 per cent additional floor area ratio (FAR) to commercial buildings, without even one residential apartment, so that restaurants can be set up in these buildings. Additional FAR means that the building will get special allowance to build extra floor space, more than what is usually allowed in a plot of that size on that road. Hakim said the civic body wanted commercial buildings to come up where there can be a mall, restaurants and offices in the same building. The civic body has sent the proposal of giving additional FAR to the municipal affairs department so that it can be made into law, Hakim said. “It is the police’s responsibility to check if such restaurants are still operating. Usually, fire licenses are not granted to such businesses running from a residential building,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
13-06-2021||Calcutta||Free oxygen camps to save lives breaches barriers of faith in city||A Hindu woman went to a mosque, a nun to a gurdwara and a Muslim woman to a church. Gasping for breath, all three had headed to oxygen camps running at places of worship near their homes. At a time the politics of hate is seeking to divide people, a drive to save lives in the city is breaching the barriers of faith. The free oxygen service, which began over a month ago at the Gurdwara Behala, reached the Sola Ana Masjid in Ekbalpore and Sacred Heart Church in Esplanade over a fortnight ago. Every day, scores of people in need of oxygen — whether Covid-positive or untested — visit the three camps, an initiative of the IHA Foundation, a philanthropic organisation. Many with patients back home get their oxygen cylinders refilled at the gurdwara camp. In Ekbalpore, an area carved out of the mosque compound hosts the oxygen camp. It has a separate entrance. The mosque, which stands beside a burial ground, is a stone’s throw from the Ekbalpore police station. At the Sacred Heart Church, set opposite the Tipu Sultan Masjid on Lenin Sarani, the camp occupies a part of the porch. Both these centres started on May 28. The camp on the ground floor of the Gurdwara Behala on Diamond Harbour Road completed a month on Wednesday. “We are serving all, irrespective of caste, creed or colour. Most of the people who come are needy,” said Father Franklin Menezes, who supervises the camp at the church. Anyone in need of oxygen can visit the camps, where a patient’s vital parameters are checked by a team of paramedics in PPE kits. Tapati Ghosh, 68, had almost completed her mandatory period of home isolation after testing Covid-positive when she began having breathing problems. Her oxygen level dipped and her family contacted a doctor who suggested immediate oxygen support. “We could not arrange for a cylinder. A neighbour told us about the oxygen camp at the mosque. The volunteers at the camp were very helpful and efficient,” said Swastika Ghosh, Tapati’s daughter-in-law. The family lives in Mominpore off Diamond Harbour Road. Tapati went to the mosque for three consecutive days from June 2 to 4. She is much better now, Swastika said. Muhammad Giyasuddin, who lives near Moulali, took his wife to the Sacred Heart Church on May 29 after she suddenly developed breathing difficulties. Giyasuddin was looking for a doctor to take his wife to when a neighbour told him about a “medical camp” at the church. “I took her to the church. She was first provided with oxygen. A doctor then examined her and gave her some medicines,” said Giyasuddin, whose earnings have stopped since the Covid restrictions closed the shop at the Chandni Chowk market where he works. Among the many oxygen recipients at the Gurdwara Behala was Sister A. Nirmala, a resident of New Alipore. A doctor is stationed at each of the three camps, along with a couple of paramedics. Patients are sent back home once they become stable. If a patient remains critical, a team of volunteers scouts for a hospital bed. Poor patients receive free medicines at the camps. “Many people who come are Covid-positive. Some have symptoms but have not been tested. We advise them immediate Covid tests,” said Arabinda Bera, the doctor at the camp at the Gurdwara Behala. “Around 30 people visit the gurdwara oxygen camp every day. The number is around 30 at the Sola Ana Masjid too, and about 15 at the Sacred Heart Church, which is located in a non-residential area. So far, we have served some 1,500 families,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, chairman of the IHA Foundation. The camp at the Gurdwara Behala has an oxygen bank. Apart from treating patients, it refills oxygen cylinders and arranges for oxygen delivery at the doorstep of senior citizens. The other two centres have four oxygen concentrators each.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
13-06-2021||Calcutta||RKM’s  vice-president Swami Shivamayananda passes away||Swami Shivamayananda, one of the four vice-presidents of Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission, passed away on Friday night. He was 86 and had tested positive for Covid. Popularly known as Ranen Maharaj, Swami Shivamayananda was admitted to Seva Pratishthan on May 22. Six days later he was put on non-invasive ventilation and shifted to mechanical ventilation on June 10. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and chief minister Mamata Banerjee condoled the demise of Swami Shivamayananda. Born in Supaul town of Bihar on December 20, 1934, Swami Shivamayananda joined the order at Belur Math in 1959 and received sanyasa diksha from Swami Vireshwarananda Maharaj in 1969. He served the order at Belur Math and Sargachhi, Katihar, Rahara and Seva Pratishthan centres for several years. In 1990 Swami Shivamayananda was appointed a trustee of the Ramakrishna Math and a member of the governing body of the Ramakrishna Mission. In 1992, he became assistant secretary of the twin organisations which he served for 13 years. In 2017, Swami Shivamayananda was elected vice-president of the Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission. Swami Shivamayananda had been mostly staying at the Kankurgachi Math since 2017. In April 2021 he had moved to the Cossipore Math after assuming charge as its head, in addition to his holding the office of vice-president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
13-06-2021||Calcutta||Punjab police clarify Bharat Kumar and Sumit Kumar twist||Punjab police on Saturday clarified that Bharat Kumar and Sumit Kumar are two different people. Bharat Kumar, who was arrested by Punjab police on June 9, had impersonated Sumit and used the latter’s name and identity documents to sign the rent agreement with the owner of flat 201, Block B153 at Shukhobrishti housing complex, the Punjab police said. The revelation came with the arrest of the “original” Sumit Kumar in Mohali on Saturday morning. A senior officer of the Punjab police said Bharat Kumar impersonated his business partner Sumit Kumar during his visit to Calcutta with the two gangsters Jaipal Bhullar and Jaspreet Singh alias Jassi in the third week of May. Bharat had used Sumit’s Aadhaar card and passport details as his own identity documents to finalise the rent agreement with the Shukhobrishti flat owner. Initially, after Bharat’s arrest, he had succeeded in convincing the police that he had taken a false identity as Sumit Kumar. On prolonged interrogation, however, he purportedly admitted the existence of another person whose name is Sumit Kumar, the police said. Bharat and Sumit had been business partners since 2015 and were allegedly involved in illegal procurement and sale of fancy mobile SIM cards, including numbers registered with foreign telecom companies, said the Punjab police. While helping Bhullar and Jassi flee from Gwalior to Calcutta, Bharat used an official ID of a Punjab police constable named Amarjit Singh at all the toll plazas. “Although, Bharat claimed that constable Amarjit Singh is his and Sumit’s mutual friend, police are investigating why he had Amarjit’s official ID and if the latter had any knowledge of his ID being misused,” said an officer of ADG rank in the Punjab police. During his stay in Calcutta, Bharat assumed the identity of Sumit and stayed in a hotel in New Town while arranging Bhullar and Jassi’s stay at two hotels for two and three nights, respectively. Bharat had been arrested in his Honda Accord on June 9. He had purchased the four-wheeler in 2016 but it was still registered in the name of its first owner. Sumit is a resident of Meham in Haryana’s Rohtak city. “The fact that Sumit Kumar’s passport and Aadhaar card were used to rent the apartment for providing a safe shelter to two gangsters also makes him culpable,” said a senior officer. The police said they were investigating the duo’s role in helping the gangsters in the past.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
13-06-2021||Calcutta||Weather report: Monsoon arrives in city but rain scanty ||Monsoon set foot in Calcutta on Saturday but the rain was taken away by Jharkhand. The volume and intensity of the rainfall in Calcutta could have been higher had a low-pressure system on Bay of Bengal, which propelled monsoon into most parts of south Bengal, entered land, said a Met official. “The system on northwest Bay of Bengal is caught between two sets of winds. South-easterly winds from Bangladesh are blowing above the system and south-westerly winds from the Andhra coast are blowing under the system. As a result, the low-pressure area is not able to enter land. It is still on the sea,” said GK Das, director, India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. Rain-bearing clouds are forming over Bangladesh and they are drifting to Calcutta, said Met officials. But instead of staying and eventually emptying themselves on the city, a bulk of the clouds are moving further away towards Purulia and Jharkhand because of the strong winds. A depression over South China Sea is also attracting a fair share of the clouds formed because of the low-pressure area, said Das. On Saturday, the sky was cloudy since morning and the blazing sun was missing in action. But the humidity level was high and conditions were sweaty until the showers started towards early evening. Till 8.30pm on Saturday, the Met office recorded only 3mm of rain in Alipore. Some other areas of the city and its outskirts were wetter. Some pockets  saw a spell or two at night. “Southwest monsoon reached most parts of Bengal on Saturday, including Calcutta. The Northern Limit of Monsoon (NLM) passes through Bolangir, Bhubaneswar, Baripada (all three in Odisha), Purulia, Dhanbad (Jharkhand) and Darbhanga (Bihar),” said Das. The Met office had predicted a wet spell over most districts of Bengal from June 11 to 15 under the influence of the system. Light to moderate rain was the forecast for most areas but a spell of two of heavy rain was not ruled out in the coastal areas, including Calcutta. The city is yet to get a spell of heavy rain but the sky has been cloudy and conditions overcast for a couple of days now. The usual date of the arrival of monsoon in Calcutta is June 8. For the past few years, the arrival of monsoon has been timid in the city. But last year, a similar low-pressure area over Bay of Bengal had made the entry formidable, triggering 40-50mm of rain across the city. In Met parlance, more than 60mm of rain in 24 hours qualifies as heavy. The system (current low-pressure area) will eventually enter land along the Odisha coast and travel towards Jharkhand. When it does, the western districts of Bengal are expected to get more rain, Met officials said. “Calcutta is likely to continue having overcast conditions and light to moderate rainfall over the next three-four days,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
13-06-2021||Calcutta||Three arrested for Rs 1.2 crore bank loan fraud||A city bank has reported to police that a gang has fraudulently taken multiple house loans from it, which resulted in a loss of Rs 1.2 crore in the last few months. The bank apparently sanctioned five loans. The police have arrested three members of the gang on Thursday while a few are still at large. They were produced before the court earlier this week and have been remanded in police custody till June 18.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
13-06-2021||Calcutta||Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya to conduct mock online admission test on June 19||Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya, Narendrapur, which has cancelled its on-campus entrance test for admission to Class XI on June 20 because of the pandemic, will conduct a mock test on June 19 to help the candidates prepare for the online test the next day. The online tests will have multiple choice questions. Headmaster Brahmachari Turiyachaitanya said since the applicants are students of Class X, they are required to be conversant with the system. “A test in the MCQ pattern entails that there will be negative marks for incorrect answers. Applicants are required to have two devices to appear for the online test — one for the test and the other for the Zoom meeting. Instructions regarding varied aspects of the tests have been uploaded on the institution’s website,” he said. “During the mock test, students will go through the drill to get a complete hang of the format.” There are several underprivileged applicants who are new to tests on digital platforms, a school official said. Many of them might have bought devices just for the test, he said. “During the mock test, we will guide them at every step.” The timings for the mock tests will be informed over a WhatsApp group that will be created soon. The test schedules for the respective subjects have been uploaded on the school’s website. The test link will be sent on the WhatsApp group around 10 minutes before the start of the exam. Applicants have to write their names in the slot for their subject while joining the meeting. Details of the rules, so that unfair means are not adopted during the test, have been uploaded on the school’s website as well. A list of candidates who clear the test and qualify for the online interview will be published on June 21 around 4pm. The school is holding the test online as Class X board exams have been cancelled across the country because of the pandemic. “Last year, even though we could not conduct the on-campus test, a shortlist from the applicants could be drawn up for the interview on the basis of Class X board exam results,” said Brahmachari Turiyachaitanya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
13-06-2021||Calcutta||Teen kills friend over space in shared room in Behala||A 16-year-old boy died after being punched by a 17-year-old friend during an altercation over sharing space in a room where at least 10 young men were staying. The incident happened in a room on the top floor of a building on Chanditala Main Road in Behala on Friday night where 10 youths from Murshidabad were staying for the past few weeks. They worked as masons. On Friday night, the victim and the accused (names are not disclosed as both are minors) — who are relatives — got engaged in a fight over sharing space in the room. The other eight youths were not in the room when the incident happened, police said. Both the accused and the victim are school students but had come to Calcutta and picked up the job of masons to support their families in the pandemic, specially when the schools were closed. The accused allegedly punched the victim on his chest several times, an officer said. “The victim’s screams alerted others, who rushed into the room only to see the 16-year-old lying unconscious in the room,” said an officer in the south west division. By this time, the accused had fled. The victim was taken to Vidyasagar State General Hospital where he was declared dead. After being reported to the police, officers of Behala police station found the accused hiding in another location where another group of youths from Murshidabad were camping. The accused was detained and charged under section of culpable homicide not amounting to murder. The matter was referred to the child welfare committee. He was produced before the Juvenile Justice Board from where he was sent to a home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
13-06-2021||Business||Prices of electric scooters and motorcycles are expected to come down ||Prices of electric scooters and motorcycles are expected to come down after the department of heavy industries made key changes in the scheme for Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Electric Vehicles in India Phase II (FAME II). In a notification issued late on Friday, the ministry increased the incentive for electric two-wheelers to Rs 15,000 per KWh from the earlier uniform subsidy of Rs 10,000 per KWh for all EVs, including plug-in hybrids and strong hybrids except buses. The department also capped incentives for electric two-wheelers at 40 per cent of the cost of vehicles, up from 20 per cent earlier. The move will result in prices of all electric two-wheelers being slashed by a considerable margin. Hero Electric managing director Naveen Munjal said, “The increase in the cap of subsidies for EVs will be a game changer, driving consumers towards electric scooters even as petrol prices continue to touch the Rs 100 mark.” Icra view Credit rating agency Icra believes the pace of penetration of electric two-wheelers will be relatively gradual in India unlike global markets such as China, Europe and USA. Shamsher Dewan, vice-president and group head (corporate sector ratings), Icra, said, “Affordability and range anxiety continue to remain key challenges, especially in the passenger car and truck segment. We expect the share of EVs to reach about 8-10 per cent level in two-wheelers, and over 30 per cent in three-wheelers by 2025. The penetration levels in cars and trucks are likely to remain low in the medium term.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
13-06-2021||Business||BEML Ltd land to be spun off||BEML Ltd on Saturday said Dipam and NITI Aayog have agreed to the proposal of incorporation of a wholly owned arm for the demerger of surplus land and asset as part of BEML’s strategic divestment process. BEML, formerly Bharat Earth Movers Ltd, was set up  in May 1964 as a public sector undertaking to manufacture  rail coaches and spare parts and mining equipment at its Bangalore complex. The company has been partially divested and, at present, the government owns 54 per cent of the total equity and the rest 46 per cent is held by the public, financial institutions, foreign institutional investors, banks and employees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
13-06-2021||Business||Adani Enterprises incorporates new subsidiary for cement sector||After making his presence felt in the airports and ports businesses, Gautam Adani is now set to enter the country’s cement sector. The group’s flagship company Adani Enterprises Ltd (AEL) on Saturday announced that it has floated a subsidiary to manufacture and process all types of cement. AEL said it has incorporated the new subsidiary — Adani Cement Industries Ltd (ACIL) — with an authorised share capital of Rs 10 lakh. It was registered with the Registrar of Companies, Ahmedabad, on June 11 and it is yet to begin business operations. AEL added that the new subsidiary will carry on business as a manufacturer, producer and processor of all types of cement. Gautam Adani’s foray into the sector comes at a time analysts are positive about the sector’s prospects given the government’s focus on infrastructure and attractive interest rates which are expected to help the real estate segment. Though the second Covid wave affected demand, a strong recovery is projected even during the monsoon season which is usually lean for the industry. Adani, who is the second richest Indian after Mukesh Ambani, is present in businesses such as edible oils, mining services, logistics, roads and renewable energy. It is now the largest private operator of airports in India with assets in Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Mangalore, Jaipur, Guwahati and Thiruvananthapuram and the Mumbai International Airport under its belt. It has also ventured into the redevelopment of railway stations. The cement entity would be pitted against UltraTech Cement, Shree Cement, Ambuja Cement, Nirma, ACC and Dalmia Bharat. “We believe India’s cement industry is entering a new upcycle that has no parallel in recent decades. We expect the next few years to be characterised by moderate volume growth (7 per cent CAGR over FY20-26E) and price increases (2.5 per cent). The Indian cement sector is back in the limelight, thanks to significant boost to infrastructure spending in the Union budget, the ongoing real estate revival, aided by low interest rates  and continued government focus on the affordable housing segment,” analysts at Emkay said in a recent note. Analysts at Edelweiss, too, are optimistic about the industry’s fortunes. As the second Covid wave recedes, there will be a recovery even in a seasonally weak monsoon month, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
13-06-2021||Business||GST Council slashes tax on Covid-19 medicines, equipment; retains 5 per cent tax on vaccines||The GST Council on Saturday slashed the tax rate on Covid-19 drugs such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab as well as on medical oxygen and oxygen concentrators but ignored demands for a reduction in taxes on vaccines. The Council, acting on the recommendation of a group of ministers (GoM) from different states, cut to nil from the existing 5 per cent GST on Covid-19 drug Tocilizumab and black fungus medicine Amphotericin B. Hand sanitisers, pulse oximeters, BiPAP machines, testing kits, ambulances and temperature check equipment were among the 18 items on which GST rates were lowered. “It was felt that the GoM’s recommendations have  brought in a lot of substantial change. Many items, that were at 18 per cent and 12 per cent, were brought down to 5 per cent,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said while briefing reporters after the 44th GST Council meeting here. However, the GST rate on Covid vaccines was retained at 5 per cent as the Council felt that the majority of the vaccine procurement was being done by the Centre and given free to people. “The central government is purchasing 75 per cent and is paying GST also. But the impact of this GST on people will be nil as people would be getting vaccines free of cost at government hospitals,” Sitharaman said. Revenue secretary Tarun Bajaj said: “The GST will also be borne by the Centre. But out of the income from GST, 70 per cent will be shared with the states.” He said the notification of lower GST rates would be issued “tomorrow or day after”. The FM added that no other issue such as compensation to states figured in the meeting. The council said the tax cuts are valid till September 30 and can be further extended, if needed, as the deadline nears. Ritesh Kanodia, partner, Dhruva Advisors, said: “The GST council’s decision to not cut the rate on vaccines will help to maintain the principle of fungibility of credit under GST and, thereby, not lead to any cost increase arising from loss of credits. Steps such as zero rating with credits or full abatement with credit could have also led to an aberration under the GST laws. “At the same time the government has ensured that people are not burdened with the the GST cost by picking up the same, except where it may not matter such as purchases by private parties.” M.S Mani, senior director, Deloitte India, said: “While the reductions on medication and equipment are good measures, curtailment of the exemption period would make it difficult for businesses to plan new investments and expand their supply chains in order to ensure that they reach all corners of the country. Businesses engaged in manufacture and trading would hope that the period is extended beyond September 30.” Abhishek Jain, tax partner, EY, says: “The cut in rates will be much appreciated by the general public.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
13-06-2021||Business||Diesel at Rs 100 mark in Rajasthan; Karnataka sees Rs 100/ litre petrol||Diesel price on Saturday breached the Rs 100-per-litre mark in Rajasthan after yet another increase in fuel rates, which also led to Karnataka becoming the 7th state to sell petrol at Rs 100 a litre. The price of petrol was raised by 27 paise per litre and diesel by 23 paise. The hike — 23rd since May 4 — pushed fuel prices across the country to new highs. In Delhi, petrol hit an all-time high of Rs 96.12 a litre, while diesel is now priced at Rs 86.98 per litre. In Calcutta, petrol is being sold at Rs 96.06 per litre and diesel at Rs 89.83 per litre. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
13-06-2021||India||Russia’s Sputnik V to be available in two private hospitals in Delhi by end of this week||Apollo Hospitals and Madhukar Rainbow Children's Hospital in Delhi will start administering Russian COVID-19 vaccine Sputnik V to people by the end of this week, officials said on Sunday. The Centre has fixed the price of the vaccine at Rs 1,145 per dose. "Apollo Hospitals are going to roll out the vaccine for the general public in Delhi by the end of the week," an official told PTI. An official of Madhukar Rainbow Children's Hospital also said it will start administering Sputnik V jabs within this week. After Covishield and Covaxin, Sputnik V is the third vaccine to be approved by the government for use in India. The maximum price of Covishield for private COVID-19 Vaccination Centres (CVCs) has been fixed at Rs 780 per dose, while that of Covaxin is Rs 1,410 per dose. Dr Reddy's Laboratories, the marketing partner for the vaccine in the country, has been importing the shots from Russia. Over a period of time, the vaccine is also going to be manufactured in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-63
13-06-2021||India||Centre dismisses report of cyber breach into NIC email system||There has been no cyber breach into the email system of the government, maintained by the National Informatics Centre (NIC), an official release said on Sunday. The email system is “totally safe and secure”, the Ministry of Electronics and IT said while dismissing a report claiming that data breaches in organisations such as Air India, Big Basket and Domino's had exposed email accounts and passwords of NIC emails to hackers. “In view of this, it is important to clarify that...there has been no cyber breach into the email system of the Government of India maintained by the NIC. The email system is totally safe and secure,” the release said. It further noted that cyber security breach on external portals may not impact the users of Government email service, unless the Government users have registered on these portals using their official email address and used the same password as the one used in that email account. "NIC Email system has put in place several security measures such as two-factor authentication and change of password in 90 days. Further, any change of password in NIC Email requires mobile OTP and if the mobile OTP is incorrect then change of password will not be possible," it said, adding that any attempt of phishing using that particular email can be mitigated by NIC. NIC also undertakes user awareness drives from time to time and keeps updating the users about potential risks and safety protocols, the release added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-63
13-06-2021||India||BJP works to strengthen image ahead of Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls||Joining hands with smaller parties with a political base in different castes was a part of the BJP strategy as it won big in Uttar Pradesh in the 2017 assembly polls and 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The saffron party is again working to stitch up a strong social alliance as it prepares for the state elections slated for early next year. With senior party leader and Union minister Amit Shah reaching out to the leaders of Apna Dal (S) and Nishad Party, both BJP allies but disaffected over the issue of their representation in the government, and Congress leader Jitin Prasada joining the saffron party, the ruling party seems to be taking measures to get its arithmetic right. Prasada hails from a noted Brahmin family of the state that had remained in the Congress for three generations, and the BJP believes that the young leader's defection to its ranks will help it contain any dissatisfaction a section of the politically influential community might have with Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath-led government. While Anupriya Dal of Apna Dal has not spoken on her meeting with Shah, Sanjay Nishad of Nishad Party made it clear that his party wants representation in the state government to fulfil the aspirations of the marginalised communities it draws its support from. “Political power is stronger than God's power,” he told PTI to emphasise its importance to address myriad issues facing different deprived communities. He also reiterated his demand for giving the community of boatmen, who come under various castes and subcastes, benefits under the scheduled castes and not under the category of Other Backward Communities as being given currently in UP. In a message to the BJP, he said the community has in the past supported parties like the BSP, SP and the Congress but stopped voting for them after they did not address their concerns. “We understand the Modi government has been busy with important national issues, he said, referring to Article 370 revocation. Now we believe our concerns will be addressed,” he said. His son Praveen Kumar Nishad's victory as Samajwadi Party candidate from Adityanath's pocket borough of Gorakhpur had shocked the BJP, which then worked to woo him over to its camp during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Patel was a minister in the first Modi government but her party's reported talks with the Congress during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections even as it finally fought as a BJP ally resulted in the Kurmi leader being kept out of its second innings. There have been reports that the BJP may also bring its former ally Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party to its fold again but its leader Om Prakash Rajbhar has ruled out such a possibility. BJP sources said their party has always worked to give due representation to various communities and noted that it has never been averse to tying up with smaller parties. “We have done it in various states, be it Bihar, Assam or Uttar Pradesh,” a leader said. Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav has also been working to broaden his party's social appeal by bringing leaders from outside its core constituency. With the Yogi government's handling of the recent COVID-19 crisis drawing questions from even state BJP leaders, with several of them writing letters to highlight their concerns, the saffron party leadership has been taking measures to address organisational and governance challenges. There has been strong speculation that Adityanath may go for an expansion of his Cabinet, and Shah's meetings with allies are being seen as part of the exercise. The BJP has a lot at stake in the next round of Assembly elections in five states early next year as it is in power in four of them, including Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur besides the all-important Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-63
13-06-2021||India||Tamil Nadu announces relaxation of Covid curbs from tomorrow||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Sunday announced more relaxations in as many as 27 districts of the state which includes permission for tea shops to reopen from June 14. Barring 11 districts, seven in western and four in Cauvery delta regions respectively, the fresh relaxations would be applicable in the rest of 27 districts including Chennai and other nearby districts. Tea shops can function from 6 am to 5 pm and only takeaway services are permitted, Stalin said in a statement and appealed to people to use vessels and avoid using plastic bags to take home the hot beverage. Tea stalls are ubiquitous in Tamil Nadu which also sell snack foods and these were closed from May 10, when the lockdown kicked in across the state due to the second wave of Covid-19 and the curbs were extended from time to time. "Sweet and savoury shops are also permitted to be open from 8 am till 2 pm and only parcel services are allowed." Restaurants and bakeries have already been allowed to function. To help people avail a host of government services like getting certificates for various purposes, e-service centres would also operate from Monday, the chief minister said. Offices of building construction firms are also allowed to work with a 50 per cent workforce, he added. Construction work has also been allowed already. After a gap of 35 days, salons, parks and state-run liquor outlets in 27 districts in Tamil Nadu would reopen on June 14 and the state government announced such relaxations on Friday and also extended the lockdown till June 21 morning. Places of worship and tourist locations will continue to remain closed and there would be no public or private bus services during the extended spell of lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-63
13-06-2021||India||Uttarakhand Leader of Opposition Indira Hridayesh passes away||Leader of Opposition in the Uttarakhand Assembly Indira Hridayesh passed away after suffering a cardiac arrest in New Delhi on Sunday. The 80-year-old senior Congress leader died at the Uttarakhand Sadan in New Delhi where she had gone to attend a party meeting, Pradesh Congress vice president Suryakant Dhasmana said quoting her son Sumit Hridayesh. Hridayesh was a Congress MLA from Haldwani and one of the senior most Congress leaders from the state. She had tested positive for Covid-19 in April this year and had undergone a heart surgery after her recovery. Hridayesh had attended a party meeting chaired by party in-charge for Uttarakhand Devendra Yadav in New Delhi on Saturday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi condoled her demise and lauded her contributions. "Dr. Indira Hridayesh Ji was at the forefront of several community service efforts. She made a mark as an effective legislator and also had rich administrative experience. Saddened by her demise. Condolences to her family and supporters. Om Shanti," the prime minister said in a tweet. In a tweet in Hindi, Rahul Gandhi said, "Received the sad news about the demise of Dr Indira Hridayesh, a strong link of the Congress party in Uttarakhand. She worked till the end for public service and the Congress family. Her social and political contributions are an inspiration. Condolences to her loved ones". Congress general secretary and former state chief minister Harish Rawat said it is an irreparable loss for the country and the state. Rawat said she has been a part of the Congress family for over four decades, first in Uttar Pradesh and then in Uttarakhand and was the voice of teachers. Condoling her demise, AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said the Congress has lost a brave leader and popular public representative. Expressing grief at her death, Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat said she played a significant role in the politics of both Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand for four decades. Describing her death as a big loss for the state, Rawat remembered her for her profound knowledge of parliamentary procedures. Rawat said it was also a personal loss for him as he always got the love and affection of an elder sister from her. State government's spokesman and cabinet minister Subodh Uniyal said he and other politicians of his generation had learnt a lot from Hridayesh who could rise above the confines of party based politics. "Her knowledge of parliamentary procedures was amazing. We learnt a lot from her," Uniyal said . Pradesh Congress vice president Dhirendra Pratap described her as the "iron lady" of Uttarakhand. Hridayesh was the Finance Minister of Uttarakhand from 2012 to 2017 and also held the portfolios of parliamentary affairs and higher education and planning in the Congress government led by Harish Rawat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-63
13-06-2021||India||Cow terror, Love jihad won’t work in UP anymore, says RLD chief||Asserting that the BJP's alleged "apathy" towards protesting farmers will hurt it in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, RLD chief Jayant Chaudhary on Sunday said artificial issues such as "love jihad" and "cow terror" will not work as issues of development will win in the elections. As the focus shifts from the West Bengal polls earlier this year to the high-stakes election battle in Uttar Pradesh in 2022, newly-appointed Rashtriya Lok Dal chief Chaudhary asserted that his party will not allow a communally polarised campaign to ruin the Hindi heartland state in the run up to the assembly polls. In an interview with PTI, Chaudhary, who took over as RLD chief after his father Chaudhary Ajit Singh's demise last month, said his party and the Samajwadi Party have a good rapport and a strong working relationship. He said details need to be worked out for a formal alliance for the polls. Asked if a 'Mahagathbandhan' or a grand alliance is needed in UP to take on the BJP and whether the BSP and the Congress would be part of such an alliance, Chaudhary said, for him, issues come first and an understanding of those needs to be built between all alliance partners. "Who can be accommodated depends on who is honestly open to working together on the common framework," the 42-year-old leader said. On whether the Congress would play a significant role in the assembly polls despite its poor showing in the panchayat elections, Chaudhary said he would not like to comment on the Congress' plans and chances. Asked about the speculation over UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's political future as CM and reports about Cabinet reshuffle in the state, Chaudhary said the BJP is just trying to divert attention and create an illusion of dialogue to manage the disgruntled elements in the party. "Social engineering doesn't come about by tinkering with one or two leaders at the top. The fact is that BJP's Uttar Pradesh government has been caught in a caste-based matrix and has not delivered jobs, economic growth, and efficient governance to people," he alleged. The state government's Covid response has been atrocious and no one can forget the scenes of dead bodies in the Ganga, he added. "Now, after four-and-a-half years to create rumours of change in leadership is a poor attempt to shift focus from failures," Chaudhary said. Talking about the farm laws protests and whether they would be a key issue in the polls, he said farmers will and should be the biggest poll issue in our country, and asserted that as a class they have been denied their rights for far too long. "The Centre's new laws are prescribing a takeover of the entire market and value chain by the private sector and the withdrawal of the government from procurement and subsequent monopolisation will hurt producer and consumer interests," the RLD chief said. The "apathy and insensitive" attitude towards the protesting farmers will continue to haunt and hurt the BJP in polls, he claimed. Chaudhary has participated in a number of 'kisaan panchayats' in western Uttar Pradesh, where his party has had a significant presence over the years, and campaigned aggressively against the Centre's farm laws. Farmers from various parts of the country are protesting at Delhi's borders against the three farm laws brought by the Centre last year, alleging that the legislations will hamper farming. Asked about the electoral chances of the Opposition against the BJP in UP, Chaudhary said "when the nation is grieving and hurting, the Hindi heartland also will respond appropriately". "Love jihad, cow terror, Kairana exodus and other useless artificial issues will be rejected; healthcare, education and balanced development will win (in the polls)," he asserted. The Opposition in UP has been alleging that cow vigilante violence is on the rise in the state, a charge denied by the BJP. The 'Kairana exodus' was a reference to a BJP MP's claim in 2016 that close to 350 Hindus had left Kairana over alleged threats and extortion by criminal elements belonging to a particular community. Asked how he plans to turnaround the fortunes of the party which drew a blank in the last assembly polls, Jayant Chaudhary said, "I am humbled by the opportunity and the faith reposed in me by the Party at this critical juncture." "Chaudhary Saheb's untimely passing has been a jolt for all of us. Just as any family copes with stress responds by coming together, the office bearers and workers of Rashtriya Lok Dal will need to work cohesively and look to the future," Chaudhary said. For reviving the party, Chaudhary said, as a first step he wants to engage with people who have worked at the grassroots and have political experience. He said the party is also in conversation with a lot of leaders from other parties who want to join the RLD and work with us, Chaudhary said. Asked if a fragmented opposition will be able to pose a challenge to the BJP in UP, the RLD chief said poll arithmetic has its own rhythms and rules and it's not as easy to combine different parties and fight elections and assume a "2+2=4 result". "It is not as if the multiplicity of players is helping the incumbent. Some of the parties could also be taking away votes which might otherwise shift to the BJP," he argued. Asserting that it is most important to pick the right issues, Chaudhary said social developmental deficits need to be addressed aggressively if we want the state to progress. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-64
13-06-2021||India||Delhi: Restaurants, malls to open from tomorrow as cases decline||Restaurants with 50 per cent capacity, weekly markets and religious places will reopen in Delhi from June 14, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Sunday, saying the Covid-19 situation has significantly come under control in the city. Salons, beauty parlours and barber shops closed since the imposition of lockdown on April 19, will also reopen from Monday, officials said. "All activities, except certain prohibited ones, will be allowed from 5 am on Monday. There are also certain restricted or partly allowed activities announced last week that will continue," Kejriwal said in an online briefing. He said markets, malls and market complexes allowed to reopen on an odd-even basis, will now open on all days, from 10 am to 8 pm. Only one weekly market per municipal zone per day will be allowed, he said. "We will watch the relaxation allowed to reopen markets and restaurants during the next week. If Covid cases do not increase, we will continue the relaxation, but if cases increase, we will have to bring back the restrictions. "I, therefore, appeal all market associations and others to prevent crowding and ensure social distancing and other precautions," the chief minister said. Schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutes, cinema halls, multiplexes, theatres, gyms, spas, yoga institutes, swimming pools, auditoriums, banquet halls, amusement and water parks, and public parks and gardens, will continue to be closed till 5 am on June 21, according to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) order issued on Sunday. All social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural/religious, festival-related and other gatherings and congregations, stadia, sports complexes barring those used for training or any national or international event, business to business exhibitions, are also prohibited. The religious places in the city will also be allowed to reopen from Monday, but visitors will not be allowed, Kejriwal said. He said with a declining number of coronavirus cases, the concern now is to bring back Delhi's economy on track and preparing on a war footing for an anticipated third wave of the infection. The restaurants are allowed up to 50 per cent of the seating capacity in the city and their owners will be responsible for strict adherence to the prescribed standard operating procedure and government guidelines, including those for COVID appropriate behaviour, the DDMA order stated. "All markets, market complexes, malls and restaurants (up to 50 percent seating capacity) will be allowed to function on trial basis for one week from 5 am on June 14 to 5 am on June 21," it said A "very close" watch and supervision will be maintained on the overall functioning of markets, market complexes, malls and restaurants by district magistrates, DCPs, and other authorities. It will be the responsibility of the market and restaurant associations and owners to strictly ensure that the Covid appropriate behaviour and the protocols are strictly followed, it said. If it is found that COVID appropriate behaviour is not being followed in markets, market complexes, malls and restaurants, or if the positivity rate and number of Covid-19 positive people increases in Delhi, these centres will be "closed forthwith without any loss of time" to prevent any upsurge and likelihood of the next wave in Delhi, warned the DDMA. Only one authorised weekly market (up to the limit of 50 per cent of the allowed vendors at normal time) per day per zone, in all three municipal corporations and New Delhi Municipal Council, Delhi Containment Board, will be allowed subject to the strict compliance of precautions, it said. No weekly market will be allowed on roadsides. It will have to be set up at suitable grounds where precautions against COVID-19 could be maintained. There will be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods, and no separate permission or e-pass will be required for such movements, the order said. The partly allowed activities announced last week and earlier, including opening of government and private offices with 50 per cent staff, marriages at home or in the court, operation of Delhi Metro trains and public transport buses with 50 per cent seating capacity, permission for a gathering of 20 persons during funerals, running of autos, e-rickshaws and other last-mile vehicles, will continue up to June 21 morning, it added. "I hope our lives will be back on tracks if the Covid cases continue to decline. It is a massive calamity and we have to tackle it together and hope the cases do not increase now," Kejriwal added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-64
13-06-2021||India||Over 50 shanties of Rohingya refugees gutted in Delhi fire||More than 50 shanties were gutted in a fire that broke out at a Rohingya refugee camp near Kalindi Kunj Metro station in southeast Delhi, officials said on Sunday. The incident took place on Saturday and the fire department received information about it around 11.55 pm, a senior fire official said. No one was injured in the fire, the official said. Five fire tenders were rushed to the spot near Kalindi Kunj Metro station, Madanpur Khadar. The fire was brought under control around 3 am, the official said. According to police, a PCR call regarding the fire at the Rohingya camp was received at Kalindi Kunj police station. Police reached the spot in Kanchan Kunj, Madanpur Khadar. Later, the fire was brought under control, a senior police officer said. "Fifty-six shanties, housing around 270 Rohingya refugees, were gutted in the fire. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained and appropriate legal action is being taken," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southeast) R P Meena said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-64
13-06-2021||India||India records 80,834 fresh Covid cases, lowest in 71 days||India reported 80,834 fresh Covid-19 cases, the lowest after 71 days, while the daily positivity rate further dropped to 4.25 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. With the fresh cases, the country's tally of cases has climbed to 2,94,39,989. The Covid-19 death toll climbed to 3,70,384 with 3,303 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. This is the lowest number of cases since April 2. The active cases further declined to 10,26,159 comprising 3.49 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 95.26 per cent. A net decline of 54,531 cases has been recorded in the Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also 19,20,477 tests were conducted on Saturday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 37,62,32,162 while the daily positivity rate has further dropped to 4.25 per cent . It has been less than 10 per cent for 20 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate fell below 5 per cent and was recorded 4.74 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 31st consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,80,43,446, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.26 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 25,31,95,048 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 3,303 fresh fatalities include 1,966 from Maharashtra, 374 from Tamil Nadu, 171 from Kerala and 144 from Karnataka. A total of 3,70,384 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,08,333 from Maharashtra, 32,788 from Karnataka, 29,280 from Tamil Nadu, 24,800 from Delhi, 21,735 from Uttar Pradesh, 16,812 from Bengal, 15,503 from Punjab and 13,311 from Chhattisgarh. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-64
13-06-2021||India||Modi calls for ‘one earth, one health’ to deal with Covid at G7 summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday called for following a "one earth, one health" approach to effectively deal with the coronavirus pandemic globally, and sought the support of the G7 grouping to lift patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines, during a virtual address at an outreach session of a summit of the bloc. Calling for global unity, leadership, and solidarity to prevent future pandemics, Modi also emphasised on the special responsibility of democratic and transparent societies to deal with the challenge, according to an official statement. Sources said Modi's call for adopting a "one earth, one health" approach received support from German Chancellor Angela Merkel. They said Australia and several other countries came out in strong support of Modi's call to waive patents on coronavirus vaccines to boost their production. India and South Africa have come out with the proposal at the World Trade Organisation. The prime minister, speaking at the G7 outreach session titled 'Building Back Stronger - Health', also highlighted India's 'whole of society' approach to fight the pandemic, while synergising the efforts of all levels of the government, industry and civil society. In his address, Modi sought the support of the G7 countries for a proposal moved at the WTO by India and South Africa, for patent waiver on Covid related technologies. "The prime minister committed India's support for collective endeavours to improve global health governance. He sought the G7's support for the proposal moved at the WTO by India and South Africa for a TRIPS (Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights) waiver on Covid related technologies," the statement said. "Prime Minister Modi said that today's meeting should send out a message of 'one earth, one health' for the whole world," it said. The Group of Seven (G7) comprises the UK, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States. As chair of G7, the UK invited India, Australia, South Korea, South Africa to the summit as guest countries. The leaders of the world's advanced economies are holding a summit in Cornwall in the UK from June 11-13. It is for the first time the leaders of the grouping are meeting since the coronavirus pandemic began. "Participated in the @G7 summit session on health. Thanked partners for the support during the recent Covid-19 wave. India supports global action to prevent future pandemics. 'one earth, one health' is our message to humanity," Modi tweeted During the session, Modi expressed appreciation for the support extended by the G7 and other guest countries during the recent wave of Covid infections in India. "He also explained India's successful use of open-source digital tools for contact tracing and vaccine management, and conveyed India's willingness to share its experience and expertise with other developing countries," the statement said. The prime minister will participate in the final day of the G7 Summit on Sunday and will speak in two sessions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-64
13-06-2021||India||Fraught relationship between Centre and Bengal ends up raising questions about Modi's Digital India||The fraught relationship between the Centre and the Bengal government has spilled over into the GST Council — and ended up raising disturbing questions about Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s pet project Digital India. On Saturday, Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra slammed Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman after his voice was “muzzled” at a crucial meeting that discussed the contentious issue of slashing GST rates on Covid-related products. At the end of a stormy meeting, the council slashed the tax on the Covid-19 drug remdesivir, black fungus medicine amphotericin B and the anti-coagulant heparin to 5 per cent from the earlier 12 per cent. But it refused to accept Bengal’s suggestion to bring down the rate on the Covid vaccines to zero from the existing 5 per cent. In a letter to Sitharaman after the meeting, a seething Mitra said the Centre had delivered a “major blow to the spirit of cooperative federalism” by refusing to let him voice his views. “You gave the floor to the minister from Uttar Pradesh who sought deletion of some of my comments by name and shockingly you agreed,” Mitra said in his letter. “This and other instances in today’s GST Council meeting have dealt a major blow to the spirit of cooperative federalism undermining the very ethos of the GST Council.” Mitra told The Telegraph later in the evening: “What happened today is most shocking. I raised my hand; I screamed to register an official dissent to the decisions taken at the end of the deliberation. But I was not allowed to speak. Maybe they had muted me.” Late in the evening, minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur claimed that Mitra’s video connection was not stable and he could not be heard. Thakur’s comment on the state of Mitra’s connectivity cast a shadow on the Modi government’s Digital India campaign and underscored its failure to create high-speed Internet and data networks that can seamlessly patch people who have become increasingly dependent on video-based communications. Trouble apparently erupted when Mitra tried to say that the Modi government had completely mismanaged the pandemic. “I pointed out that the majority of the deaths took place January 16 onwards and at least 40 per cent of those could have been averted if we had an effective vaccine policy and we would not have to see bodies floating in the river,” Mitra said. That comment proved a red rag for Uttar Pradesh which has been facing a lot of flak after bodies were buried on the banks of the Ganga and corpses were found floating down the river. Uttar Pradesh finance minister Suresh Khanna leapt to his state’s defence and demanded that Mitra’s comments be struck off. Sitharaman agreed and closed the meeting in a hurry. Mitra was livid at the manner he had been cut short. “I should have been allowed to respond since the UP minister referred to my comments. But she (Sitharaman) did not do so and the meeting was closed. This has never happened before.… This is a blow to the principle of cooperative federalism,” Mitra told this newspaper. Later, Thakur, the junior minister in Sitharaman’s ministry, tweeted: “It seemed as if the Finance Minister from West Bengal did not have a stable VC connection. The revenue secretary repeatedly informed him his line was breaking — that he was not properly audible and that he should turn off his video for better connectivity.” “During the speech made by the Uttar Pradesh Finance Minister, nobody heard Dr Mitra speak. Nor did he ask to have his opinion heard. Other members can attest to this,” Thakur added, without explaining how Khanna, the Uttar Pradesh minister, could hear Mitra so clearly that Khanna felt compelled to respond. Thakur said: “At the end of the discussion, when FM Sitharaman asked the Council whether anyone would like to speak & add their comments, Dr Mitra again remained silent and did not speak up. The Finance Minister has never stifled dissent in the GST Council. It is unbecoming of a senior member of the Council to suggest that this has happened. The GST Council embodies the collective spirit of all states towards debate in a healthy manner; it has been & shall continue.” In response to a question from this newspaper on Thakur’s tweets, Mitra said on Saturday night: “They heard me all right when I spoke during my turn. But they now say they could not hear when I protested. If that’s the case, they should find out who muted me.” Mitra’s letter put a different interpretation on the nature of the deliberations at an extremely fractious meeting that Sitharaman tried to suggest had been able to achieve broad consensus. The Bengal finance minister described the decisions taken at the GST Council meeting as “anti-people” and ones that had “left him with no option but to record my dissent”. He accused Sitharaman of deciding “not to agree with the suggestions of so many ministers and your final remarks contained some cosmetic modifications of the recommendations of the Group of Ministers (GoM)”. Mitra rubbished the Centre’s claim that a consensus had been hammered out at the meeting. He said that at least seven states, including Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh, had demanded a zero tax on vaccines and, alternatively, had proposed a nominal 0.1 per cent tax on Covid-related items. The finance ministers from Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Kerala backed Mitra’s insinuation that the decision of the GST Council was far from consensual. “The GST’s Group of Ministers should stop acting like a shahenshah of yesteryear and instead let compassion speak through its decisions,” Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal said. Badal said he and several other finance ministers had vehemently opposed the imposition of GST on Covid-related items during a national crisis and claimed they had all recorded their dissent. “The alternative was to charge a token 0.1 per cent, which is well within the powers of the GST Council. This measure should have been adopted till the pandemic is over,” he said. Sitharaman had contended in the past that a zero tax presented a devilishly complicated problem since it would have to cover a barrel-load of items across the value chain to be really effective. The GST system works on the basis that firms are able to claim credit for the taxes they pay on the inputs they source. The government argues that a zero tax regime on some items will seriously wreck the tax credit claims. The Opposition had suggested that a token 0.1 per cent tax would solve the problem — a suggestion the Centre has ignored. Chhattisgarh finance minister T.S. Singh Deo said the Council had adopted a “majoritarian approach” which went against the principle on which the GST regime was founded: no decision can be taken unless everyone agrees. “The approach now seems to be that the fitment committee (a caucus of bureaucrats) decides on the rates and the Council is expected to act like a rubber stamp. This is disappointing,” Singh Deo added. Kerala finance minister K.N. Balagopal too had lobbied for a zero tax rate on vaccines and suggested that if this was not possible, the Council could set the tax rate at 0.1 per cent. “That way the government could have managed to circumvent the requirement of amending the law and yet provided a much-needed tax relief for these products,” said an official privy to the developments at the two meetings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-64
13-06-2021||India||Covid jab also helps protect those still unimmunized: Studies||Vaccination against Covid-19 helps protect not only people who have received the jabs but even those still unvaccinated, according to studies from Israel and Finland that scientists say underline the indirect benefits of inoculation. The studies, conducted in populations that had received the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, found that high vaccination rates in specific populations were associated with lower infection rates among the unvaccinated people within those communities. Researchers in Israel have found that for every 20 per cent increase in the number of vaccinated people in different geographical communities, the proportion of Covid-positive cases among unvaccinated people in those populations got halved. Vaccination, while protecting the vaccinated, also provides “cross-protection to unvaccinated individuals”, Roy Kishony, professor of life sciences at the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa, and his colleagues said. Israel started its vaccination campaign on December 19 and had covered 50 per cent of its population with a first dose and 35 per cent with a second dose by February 24. The country had also experienced a third Covid-19 surge from mid-December that had peaked in mid-January. The surge occurring alongside the rapid vaccination campaign allowed the researchers to measure the vaccination rates and lab-confirmed infection rates among unvaccinated people in 177 geographically defined communities. They found that the higher the vaccination rates the greater the decline in infections in unvaccinated individuals below 16 years. This protective effect was strong when a high proportion of those vaccinated were aged between 16 and 50 and was insignificant when most of those vaccinated were above 66 years. In Finland, a team led by health economist Lauri Saaksvuori at the University of Turku observed a similar protective effect when it compared infection rates between vaccinated and unvaccinated healthcare workers and their unvaccinated spouses. Their study, not peer-reviewed yet but posted on medRxiv, an online preprint server, estimated an indirect protective effect of the vaccination among the unvaccinated -- of 9 per cent two weeks after the first dose and of 42 per cent 10 weeks after the first dose. The Israel study findings were described in the journal Nature Medicine on Thursday. “We call this the herd effect — a decline in the incidence of infection among unvaccinated people as a result of immunising a proportion of the population,” said T. Jacob John, former professor of clinical virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. “A vaccinated person is likely to shed lower loads of the virus for shorter durations — this reduces the risk of infection for even the unvaccinated in the community,” John said. “The herd effect has been seen earlier with other injectible vaccines — we’d expected to see it with Covid-19 vaccines too.” The populations studied in Israel and Finland had received the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, which has an efficacy over 91 per cent. India’s vaccination campaign is currently using Covishield with an efficacy of 81 per cent and Covaxin whose efficacy is 78 per cent. “Although the vaccines used in India have lower efficacy, this indirect protection may be expected to be seen here as well,” said Partha Majumder, former director of the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics, Kalyani. “However, to witness the same levels of protection, it might take a larger proportion of the community to be vaccinated.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-64
13-06-2021||India||Lakshadweep: When Congress and CPM leaders were slapped with sedition FIR for a banner ||The sedition FIR against filmmaker Aisha Sultana is not the first such case registered in recent months in Lakshadweep, where three politicians were booked on the same charge last December over a hoarding put up against the new citizenship matrix. Section 124A (sedition) of the IPC was invoked against Lakshadweep Congress president M.I. Attakoya and CPM leaders P.P. Rahim and Askar Ali after they received bail following their arrest on lighter charges on December 15, 2020. The hoarding against the Citizenship Amendment Act that led to their arrest carried the line “India is not Narendra Modi’s father’s property”, written in English over a map of India. It featured three men — a Hindu, a Muslim and a Sikh — to portray communal amity. Attakoya’s son and lawyer Ajmal Ahmed said the hoarding had stood at an obscure spot near the Muhiyudheen mosque in Kavaratti for about a year — from the time the anti-CAA protests had erupted in December 2019. But a case was registered only after Praful Khoda Patel took charge as Lakshadweep administrator on December 5. It’s unclear whether Patel had directed the police to book the case. Attakoya, joint convener of the Constitution Protection Samiti, an initiative by all non-BJP parties in Lakshadweep that organised protests against the new citizenship matrix, said he suspected foul play in the case against the three politicians. “We were named in the FIR although none of us had any idea who installed that board,” Attakoya told The Telegraph on Saturday over the phone from Kavaratti. “I first saw that board at the police station when I was summoned to appear before the inspector. Strangely, I found ‘Constitution Protection Samiti’ written, possibly with a pen, at the bottom right corner of the board.” Attakoya, Rahim and Ali are among the topmost leaders of the Samiti. Attakoya stressed: “We had stopped protesting after the then administrator Dineshwar Sharma assured us that the citizenship matrix would not affect us.” The trio were charged under IPC Sections 505-2 (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes), 290 (public nuisance) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) read with 34 (common intention). They were arrested and remanded in 14 days’ judicial custody. On December 17, the judicial first-class magistrate on Androth island granted them conditional bail. The prosecution appealed unsuccessfully against the bail before the sessions court in Kavaratti. Days later, “the prosecution added 124A without any reason”, Attakoya said. However, the trio were not rearrested. Attakoya said the case had not been heard since then because the judge got transferred. The Kozhikode district court was put in charge of the cases but “I assume it’s the lockdown that kept the case from being taken up”, he added. Rahim too said he had no idea who had painted and installed the board. “The protests against the CAA and the NRC were total as everyone participated. There were lots of banners, hoardings and posters... we don’t know who put that particular board there,” he said. “We shall fight it out in the court since we are innocent.” The sedition case against the trio has not received the sort of attention attracted by Thursday’s sedition case against Aisha, a non-politician and a filmmaker, actress and model. Aisha has been booked for her reference, during a TV debate, to a “bio-weapon” in connection with the Covid surge in Lakshadweep since Patel’s appointment. Lok Sabha member A.M. Ariff of the CPM has written to the new chairperson of the National Human Rights Commission, Justice Arun Kumar Mishra, seeking his intervention to protect Aisha’s rights. “As you may be aware, even last week, the Hon’ble Supreme Court while quashing the sedition case against senior journalist Vinod Dua had upheld the view in the Kedar Nath Singh judgment (1962) that application of the provision of 124A should be limited to ‘acts involving intention or tendency to create disorder, or disturbance of law and order; or incitement to violence’,” Ariff’s letter says. “Evidently, the remarks of Ms Sultana do not fall in any of the above categories and there is every reason to suspect that the move is at the behest of the present administration of the islands to suppress the voices against it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-64
13-06-2021||India||Rajnath Singh approves policy on archiving, declassification and publication of war history||Defence minister Rajnath Singh has approved a policy on the archiving, declassification and publication of war and operations history, the ministry announced on Saturday. Sources said that under the new policy India could declassify certain aspects of past military operations and wars sooner than the 25-year cutoff period. The policy envisages defence ministry organisations such as the army, navy, air force, coast guard, Integrated Defence Staff and the Assam Rifles to transfer their records, including war diaries, letters of proceedings and operational record books, to the ministry’s history division for proper upkeep, archiving and recording. “The responsibility for declassification of records rests with the respective organisations as specified in the Public Record Act, 1993, and the Public Record Rules, 1997, as amended from time to time. According to the policy, records should ordinarily be declassified in 25 years. Records older than 25 years should be appraised by archival experts and transferred to the National Archives of India once the war/operations histories have been compiled,” said a statement from the ministry. Having war histories written with clear-cut policy on declassification of war records was recommended by the Kargil Review Committee headed by K. Subrahmanyam as well as the N.N. Vohra Committee in order to analyse lessons learnt and prevent mistakes. After the Kargil War, a group of ministers’ recommendations on national security also mentioned the desirability of authoritative war history, the statement said. “Timely publication of war histories would give people accurate accounts of the events, provide authentic material for academic research and counter the unfounded rumours,” it said. The new policy will bring out a change in the workings of the history division and streamline other issues, an official said. Under the new policy, war history is to be formulated by the defence ministry’s history department in coordination with various departments. A joint secretary from the defence ministry will head a committee that will include military, foreign ministry and home ministry representatives and prominent military historians. “The… committee should be formed within two years of completion of war/operations. Thereafter, collection of records and compilation should be completed in three years and disseminated to all concerned,” said the defence ministry statement. Sources in the ministry said even after the new policy, certain operations would continue to remain classified. “The 25-year cutoff period (relaxation) will be taken up on a case-to-case basis under the new policy,” said an official. It is still not clear if the highly confidential histories of the 1947-48 Jammu and Kashmir war, 1962 Sino-India war, 1965 and 1971 India-Pakistan wars and the Henderson Books report on the 1962 war with China would be declassified under the new policy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-64
13-06-2021||India||Modi holds meetings with Union ministers, BJP leaders to work out ways of boosting govt’s image ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been holding meetings with Union ministers and BJP leaders at a hectic pace, apparently to work out ways of refurbishing the image of his government and leadership now battered by charges of Covid mismanagement. A deep sense of wariness has beset the ruling dispensation given the way the epidemic’s second wave in India has attracted global spotlight on the Modi government’s failures. While government sources have been tight-lipped about what exactly is being planned to divert attention from the Covid situation, there’s speculation in the power corridors about a cabinet shuffle and the launch of a big-ticket social welfare scheme. “A lot of negativity about India in general and Narendra Modi in particular has been spread by our ideological rivals. We have to change all that,” a BJP politician said. He said that everyone in the BJP had been asked to step up public contact programmes. Government sources have played down the hectic series of meetings, saying they are part of an annual review of key ministries that the Prime Minister undertakes. Modi was closeted with a group of ministers and department officials for over five hours on Thursday, reviewing their performance. BJP president J.P. Nadda was at the meeting, a possible indication that some from the government could be moved to the party and vice versa. Apart from meeting Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Modi had on Friday held a long discussion with home minister Amit Shah and Nadda. In BJP circles, the heightened activity at the Prime Minister’s residence is being seen as preparation for something big to generate a positive buzz. There is expectation about big announcements before the monsoon session of Parliament, likely to begin in July. A cabinet expansion has been speculated about for a long time, given the number of vacancies and the additional responsibilities being borne by many ministers. Jyotiraditya Scindia, who defected from the Congress and helped the BJP capture power in his home state of Madhya Pradesh, has been waiting since last year to be rewarded, BJP insiders said. Scindia has been elected to the Rajya Sabha and expects a prominent berth in the Modi government. Besides, BJP sources said, a cabinet expansion could also help the party ahead of the Assembly elections next year in five states, including the key state of Uttar Pradesh. For instance, they said, Apna Dal chief Anupriya Patel, a disgruntled ally from Uttar Pradesh who was a minister in the first Modi government, could be re-indicted to get the support of her backward caste community of Kurmis. But the expectations and curiosity are centred more on the possible social schemes the government might be planning. Party sources said the various social welfare measures implemented during Modi’s first term had aided the party’s big victory in 2019. They suggested the launch of new welfare programmes now could dispel the Covid gloom and help regain voter support. They added that Modi’s recent announcement of the “corrective measure” of facilitating free vaccination for all adults too would go some way in improving the government’s image.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-64
13-06-2021||India||Congress: Narendra Modi a coward, lacks compassion||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s mettle as a statesman and his ability to feel compassion while lamenting that he had acted like a “coward” when the country so badly needed true leadership during the devastating pandemic. She listed several failures and alleged misdeeds — ranging from the misreading of the pandemic to not paying heed to timely warnings, from not making preparations for treatment of patients to bungling of the procurement and distribution of vaccines. “If he had the mettle of a statesman, or the compassion and bravery of a true leader, he would have come forward and comforted his countrymen when they most needed reassurance and succour. He would have moved heaven and earth to stand by us all without making excuses,” Priyanka wrote on Facebook as part of her series titled “Who is responsible” in which she has pledged to “expose” the government’s failures. “He did none of this. He simply retreated and waited for the worst to pass. The Prime Minister has behaved like a coward. He has let our country down. The whole world has witnessed his incompetence at governance. His vast capacity for vanity has been exposed. Indians do not come first for him. Politics does. Truth does not concern him, propaganda does. The time has come for us to ask him: Zimmedar kaun (Who is responsible)?” the Congress leader added. Priyanka pointed out that good governance in a crisis was about confronting the truth, taking responsibility and executing actions. “Unfortunately, the government did none of these. Instead, from the beginning of the pandemic, it made every attempt to hide the truth and to shirk responsibility. Had the Prime Minister prioritised the people of India above his own PR and image building, we would not have the shortage of vaccines we have today. Had he woken up from his slumber and ordered vaccines in the summer of 2020 instead of waiting till January 2021, he could have saved countless lives,” Priyanka said. She drew attention to how Modi had ignored warnings from parliamentary committees and the government’s own empowered group on an impending oxygen crisis. “Instead of distributing free vaccines across the world to boost his own image, had he paused for a moment and protected his countrymen first, we would not be standing in line today grappling with a convoluted registration system designed to slow down the vaccine process,” Priyanka said. “Had the Prime Minister gathered the courage to fight the pandemic head-on, he could have taken even his opponents along in this battle for Indian lives. He could have engaged with experts, critics, allies and the Opposition fearlessly. He could have used the media as a disseminator of life-saving information about Covid rather than as a propaganda tool to promote his own image.” Priyanka also took strong objection to the Prime Minister’s appearance on television to try to shift the blame onto the states instead of supporting them in their battle against Covid by sanctioning resources and clearing their dues. “Had he been an informed and competent leader, he would have planned, strategised and prepared for the inevitable second wave. He would not have set aside the tools of science and modernity and transported us back through thaali-banging and lamp-lighting rituals into the darkness of bygone centuries described by the poet Nirala,” the Congress leader said. Priyanka quoted from poet-author Suryakant Tripathi Nirala’s novel Kulli Bhaat where he had thus described scenes from the Spanish flu a hundred years ago: “The waters of the river Ganga were filled with corpses. There was no wood left in crematoriums to cremate the dead. In the blink of an eye, my family had vanished from before me.” Referring to the similarities with the current situation, Priyanka wrote: “They are eerily prescient, even more so now because we live in modern times, when such scenes of collective turmoil caused by an abdication of governance ought to be a thing of the past.” The Congress expressed grave concern over alleged data manipulation by BJP state governments to hide the actual number of Covid deaths, demanding a judicial probe to find out the truth. Referring to media reports about the stark differences in government claims and death figures collected from crematoriums and burial grounds, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said: “This government considers data as enemy, considers truth which comes out through data as enemy number one. It fights with data on jobs, on the economy, on Covid deaths.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-65
13-06-2021||India||Exodus from BJP continues for second consecutive day in Lakshadweep ||The exodus from the BJP continued for the second consecutive day in Lakshadweep with party general secretary Syed Mohammed Koya resigning on Saturday. A senior leader of the party’s Lakhshadweep unit, Koya had contested on a BJP ticket in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. The spate of resignations was triggered by the sedition case on the first woman filmmaker from the islands, Aisha Sultana, who was named in an FIR for calling new administrator Praful Khoda Patel a “bio-weapon” during a television debate for his controversial decisions that are believed to have led to massive Covid surge in the Union Territory that was free from the pandemic for a year. Twelve party leaders had resigned on Friday protesting the sedition complaint against Aisha thus triggering unrest within the BJP. Sources said many more BJP workers and local leaders are getting ready to quit, as their very existence in a party that has supported the contentious steps taken by the administration has put them under pressure. A leaked audio clip from a purported telephone conversation between BJP national vice-president A.P. Abdullakutty, who is in charge of the Lakshadweep unit, and local general secretary Mohammed Qasim has further established the discontent within the party. “Let me tell you something. If you have committed a blunder, (you) have to own it up. I have full faith in Lakshadweep,” an angry Qasim was heard saying. His outburst was apparently against Abdullakutty for getting the Lakshadweep party president to lodge a complaint against Aisha which led to the sedition case that has put the party in trouble. “What should I reconsider? The complaint against Aisha Sultana who made an anti-national comment? Are you saying that complaint should be withdrawn?” Abdullakutty is heard asking. Another audio tape emerged on Friday purportedly featuring the voice of Lakshadweep BJP vice-president K.P. Muthukoya describing the “bio-weapon” remark as “an opportunity given by Allah”. He then went on to exhort Abdullakutty to leverage on the issue. To this, Abdullakutty is purportedly heard saying: “This will get a lot of news space. We need to consider that as well. Send two or three videos.” But on the contrary, the party’s stand against Aisha and the leaked audio clip in which the two leaders spoke about utilising the opportunity only worsened matters within the BJP unit in the islands. Eight party leaders had resigned earlier protesting the controversial reforms carried out after Patel took charge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-65
13-06-2021||India||Free speech curbs in India flagged in United States||India remains the world’s largest democracy with a strong rule of law but some of the Indian government’s actions, including restrictions on freedom of expression, have raised concerns that are “inconsistent with the country’s democratic values”, a top US official has told lawmakers. Dean Thompson, acting assistant secretary of state for South and Central Asia, also revealed that the Joe Biden administration had urged the Indian government to ensure a speedy return to normality in Kashmir. He cited the restoration of 4G access — in February, 18 months after it was snapped — as one of the steps that has been taken. Thompson’s remarks came during a Congressional hearing on Democracy in the Indo-Pacific on Wednesday at the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific, Central Asia and Non-Proliferation. “India remains the world’s largest democracy with a strong rule of law and independent judiciary and enjoys a strong and growing strategic partnership with the US,” Thompson said. “However, some of the Indian government’s actions have raised concerns that are inconsistent with India’s democratic values,” he said. “This includes increasing restrictions on freedom of expression and the detention of human rights activists and journalists.” India has previously rejected criticism by foreign governments and human rights groups on allegations that civil liberties have eroded in the country. Responding to a question from a lawmaker, who had raised the issue of human rights in Kashmir, Thompson said that the Joe Biden administration routinely raises issues related to a vast array of rights and democratic issues with India. “Kashmir is one area where we have urged them to return to normalcy as quickly as possible, including we’ve seen some steps taken: The release of prisoners, the restoration of 4G access, things of that nature. There are other electoral steps we’d like to see them take and that we have encouraged them to do and will continue to do so,” he said. The Kashmir issue was raised by Congresswoman Chrissy Houlahan, who represents a Congressional district from Pennsylvania. “Although of course, they’re two great democracies, democracies including ours and India’s are not without their flaws and problems. I do have a pretty big (number of) Kashmiris in my community and there is, of course, concern about the treatment of the Kashmir people,” she said. “What is the dialogue that is ongoing between the administration and the Indian government on these human rights issues broadly, if you could share a little bit there?” she asked. Responding to another question from lawmakers, Thompson said the US has been concerned in Pakistan and Bangladesh about some of the restrictions on journalists there. “Similarly, at times, that has happened in India; though, I think, India, we can say, has a very vibrant press overall that reports very freely on its government,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-65
13-06-2021||India||CBSE considers grades instead of marks for Class XII students||The Central Board of Secondary Education is considering a suggestion to award grades instead of marks to its Class XII students, whose board exams have been scrapped because of the pandemic, officials said. They said the central universities are likely to admit undergraduate students through a computer-based common entrance test — to be held at centres across the country possibly in July or August — without giving any weightage to board results. The CBSE is examining options such as deciding the results on the basis of the students’ performances in their Class X boards, Class XI annual exam and Class XII pre-board exam. Another option is to base the results on the Class X board exams and all the Class XI exams including the unit tests, half-yearly exam and pre-board exam, education ministry officials said. The second option owes to a fear that the schools’ assessment of their students in the pre-board or half-yearly Class XII exams might have left too much room for subjectivity. In contrast, the Class XI exams were held at a time when the schools were unaware the scores might play a role in determining the Class XII results. The board has received these suggestions from school principals over the past two weeks and set up a 12-member committee to examine them all and finalise the criteria for deciding the results. The criteria may be announced next week. “Since the board exams are not being held and the results are to be announced on the basis of the students’ past performance, it would not be fair to award exact marks,” an official said. “A large number of principals have suggested that the students be awarded grades on the basis of their marks from past exams.” For a brief period, the CBSE used to award grades — such as A1, A, B1, B, C1, C, D and E — to its Class X students on the basis of a “continuous and comprehensive evaluation” policy. This has been discontinued. The state boards too are finalising their criteria for the announcement of results. Entrance test An education ministry official said that a common entrance test is likely to be held from this year for admission to any undergraduate or postgraduate course in the central universities. This means that tens of thousands of students whose Class XII boards have been scrapped may still be travelling to exam centres across the country sometime in July or August. The undergraduate medical entrance test, NEET, too remains slated for August. The official said an expert committee had recommended 50 per cent weightage for the entrance test and 50 per cent for the board results while selecting students for undergraduate courses at the central universities. “But the 50 per cent weightage for the board results may be put on hold this year because we expect a lot of variations among the school boards’ criteria for determining the Class XII results,” the official said. “Admission may be based entirely on the entrance test scores.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-65
13-06-2021||India||Samyukta Kisan Morcha forms committees to address issues raised by women farmers at protest sites ||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Saturday formed committees to address complaints and issues raised by women farmers at the protest sites along Delhi’s borders against the backdrop of an alleged sexual assault on a woman activist. The committees will “look into redress of any complaint”, the SKM, an umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws, said in a statement. An announcement was first made in May to form a Mahila Suraksha Samiti, days after the alleged sexual assault on the activist at the Tikri border protest site. The woman later died of Covid at a private hospital in Haryana. “Committees have been formed at all protest sites to look into redress of any related complaints and to prevent any occurrence of harassment or any other violation.… 9818119954 is the phone number where related issues can be raised,” the SKM said in the statement. It added that the SKM “respects the rights of women protesters, wants their safety protected in all ways and welcomes their active participation in the current movement”. Protesting farmer unions will be organising dharnas in front of governor houses across the country on June 26 to mark the completion of seven months of their agitation. “Save Agriculture, Save Democracy” will be the main message of the day, sit-ins will be organised in front of Raj Bhavans in all states and memoranda will be submitted. A detailed action plan for Mission UP and Uttarakhand will also be taken up soon within the SKM,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-65
13-06-2021||India||Four killed in militant attack on police team in north Kashmir||A militant attack on a police team followed by an exchange of fire left two cops and two civilians dead and three injured in north Kashmir’s Sopore town on Saturday. The Jammu and Kashmir administration and police blamed militants for the civilian deaths. Dozens of women mourners, however, raised slogans in favour of azaadi (freedom) and militants and against the police during the funerals of two of the dead, baring the anger in the Valley against the government and embarrassing the administration of lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha. Director-general of police Dilbag Singh said a joint police and CRPF team enforcing the Covid lockdown was fired upon by Lashkar-e-Toiba militants in the main Sopore town around 11.30am. “A police party led by sub-inspector Mukesh Kumar was fired upon. They retaliated with fire. During all this, some policemen got injured. Some civilian fruit vendors were also hit. Subsequently, two injured policemen — constables Wasim and Showkat — succumbed,” the DGP told reporters in Srinagar. Singh said sub-inspector Kumar and special police officer Danish had suffered injuries, apart from a civilian. The police have identified the slain policemen as constables Wasim Ahmed Bhat and Showkat Ahmed Parray, both from Budgam district of central Kashmir. The dead civilians are Bashir Ahmad Khan and Showkat Ahmad Shalla, both from Sopore. Police sources said the militants had opened indiscriminate fire on a police gypsy, during which the vehicle suffered extensive damage. While the security personnel retaliated, it is not clear how the civilians died. A video posted by a local photojournalist on his Facebook page showed women mourning the death of constable Wasim Ahmad, raising pro-azaadi and anti-India slogans at his Narbal home on Srinagar’s outskirts. A woman was seen trying to stop the others from chanting such slogans but they are unrelenting. During civilian Bashir Ahmad’s funeral in Sopore, eyewitnesses said women protesters, including some family members of the dead, converged outside the graveyard and raised pro-azaadi and anti-police slogans. Such protests are now rare in Kashmir because of the government’s zero tolerance of all forms of dissent. The police routinely book people for raising pro-azaadi slogans under the stringent anti-terror law UAPA. The Jammu and Kashmir administration and Valley-based pro-India parties condemned the militant attack and the deaths. “Strongly condemn the terror attack on civilians and security personnel at Sopore, Baramulla. My sincere condolences to the families who have lost their loved ones in this attack. Praying for the early recovery of the injured,” lieutenant governor Sinha tweeted. Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti said such attacks should be condemned. “Guns cannot solve the issue of Jammu and Kashmir. It can neither be solved by Delhi’s gun nor by the gun of our youth here. It will further deteriorate the issue and malign people in Jammu and Kashmir, and (in) the name of (tackling) terrorism more force (will be) used here,” the People’s Democratic Party leader said. National Conference leader and former chief minister Omar Abdullah tweeted: “Terrible news coming in from Sopore. Such attacks must be condemned without reservations. Prayers for the injured & condolences to the families of the deceased.” Militant attacks in the Valley have shown no let up despite claims by the security forces to the contrary. Militants this month killed BJP leader Rakesh Pandita, a Kashmiri Pandit and chairman of the Tral municipal committee. DGP Singh on Saturday claimed militancy was on the decline. “We have good control over the situation,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-65
13-06-2021||West Bengal||If you stay in the BJP, you have to sacrifice: Dilip Ghosh||With several TMC turncoats making a beeline to return to the party, post BJP's drubbing in the Assembly polls, state unit chief of the saffron camp, Dilip Ghosh, said on Sunday that the ones who wish to enjoy power without making sacrifices would be asked to leave. Ghosh, who had said on Friday that party national vice president Mukul Roy's departure won't make much of a difference, wrote on Twitter that "some people are in the habit of switching parties". "If one has to stay in the BJP, he/she will have to make sacrifices. Those who only wish to enjoy power cannot stay in the BJP. We won't keep them," he tweeted in Bengali. Echoing Ghosh, BJP national secretary and former MP Anupam Hazra said members who are not willing to stand by the party at this hour, when "several of its workers are facing attacks by the TMC and going homeless, are free to leave". Hitting out at former state minister Rajib Banerjee, who had joined the BJP ahead of the elections, Hazra maintained that "leaders like him have started singing paeans for the TMC immediately after its landslide victory. They are not required in the party." Shortly after Roy rejoined the TMC, Rajib Banerjee met the party's state general secretary Kunal Ghosh, but both described it as a "courtesy visit". "Dilipda said the right thing. Those who crossed over to the BJP before polls only for power and are now sending SOS to Mamata Banerjee expressing their wish to return should leave forthwith. The party does not need them," he said. Hazra had earlier said lobby politics was at play in the BJP state unit during polls, and just one or two leaders were given responsibilities with the rest feeling "ignored". He had, however, asserted that he would continue to support his party. Calling Roy a "Trojan horse", BJP veteran Tathagata Roy tweeted, "After having been welcomed into the BJP, he gained access to its all-India leaders, hobnobbed with state BJP's gullible... learnt all about the party and its innermost detail, he went back and leaked everything to Mamata. "But what's done is done. Now the big question is, did Mukul leave back Trojan Horses within this Trojan Horse? BTW I used to wonder why Mukul always avoided meeting me. Now it all figures," Roy added, indicating there could be agents planted by Roy in the BJP. Kunal Ghosh, who is also the spokesperson of the TMC, said many have expressed their wish to return, but our supremo Mamata Banerjee will take the final decision. His party colleague and senior leader Sougata Roy said, "Had Dilip Ghosh any modicum of self respect and accountability, he would have resigned from the post (of state BJP president) after the poor performance of his party." A group of five BJP workers in Birbhum district on June 8 took to the streets to announce that they have decided to quit the party and return to the TMC "to get a chance to work for 'maa mati manush' (mother, motherland, and people) under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee." District TMC leaders said their pleas would be considered after holding talks with local party members who worked for the party during the polls. Earlier, several other TMC turncoats, including former MLAs Sonali Guha and Dipendu Biswas, had appealed to Banerjee to take her back under her wings. The TMC supremo, during a recent press meet, said she will not accept requests of leaders, who had abandoned her ship just ahead of the April-May elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-26
13-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Oxygen on wheels in Nadia ||Nadia district administration has launched a mobile oxygen concentrator service — Duare Oxygen (oxygen on doorstep)  — to cater to the increasing demand for medical oxygen among Covid patients or even those whose infection has not been confirmed but show symptoms of poor oxygen levels. The service, which was launched on Thursday with the collective support of the department of health and family welfare, the Liver Foundation and the Covid Care Network, was inaugurated by Krishnagar MP and Trinamul leader Mahua Moitra. To begin with, the service was launched in two blocks - Karimpur-I and Tehatta-2. Here, members of the panchayat-based quick response teams will be rushed to the patients’ homes with oxygen concentrator once the requirement is informed through the dedicated helplines in the blocks. Village resource persons with motorcycles have been engaged for the job. Their fuel cost will be reimbursed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-26
13-06-2021||West Bengal||Mukul Roy switch: Trinamul eyes BJP foot soldiers||The return of BJP’s national vice-president Mukul Roy to Trinamul on Friday seems to have opened a window of opportunity for thousands of turncoats at the grassroots to align themselves with the state’s ruling party. Trinamul insiders expect this would hurt the organisational base that the Bengal BJP had developed banking on its success in the Lok Sabha polls in 2019. Roy’s return sent a message for turncoats that Bengal’s political future did not lie with the BJP, a senior Trinamul leader said. A jolt to the BJP’s organisational strength in the districts will hit the saffron camp’s prospects in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, expects Trinamul. “A lot of people, including local leaders like gram panchayat members, booth committee presidents or councillors, had switched over to the BJP before the polls. Their move was spurred by senior Trinamul leaders such as Rajib Banerjee, Sonali Guha and others joining the rival camp. After Mukulda has returned, those people are trying to come back,” said the senior Trinamul leader in Burdwan. Senior Trinamul leaders said Roy's return would serve the party in two ways — weaken the BJP’s grassroots base in rural and urban pockets of districts, and gain some BJP MLAs in the coming days. Though the BJP lost the Assembly polls, Trinamul leaders are aware that 2.28 crore voters had backed the saffron camp. Therefore, Bengal’s ruling party feels breaking the grassroots organisation of the BJP will end up in voters moving away from Narendra Modi’s party by Lok Sabha polls in 2024. “We should not forget the BJP’s vote share and the fact that the party has 18 MPs from Bengal. The main ploy is to weaken the BJP and take away their foot soldiers. Those who had joined the BJP have realised the mistake and are publicly regretting their decision. The BJP is claiming that they are doing it under our pressure, but the reality is different,” said a senior Trinamul leader in Birbhum. Trinamul leaders in Birbhum, however, said workers who had switched sides before the polls could only be taken back if local leaders were fine with it, so as to prevent bad blood. “We have no problem if those who worked for the BJP want to join us. But it should be cleared by our local leaders,” said Anubrata Mondal, Trinamul’s Birbhum president. Many Trinamul leaders, in fact, are opposed to the idea of taking back turncoats. A leader of the ruling party said that attempts to return by Trinamul turncoats such as Rajib Banerjee and Sonali Guha had to be cleared by party supremo Mamata Banerjee, and she had clarified that “gaddars” (traitors) would not be taken back. Former Trinamul minister Banerjee, who unsuccessfully contested on a BJP ticket from Domjur this time, met Trinamul leader Kunal Ghosh on Saturday evening. Many in Trinamul did not appear pleased. Though both Ghosh and Banerjee called the visit “mere courtesy”, Trinamul MP Kalyan Banerjee told a TV channel that the poll result had proved the former minister had “no value” but it was up to Mamata to take a call on his return. Speaking to journalists on Saturday, MP and Kalyan’s party colleague Prasun Banerjee appealed to Mamata not to take back “leaders from Howrah” who had left the party ahead of the polls. Trinamul insiders said the party was working to weaken the BJP organisationally and Mukul Roy’s meeting with Abhishek Banerjee on Saturday was held with that aim in mind. Trinamul sources said Roy had started tapping BJP MLAs to ask them to switch over to the Trinamul. Political scientists also spoke about the possibility of several BJP MLAs joining the Trinamul in the aftermath of Roy’s homecoming. “The BJP has only 74 MLAs now as two MPs have resigned and Mukul Roy has joined the Trinamul. If the numbers come down below 30, the BJP will lose the status of Opposition and Suvendu Adhikari will lose the chair of leader of Oppositions. I will not be surprised if such a thing happens. The BJP is now in a situation where it would be hard for them to find candidates to contest any local body polls,” said political scientist Biswanath Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-26
13-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal takes charge of security for Mukul, son||The Bengal government has decided to provide Mukul Roy, who left the BJP to join his former party Trinamul, of which he is a founder member, with security cover equivalent to the Z category that the Centre had accorded to him just before the Assembly polls. The state government’s move comes following Roy’s decision to do away with a ring of CISF personnel that has been around him since March after the Centre decided to upgrade his cover from Y+ category to Z category. On Saturday, Mukul wrote to Amit Shah’s ministry of home affairs (MHA) asking for withdrawal of his security cover. The letter was sent within hours of the BJP’s former national vice-president switching allegiance to Trinamul with his son Subhrangshu on Friday. While the withdrawal of central security cover is yet to be formalised, senior officers of the Barrackpore police commissionerate have drawn up a blueprint to cover Roy and his son. The son gets security equivalent to Y+ category. Roy will now be covered 24x7 by a team of specially trained personnel from the state's special security unit (SSU) with a group of at least four personnel covering him in close proximity. A separate unit will be put in place for Roy and his son with security guards posted in three shifts with specific instructions of providing security to both during their movement and stay, across the state. Late on Friday night, a team visited Roy’s Bijpur residence at Kanchrapara in North 24-Parganas and drew up a plan of how many personnel would be deployed as personal security officers (PSOs) for Roy and Subhrangshu and what would be the strength of personnel to cover his convoy, beginning Saturday. In September 2017, two months before formally joining the BJP, Roy had asked the Trinamul state government to withdraw the Z category security cover provided to him. “The category of security cover of an individual is based on a combination of threat perception and intelligence inputs,” said a senior IPS officer. "Like the Centre, the state too has its own policy of providing protection to certain individuals. Mukul Roy and his son have been accordingly assessed." As a BJP candidate contesting the recently concluded Assembly polls, Mukul won his Krishnagar North seat. But Subhrangshu lost the Bijpur seat to the Trinamul. Senior police officers said Friday's shift to Trinamul by the father-son duo could invite outrage from a section of BJP supporters in Mukul's hometown Bijpur, particularly from a section who owe their allegiance to BJP's MP from Barrackpore, Arjun Singh. "The local police have been already briefed about the possible threats to the duo and over the next 48-hours a full team would be in place to ensure security for the two VIPs," said a senior police officer from the Barrackpore police commissionerate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-26
13-06-2021||West Bengal||Elephant calf carcass recovered from dry river bed of Teesta in Jalpaiguri||The carcass of a four-year-old female elephant calf was recovered from the dry bed of the Teesta river in Gourikon area here on Friday evening. The animal is suspected to have died due to poisoning, foresters said. According to locals a few days back, a herd of elephants had reached the dry bed where they cultivate corn and ground nuts. “Even after consuming the crop, the herd stood there for days. This left us worried and we informed the foresters,” said a resident. A forest team reached the spot and tried to steer the herd back into the forest. A section of animals headed for Baikunthapur forest while the other group went towards Kathambari forest. After the herd left, foresters spotted the calf’s carcass. “It seems that the elephants were standing there because of the calf’s death. It looks like the animal died two-three days ago. We suspect it died of poisoning,” said a forest officer. On Saturday, the calf was cremated after an autopsy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-26
13-06-2021||West Bengal||BJP MLAs, leaders protest attack on Jalpaiguri MP||BJP leaders of Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri districts, including  legislators, on Saturday protested against Friday’s attack on Jayanta Roy, the BJP MP of Jalpaiguri. The BJP leaders have also accused the police of playing “mute spectators” and trained guns at Mamata Banerjee’s ruling party for allegedly trying to prevent BJP supporters from returning home even a month-and-a-half after Trinamul’s massive poll victory. On Friday, when Roy was escorting a group of around 12 people of the minority community, who happen to be BJP supporters, back to their homes at Bhandarigach village in Rajganj block of Jalpaiguri, the MP and some other party leaders were thrashed in the village. The MP, admitted to Siliguri’s North Bengal Medical College & Hospital with two of his aide, later said that a group of about 100 people attacked them while they were escorting home these persons who had fled after being attacked by Trinamul supporters in the wake of Assembly poll results. Roy blamed Trinamul squarely for Friday’s attack too, which local Trinamul leaders denied and blamed the BJP’s own infighting. On Saturday, a delegation of the BJP comprising party leaders of Siliguri and MLAs Shankar Ghosh and Shikha Chatterjee went to the office of the commissioner of Siliguri Metropolitan Police and submitted a memorandum. Ghosh, the new Siliguri MLA of the BJP, alleged that the attack was pre-planned. The police team, escorting the MP and the supporters, had stopped a few metres away, and soon the attack on them occurred, he pointed out. “Trinamul is trying to stop our party supporters from entering their homes. Hundreds of them are still staying in camps. The police and the administration should take proper steps to ensure their security. Also, whatever has happened on Friday clearly shows the desperation of a section of Trinamul cadres who even attacked and assaulted an MP,” said Ghosh, the Siliguri MLA. In Jalpaiguri, BJP supporters, led by district party chief Bapi Goswami, demonstrated in front of the Kotwali police station. “In recent years, this is the first time in north Bengal that an MP has been assaulted by supporters of another political party. If steps are not taken against the attackers, it would send a wrong message and encourage the perpetrators,” said Goswami. Sources at New Jalpaiguri police station said a probe is on. “A person has been detained in connection with the incident. We are in search of some others,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-26
13-06-2021||West Bengal||Chinese national suspected to be part of international fraud racket||Han Junwei, the Chinese national who was intercepted by the Border Security Force (BSF) as he allegedly tried to infiltrate into India through the Indo-Bangladesh border in Malda early on Thursday, is now being suspected to be one of the masterminds of an international racket that is engaged in financial fraud, senior officials of BSF and the state police said on Saturday. “During investigation, we have come to know that the contact that Han had in India who was nabbed by the Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) of Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, had supplied him with around 1,300 Indian SIM cards in phases while he was staying in China. We suspect Han is associated with a racket that steal peoples’ money. Those SIM cards were sent to China so that calls can be made to unsuspecting victims,” said a source. The Chinese national hails from Hebei province of North China. “We need to grill him further to obtain more information about the racket and also whether there is any other angle,” the source added. The police and intelligence agencies have also come to know that a blue-corner notice was issued against him earlier this year after his friend and partner in crime San Jiang, was arrested by the ATS in Lucknow. “As the notice was issued against him, Han was denied an Indian visa when he tried to get into the country (India) again. This made him plan a route through Nepal or Bangladesh and accordingly, he reached Dhaka and took the route to Malda via Chapai-Nawabganj district of the neighbouring country,” said the officer of an intelligence agency. On Friday evening, Han had been handed over to the Malda district police. On Saturday, he was produced at a local court here. The court heard the case and sent him to police custody till June 17, said sources. Senior police officers said they are also in touch with the ATS of Lucknow. “If they (ATS) intend to take him into custody, suitable legal arrangements would be made. The statement and information which we gather from him will also be shared with different agencies,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-27
13-06-2021||West Bengal||Retired BSF jawan kills self in Hooghly||A retired BSF jawan killed himself with his licensed rifle allegedly over not having a job at Balihatta village in Hooghly’s Pandua early on Saturday. Family members of Swapan Kumar Biswas said he was suffering from depression after he lost his job last year. Biswas, 54, who had retired at least a decade ago, had been working as a security guard with an agency in Calcutta. “I woke up after hearing the gunshot. He died on way to a hospital,” said Anjana Biswas, wife of the jawan. Police said it was a clear case of suicide as the person was suffering from depression.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-27
13-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata govt gears up to clear mess of overhead wires||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to clear the mess of overhead wires on priority basis and send them inside underground tunnels in Calcutta and major urban centres of the state. For starters, the CMC has made tunnels on both sides of a 3km stretch of Harish Mukherjee Road. Cable TV operators and Internet service providers have been asked to lay cables through these tunnels and clear the overhead mess on this stretch by Tuesday. At a meeting in Nabanna on Saturday, the chairman of the board of administrators of the CMC and minister Firhad Hakim and chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi told cable operators, multiple-system operators and internet service providers about the deadline. “If they fail to do so (within deadline), the CMC will clear the overhead cable mess from the Harish Mukherjee Road stretch,” said Hakim, adding this initiative would later roll out across Calcutta. The minister said cable tangles created trouble for the administration in emergencies like fire and gave the city an unkempt look. Sources said the state government planned to lay underground tunnels in all major cities and towns to clear the overhead tangle. “The initiative is being renewed now as the chief minister wants to take the initiative forward. A detailed plan is being made and financial elements will be assessed,” said a source. The sources said it was likely that those using underground tunnels would pay service charge to the government. Hakim, however, said the issue would be discussed with cable operators to ensure nothing was imposed on them. Cable operators present said they would cooperate with the government and this new development would have no impact on the tariff that customers pay at present. Hakim also said the state government had planned to clear the mess of overhead wires ever since Trinamul came to power in 2011, but financial constraints, among other reasons, had prevented them. “But this time we are determined to do it,” said Hakim,||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-27
13-06-2021||West Bengal||Dilip Ghosh downplays Mukul exit, loyalists fear exodus||The immediate task before the Bengal BJP should not be how to stem a possible exodus but to find consensus on the likely impact of the departure of Mukul Roy from the party. State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh, asked whether an MP from north Bengal and eight MLAs from his party are likely to follow in Roy’s footsteps and join Trinamul, said on  Saturday: “These people aren’t animals that I’d tie them up. He (Roy) was in a party. He can get in touch with people whom he had known for a long time. We are sure that those who are original BJP (people) won’t desert us.” Later, Ghosh tweeted: “A wilted leaf is no use to a tree. If a wilted leaf falls down, there is no damage to a tree. In fact, the tree gets filled with new leaves and gets a new vigour” But several BJP leaders, most of them Trinamul turncoats, said Roy’s exit would hurt the saffron camp’s prospects in Bengal. Biswajit Das, a Trinamul turncoat and BJP’s Bagdah MLA, said the party would feel the impact of Roy’s exit. Das was one of the three MLAs absent from a party’s organisational meeting chaired by Ghosh at Bongaon on Friday. The other two MLAs were Subrata Thakur and Ashok Kirtania. Bongaon’s BJP MP Santanu Thakur also skipped the meeting. Former Trinamul MLA of Noapara and BJP leader, Sunil Singh, said while the exit of any worker was a loss for the party, it would  be bigger when someone like Roy leaves. Former Trinamul minister and BJP’s losing Domjur candidate Rajib Banerjee met Trinamul leader Kunal Ghosh on Saturday evening  in what was described as a courtesy call.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-27
13-06-2021||Opinion||Green loss||Sir — The United Nations Decade on Ecosystem Restoration was launched recently with the goal of preventing, halting and reversing ecosystem degradation. Its report calls on the world to restore at least one billion hectares of degraded land in the next decade. But the problem with this is that countries often use this as an excuse to start commercial plantations and pass these off as forested areas in audits. Since economy is the only thing world leaders understand, they should perhaps chew on this: roughly half of global GDP depends on nature, and if ecosystem services decline at a steady rate, an estimated $10 trillion in global GDP may be lost by 2050. Subho Bhattacharya,Calcutta Game, set, match Sir — In an absolutely thrilling match with an unexpected ending, Novak Djokovic defeated Rafael Nadal in the Roland Garros men’s semi-final. Nadal was chasing a record 21st Grand Slam title; this would have put him at the top spot in tennis, moving him past Roger Federer. But after a gritty battle, Djokovic is now one victory away from completing a second Career Grand Slam and earning his 19th major crown, which will put him within breathing distance of Federer and Nadal. Nadal is known as the king of the clay court and it takes not just skill but also mental fortitude to stand in front of him at the French Open. Yet, Djokovic put pressure on Nadal in almost every service game, and that left the 13-time champion scrambling for a way to change the rhythm of the match. The incredible shotmaking of the two players led to four service breaks and 14 break points in the set. This match reminded one of the Wimbledon clash between Djokovic and Federer. Both matches were not only thrilling but veritable masterclasses in tennis.Arindam Da,Hooghly Sir — “[L]ife goes on, it is nothing more than a defeat on a tennis court,” said the defending French Open champion, Rafael Nadal, after conceding the semi-final match to the rising star of the tennis firmament, Novak Djokovic. But that semi-final match was no ordinary game of tennis. This is only the third time that Nadal has been defeated at the French Open. Nadal won the first five games and looked set to repeat the drubbing of the Serb in last year’s final. But Djokovic seized the momentum, winning the second set and then edging a pulsating 97-minute third set on a tiebreak, having saved a set point. After breaking a tiring Nadal’s serve for a 4-2 lead in the fourth set, the end came quickly as Djokovic inflicted a first defeat on Nadal at the French Open since he beat him in the 2015 quarter-final. It was an unbelievable show of tenacity by the Serbian world champion. Indranil Roy,Calcutta Sir — Novak Djokovic must be lauded for his spirited game against the king of the clay court, Rafael Nadal. The men’s semi-final of the French Open was a treat for tennis lovers across the world. Rima Roy,Calcutta Grave danger Sir — The article, “Flickering flame” (June 11), by Ashish Khetan was enlightening. Khetan welcomed the much-needed initiative of the Supreme Court to review the constitutional validity of Section 124A, popularly known as the sedition law. But Khetan also listed a number of other laws that are being wielded by the government to crush opponents and critics who speak up against the government’s misdeeds and are vocal about individual freedom and civil liberties. The Bharatiya Janata Party government at the Centre has been most creative when it comes to misusing any and every law at its disposal. Unfortunately, the apex court’s verdicts in the cases related to the Rafale contract, the PM-Cares Fund, the Sahara-Birla diaries and so on have raised more questions in the minds of citizens than ever before. The apex court — the protector of the Constitution and thus democracy — is expected to be beyond questions and to pass judgments that benefit each and every citizen. When doubts begin to arise about its judgments, democracy is in grave danger indeed. Jahar Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-10
13-06-2021||Opinion||Many in Congress are angry, want Rahul to take over immediately||A majority of Congress leaders did not appreciate young Jyotiraditya Scindia and Jitin Prasada defecting to the Bharatiya Janata Party, but they are equally angry with Rahul Gandhi for refusing to return as party president. Such is the frustration that one known family loyalist said in an informal conversation, “Rahul should immediately take over the reins and lead from the front. The party and the country will forgive him for running away and wasting two critical years. If he is still reluctant, he should immediately make public statement that his exit is final and somebody else must be appointed to lead the party without any further delay. This unending uncertainty is destroying Opposition against Narendra Modi [sic].” Another leader, also known to be close to the family, said, “Rahul should take sanyaas if he is not interested in politics. This back-seat driving won’t do.” Although most of these leaders firmly believe Rahul is the best leader to confront Modi in 2024, they are so tired of waiting that they have started criticizing him viciously. One former Union minister made a caustic remark while analyzing the state of affairs in India, saying, “Two parallel processes are continuing — one that destroys the country, another that destroys the Congress.” Most of the party workers feel nothing is being done to strengthen the organization and politics is restricted to Twitter. Even blind loyalists admit all this but blame Covid-19, not Rahul, for the situation. “We had grand plans but could not execute them because of lockdown and the consequent humanitarian crisis.” This week a media address by Ravi Shankar Prasad, who is in charge of heavyweight ministries like law and justice and electronics, information technology and communications, was scheduled at the BJP headquarters. Given Prasad’s ministerial profile, it was expected the media address would be on some topic of national importance. Much to everyone’s dismay, Prasad dwelt on slamming the Delhi government’s proposal to give home delivery of rations to the poor, especially since Delhi is not even a full-fledged state. In party circles, the choice of fielding a senior minister like Prasad was seen as a deliberate move by the current regime to ensure that no minister or party leader starts thinking that he or she has become too big for his or her shoes. Barring the very senior leaders, most others are periodically asked to come to the party office and address press conferences. The ministers are apparently asked to say that they are party workers first and then a minister. Apart from their performances in handling their respective departments, what work they have rendered to the party is also taken into consideration during assessments. So no one dares shirk their responsibility when it comes to managing the affairs of the party and protecting its image. The Congress effected major organizational changes in the Kerala PCC within a month of the election setback. The change in distant Kerala, swift by Congress’ own standards, has left Assam PCC leaders frustrated. The unit president, Ripun Bora, quit soon after the loss to the BJP-led alliance in the state. The state unit was hoping the high command would appoint someone acceptable to most, someone who could effectively take on the newly-appointed chief minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma, and galvanize the state unit. Most say that the Assam unit has been a victim of the party leadership’s dithering and wrong decisions. “They appointed the CLP leader on the eve of the inaugural session of the new assembly and now we wait for the appointment of the PCC president. We are going through the motions when we should have been taking on the new government as the main Opposition party, more so when you have someone as astute and media savvy as Sarma as the chief minister. We have not learnt our lessons despite the losses,” a party leader said, articulating the mood in the state PCC. In spite of the delay in launching the poll campaign or making it clear it will continue with Bora contrary to demands from most senior leaders, the state unit put up a united face in the polls. The delay in naming the state unit president is deepening the damage. The term of a colourful student politician and a darling of the Delhi press, Akshay Lakra, has ended. His four years and seven months is perhaps the longest for any Delhi unit president of National Students’ Union of India. During his term, the organization transformed from a ‘money-and-muscle’ outfit to an ideologically-motivated group under the guidance of Congress joint-secretary, Ruchi Gupta. Her politics and Lakra’s activism made the NSUI’s presence felt in the DU students’ union, which has been dominated by sangh-backed Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad since 2013. The conflicting styles of Lakra and Gupta led to many comical situations which had the unintended effect of keeping the cadre on their toes. Lakra will be remembered for his flair for theatrics — he defaced a bust of Hindutva ideologue, Vinayak Damodar Savarkar, which was eventually removed from its prominent position in DU — and for reaching his wedding on a tractor last year in solidarity with farmers. Malayalis are missing KK Shailaja ‘teacher’, who was not given a second term as health minister. She is now the CPI(M) chief whip in the assembly, a step down compared to her earlier portfolio. While her successor, Veena George, has hit the tracks running, people miss Shailaja who almost always had a ready solution for problems. Many say the CPI(M) is losing out on the charismatic leader’s presence, especially when the state is reeling under the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-10
13-06-2021||Opinion||Players and prejudice||Should sportsmen be punished for saying or doing bigoted things on or off the field of play? To ask the question is to answer it; no one, in this day and age, will say that that prejudice should get a free pass. In England, football has led the way, with campaigns to kick racism out of the sport going back nearly thirty years. Racist fans are expelled from the stands, even banned from stadiums. England’s football team has reaffirmed its commitment to anti-racism by insisting on ‘taking a knee’ before its Euro Cup matches despite being booed for doing so by a section of English fans. English cricket has been less enthusiastic about calling out racism. This reluctance goes back half a century, when the English cricket board had to be pushed by popular pressure and government disapproval into calling off a tour by apartheid South Africa’s cricket team. England’s clubby, white, male cricket administrators have been model reactionaries. They have to be shamed into setting their house in order. The whiteness of the England and Wales Cricket Board’s management and, lately, the whiteness of the English cricket team haven’t exactly helped foster self-awareness about racism. Which brings us to Ollie Robinson and his ‘historic’ views about black people, Muslims and women. These were tweeted out when he was eighteen and nineteen. He is now 27. He has apologized publicly and, despite an excellent debut, been suspended from international cricket pending an enquiry into his conduct as a professional cricketer. For some, including the prime minister, Boris Johnson, and his minister for sport, Oliver Dowden, the apology was punishment enough. They felt his suspension was an overreaction. Johnson and his minister saw in this punishment a free culture war opportunity to mock wokeness, which, for Tory politicians, is a political gift. Johnson was also defending, by implication, his own record; if a man with a history of racial and ethnic gibes about black people’s ‘watermelon smiles’ and burqa-ed Muslim women’s ‘letter box’ looks could be elected to the highest political office in Britain, why should Robinson’s Test career be put on hold for teenage bigotry? For some, Robinson was punished not for bigotry but for embarrassing the ECB. As Michael Vaughan, the former England captain and commentator, observed, it was astonishing that English cricket’s governing body didn’t do due diligence before employing players to represent the country. Ironically, the ECB’s embarrassment was compounded by its attempt to deflect criticism for the English team no longer taking the knee. In a photo-op just before play began, England’s players committed themselves, in suitably captioned T-shirts, to a whole menu of resolutions intended to make English cricket more inclusive. Ambushed by Robinson’s youthful ‘indiscretions’ on the same day as its ‘Moment of Unity’ campaign against racism, sexism and religious intolerance was launched, the ECB was left looking for a public sacrifice and Robinson was the obvious candidate. Michael Holding, the great West Indian fast bowler and expert commentator who had caught the public imagination in July 2020 for a passionate, spur-of-the-moment monologue about racism and discrimination during a rain delay, said that the ECB had done the right thing by suspending Robinson from international cricket while it investigated his record in the years since those tweets. But he wanted the investigation to be swift so that the suspension could be revoked if it found that Robinson hadn’t re-offended. He argued that people deserved a second chance especially if their offences were old ones. Michael Carberry, a black cricketer who represented England in half-a-dozen Tests, was less forgiving. He said that if it were left to him, Robinson wouldn’t play Test cricket again. He thought Robinson’s apology was scripted and he felt that the only way of putting an end to chronic racism in sport was tougher sanctions. He thought symbolic gestures like sportsmen taking the knee were gimmicks that made no difference in the real world. Carberry and Boris Johnson, coming from opposite ends of the argument, were sceptical of the value of taking a knee. Johnson criticized Robinson’s punishment as excessive, and he refused to criticize a section of English football fans for booing the national team during a home game for taking a knee. He said it was their democratic right to express their disapproval peacefully. Tory positions on taking a knee and Robinson’s suspension are of a piece. A young white cricketer’s tweets (made, however, when he was an adult) needed no more than a public apology. Johnson and his sports minister, Dowden, agreed that Robinson’s suspension was ‘over the top’ and that the ECB ought to reconsider its decision. On the other hand, the multi-racial English football team’s symbolic protest against historic racism in sport and in society was seen as so divisive and offensive that one Conservative MP compared it to British footballers being pressured to make the Nazi salute during a football match in Berlin in 1938; another vowed not to watch any English matches during the Euro Cup and Britain’s Conservative prime minister couldn’t bring himself to ask his countrymen to stop booing the English national team at the first time of asking. Pleading Robinson’s case while publicly denouncing kneeling footballers for being militant Marxism’s useful idiots casts white people as historically well-meaning but occasionally erring innocents, while stereotyping critics of racism, both black and white (the English football team, for example), as deluded pawns of sinister militants or virtue-signalling poseurs or both. When Holding asked that Robinson’s suspension ought to be as short as possible, he made it conditional on the ECB making sure that he hadn’t offended again since those youthful tweets. Holding wasn’t offering Robinson absolution; he was saying that there ought to be a statute of limitations on a young person’s offences if he had outgrown that persona. The fact that Johnson and Dowden took the positions they did on Robinson’s bigotry and on England’s footballers taking the knee, at the same time, is revealing. It allows us to see them for what they are: English nationalists offering sympathy and solidarity to someone they see as one of their own. Watching all this play out at a great distance from Delhi is oddly depressing. Regardless of the rights and wrongs of the Robinson controversy or the back-and-forth about taking a knee, at least these were matters being vigorously debated by English cricket commentators, administrators, sportsmen, journalists, politicians and incensed letter writers. Even Johnson was finally nudged into asking fans not to boo the English football team by the weight of public opinion. This is very unlike India, where Test cricketers tweet out government policy in chorus, where the mainstream media amplify this propaganda, where cricket administrators can accuse an exemplary cricketer and coach, Wasim Jaffer, of being communal on no evidence whatsoever, where his former teammates stay utterly silent in the face of this accusation because the Board of Control for Cricket in India (such an appropriate name!) is run by the minions of a majoritarian ruling party openly hostile to Muslims. It’s the difference between free citizens disagreeing and clients doing what they’re told. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-10
13-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Tax the giants||The noose has started to tighten around multinational corporations. The Group of Seven, a cabal of the world’s richest nations, are close to signing an agreement that will force these giant corporations to pay a reasonable tax in the countries where they earn their greatest slice of profits. The agreement, which is very thin on specifics, rests squarely on two main pillars. The first pillar seeks to usher in changes in the international tax system in an increasingly digital world by reallocating taxation rights on business profits in such a manner that these are no longer linked to physical presence. Instead, countries will be permitted to collect taxes from multinational corporations based on the share of profits they earn from consumers in that jurisdiction. Under the G7 agreement, these corporate behemoths can be taxed in any country where they make more than 10 per cent of profit on sales. The company will have to pay taxes at least 20 per cent above this profit threshold. The second pillar is designed to fix a minimum global corporate tax rate of 15 per cent — a move that is designed to stop countries from deliberately lowering their tax rates in order to persuade multinational corporations to set up their headquarters in these jurisdictions. This would mean that Google and Facebook, for instance, would no longer be able to locate their base in Ireland where the tax rate is as low as 12.5 per cent. The G7 agreement marks the culmination of discussions that have been going on since 2013 when the Organisation for Economic Co-Operation and Development and the Group of 20 nations, a broader alliance that includes India, tried to rewrite international tax rules. This led to the creation of the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project to address the global problem of unrealized corporate taxes. The OECD had estimated back then that the world suffered an annual loss of anywhere between 4 to 10 per cent of global corporate income tax or roughly $100 to 240 billion. A meeting of the G-20 is scheduled in July where India will join the negotiations. However, it will take a few more years before the 139 nations in the world are able to sew up all the loose ends. The tardy progress over the BEPS framework had prompted countries like India to levy their versions of a digital tax. India imposed an equalization levy in 2016 that mandates every entity in India to withhold 6 per cent of the payment for specified services received from a non-resident entity. India may no longer be able to levy these digital taxes once the global tax agreement is in place. Some experts suggest that India may end up with lower revenues in the new regime than what it earns now. The 10 per cent profit threshold poses problems because multinational companies do not break down their profits by tax jurisdictions. Unless that is done, countries like India may continue to suffer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
13-06-2021||Opinion||U-turns And I||If all this were happening out there on the roads, there would have been mayhem by now. Everyone doing the U-turn, every minute; if this were a highway, thousands would have been run over. But this is Indian politics and this is normal and it is all happening over our ‑voters’ ‑ live bodies. An U-turn is so called because of the shape of the manoeuvre. It has to do with reversing the direction of travel. The Congress’s Jitin Prasada just pulled off one. Only the other day he was campaigning in Bengal’s Shyampur, Amta and Pursurah for the Congress, retweeting Rahul Gandhi’s interview on the coronavirus crisis and the “GOI’s incompetence”. And now he is lifting bouquets with J.P. Nadda, Piyush Goyal, Adityanath. You might say Mukul Roy and son did a U-turn, except two U-turns make a full circle. Other leaders are apparently getting ready to do the full circle too, but regular party-workers must smart for even dreaming defection. Some others find themselves conjectured into a U-turn. “She might have spoken to Sachin Tendulkar,” said the Congress’s Sachin Pilot when cat got out of the BJP’s Rita Bahuguna Joshi’s bag that he might be considering joining the BJP. Abhijeet Mukherjee, who is the son of the late President of India, Pranab Mukherjee, denied taking a turn away from the Congress and towards the Trinamul. And there is some talk that in Bihar, Mahagathbandhan ka bhoola Jitan Ram Manjhi might steer the Hindustani Awam Morcha out of the new alliance and into the old one. Not all turns are partywards, some are issue-based. PM Modi just did a U-turn on the Centre’s vaccination policy. The BJP’s Himanta Biswa Sarma ‑ who till April was saying “what Covid”, “no need for mask” ‑ said upon taking oath of office as Assam CM, “We will take all measures to contain Covid-19. Until the situation is controlled in Assam, the virus in the Northeast will never come under control.” And now that the Uttar Pradesh elections are around the corner, CM Adityanath has swiftly moved from issuing gag orders on corona aid seekers to transferring crores into bank accounts and cracking the whip on expansion of vaccination outreach. Some of these are no doubt good turns, but they come too late, and over our dead bodies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
13-06-2021||Opinion||On wings of the Great Blue Tick||Birds. They make sounds. Is that what we know about birds? That they make sounds? And is that all they do? Birds? Think about birds, then think about what you think birds predominantly do. Let me leave you with the thinking a while. Let me, as I often tend to do, digress. As a matter of fact, it is tough not to digress at the moment because there is too much noise around. All around. So much noise that nothing makes sense; it is difficult to make sense when there is only noise. Everyone wants themselves to be heard, they all want it badly and therefore everyone is shouting and nobody can be heard over, or under, all of that shouting. The shouting is about this and that, about this side and that side, about this is right and that is wrong, about what about this and what about that, about then and about now, about this way and that way and the highway, all sorts of things. Everybody’s yelling, but nobody is getting through to the one they are yelling at. It may well be they cannot listen to what they themselves are saying, such a deafening noise there is all around. It’s like a constant rat-a-tat-tat of shutupshutupshutupshutupshutupshutupshutup. And nobody is listening. Nobody is shutting up. A mangled heap of crashed and crashing decibels, that’s what it would look like if you would try turning this into an image. A whirl of dingbats, flying, flown, fallen. That’s what it would look like. Oh that reminds me, something else flies. Birds fly. They make sounds, yes, undeniably, but birds also fly. They have wings, although not all wings facilitate flying. I mean emus have wings, and ostriches, and all they can do is scram and bury in the sand. There are wings and there are wings. There are yet other kinds of wings. Left wing. Right wing. Those sorts of wings may not facilitate flying; tough to tell what they facilitate at the best or worst of times. We were on birds. Or we had returned to birds after a digression and we digressed again. That happens. Digressions, and this has been said here before if I recall right, digressions allow us to travel longer, more varied distances than the straight and narrow road ever would have. The birds are making sounds, some of them can make sounds as they fly. It’s called multitasking. Some of them make a sound just as they take flight. It’s called lift-off. Some of them land and begin to make a sound. It’s called, wonder what that’s called, something or the other. Everyone makes sounds upon landing, ever been inside an arriving plane? But that is teddy bear’s picnic sound, no match to the sound these birds make, the birds that have never been known to fly but are everywhere, birds that have gone where no man has ever been before. These are no ordinary birds, the sounds they make can make and break kingdoms, bring down governments and instal new ones, trigger wars, puncture peace, rip families and friendships, put folks in harm’s way, alchemise lies and give the truth a poor name, they have such power, these sounds. It isn’t a power that always destroys, no, these sounds can protect and preserve too, but you know how we are, our proclivities to choose the evil over the good are a proven thing. Else, we wouldn’t seek a perch on the Neelkanth and say, all right now, just bare your claws, we know how wondrous you can be, but we only want to see your virulence. Keep your good side, Neelkanth, just give us access to your bad one. And so it one day flew And they cried, oh where? It had a neck a certified blue Tick, tick, tick, she goes there!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
13-06-2021||Jharkhand||Four electrocuted while bathing at Pipla village  ||One woman and three children were electrocuted as an 11 KV power line fell on a check-dam at Pipla village under MGM thana area about 20km away from here on Sunday afternoon. The incident occurred at about 1.30 pm when the victims were taking a bath in the water body over which the high-tension line passed. Villagers rushed the four of them to MGM Medical College Hospital where they were declared brought dead at the medical college hospital. The four victims were identified as Phulon Devi Mahto (45), Vimal Mahto (8), Kamal Mahto (10) and Rohit Mahto (12), all residents of Pipla village. Vimal and Kamal were brothers. Soon after the incident, agitated villagers set up a blockade on the adjoining NH-33 in protest against the callousness of Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Ltd (JBVNL), the discom that supplies electricity in that area. A police party from the MGM thana area reached the spot followed by City SP, Subhash Chandra Jat and Jamshedpur MP Bidyut Baran Mahto for inspection of the scene of mishap. Those setting up the blockade were demanding the administration to produce senior officials of the JBVNL so as to take them to task. The protestors were also demanding Rs 10 lakhs to the members of each of the bereaved families. "I had urged the JBVNL officials concerned to mend the worn out power line at Pipla village, but nothing was done by the discom. Ultimately the tragedy took place, "said the Jamshedpur MP to The Telegraph Online. The blockade was lifted in an hour after the city SP convinced the protestors that the administration would initiate a probe and also assured of compensation. "A case of unnatural death will be registered in connection with the four electrocution deaths, but an internal probe should also be carried out so as to find out whether the electricity department was at fault or not, " said the city SP while talking to The Telegraph Online. He said the internal probe can be done following the decision of the deputy commissioner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
13-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to conduct survey of Covid victim families to plan welfare schemes  ||The Jharkhand government will conduct a survey of social and economic conditions of families of those who died due to Covid-19 during the second wave of the pandemic in a bid to plan welfare schemes, officials said on Sunday. In a letter addressed to  deputy commissioners of all  24 districts in the state, health secretary Arun Kumar Singh directed them to prepare a special team for surveying  families of 3,983 residents who died of Covid-19 from March 15 to June 9. During the survey, the teams will interact with the kin of Covid victims and seek details about the members in the family of the diseased, their source of income, health condition of the family members and other information that will help the government extend support to the needy, many of whom have lost their sole bread-earners, health officials said. “Since the people who are going to be surveyed have lost their near and dear ones, it is expected that the surveyors maintain sensitivity during the process,” the letter from the health secretary stated. The districts have been asked to complete the survey and submit  findings to the health department by June 25. The health secretary’s letter stated that the districts may take help of District Level Surveillance Officers of the World Health Organisation (WHO) in conducting the survey. The second wave of Covid-19 claimed at least twice as many lives in Jharkhand as the first wave. According to officials spearheading Jharkhand’s fight against the pandemic, several people belonging to  marginalized sections of society lost family members during the second wave. During the survey,  district level teams will also find out if the families of those who died of the lethal infection have ration cards, ayushman cards, Aadhar cards and other documents that would help the government identify such families which have lost their bread earners but do not have access to welfare schemes of the government, officials said. “The survey findings will help the government plan welfare schemes for the rehabilitation and uplift of the families that have lost their members to Covid-19,” said Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer of health department’s Information, Education and Communication (IEC) wing. As per the recently concluded Integrated Public Health Survey (IPHS) conducted by the state government, over 2,500 rural residents died in Jharkhand from April 1 to May 31. The figure included Covid victims as well as those who died of other causes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
13-06-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city observes total lockdown along with rest of the state ||Streets wore a deserted look as all shops, including those selling fruits, vegetables, grocery items, sweets and other eatables,  remained closed and public transport was unavailable in the steel city that observed a  complete lockdown along with the rest of the state on Sunday. The shutdown,  which was implemented from 4 pm of Saturday,  will remain in force till 6 am, Monday. Lockdown restrictions were not  applicable for medical emergencies and those going to vaccination centres. Check-points were activated in Sakchi, Bistupur and other places. Cops were deployed at strategic locations and in all important thoroughfares to prevent movement of people. Several auto-rickshaw drivers and owners of private vehicles had to end up paying fines of Rs 500 in Sakchi, Bistupur, Mango, Sonari and other places for defying lockdown orders. Those possessing e-passes for inter- district travel were allowed to go. A team of East Singhbhum district officials also went around rural blocks of Baharagora and Chakulia to enforce the lockdown. "The complete lockdown was a success both in the rural and urban areas of the district,"said N.K Lal, ADM (law and order). Notably, the state government has extended Covid-related lockdown- restrictions till June 17. E-passes will be mandatory for inter-state and inter-district movement in private vehicles but for movement within the district, no e-passes will be required||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
13-06-2021||Jharkhand||Virtual hygiene classes for coal town students||As the nation is gearing up to wage a fight against an anticipated third wave of Covid-19 , a total of 45 students of classes II to VII of Indian School of Learning, Jharia, was given an online class on hygiene and cleanliness with special focus on the correct of washing of hands on Sunday . The hour-long programme was conducted from 11 am to 12 noon in association with Japan International Cooperation Agency India as part of its Achhi Aadat was also aimed at generating awareness about other aspects of health and hygiene like use of nail clippers for nail hygiene, innovative way of water usage. During the interactive session, the participating students were shown a Japanese animation film translated to Hindi and English. Tapas Kumar, one of the two teachers present during the session said,“The children took keen interest in the session and asked questions to the JICA representative Vini Sharma.” “The significance of the drive is more at a time when the focus is on children's safety in view of their vulnerability during phase III of pandemic,” said Kumar. Birendra Kumar Rawani, Physical Education teacher of the school who was also present during the session said, “Though, we generally inculcate a lot of good habits among the students as part of the regular training in the school but during the session the specificities of general activities were so lucidly explained that it aroused the interest of the students.” Roshani Keshri, a student of Class VII who took part in session, said, “When we were informed by the school authorities about the online session on health and hygiene we presumed that it might be a general session or may be a bit boring but after attending the hour long session, we felt quite exhilarated as we learnt a lot of new things about the common activities like handwashing in very interesting manner.” Vini Sharma during her online interaction with the students said, “In the time of Covid-19, providing attention to personal hygiene is critical to keep good health.” “Hygiene practices will reduce the likelihood of other viral infections, not only Covid 19,” said Sharma. “We believe that good hygiene practices becomes a lifelong habit not only to protect oneself but also protect the loved ones, ”further said Sharma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
13-06-2021||Jharkhand||Railways take preventive measures for monsoon||The South Eastern Railway has adopted various measures with a view to ensure safety of passengers and maintain disruption free services during the monsoon season. All the four divisions of South Eastern Railway including Chakradharpur and Ranchi have undertaken different safety related maintenance works to minimise the effects of heavy rainfall on train service during the monsoon months of June to September. Officials at SER's Calcutta-based headquarters said railway engineers and other staff are taking necessary measures to tackle any flood like situation near railway tracks for maintaining smooth train operation. "Track maintenance work is being given top most priority and special patrolling of railway track has been planned during the monsoon season for safe train operation. Close watch is being kept on railway bridges and points and signals are under constant monitoring to prevent flooding due to heavy rain, "said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway. He went on to say that with a view to prevent water logging on tracks, obstructions like silt, vegetation etc. has been cleared from catch water and side drains. Patrolling and watchmen teams have been planned for deployment at vulnerable points to adopt remedial measures if there is accumulation of water on railway track. According to Ghosh, probable spots where water logging may take place have been identified for early action in case there is heavy rain. Pumps have been installed for prompt drainage of excess water. During the four monsoon months special patrolling will be arranged especially in vulnerable locations round the clock. "The bridges and tunnels are always kept on watch. To tackle any emergency situation in the event of heavy rain, sufficient quantities of reserve materials viz. boulders, sand, cinder, quarry dust, ballast etc. have been kept in stock. The engineering relief vans alongwith equipment have been kept ready at strategic points, "he explained. Apart from this South Eastern Railway is also in constant touch with IMD offices in Jharkhand and Bengal for weather updates and if any adverse weather condition is reported, preparations will be made accordingly for mobilising men and materials to tackle the situation. The IMD has declared the onset of monsoon in Jharkhand, Bengal and other neighbouring states. The Met department has also issued an alert of heavy rain in Jharkhand and Bihar in the next few days due to an active monsoon coupled with a low pressure originating from the Bay of Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
13-06-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town residents demand reopening of road||More than 2 lakh residents of Jamadoba, Bhaga, Phusbunglow, Dungri, Bhowra, Sudamdih and Kalimela have demanded the immediate reopening of the Phusbunglow Jamadoba road, lying closed for three months due to the construction of railway over bridge. The traffic from Phusbunglow Jamadoba road is being diverted through Shashikant Pandey Chowk of Bhaga. The construction is part of a Rs 21.24crore project, which was to be completed in two years, however is suspended since April 10 due to delay in shifting of water supply pipeline of civic body JMADA, underneath the railway crossing. Kishore Kumar, a resident of Phusbunglow in Dhanbad said, “Large number of employees of BCCL and Tata Steel, besides daily wage earners, patients visiting to Tata Central Hospital of Jamadoba, students of schools and colleges are greatly affected due to suspension of work of the overbridge construction and resultant suspension of traffic on road.” “Though, ray of hope again generated for the resumption of over bridge construction work following a joint inspection by senior officers of JMADA and South Eastern Railway Authorities around April 12 during which JMADA, authorities assured to shift the 100 meter pipeline within two months but neither the shifting work could begin till date nor over bridge construction work resumed,” said Kumar who is also general secretary district unit of Congress. Bhola Singh, a BCCL employee and a resident of Bhusbunglow said,“Earlier, we used to reach our work site at Bhowra in less than half an hour through the Phusbunglow Jamadoba road but the now due to suspension of traffic on road it takes an hour.” Contacted, Indresh Shukla, Executive Engineer and Technical member of JMADA, said, “Earlier we were facing some difficulty in producing some pipeline parts required for shifting work but now the parts have arrived we will begin the shifting work of pipeline within a week after the completion of which the over bridge construction work may resume.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
13-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs zero Covid deaths for the first time since second wave||Jharkhand reported zero Covid casualties in a day for the first time on Saturday since the second wave of the pandemic hit the tribal state earlier this year, data compiled by the health department revealed. The active caseload also dropped below 4,000 as the state reported twice as many Covid recoveries as fresh cases of infection. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), 493 patients recovered from the viral infection on Saturday, while 239 people were found infected by novel coronavirus. By the end of Saturday, at least 3,966 Jharkhand residents were battling Covid-19. Barring East Singhbhum, all the districts reported less than 50 cases of infections on the day. At least 51 people were found infected in East Singhbhum while 91 patients recovered there, bringing the active caseload down to 722, the NHM stated in its bulletin. At least 78 recoveries against 27 cases brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 1,236 – the only district with more than 1,000 active cases of Covid-19. Among other districts, Dhanbad reported 12 cases against 17 recoveries, while Bokaro reported only six cases and 17 recoveries. At least 23 people were found infected in Hazaribag and 46 patients recovered there. The high mortality rate in the state was a cause for concern lately and zero fatalities reported on Saturday came as a major relief, health officials said. So far, as many as 5,082 Jharkhand residents have died of Covid-19 and 1,579 of them were from Ranchi alone. With 1,029 casualties, East Singhbhum accounts for the second highest number of deaths among the 24 districts in the state. The state on Saturday tested swab samples of 43,653 residents and the positivity rate on the day was less than 0.5 per cent. As per government data, over 3.43 lakh people have been infected by Coronavirus in the state so far and 97.36 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.48 per cent of them have died. The growth rate of Covid cases also dropped to 0.09 per cent in the state against the national average of 0.22 per cent on the day, while the doubling rate in Jharkhand further rose to 796.09 days against the national doubling rate of 314.44 days. The state on Saturday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to as many as 95,730 residents, including 2984 senior citizens and over 50,000 residents in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. As many as 13,113 residents received their second jab on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
13-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: 30 years imprisonment in minor rape case||Bokaro: A special POCSO Court on Friday awarded 30 years of rigorous imprisonment to 26-year-old Biswanath Bhuiya who raped a 12-year-old girl residing in his neighbourhood. The victim is a Class 6 student at a government school. The incident was reported in Women Police Station of Bermo Sub-Division of the district on December 18, 2020. In this case, the court passed the judgment within six months of the FIR registered. Special POCSO-cum-Additional district judge-1, Janardan Singh held the accused guilty under section 6 of POCSO Act (committing aggravated penetrative sexual assault) and awarded 30 years of RI and a fine of Rs 50,000. "The case in this connection was filed by the victim’s father, who is a private worker," said special public prosecutor of Bokaro, S.K. Jha. Jha said, the incident occurred at 2.30 pm in Dhori Forest where the victim had gone to collect firewood along with Bhuiya’s wife. They both were separately picking firewood when Bhuiya came and caught the victim. She resisted, but he overpowered and raped her there. He also threatened to kill her if she told anyone about the incident. SPP said the police acted promptly in the case as the medical test and victim’s statement before the court was completed within two days. “There are 10 witnesses in this case and all of them were examined within a month after the charges on February 22, 2021,” said the SPP. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: A 26-year-old who was going to get married on July 15, died on Saturday after being bitten by a poisonous snake when he was sleeping on the terrace of his house in Dharampur in Tatijharia block. Kameshwar Mahali was taken to a sorcerer but his condition deteriorated. He was later taken to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital but was declared brought dead. Police handed his body to his family after the post mortem. The bride’s relatives who came from Bokaro attended the last rites. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Bokaro: The Bokaro Steel Plant has launched an extensive tree plantation drive on the vacant land of its township to protect it from encroachment. The two departments of BSL -Environment Control and Township Administration (Horticulture)- are jointly working on it. Inaugurating this campaign, a team of BSL officials led by Director In-charge, Amarendu Prakash planted saplings at 'Smriti Park' located next to the main number 1 gate of BSL Plant on Saturday. The chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said, “Senior officers paid tribute to the BSL personnel who died due to Covid-19 by planting saplings at Smriti Park.” The director-in-charge has given a target of planting 2 lakh trees on BSL’s land during this monsoon. For this, both the departments of BSL will identify the land in township and plant saplings. The TA department will also do fencing of that land with barbed wire. Every land that is lying vacant in the township will be filled by saplings. If someone encroaches by removing trees at that place, the BSL management will take necessary legal action against the individual. Sources said that BSL management will also ensure the participation of the general public in this campaign. For this, many places are also being identified for tree plantation in the township and the area. The BSL owns about 34,000 acres of land. The township is spread across 15,000 acres with encroachment on about 2000 acres. Encroachment continues unabated in the BSL township even during the Corona period. (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
