14-06-2021||Calcutta||TMC asks Om Birla to disqualify MP Sisir Adhikari, Sunil Mondal under anti-defection law||Sudip Bandyopadhyay, leader of Trinamul Congress (TMC) in Lok Sabha, called up Om Birla, Lok Sabha MP and urged him to begin action against turncoat leaders Sunil Mondal and Sisir Adhikari. TMC had earlier filed petitions, seeking the disqualification of the two leaders under anti-defection law for having joined the Trinamul Congress asks Om Birla to disqualify MP Sisir Adhikari, Sunil Mondal under anti-defection law for having joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) just ahead of the West Bengal Assembly Polls. Sisir, MP from Kanthi had joined BJP on March 21 while Mondal, MP from Burdwan Purba had defected to the saffron fold in December 2020. Following this Adhikari, Bandyopadhyay had written to the LS speaker twice asking him for their disqualification. However, when around 50BJP leaders met Governor Jagdeep Dhankar to take action against BJP MLAs under anti-defection law if they join TMC, Bandhyopadhyay called up the speaker again demanding action. Highlighting the details of the conversation that transpired between him and Birla, the TMC leader while talking to The Hindustan Times said, “The speaker told me that he will form a committee to review the petitions for disqualification and ask the two MPs to appear before it. He asked me when I will be able to travel to Delhi as I have to appear before the committee as well.” It is learnt that the team was led by Suvendu Adhikari, leader of the opposition in the West Bengal legislative assembly. Suvendu, a turncoat himself happens to be the son of Sisir. Interestingly, Dhankar while speaking to media regarding the same, said that Bengal is not an exception to anti-defection law and that he being the Contitutional head of the state would ensure its implemtation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
14-06-2021||Calcutta||New Town shootout: Gangster’s father seeks second post-mortem of his son in Punjab||Gangster Jaipal Bhullar’s father Bhupinder Bhullar has demanded a second post-mortem of his son in Punjab, police said. The elderly person had come to Calcutta to claim the body of his son, who was killed in a police raid on a New Town flat on Wednesday. The father has reportedly told the police that he would not cremate his son’s body without a second post-mortem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
14-06-2021||Calcutta||Animal lovers provide walkers to hurt stray dogs in Hooghly||A group of animal lovers provided walkers to a bunch of stray dogs at a pocket of Konnagar in Hooghly on Saturday. The drive took place at the Tina Bazar Milan Tirtha area, around 40km from the heart of Calcutta. The dogs had been living with recent or old injuries in their hind legs — mostly caused by two and four wheelers. A group called Unconditional Love for Animals organised the drive. The machines, which look like mini wheelchairs, provide added grip to the weak hind legs of the animals. The group members rescue injured animals and work for their rehabilitation. “The drive started on Saturday. We would take this to other parts of Howrah and Hooghly. Several NGOs still take care of stray animals in Calcutta but not so many in the suburbs,” said Timir Baran Mazumder,  one of the organisers of the drive. The reduction in the volume of vehicles, brought about by the Covid-19 curbs, has reduced animal accidents, said activists. But the shutdown of many small eateries on the road has dried up the source of food for the strays, said animal activists. Kanchan Mullick, the MLA of Uttarpara, attended the drive in Konnagar on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
14-06-2021||Calcutta||Lives of others: Smartphone not smart enough for some  ||In the early Nineties, when she was beginning her work as a disability rights activist, Shampa Sengupta was part of an effort to set up a school for disabled children in a Behala locality. On the first day of the school, some residents from the neighbourhood tried to stop the disabled children from entering the locality, as they would somehow be a “bad influence” on the “normal” children. Once the children were inside, angry residents threw bricks at the school. “This is unthinkable now,” says Sengupta, 56. The understanding of disability has changed in the last three decades. The Behala school, started in such an unfortunate manner, is now well-known as Mentaid Special School and also enjoys the support of the neighbourhood. Disability is also no longer seen as “something requiring charity”, says Sengupta. Instead, the conversation about it has changed to one of rights. This change has been possible, says Sengupta, because of the disability laws, first in 1995 and then in 2016, and the disability rights movement. “Even if a law is not implemented, it helps,” feels Sengupta, who started Sruti Disability Rights Centre in the city in 2005 for advocacy of disability rights with its focus on sexual violence. These achievements, however, need to be measured against what is yet to be achieved. Which is immense. Life is harsh for a person with disability. But in this part of the world, generally, a disabled person faces insurmountable difficultly because of the way spaces around him or her, as well as institutions and facilities, are designed or structured. Or not. Something as innocuous as a blink-and-miss OTP can cause a minor trauma to those not trained in the ways of the smartphone, which itself, ubiquitous as it may seem, is not something many persons with disability can use. Small things can leave out a large number of people, not to mention entire processes at offices or banks that can exclude the disabled entirely. The disabled are denied access because most systems are aligned with each other to render them invisible, more or less, never mind the signs in public transport. It is also because the non-disabled shut their eyes, or just stare. A lot would change, says Sengupta, if all children grew up seeing other kinds of children and people. As it had happened in Sengupta’s case. Her mother, a schoolteacher, had wanted a full-time caregiver for her daughter. When the caregiver arrived, it turned out that she was hearing impaired. Though relatives said a child could not be put under the care of such a person, Sengupta's mother insisted otherwise. “Ma’s decision had a profound impact on me,” says Sengupta. Later Sengupta attended Jadavpur University and studied comparative literature, which did its bit. “I believe it’s literature that gives you a world view,” she says. She completed a certificate course on special education from Indian Institute of Cerebral Palsy, but realised soon that teaching did not interest her. This would make her shift her focus to advocacy. Sruti Disability Rights Centre is not a formal group and relies on volunteers. Sengupta is also joint secretary of National Platform for Rights of the Disabled (NPRD), India's largest cross-disability network with several lakhs of members from different states. Sengupta also made a choice in her personal life that deepened her understanding, even as it took its toll. She married a person who had told her about his mother’s mental disability at their first meeting. “That’s how I became a caregiver, but by choice. Taking care of a person with mental illness took its toll. My mental health conditions deteriorated,” she says. She eventually came out through “self-counselling and self-analysis”, but feels that it is very important to talk about the mental health of caregivers. She points out how the pandemic has devastated the lives of the disabled. Most disabled people work in unorganised sectors and many of them have lost their jobs. “We can see many disabled people working as hawkers at railway stations. During the second wave, not just disabled children, but also young adults who need day-to-day support and care, have lost their parents.” The government has not thought about them. The CoWin website remains inaccessible for those with visual impairments, as did the Arogyasetu app. The majority of web platforms is not accessible to the visually impaired and they cannot attend online classes, she points out. Masks stop the hearing impaired, who communicate with lip-movement, from expressing themselves. Special schools remained closed, children were denied therapies. “As people were asked to avoid ‘touch’, people with mobility problems who depend on others found it difficult to move around as our cities are not barrier-free. Other than Kerala, no state started a Covid helpline with sign language facilities. In October last year, Sengupta wrote to Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) to include the disabled in the study CMC was conducting on persons with comorbidities during the pandemic. “It is strange that NGOs have to say this,” says Sengupta. She is yet to hear from the authorities. Sengupta is particularly disturbed by the rise of sexual violence during the pandemic. The sexual violence that the disabled experience is an area little spoken about. It is an area she began to work in after the initial years. “I was the first employee of Swayam, an organisation working against violence on women,” says Sengupta. “The gang rape of a young woman with speech and hearing impairments in 2000 changed my path. I decided to work on the intersection of disability and gender,” she says. “When one works on intersections, the challenges are bigger,” she adds. “Not all women's groups understand disability issues nor are disability groups aware of gender rights,” says Sengupta. “I got the opportunity of meeting Verma Committee members after the 2012 Delhi gang rape case. The members told me that they did not get many recommendations about disabled women. They kept on asking for more case studies from me to understand the issue better. That's how our criminal law now includes the issue of disabled women now," says Sengupta. She considers the fact that both the disability law of the country as well as laws on sexual violence include the issue of women with disabilities, for which she had worked hard, the milestones of her life. “Sometimes the FIR is just not written correctly. A speech-impaired person may be mistaken as deaf. The entire case changes then,” she adds. “For this the police, the authorities or institutions cannot be blamed.” What is really responsible is an appalling lack of information spread across communities and institutions, still breeding ignorance and fear. Information about the law, the rights, the facilities can empower the disabled. Even now the parents with a disabled child simply may not know at all where to go, which school to get their child admitted to, what to do at all. With information, is required empathy. Which brings one back to the argument for an inclusive education that has all children growing up together, though the model comes with its own challenges. But empathy come naturally to children. “Disabled children who have gone to mainstream schools always say that their schoolmates were their friends. If they faced discrimination it was from teachers and authorities, the adults,” says Sengupta. While growing up, learning to respect difference is very important now, when right-wing politics wants to make uniformity a code. “It is dangerous as far as disability is concerned,” says Sengupta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
14-06-2021||Calcutta||City receives widespread rain after monsoon’s tame arrival||The city received uniform and widespread rain on Sunday, the first such spell after the monsoon’s tame arrival a day before. The sun had come out brightly on Sunday morning and stayed overhead for the better part of the day. The clouds started arriving around forenoon but the build-up was slow. It was only around 3pm that the sky became reasonably gloomy and the sun disappeared behind the clouds. The rain started soon and lasted for close to 30 minutes. According to figures from the civic body’s pumping stations, Behala was the wettest area, recording over 40mm of rain. The New Market area received around 30mm of rain, Cossipore 22mm and Dum Dum around 15mm. In Met parlance, more than 60mm of rain in 24 hours qualifies as heavy. The Met office recorded around 30mm of rain in Alipore, compared to only 2mm on Saturday, when the monsoon reached Calcutta. The system over the Bay of Bengal which guided the monsoon into south Bengal, sandwiched between two sets of winds, could not enter land on Saturday. Rain-bearing clouds from Bangladesh did reach Calcutta, only to be drifted further away towards Jharkhand. “The system is still oscillating on the northwest Bay of Bengal, along the coasts of Odisha and Bengal. Today, it came slightly closer to the Bengal coast. A fair section of rain-bearing clouds from the Bay and Bangladesh emptied themselves over Calcutta and adjoining districts,” said a Met official. “If the system does not enter land, it will dissipate on the sea itself. The weather in Calcutta is likely to be a mix of sun and cloud. When it is not raining and the sun is out, conditions are going to be extremely sweaty because of the high moisture content in the atmosphere,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
14-06-2021||Calcutta||Red Road dug up for first time to repair brick culvert built by British||The 201-year-old Red Road has been dug up for the first time in many decades so a brick culvert built by the British can be repaired. The culvert contains two tunnels that connect the Hooghly with the city and runs under the Maidan, unbeknownst to thousands who commute through that stretch or play on the green sprawl. Special job At least two public works department engineers told The Telegraph that Red Road had never been dug up like this before. Function of the tunnels They are meant to drain water from the Maidan into the river. They do the opposite as well — bring water from the river during very high tides. This water often floods parts of the Maidan. Football fans are familiar with the Mohun Bagan Club tent getting flooded occasionally. Nilangshu Basu, a former chief municipal engineer who had led the team of engineers that desilted the city’s British built underground sewer network, said a moat was built around Fort William when it was shifted to its current location. “To fill the channel with water, it was connected with the drainage system of places like Park Street and Lindsay Street. The water from these places used to flow into the moat,” he said. The channel was subsequently filled up with earth and over the years, a drainage network was built to remove water from Park Street and neighbouring places. The sewage from these areas now flows towards AJC Bose Road. But water in the Maidan area still flows through the two channels that pass under Red Road. Reason for repair An overflow from an open channel near Mohun Bagan Club after a spell of rain in the last week of May and reappearance of a depression on Red Road even after a repair work on the surface gave PWD officials an impression that the flow of underground water was being interrupted. “We tried to repair Red Road from the surface but the depression occurred again after a few days. We realised the problem was underground. So the decision to dig Red Road was taken,” said a senior PWD engineer. The job at hand The broken masonry arch culvert is more than 5feet underground. The arch will be replaced by a rectangular slab to make the structure more sustainable, an official said. The officials, however, refused to divulge more details as the “project is very sensitive”. Tunnel composition The two-century-old structure has multiple layers of bricks placed one after the other to support the weight of vehicles passing through Red Road. Time needed Work is likely to be completed by 10pm on June 17. History of Red Road Earlier known as the “Secretary’s Walk”, the present Red Road is believed to have been constructed in 1820 to connect the Governor General’s residence (now Raj Bhavan) to the southern part of the city, said urban historian Debasis Bose. “This used to be the principal road for the movement of the secretary to the governor general.” Red Road allowed the officials to bypass the more congested roads that connect Kidderpore (Calcutta’s port area) to the heart of the city via Old Court House Street, Mission Row and Brabourne Road. Story behind the name Legend has it that when the thoroughfare was being constructed, the stretch used to be covered with a layer of red brick chips. People started calling it Red Road. Bose said the road had also been referred to as the “Lady’s Mile” in several history books on Calcutta, presumably because white women would take a stroll on the stretch in the morning and the evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
14-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Health officers tasked on travellers’  2nd dose of Covishield||The executive health officer of each borough in the city will verify the documents of the students and others who will fly abroad and need to take the second dose of Covishield 28 days after the first, a Calcutta Municipal Corporation official said. “The borough executive health officers will check the documents and do the needful. The applicants can take the second dose from any CMC clinic,” the official said. The Centre’s latest order on the Covishield dosing schedule states that recipients will be eligible for the second jab 12 weeks after the first. The government, however, had on Monday announced that students with offers from foreign institutions, professionals with job offers from abroad and members of the Indian contingent bound for the Tokyo Olympics would be allowed to take the second dose of the vaccine 28 days after the first. The CMC’s health services in each borough is headed by its executive health officer. The state health department had earlier made the municipal commissioner of the CMC the designated authority to check the documents of such people and certify whether they have a genuine reason to get the second dose of Covishield earlier than usual. In the districts, the health department has assigned the task to the respective chief medical officers of health. CMC officials said that since it was not possible for the municipal commissioner to check all documents, the authority had been delegated to officials across the city. “The applicants will not have to visit the civic headquarters. They have to approach the executive health officer of their borough,” an official said. Bidhannagar residents can send their applications and documents to the chairperson of the board of administrators of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, said Krishna Chakraborty, the chairperson. A senior official of the South 24-Parganas health administration told The Telegraph that residents of districts other than Calcutta should approach the assistant chief medical officer of health in the respective sub-divisions with their documents for the verification. Once the official concerned checks the documents and certifies that an applicant has a genuine reason to take the second dose of Covishield 28 days after the first, she or he will initiate the process by which a slot for the jab can be booked through the CoWIN portal. The health ministry’s announcement mentioned some of the documents that those who want their second dose early have to produce. Those include: ⚫ Admission offers or associated formal communications ⚫ Interview calls for a job or offer letters ⚫ Nomination to participate in the Tokyo Olympic games.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
14-06-2021||Calcutta||Contai school students empty piggy bank for Yaas relief, donate Rs 1,200||Two school students, a brother and a sister, have donated Rs 1,200 that they had saved over the last few months for children whose homes and lives have been devastated by Cyclone Yaas. Angana Panda, 14, and Ambarish Panda, 11, residents of Contai in East Midnapore, handed the money to an NGO in the town earlier this week to buy books for those students who lost their study materials in the May 26 cyclone. The siblings had heard of the kind of losses many in East Midnapore had suffered. The idea to help them germinated in their minds because of their mother. “Many students of our age have lost their homes and are now living on ration. There are many who do not have books,” said Angana, a student of Class VIII at Contai Public School. It all started one evening after Yaas when Ambarish, a Class VI student, was nagging his mother for a big packet of potato chips. Mother Ishita Panda told him that at a time when many were unable to get proper meals and drinking water, it was not right to make such a demand. “I asked them to think about the plight of those affected by the cyclone. Instead of thinking what they want for themselves, they should think about those in pain,” Ishita said. A day later, the children came to her with their piggy banks wanting to give the money to help those who were suffering. “I did not ask them to donate the money. That they did on their own but as parents we have to make them understand the struggle that others are going through,” Ishita said. The family approached an NGO, Fair Field Excellence, whose core area of work is supporting poor and meritorious children. They have also been supporting families during calamities over the past two years. Fair Field Excellence has been running a community kitchen to provide food to families devastated by Yaas in and around Digha. “We are also providing books to children, mainly from Classes V to X,” said the secretary of the NGO, Sanatan Jana. “We will buy books with the money the duo have given us. We are grateful to the parents for instilling the right values in the children because that is how they learn to be humane and stand by those who are in need,” said Jana, a math teacher at a government school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
14-06-2021||Calcutta||Scottish Church College considers fee refund for Covid-hit students||Scottish Church College, which has decided to waive fees for the ongoing and forthcoming semesters for students who have lost a parent to Covid, is considering a proposal to refund fees paid by those students in the immediate preceding semester. Eight students of the college, who have lost a parent to Covid this year, have applied for a fee waiver for the ongoing and forthcoming semesters. “If the authorities find it (the proposal on refund) feasible, a notification will be issued about the refund of fees paid in the last semester to help these students,” vice-principal Supratim Das said. According to the fee structures posted on the college website, a microbiology honours student has to pay Rs 36,966 in the first semester. The amount covers lab fee, lab development fee, academic development fee, tuition fee and annual fee. A physics honours student in the first semester has to pay Rs 17,166. “We are concerned about the financial distress of the students who have lost a parent or both parents to Covid. A feasibility study on the refund proposal has to be undertaken as the revenue generation of the college has taken a substantial hit amid the pandemic,” a teacher of the college said. According to him, continuance of classes on digital platforms, as a precaution against Covid, has resulted in a rise in the expenses of the institution. Last year, the state government had prevented all colleges from collecting money from undergraduate aspirants for application forms and prospectuses because of overall financial distress caused by Covid. Talking about the financial and mental distress faced by students, principal Madhumanjari Mandal had last week cited the instance of a student whose parents had committed suicide. “The student might not have lost her parents to Covid-19 per se, the pandemic-induced economic hardship is the probable trigger,” the principal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
14-06-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta  Municipal Corporation considers opening centres to vaccinate 18-44 age group||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation is considering opening centres dedicated to vaccinating the 18-44 age group to reduce crowding at civic clinics, which officials said is hampering non-Covid health services. People who are 45 or older will continue to get their jabs from the civic health clinics. The civic body is planning to start vaccination of the 18-44 age group towards the end of this month. Officials said the rush for Covid vaccination is affecting other services offered by the clinics, such as check-up of tuberculosis patients, routine inoculation of children and monitoring of maternity health. “People in need of non-Covid services have mostly stopped visiting civic clinics because of overcrowding caused by Covid vaccine recipients. They fear they might catch the infection from the crowd. If such people stop visiting the clinics, other serious health issues will crop up. The civic body wants to avoid that and so it is planning to run vaccination of the 18-44 age group at other centres,” said an official of the CMC’s health department. “The number of recipients in the ‘45 and above’ group is gradually decreasing as a large number of them are vaccinated. The real crowding will be in the 18-44 group. If they are vaccinated at other centres run by the CMC, the burden on health clinics will lessen,” the official said. An official of the civic body’s health department said they had noticed more than 50 per cent drop in routine immunisation of children in some of the health clinics. Under the universal vaccination scheme, newborns are administered vaccines against a range of diseases including diphtheria, tetanus, measles, rubella and hepatitis B. The vaccines are administered for free at the CMC clinics. Universal vaccination is a very important tool in reducing child mortality, said a civic doctor. “The sharp drop in the number of newborns being brought to the CMC clinics for vaccination is a cause of concern,” the doctor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
14-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid scars on young minds who lost their parents||Frequent outbursts, abrupt halt to the pursuit of a hobby, worries about the family’s finances… these are some of the many emotional turmoils students who have lost their parents to Covid are suffering from. Teachers who are reaching out to such students said that while the younger ones were overwhelmed by the grief of losing their parents, the older pupils, though drowned in sorrow, were having to deal with the uncertainty over their future and that of their families. A number of Class XII students, for instance, have shared their fears with teachers that they might not be able to study engineering or medicine after the death of the family’s sole earning member. A Class XI student of a city school is worried about how she will recharge her phone every month now that her father is no more. A Class IV student who has lost her mother made a painting depicting her mother accompanying her to school on a two-wheeler, which she used to do before Covid arrived. A Class II child has told his teacher that his father’s death has left him with no friends. Not just parents, a number of students are also having to endure the pangs of losing their grandparents and uncles to the pandemic. Schools have devised ways to reach out to the children - such as identifying a teacher whom the child can be most comfortable with and initiating interactive sessions with the children. “There are students who have their guards up and they do not want intrusion. So we have identified a teacher who a child is close to and getting that teacher to interact with the student. The sessions are planned but it is made to appear unplanned so that the child can open up,” said Anjana Saha, the principal of Mahadevi Birla World Academy. “Some senior students are worried about their future after the death of their father, the sole earning member of the family. They are not sure whether they will be able to pursue a career of their choice anymore,” said Jessica Gomes Surana, the principal of Loreto Convent, Entally. Sonali Sen, the principal of DPS New Town, said that on some occasions children were displaying conflicting emotions, which showed they had a “restless mind”. “We have to listen to what they are saying, instead of trying to suggest a solution…. With pouring out (of grief and anxiety), comes some relief,” Sen said. Teachers face a stumbling block when a student has his or her “guards up and refuses to open up”, a problem that has become more intractable in the absence of in-person classes. “Our teachers are ready to reach out to children, but it is difficult to comprehend a child’s emotions in an online class. During an in-person class, if a child has her head down or is not answering the teacher’s question, one can assume something is wrong,” said Aruna Gomes, the principal of Loreto House. Farishta Dastur Mukerji, psychotherapist and counsellor at Calcutta International School, said certain behavioral patterns could be observed in an online space, too. “It could be not submitting assignments on time... or some behaviour that is different from the usual one,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
14-06-2021||Business||Jeremy Gosselin on What Makes a Bad Credit Auto Finance Firm Successful||There's a lot which goes into the making of this business, explained in detail. 26-year-old Jeremy Gosselin from Canada has taken over the automotive finance business, providing loans to even customers with a bad credit history. Today, his firm Mon Financement Automobile (www.monfinancementautomobile.com) is a known name in business which provides bank and private finance for automobile purchase. He says that with the growing demand for automobiles, demand for financing the purchases has also gone up, giving way for many to think about entering the automobile finance arena. But, it's not as simple as it seems as establishing a successful business which deals in financing for purchasers with bad credit history requires a lot of groundwork which is explained by Jeremy in detail. Individuals having bad credit history are likely to seek financing from a private finance company than a bank as the latter are likely to reject the loan request based on the past payment history of the loan seeker. A finance company for negative credit history buyers can be a lucrative business proposition if the processes followed are proper and timely. Here Jeremy chalks out a few important points which if followed can benefit the business positively. Spread the word about your specialization in financing bad credit buyers. A majority of your clients would come from car dealerships you have tied up with, but you can also attract an additional chunk by advertising your business via suitable means like radio, print, internet etc. Approach car dealerships who are willing to refer their customers to your firm. Get in touch with the small players initially as they are less likely to have their in-house finance options and most work in conjunction with third party finance companies. There can be a considerable amount of business coming in from these small car dealers if your approach is well enough to divert their focus towards your business. Financing for bad credit customers has its own risks which need to be handled on time to avoid unavoidable circumstances. The prospect of default is much higher in these cases and one has to keep reliable vehicle repossession agencies on your rolls and keep a tab on possible future defaults to be prepared well beforehand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-20
14-06-2021||Business||Jai Karan Walia and Clever Corp’s Synchronized Efforts Reap Results For Many Business Firms||Leveraging relationships and prioritizing strategic imperatives are key parameters set by Jai Karan Walia to excel in his professional work. The world has seen it all in recent times. Billions of people and billions of ideas. The current generation are blessed with some unique stuff that the old-timers just couldn’t dream off. Today, it is not so surprising to listen to young guns becoming successful entrepreneurs before even they turn 30 years of age. Gone are the days when slow and steady wins the race was the motto, bring on the new generation and they say fast forward it to models of sustainability and profitability. One rising superstar of the entrepreneurial world who has thrilled every one by his skills of pursuing his dream companies successfully is Jai Karan Walia. To be an Entrepreneur in very young age is very burdensome, but one cannot deny that young generation has changed the scenario of business era with great success and Jai Karan Walia is the perfect example of it. Born and brough up in Punjab, India, this young entrepreneur went from an amateur to a professional in short span of time. He had moved to Dubai in 2011 to complete his mechanical engineering and graduated from the renowned BITS Pilani institute. Jai also finished his post-graduation in EMBA from Hult Business School which is ranked 9th best institute in the world. To further learn and carve his professional skills, he worked as an intern with many multi-national organizations. Once Jai realized that he was ready for the bigger picture in life, he founded “Clever Corp” based out of Dubai. Understanding the growth and potential of Dubai as a location and it also being a hub for different businesses, it was an easy choice to attract the customers in this prime location and then build different branches around it. Clever Corp now operates in Abu Dhabi, China, and Nigeria as well. Clever Corp sets high standards of their professional work in being a business advisory setup that helps millions of upcoming companies and businesses get noticed in the business world. They excel in providing advisory services and in consultations. They have quickly become the numero uno choice among many clients. This consulting agency have helped deliver millions when it comes to revenue generation for many firms. With wide range of services and tailor-made solutions available under one roof, the customers job has become hassle free to grow his business. They dedicatedly believe in providing 100% customer satisfaction with 100% transparency and accountability. Clever Corp is also an established firm in real estate industry and are tax consultants as well. They were highly obliged to receive the 'Indo Arab summit award for best Business Setup in UAE in 2019', presented to them by the Union Minister of India. All the years of hard work and passion today has catapult Jai Karan Walia in establishing himself as a successful entrepreneur. At this tender age today, Jai is an owner of multiple properties in Dubai and also owns a series of luxury cars under his belt. We wish this resilient and driven individual al the very best for future endeavors. Do follow him on Instagram @jaikaranwalia or visit the website, https://theclevercorp.com/.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-20
14-06-2021||Business||WPI inflation hits all-time high of 12.94 per cent in May||The wholesale price-based inflation accelerated to a record 12.94 per cent in May, on account of rising prices of crude oil, manufactured goods and a low base of last year. In May last year, WPI inflation was (-) 3.37 per cent and in April 2021, WPI inflation hit double digit at 10.49 per cent. This is the fifth straight month of uptick seen in the wholesale price index (WPI)-based inflation. "The annual rate of inflation, based on monthly WPI, was 12.94 per cent for the month of May, 2021 (over May, 2020) as compared to (-) 3.37 per cent in May 2020. "The high rate of inflation in May 2021 is primarily due to low base effect and rise in prices of crude petroleum, mineral oils viz. petrol, diesel, naphtha, furnace oil etc. and manufactured products as compared to the corresponding month of the previous year," the Commerce and Industry Ministry said. Inflation in fuel and power basket spiked to 37.61 per cent during May, against 20.94 per cent in April, amid hardening of global commodity prices. Prices of crude petroleum and other fuels had crashed last year in May due to lockdowns across the globe which had caused demand to plummet. In manufactured products, inflation stood at 10.83 per cent in May, against 9.01 per cent in the previous month. However, inflation in food articles eased marginally to 4.31 per cent in May, even as onion prices spiked. Inflation in onion stood at 23.24 per cent in May, against (-) 19.72 per cent in April. ICRA Chief Economist Aditi Nayar said the core-WPI inflation (manufactured non-food products) hardened sharply to a series-high 10 per cent in May 2021, with a broad-based uptrend across most sub-sectors. "The continued rise in global crude oil prices, a weaker rupee and the upward revision in domestic fuel prices remain risk factors for the upcoming WPI print. However, we expect the headline WPI inflation to recede modestly to 11.9-12.3 per cent in June 2021, as the base starts to normalise, Nayar added. PHDCCI President Sanjay Aggarwal said high fuel inflation is escalating the input costs of the industry and its competitiveness in the domestic and international markets. "At this juncture, we urge the government to consider petroleum products in the ambit of GST to rationalize the prices and to contain the rising inflation," Aggarwal added. ITM B-School HoD, Financial Markets, Krupesh Thakkar said though RBI might not look into these numbers too cautiously, these cost-push pressures would be seen in the Retail Inflation with a lag. "Of course, the yearly Consumer Price Index (CPI) figures do depend on its segment weightage and relative base impact, but these pressures cannot be ignored," Thakkar added. The RBI, which takes into account retail inflation while framing monetary policy, had earlier this month kept interest rates unchanged at record lows and committed to maintain an accommodative policy stance to support growth. RBI pegged retail inflation at 5.1 per cent in this fiscal ending March 2022, with upside risks from higher commodity prices and re-emergence of higher supply constraints amidst the current phase of lockdowns. Retail inflation data for May is scheduled to be released later in the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-20
14-06-2021||Business||Sensex rebounds 359 points to close above 52,300||The BSE benchmark Sensex surged nearly 359 points to close above the 52,300-level on Thursday, with financial, pharma and IT shares gaining the most amid positive global cues.  The 30-share Sensex finished 358.83 points or 0.69 per cent higher at 52,300.47. Intra-day, the index swung between a high of 52,346.35 and a low of 51,957.92.  Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty climbed 102.40 points or 0.65 per cent to end at 15,737.75.  On the Sensex chart, Bajaj Finance, Bajaj FinServ, SBI, IndusInd Bank, Dr Reddy's, Tech Mahindra, ITC and Kotak Bank were the prominent gainers rising up to 7.29 per cent.  On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, Maruti, HCL Tech, Ultratech Cement, PowerGrid, ONGC and Nestle suffered losses.  Of the 30 shares in the Sensex pack, 23 ended with gains.  Elsewhere in Asia, stock markets closed with gains ahead of crucial US inflation data for May.  On the forex market front, the Indian rupee lost 9 paise to end at 73.06 against the US dollar on Thursday.  "Many states have eased lockdown restrictions since the peaking of the second COVID wave in early May. The central bank is maintaining its accommodative stance, while the government has launched another fiscal package via the distribution of free vaccines and food," said Jen-Ai Chua, Equity Research Analyst Asia, Julius Baer.  "India is expected to vaccinate two-thirds of its population with a first dose by early 2022 -- a key move that should boost its COVID containment efforts. We maintain our constructive view on the market," he added.  The active COVID-19 cases in the country have reduced to 11,67,952 comprising 4 per cent of the total infections, while the national recovery rate has improved to 94.77 per cent, the Health Ministry data showed on Thursday.  Meanwhile, 94,052 new cases took the tally to 2,91,83,121; while a net decline of 63,463 cases has been recorded in the total number of COVID-19 cases in a span of 24 hours, the data showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-20
14-06-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 185 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 185 points in early trade on Monday, tracking losses in index-heavyweights HDFC twins, ICICI Bank, SBI and Bajaj Finance.  The 30-share BSE index was trading 188.89 points or 0.36 per cent lower at 52,285.87 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty fell 80.65 points or 0.51 per cent to 15,718.70.  Bajaj Finance was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 1.65 per cent, followed by NTPC, SBI, Kotak Bank, Bharti Airtel, Dr Reddy's and HDFC twins.  On the other hand, Infosys, Reliance, TCS, Bajaj Auto and ONGC were the gainers.  In the previous session, the 30-share BSE Sensex ended 174.29 points or 0.33 per cent up at its new closing high of 52,474.76. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 61.60 points or 0.39 per cent to its lifetime peak of 15,799.35.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 18.64 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data.  Elsewhere in Asia, stocks in Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Seoul was in the red. Markets in China and Hong Kong were closed on Monday on account of a local holiday.  US equities finished mixed in the previous session.  International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.45 per cent higher at USD 73.02 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-20
14-06-2021||Business||Sona Comstar bets auto market recovery by 2025 with electric vehicles||Auto components manufacturer Sona Comstar believes the global auto market will recover by 2025 with electric vehicles and mild hybrids leading a five-fold growth in demand. Sona Comstar  makes automotive systems and components such as differential assemblies, differential gears, conventional and micro-hybrid starter motors and motor control units. Its clients are car makers across US, Europe, India and China for both electrified and non-electrified powertrain segments. “In 2025, battery electric vehicles and mild hybrids are expected to account for 33 per cent of the global production compared with 8 per cent in 2020. Global automotive sales will rise from 70.3 million units in 2020 to 82.4 million units in 2023 and 91.5 million units in 2025 with a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 5 per cent,” said Sunjay Kapur, chairman Sona Comstar. He said battery electric vehicles will grow at CAGR of 36 per cent between 2020 and 2025. Mild hybrids will grow at 46 per cent and electric two-wheelers at 70 per cent in the same period. The company, which mopped up Rs 2,498 crore from anchor investors ahead of its IPO on Monday, is pitching itself as a lead player in the battery vehicle market as a manufacturer and global supplier. The total offer size of its IPO is up to Rs 5,550 crore with a fresh issuance of equity shares, aggregating up to Rs 300 crore and an offer for sale of equity shares aggregating up to Rs 5,250 crore. In August 2019, Blackstone announced the merger of Chennai-based auto component firm Comstar, which it controlled, with Sunjay Kapur’s Sona BLW to create Sona Comstar. The company generates around 41 per cent of its revenue from electric vehicles and mild hybrid sales and about 14 per cent revenue are from pure battery electric vehicles. It has been supplying differential gears in the battery electric vehicle markets since 2016 and differential assemblies since 2019. In 2020, it had 8.7 per cent share in the global BEV (battery electric vehicle) differential assembly market. The company has a 40 per cent market share in the Indian passenger vehicle segment for differential gears and 10 per cent share in the commericial vehicle segment and five per cent in the tractor segment. Among its customers are Dana, Volvo, Daimler, JLR, Geely and others. Mahindra and Mahindra, Maruti, Escorts, Ashok Leyland among others make up its Indian customers. The comany has manufacturing plants in Gurgaon, Chennai, Manesar and Pune with assembly plants in the US, Mexico and China. Its EBIDTA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization margins) have been 29 per cent in 2018-19, 27 per cent in 2019-20 and 28 per cent in 2020-21 respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-20
14-06-2021||Business||Caveat to I-T during raids||Taxpayers ought not to be forced to make confessions under duress during a search and survey operations when they are most vulnerable and anxious as tax sleuths rummage through their offices and homes. Tax experts are suggesting that in the interest of fairness, a taxpayer who has been subjected to a raid should get at least 15 working days to make their disclosures. During a search operation, a taxpayer rarely has access to all the relevant details and the benefit of advice from his tax consultant to be able to make a full disclosure. Tax advocate Narayan Jain said during a recent webinar that the practice of forcing a disclosure out of a harried taxpayer should be legally banned. Jain said that the Central Board for Direct Taxes had issued an instruction in 2003 (F. No 286/2/2003) in which it said: “Instances have come to the notice of the board where assessees have claimed that they have been forced to confess the undisclosed income during the course of the search and survey operations. Such confessions, if not based upon credible evidence, are later retracted by the concerned assessees while filing returns of income. The note went on to add: “It is advised that there should be focus and concentration on collection of evidence of income which leads to information on what has not been disclosed or is not likely to be disclosed to the income tax department... No attempt should be made to obtain confessions as to the undisclosed income.” Jain reckons that the tax sleuths should also hand over a copy of the statement recorded during a survey and search operation to the taxpayer so that he can then proceed with his best legal options. He added that the stipulation that two respectable witnesses should be present during a raid is rarely followed in its true spirit. In many cases, he said, servants of the taxpayers were shown as witnesses — which is inconsistent with the legal stipulation. He said the tax administration should allow the filing of wealth tax returns to enable assessees to prove the acquisition or disclosure of jewellery. The last wealth tax return was allowed to be filed for the assessment year 2015-16. Wealth tax was abolished in the budget of 2015. Former income tax chief commissioner R.S. Upadhyay agreed that the CBDT had instructed that taxpayers should not be pressured to declared undisclosed income during a survey and search operation. However, the instruction was not always scrupulously followed which perpetuated a negative image of the department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-20
14-06-2021||Business||Trading in the shares of DHFL suspended from Monday||Leading exchanges BSE and NSE will suspend trading in the shares of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL) with effect from Monday. The move, aimed at avoiding “market complications”, comes against the backdrop of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) approving Piramal Group’s resolution plan for the bankrupt-DHFL. The resolution plan under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) was approved by the tribunal on June 7. In separate but similarly-worded circulars issued on Friday, the BSE and the NSE said they would suspend trading in the shares of DHFL with effect from June 14. The approved resolution plan provides for delisting of equity shares of the company. According to the circulars, the company made an announcement on June 9, saying that “no value was attributable to the equity shares as per the liquidation value of the company estimated by registered valuers appointed under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Insolvency Resolution Process for Corporate Persons) Regulations, 2016”. In November 2019, the Reserve Bank of India had referred DHFL — then the third-largest pure-play mortgage lender — for resolution under the IBC. It was the first finance company to be referred to the NCLT by RBI using special powers under Section 227 of the IBC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-20
14-06-2021||Business||Coal India Ltd to reward its shareholders with an additional final dividend of 20-25%||The world’s largest miner — Coal India Ltd — is expected to reward its shareholders with an additional final dividend of 20-25 per cent at its board meeting on June 14, sources said. The company will declare its fourth-quarter financial results on that day. Though the miner has failed to achieve its production and offtake targets for 2020-21, it has surpassed the revised capital expenditure target of Rs 13,000 crore. “The board will try declaring another round of dividend but it is expected to be less than the two interim dividends of Rs 7.5 and Rs 5 on each share of Rs 10 each,” the sources told PTI. The total interim dividend for 2020-21 is Rs 12.5 per share and the final dividend could be Rs 2-2.5 per share to make the final total dividend not less than Rs 15 per share, the sources indicated. The government will be the largest beneficiary of the dividend as its shareholding stands at 66.13 per cent. The fourth-quarter numbers were expected to remain weak, according to analysts estimates but stock market participants remained bullish and the stock rose 6.24 per cent during the week. On the capex achievement the official said, “Initially, the target was Rs 10,000 crore but with the Covid-19 induced slowdown in the economy the government asked to raise it to support the economy. We raised the capex target to Rs 13,000 crore and we have surpassed it.” The capital expenditure for the 2020-21 fiscal was at Rs 13,115 crore, a 109 per cent rise compared with the previous year’s capex outgo of Rs 6,270 crore. Procurement of heavy earth moving machinery at Rs 3,453 crore topped the list of capex heads for FY21, followed by land at Rs 2,470 crore. Capex in joint ventures, in proportion to CIL’s shareholding, like Talcher Fertilizers Ltd and Hindustan Urvarak & Rasayan Ltd, accounted for Rs 2,194 crore. Spending on coal evacuation infrastructure such as coal handling plants, silos and constructing sidings amounted for Rs 1,398 crore while construction of rail corridors and railway lines amounted to Rs 1,166 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-20
14-06-2021||Business||RSH Global eyes exponential growth in Bengal and Maharashtra ||After carving out a strong presence in north India, personal care products maker RSH Global is eyeing an exponential growth in Bengal and Maharashtra over the next three years. The homegrown firm known for brands such as Joy, XMen and Karis expects to surpass Rs 300 crore in gross merchandise value from these two states over the next three years from around Rs 80 crore. The company is also looking to expand its presence in the northern region, which is its largest market. Sunil Agarwal, chairman of RSH Global, told The Telegraph that its entire focus in the first 20-25 years of operation were the northern and western regions of the country. “But there was always this recurring feeling on how can we grow in this market (Bengal). We had to first identify the hero product for Bengal. We zeroed in on face wash and sunscreen where we are now doing decent business. We have also started mass media advertising from last year. These will be the two major states where we will be putting most of our efforts and we expect a multifold growth,” he added. Agarwal’s optimistic outlook for these two markets comes at a time companies have been witnessing a slowdown in demand following the second Covid wave. The RSH Global chairman disclosed that the beginning to this fiscal was decent, but with most of the states opting for a lockdown, sales have been affected. However, he expects a sharp rebound from September. “We are confident that we can not only match last year’s figure (for the second half), but can even beat them,” Agarwal observed. For 2021-22, RSH Global is expecting a sales growth of 15-20 per cent over last fiscal. In 2019-20, it posted a growth of five per cent for the whole year as the first half was severely affected because of the nationwide lockdown. However, it bounced back strongly in the second half with a record growth of 50 per cent. According to Nielsen data, RSH Global is ranked the sixth largest skincare company in the Rs 13,000-crore market. The company is now looking to launch around 15 products over the next two months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
14-06-2021||Business||Four companies set to debut this week on India’s primary market||After a brief lull, India’s primary market will come back to life this week with four companies making their debut. And that may be just the start of a frantic few months of initial public offers with the new entrants banking on abundant liquidity and a strong retail interest. The four firms that will jointly raise Rs 9,123 crore are Shyam Metalics and Energy Ltd, Sona BLW Precision Forgings (Sona Comstar), Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences and Dodla Dairy. Macrotech Developers was the last company to tap the markets in April. So far in 2021, around 20 companies have tapped the main board. In the previous fiscal, domestic firms raised around Rs 31,500 crore through IPOs. Most of the companies who offered shares have enjoyed solid listing gains, which have prompted retail investors to jump into the subscription race. Of the 20 firms that have tapped the primary markets in this calendar year, around 16 are now trading higher than their issue price, thus showing investors who failed to get an allotment could pocket gains if they purchased the shares from the secondary market. These gains are seen even in the case of companies such as Barbeque Nation Hospitality, which is in a sector hit hard by the pandemic and the resultant lockdowns. Its shares are currently trading at Rs 827.45 — a gain of 65.49 per cent over its issue price. This is also the case with Easy Trip Planners (up 137 per cent), Nureca (up 278 per cent), Indigo Paints (up 77 per cent) and Laxmi Organic Industries (up 73 per cent). Speaking to The Telegraph, Pranav Haldea, managing director, PRIME Database Group said the IPO pipeline remained strong with around 50 companies either holding regulator approval or awaiting its nod. Haldea pointed out that the primary market takes a cue from the secondary market and as long as the latter remains strong, IPOs will continue to see brisk activity. He said one of the major highlights over the past one year was that retail participation has gone up significantly because of listing gains. “We have seen good interest across the board. Retail investors follow the institutional investors. So when there is a good institutional response, we find good retail investor participation as well,’’ he noted. Edible oil firm Ruchi Soya, which is owned by Baba Ramdev-led Patanjali Ayurveda, has filed draft document with Sebi to launch a follow-on public offer (FPO) to raise up to Rs 4,300 crore. The FPO is being launched to meet the Sebi norm of minimum public shareholding of 25 per cent in a listed entity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
14-06-2021||Business||Tata Steel BSL Ltd reduces debt by 60 per cent||Riding on the commodity boom, Tata Steel has been able to significantly make good on its big-ticket purchase of Bhushan Steel Limited (BSL) three years ago that potentially makes it the most successful acquisition by the company. Within three years of taking over the stressed company from the bankruptcy court, Tata Steel BSL Ltd (TSBSL) has been able to reduce debt by 60 per cent already, thereby paring down the acquisition cost significantly. If the steel market continues to remain buoyant as it is, more deleveraging is on the way. Tata Steel Ltd had stumped up Rs 35,200 crore for the Odisha-based plant which can produce 5.6 million tonnes. While the parent invested Rs 19,700 crore from its own balance sheet, it also put in place a 12-year long-term take-out financing of Rs 15,500 crore for Tata Steel BSL. A back of the hand calculation suggests the company has been able to reduce leverage by Rs 9,300 crore, majority of which was achieved in the last fiscal alone. The gross debt at TSBSL came down by Rs 5,500 crore in 2020-21 due to strong cash flow from the business. “It is important to mention that since acquisition, Tata Steel BSL has reduced its leverage significantly by 60 per cent and, therefore, has significantly paid back the acquisition cost,” Tata Steel disclosed in its latest annual report. Tata Steel BSL is on its way to be merged with the parent as shareholders of the respective companies have approved the plan. TSBSL shareholders will get 1 share of Tata Steel for every 15 shares held in the company. The scheme of arrangement is pending approval from the National Company Law Tribunal. During the January-March quarter, the company achieved an earning before interest, depreciation, tax and amortisation (EBIDTA) of Rs 21,648 a tonne, an EBIDTA margin of 35.3 per cent. It posted a profit of Rs 1,912 crore for the quarter and Rs 2,516 crore for the full year. It had recorded Rs 8 crore profit in the fourth quarter of 2019-20 and a loss of Rs 617 crore for the full year. Deliveries also rose to 4.31 million tonnes in the last fiscal from 3.57 million tonnes in 2018-19, the first year after coming under the Tata fold. Compared to TSBSL, the other big-ticket acquisitions of the company, namely Corus Group Plc, acquired in 2007, Natsteel and Millennium Steel (now Tata Steel Thailand) acquired in 2004 and 2005 respectively, have not panned out according to the plan. The acquisition of Usha Martin’s steel business in India in 2019 by Tata Steel subsidiary Tata Steel Long Products also fared well compared with the global adventures. Indications are that the first quarter of this fiscal could even be better than the last. Icra reported that steel makers will tide themselves over the second wave of Covid on the back of supportive international prices. While domestic steel demand was down 22 per cent in April compared with March and further by 1 per cent in May, the consumption in the domestic market was much higher (150 per cent) compared with the same period last year, which had much more stringent lockdowns. Moreover, the export momentum continued with 122 per cent year-on-year growth in April and another 30 per cent rise in May, as Chinese demand ensured strong demand and the price of the alloy rose in the international market. SteelMint data show that leading primary steel producers have increased prices by Rs 2,000 to Rs 5,000 per tonne, depending on grades from June onwards and the benchmark hot-rolled and cold-rolled prices perched at Rs 70,000 a tonne and Rs 85,000 a tonne, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
14-06-2021||Business||Dharmendra Pradhan blames high sales tax in Cong-led states for fuel price hike||Oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Sunday said Congress-led governments in Rajasthan and Maharashtra should cut high sales tax on petrol and diesel if the party was concerned about the fuel price burden on common man. The minister but did not say if BJP-ruled states such as Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka, where petrol has crossed the Rs-100-mark, would do the same. Petrol and diesel prices have risen to all-time highs across the country after fuel rates rose by Rs 5.72 per litre to Rs 6.25 per litre in less than six weeks. This is due to a combination of rising international oil prices and record high central and state taxes. Central taxes in Delhi make up 38 per cent of the price of petrol, while state levies make up another 23 per cent. Talking to reporters on the sidelines of an event organised to inaugurate an oxygen plant set up by Indraprastha Gas Ltd at Maharaja Agrasen Hospital, Pradhan said central and state governments need additional money from the taxes on petrol and diesel to meet the expenses to fight the pandemic as well as on development work. “I accept that fuel prices are pinching consumers,” he said, adding the government is spending Rs 1 lakh crore on providing free foodgrains to poor this year alone, besides spending money on vaccines and healthcare infrastructure. Asked about Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s repeated attacks on the Modi government for skyrocketing fuel prices, Pradhan said, “Why is fuel expensive in Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Punjab (which are ruled by non-BJP parties)?” “If Rahul Gandhi is concerned about the poor being hit by fuel prices, he should ask the chief ministers of Congress-ruled states to cut taxes. He should ask (Maharashtra chief minister) Uddhav Thackeray to reduce taxes,” he said. Later nuancing his remarks, Pradhan said he has never done politics on taxes but if someone wants to make an issue out of high taxes they should first set their house in order. “I fully understand that the money collected from taxes on fuel goes into a lot of social welfare schemes and development work. I have never bickered over this. But if Rahul Gandhi wants to make an issue out of only one part of the taxes, I will have to say that they (Congress) have to look at the taxes in their own states, which are the highest in the country,” he said. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as VAT and freight charges. Because of this, petrol retails at over Rs 100 per litre mark in seven states and Union Territories —Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka and Ladakh. Of these states, the Congress is in power in Rajasthan and is a coalition partner with th Shiv Sena and NCP in Maharashtra. The BJP rules Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka and Ladakh too is under central rule. Andhra Pradesh has YSR-Congress in power, while TRS rules in Telangana. Rajasthan levies the highest value-added tax (VAT or sales tax) on petrol and diesel in the country, followed by Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka. International oil prices have crossed $72 per barrel in anticipation of demand recovery following the rollout of vaccination programme by various countries. Last year when rates collapsed to a two-decade low, the Union government instead of passing on the benefit to consumers raised the excise duty to record highs. The excise tax on petrol was Rs 9.48 per litre when the Modi government took office in 2014, and that on diesel was Rs 3.56 a litre. Sri Ganganagar district of Rajasthan near the India-Pakistan border was the first place in the country to see petrol hitting th Rs 100-a-litre mark in mid-February.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
14-06-2021||Business||A last  resort||On May 31, 2021, the Union ministry of labour and employment announced that provident fund account subscribers of the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation would be eligible to avail themselves of a second non-refundable advance from their accumulated balance. While the objective is to reduce the financial hardship because of Covid-19 pandemic, given the purpose of the provident fund savings, questions arise whether it is a good idea to dip into the future corpus to meet present needs. EPF is a government managed retirement savings scheme for employees where both the employer and the employee can contribute to accumulate a corpus which is aimed at providing social security and financial coverage at retirement. Given the nature of the savings, there are only a handful of specified purposes such as medical emergencies, higher education and purchase of house. This was before Covid-19 pandemic hit last year. The country went into a lockdown to prevent the spread of the virus and that meant other than essential sectors, offices and factories were shut and salaries became irregular as corporate houses scrambled to keep expenses in check. To support its subscribers, EPFO allowed a special withdrawal to meet the financial needs during this difficult time. The government through notification GSR 225 (E) dated 27.03.2020 allowed withdrawal of non-refundable advance by EPF members in the event of the Covid pandemic situation by way of introducing sub-para 3 under paragraph 68L of the EPF Scheme, 1952. With this amendment, an EPF member could avail a non-refundable advance of three months of the basic wages and dearness allowances or up to 75 per cent of the amount standing to the member’s credit, whichever is lower. Such an advance, being non-refundable, is not liable to be paid back by the EPF member. The settlement time for such advances was also reduced from 20 days to three days. As of May 31, 2021, EPFO had settled 76.31 lakh Covid-19 advance claims disbursing a total of Rs 18,698.15 crore, according to government data. The response was only moderate given that EPFO has over 6 crore contributing members. The situation is a bit different in the second wave of the pandemic in 2021. There is no central government mandated lockdown. Moreover, in addition to Covid, there is also the threat of black fungus which has been declared as an epidemic. Keeping in view the trying times, EPFO allowed its members another round of advances. Members who have already availed of the first advance can also opt for a second advance. The provision and process for the withdrawal of the second Covid-19 advance is the same as in the case of the first advance. One of the primary reasons why personal finance experts discourage any withdrawal from the PF corpus is the relatively higher rate of interest offered by the EPFO of 8.5 per cent in 2020-21 compared with the bank interest rates of 4-6 per cent. After factoring in the power of compounding of interest and income tax benefits on contributions under section 80C of the Income Tax Act, it makes sense to keep the corpus untouched till the time of retirement. “Provident fund deposits are considered to be among the best investment instruments for building a retirement corpus as they provide a higher interest rate accompanied with great tax benefits. In normal circumstances, it is never advisable to withdraw an amount from the PF as it has an adverse impact on the retirement funds. Moreover, withdrawing a high return generating investment such as PF which is backed by sovereign guarantee and tax benefits should definitely be avoided and be treated as a last resort,” said Suresh Surana, founder, RSM India. “However, in exceptional circumstances such as the current situation, which have caused disruptions in income and sudden medical emergencies, PF withdrawal may be considered as an option as opposed to borrowing funds,” he added. Being non-refundable in nature, there is no need for repayment and the withdrawal does not warrant any tax. But as the overall corpus contracts, the interest earned also goes down. While it is better than taking an interest bearing personal loan in uncertain times with the risk of damaging credit score, PF withdrawal should be resorted to only if there are no emergency funds to meet the current requirements and only after exhausting all other liquid investments such as fixed deposits or other short term investments. ⚫If a subscriber has worked in multiple companies and is currently in service with an active PF account, PF accumulations in the previous accounts should be transferred to the active account for an easier claim. Name, date of birth and gender in all the accounts have to be the same ⚫An individual may not be in active service but may have still not availed the final PF withdrawal benefit. As long as the amount is with the EPFO a claim for Covid advance can be made ⚫The claim for this advance can be filed online if UAN is validated with Aadhaar and KYC of bank account and mobile number is seeded in UAN. In case of mismatch in KYC details and details in an EPF account, a subscriber has to file a request for demographic detail correction through the employer ⚫An EPF subscriber can apply for lesser amounts than the limits mentioned earlier ⚫An application for Covid-19 advance is permitted even if other advance claims are pending||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
14-06-2021||India||May was by far the deadliest pandemic month by all counts||The latest shocker in the Covid-19 death toll comes from predominantly rural Madhya Pradesh which recorded five times the normal number of deaths last month when the second wave was at its peak. Pre-pandemic, the state logged around 31,000 deaths in May 2018 and May 2019, according to the Civil Registration System (CRS) which records all births and deaths. This May, though, 160,000 people died during the same time. That’s quintuple the usual number of deaths in that month or, to put it another way, around 129,000 more than in usual years. May was the month when Covid-19 raged out of control. But look at the figures between January 1, and May 31 of this year and the discrepancies are also glaring. Madhya Pradesh, with a population of 84.5 million people has officially reported 4,461 coronavirus deaths in that period. But the Civil Registration System says there were 330,000 deaths between January 1 and May 31, according to figures accessed by data journalist Rukmini S. This is 42 times the usual figure for this period though we must remember that all the deaths reported by the Civil Registration System were not due to Covid-19. Turn to Andhra Pradesh where a similar story has unfolded over the last few months. Here Rukmini S. reports over 130,000 deaths in May which is five times the usual number. From January to May, so-called “excess mortality” in the state was 34 times the officially recorded Covid-19 deaths. These are only two of the latest states where it’s been shown that India has been under-counting its pandemic fatalities on a massive scale. The Economist magazine remarked trenchantly that “evidence continues to accumulate that the government’s numbers represent a disturbingly small fraction of the real figure.” The magazine adds that the incorrect tallies have “made the crisis worse, for instance, by causing authorities to underestimate demand for oxygen and drugs.” India officially puts out a death toll of 370,000. Epidemiologists, public health bodies along with The Economist and other respected publications reckon this falls far short of the real total. For instance, the Washington-based Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) estimates the real death figure is closer to 1.1 million currently and could rise to 1.2 million by October. In late April, epidemiologist Bhramar Mukherjee projected that the total number of deaths could be between two and 15 times more than the official total. Two times the official total of 370,000 deaths would be 740,000 deaths. Fifteen times the official number would work out to 5.5 million fatalities. Many ways of undercounting Undercounting happens in many ways. There is the widespread practice of excluding from the coronavirus death toll Covid-19 patients with comorbidities (which violates Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines). There is also the fact that many people, especially those in rural areas, don’t have access to Covid-19 tests, so record-keeping is weak. In addition, many infections are missed because they are mild or asymptomatic. That’s why all-cause mortality figures are proving to be so useful in providing a much more complete picture of the true pandemic death toll, not only in India but around the world. As the rush of cases slows down slightly, several states are looking through their numbers once again. Bihar has just admitted that massive undercounting has taken place in the state. Till this week the state, with a population of 130 million, had 716,000 Covid-19 cases and 5,424 deaths. Under pressure from the Patna High Court, the state government revised its death figures to 9,375 –a leap of 72 per cent. Move over to Maharashtra where the number of Covid-19 cases is dropping sharply but the fatalities are still high. Here, a different scenario is being played out. The state government’s looking to put right its numbers and get a more accurate count of how many people fell ill and how many succumbed and revised its death figures upwards by 6,500 deaths last week – mostly deaths that took place in April and May. Honest numbers The government expects that the reassessments will add between 11,000 and 12,000 to the state’s death toll. Maharashtra government officials say the miscounting happened for two reasons: firstly, private hospital data were not properly recorded. Secondly, some overly zealous government officials tried to keep numbers down. Maharashtra has the highest death toll with 1.08 lakh fatalities. But experts believe it’s one of the few states that have attempted to present honest numbers to the world. The Economist report drew a sharp retort from the Union Government which issued a statement titled: “Myths Vs Facts on Covid-19 mortality figures.” The government adds: “It is a speculative article which is without any basis and seems to be misinformed.” Other state governments face similar charges of deflating official Covid-19 fatalities by many orders of magnitude. In Gujarat, for instance, Divya Bhaskar reported the state issued 123,000 death certificates between March 1 and May 31 compared to 58,000 during the same period last year. It reported only 4,218 Covid-19 deaths during this time. Govt view contested The Union government has portrayed India as a country with one of the lowest coronavirus death rates in the world at 230 per million. But new epidemiological and other studies contest this view. These studies suggest the country has had five-to-six times the number of “excess deaths” since the start of the pandemic which would push up Covid-19 fatality estimates to the 1.8 million-to-2.4 million range. Epidemiologists are going beyond government-issued Covid-19 death statistics that are frequently patchy to examine cremation and burial records, obituaries, death certificates company death tolls and insurance claims. Certain states stand out because of their low numbers. It now looks like Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh with their unusually low death figures have almost certainly been fudging their numbers. Then there’s India’s largest state, Uttar Pradesh, with a population of about 200 million. It’s had countless bodies floating down the Ganga River or buried by its banks. UP says it has had 1.7 million cases and 21,735 deaths – a death rate of under 1 per cent. By contrast, Karnataka. with a population of 61 million, has reported 2.7 million cases and Kerala, with a population of 35 million, has also recorded 2.7 million cases. Reports from crematoria in cities like Kanpur indicate that deaths during April and May far exceeded those in normal times. The Uttar Pradesh government has vigorously denied it has concealed figures and also insisted that by tradition some communities bury their dead by the Ganga or even float them in the river. It’s clear now that under-reporting has taken place in every state but the scale of under-reporting has been vastly different. Some, like Maharashtra, are thought to have been reporting their figures more honestly. Similarly, Kerala has been considered to have been reasonably upfront about its reporting. Neighbour states odd differences But there are odd differences between neighbouring states. For instance, it’s clear now that under-counting has taken place in Andhra Pradesh which has a population of 53 million. It officially lists 1.8 million cases and 11,882 deaths. But next-door Telangana, which has a population of 39 million, has reported far lower figures: 600,000 cases and 3,469 deaths. Move further south to Tamil Nadu, which has generally been considered to be more honest about its Covid-19 figures. Tamil Nadu’s civil registration data only shows annual data. But even this clearly reveals excess deaths. The number of deaths on average in 2018 and 2019 was about 400,000. This year in the 164 days between January and June there were 593,000 deaths. That’s 7.5 times the official Covid death toll of 29,547. AI- powered feedback Prashnam, which calls itself India’s first AI-powered opinion feedback company, in collaboration with The Print, asked 14,481 people in rural areas of six big Hindi heartland states -- Bihar, Haryana, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh _ whether they had lost a family member or neighbour to Covid in the last three months. Among the states, 21 per cent of those surveyed in Madhya Pradesh replied yes. In the other states, 15 per cent to 17 per cent of those surveyed gave affirmative answers. Prashnam then compared its findings to a similar University of Chicago survey in March that suggested 19 per cent of Americans lost a close friend or relative to Covid-19, figures which were broadly in line with the Indian numbers. The survey group said that assuming the US has recorded deaths more accurately than India, the real coronavirus fatality rate should be similar to the US rate of 1,800 per million people. “If one were to then use America’s death rate per million people for India, the Covid-19 deaths estimate in India will work out to roughly 2.5 million people,” Prashnam said. CVoter has been conducting surveys in the same vein as Prashnam, but daily, asking whether an immediate family member had died from Covid-19. It found the number replying “yes” zoomed to a peak of 7.4 per cent in the April-May period from 1 per cent in the months following the first wave. Based on these findings, CVoter estimates that Covid-19 had taken the lives of around 1.83 million people up to mid-May. The coronavirus now seems to be losing momentum. But with experts forecasting a third wave that could be even more devastating, it’s vital to keep an accurate tally of infection and fatality numbers to ensure that we don’t become complacent and are able to head off further catastrophe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-61
14-06-2021||India||Instagram removes objectionable content on Hindu gods and goddesses||Social networking site Instagram has informed the Delhi High Court that it removed certain objectionable content relating to Hindu gods and goddesses posted by a user on its platform. Justice Rekha Palli also issued notice and sought response of Facebook and Instagram on a plea seeking direction to implement Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Ethics Code) Rules 2021 in its true letter and spirit. The court was informed by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, representing Facebook which owns Instagram, that the content has already been removed and assured that keeping in view the grievance raised by the petitioner, the respondents will not disseminate the copies of the petition to any unrelated third party. He also submitted that a Grievance Officer has already been appointed by Facebook under the new IT Rules, and the person concerned will also function in the same capacity for Instagram. The court also issued notice and sought response of the Centre on a prayer that the government and the social media networks be directed to discharge their executive, statutory and all other obligations in relation to the IT Rules without any delay and listed the matter for further hearing on August 16 before the regular bench. Petitioner Aditya Singh Deshwal submitted that while using Instagram, he found highly obnoxious or objectionable posts put up by a user named as Islam Ki Sherni' and that the content uploaded showed abusive language written about Hindu gods and goddesses along with their vulgar representation in the form of cartoons and graphics. The petitioner, represented through senior advocate G.Tushar Rao and lawyer Ayush Saxena, sought that the content should be removed at the earliest from the platform. The plea has also sought direction to Instagram to preserve all the details associated with these user accounts and place them before the court to expose the identity of culprits behind these objectionable posts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-61
14-06-2021||India||Rajlakshmi Patil, a young author, and environmentalist is an inspiration to the youth of India||Today, the world is facing an unprecedented set of circumstances: the global climate crisis, as well as the coronavirus pandemic. This has shaken our economy and overall health. But rather than fearing the uncertainty and the challenges that lie ahead, we come across an impressive young Indian girl leading the fight for a better world. Meet 18-year-old Rajlakshmi V Patil - a Student, an Author, an Environmentalist, an Activist, and more. She has published a book on her poems 'Mystic' which has gained a lot of popularity with readers. During their adolescent years, most of the teens are busy with studies or other activities and hardly are concerned about our environment or contributing to society. However, in our country, there are many bright minds who think ahead of their time and achieve remarkable accomplishments. One such young achiever is Mumbai-based Rajlakshmi Patil. Her focus has always been on creating a better world. And she is duly supported and motivated by her parents Dr. Vijay D Patil and Shivani Vijay Patil to make a real difference in the community. If we talk about the environment, then climate change and environmental conservation have been a global topic of discussion worldwide. But the need of the hour is to rise up and take action on climate change rather than just mere talks. Rajlakshmi, with a passion for protecting the environment, is doing the best she can and confidently making her voice heard for a better future for the coming generations. Here are some of her notable achievements: She spearheaded the ‘Beat Air Pollution’ Campaign - June 2019 in collaboration with the United Nations Environment. She participated in various environmental campaigns with the School's Green Council and the D Y Patil Faculty from September 2019 to - Present. Rajlakshmi raised awareness about the role of trees in reducing air pollution. For this, she even participated with 90 students in an event to encourage tree plantations in the area. And there's more. She recently graduated from her international boarding school - Aiglon College in Switzerland with the environmental prize. This environmental prize is awarded to the student who has shown in their actions that they understand the tenet that to deal with a global environment issue one must first deal with the issue at a local level. At a young age, Rajlakshmi has been a part of several campaigns and cleanliness drives and strongly advocates for a clean and green environment. She feels that 'Mother Earth does not need a change. In fact, human being's attitude and behaviour towards the environment must change in order to conserve nature. We need to start improving our habits of living and automatically the environment will become better.' Recently corona pandemic has taken the entire world by storm, so the young Rajlakshmi with her friend had organized a fund-raising campaign to help the people in need. She had managed to raise more than 1lakh rupees. They utilized this money collected from funds to aid the frontline workers and others who are working to help those affected by the coronavirus. They used the funds to buy essentials such as groceries, masks, sanitary products, and other items for workers who are dedicatedly and tirelessly working for saving lives in our country. Apart from being a champion for environment conservation, and a social activist, Rajlakshmi is also a noted Author. She has been writing some heart-touching poems since the age of 13 and has continued doing so till the present. Her collection of poems has been published as a book named 'Mystic' which is an anthology of the poems she has written and expresses her thoughts and aspirations. She fondly remembers her grandfather, DR D Y Patil, who has been an inspiration in her life.  Her poems have been inspired by different circumstances in her life - during her stay at the boarding school in the beautiful Alps and in Mumbai, the city of dreams and other phases of her life. She beautifully pens down her emotions and feelings into words which soothes one's mind. With the motto in life, 'Service before self,' Rajlakshmi is marching ahead with a humble attitude to bring about a positive change in society and selflessly serve the people of her nation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-61
14-06-2021||India||Covid curfew extended for another week in Uttarakhand||The Uttarakhand government on Monday extended the Covid curfew in the state till June 22 but announced some important relaxations such as opening the chardham yatra for locals on the condition of a negative RT-PCR test report. The period of the current curfew in the state was to come to an end at 6 am on Tuesday morning. "We have decided to extend the curfew for another week to June 22 in view of the COVID-19 situation. The old SOPs will largely remain in force except a few major changes such as opening the doors of the Himalayan temples for locals with negative RT-PCR reports," Cabinet Minister and state government's official spokesman Subodh Uniyal said. "People of Chamoli district now have the permission to visit Badrinath temple for 'darshan' if they have a negative RT-PCR test report. Similarly, people of Rudraprayag and Uttarkashi districts can also now visit Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamunotri respectively with a negative RT-PCR test report," the minister said. The famous four Himalayan temples in Uttarakhand though open since May for daily prayers have been out of bounds for pilgrims. Revenue courts have also been reopened with certain restrictions, he said. Means of public transport like auto rickshaws and tempos have been allowed to ply on the roads and shops selling sweets can now open for five days in a week, Uniyal said. Fifty people can now attend marriage ceremonies and funerals instead of the present permission for 20. However, those attending weddings will have to bring a negative RT-PCR test reports. District Magistrates have been authorised to relax the restrictions for market places in rural areas based on their assessment of the Covid situation, he said. On the decision to extend the curfew, Uniyal said the cases of COVID-19 may have come down but it would be premature to say that the pandemic challenge has been overcome.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-61
14-06-2021||India||Chidambaram takes dig at PM over his G7 speech||The government should practise in India what it preaches to the world, Congress leader P Chidambaram said on Monday, a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi stressed on democracy and freedom of thought at a G7 meet. Prime Minister Modi on Sunday said India is a natural ally for the G7 and its partners in defending democracy, freedom of thought and liberty from a host of threats stemming from authoritarianism, terrorism, violent extremism and economic coercion. "PM Modi's speech at the G7 Outreach meeting is inspiring as well as ironic. The Modi government should practise in India what it preaches to the world," Chidambaram tweeted in response. He added that it was "sad" the prime minister was the only guest not physically present at the outreach meeting. "Ask yourself why? Because India is an outlier as far as the fight against Covid 19 is concerned. We are the most infected and least vaccinated country (as a proportion of the population)," the former Union minister said. The prime minister made a virtual address at an outreach session of a summit of the Group of Seven (G7) richest democracies held in Cornwall in Britain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-62
14-06-2021||India||Delhi govt sets up vaccine centre for people travelling abroad||The Delhi government on Monday started a special vaccination centre in the city for students, athletes and people who have to travel abroad for work, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said here. Sisodia had on Sunday announced that those travelling abroad for these specific reasons can get their second dose of Covishield vaccine at this particular centre after a gap of just 28 days. The centre has been set up at the Navyug School on Mandir Marg. Those who wish to avail the facility will have to carry their passports and relevant travel documents. According to officials, this facility will be available to those who need to undertake international travel within August 31. The second dose of Covishield vaccine can be taken after a gap of 28 to 84 days at this centre by students who have to go abroad for studies, people taking up jobs in foreign countries and athletes, sportspersons and accompanying staff of the Indian contingent attending the International Olympics to be held in Tokyo, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-62
14-06-2021||India||India's daily Covid caseload lowest in 74 days||India recorded a single-day rise of 70,421 new COVID-19 cases, the lowest in 74 days, taking the country's infection tally to 2,95,10,410 out of which 2,81,62,947 people have recuperated from the disease while the count of active cases fell below 10 lakhs after over two months, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. Recoveries outnumbered daily new cases for the 32nd consecutive day in the country. The COVID-19 death toll in the country climbed to 3,74,305, with 3,921 fatalities recorded in a span of 24 hours and the case fatality rate has increased to 1.27 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The count of active cases has further declined to 9,73,158 which is 3.30 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 95.43 per cent. A net decline of 53,001 cases has been recorded in the COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, the data showed. Also, 14,92,152 COVID-19 tests were conducted on Sunday, taking the total number of such examinations in the country so far to 37,96,24,626, it stated, adding that the daily positivity rate was recorded 4.72 per cent. It has stayed below 10 per cent for 21 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has also reduced and stands at 4.54 per cent. Cumulatively, 25,48,49,301 COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 infection tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and one crore on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore cases on May 4. The 3,921 new fatalities include 2,771 from Maharashtra, 267 from Tamil Nadu, 206 from Kerala and 125 from Karnataka. A total of 3,74,305 deaths have been reported so far in the country. This includes 1,11,104 from Maharashtra, 32,913 from Karnataka, 29,547 from Tamil Nadu, 24,823 from Delhi, 21,786 from Uttar Pradesh, 16,896 from West Bengal, 15,562 from Punjab and 13,317 from Chhattisgarh. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-62
14-06-2021||India||LJP MPs join hands against Chirag Paswan, seek to oust him as their leader||Five of the six Lok Janshakti Party MPs in the Lok Sabha have joined hands against their leader Chirag Paswan and elected Pashupati Kumar Paras in his place, causing a big churn in Bihar politics. Paras on Monday lauded Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar as a good leader and "vikas purush" (development-oriented man), highlighting the deep fault lines within the party as his nephew Chirag Paswan has been a strong critic of the JD(U) president. " I have not broken the party but saved it," Paras, MP from Hajipur, told reporters. He asserted that 99 per cent of LJP workers were unhappy with the turn of events in Bihar as Paswan led his party against the JD(U) and fared poorly in the 2020 assembly polls. Paras said his group will continue to be part of the BJP-led NDA, and said Paswan can remain part of the organisation. The group of five MPs has conveyed their decision of electing Paras as the LJP leader in Lok Sabha to the Speaker. There has been no comment from Paswan on the issue. Soon after Paras spoke to reporters, Paswan drove to his uncle's residence in the national capital to meet him. After waiting for some time in his car, he was allowed inside. Paras, however, was not there. Paswan's cousin and MP Prince Raj also stays at the same address. "There are six MPs in our party. It was the desire of five MPs to save our party. So I have not split the party, I have saved it. Chirag Paswan is my nephew as well as party's national president. I have no objections to him," Paras said, as quoted by ndtv.com. While the rebel group, which includes MPs Raj, Chandan Singh, Veena Devi and Mehboob Ali Kaiser, has long been unhappy with his style of functioning, sources said, the LJP president has now been left virtually isolated at the top after taking on the mantle following his father Ram Vilas Paswan's death in 2020. Sources close to him have blamed the JD(U) for the split, saying the party had long been working to isolate the LJP president after his decision to go all out against Chief Minister Kumar in the 2020 assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-62
14-06-2021||India||Covid: Worrying shortfall, lag in genome sequencing ||India has furnished coronavirus genomes from 0.05 per cent of its Covid-19 patients, a tiny fraction of its own target, scientists have said amid concerns that the signals from even the limited sequencing efforts have not triggered timely interventions to save lives. A study on global sequencing efforts released on Thursday said India had until June 2 documented over 28.3 million lab-confirmed Covid-19 infections but deposited 15,614 sequences in an international online sequence repository available for scientific analysis. The Indian National SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (Insacog), launched in January 2021, has sequenced over 30,000 samples but scientists say this is below 4 per cent of the original target of sequencing 5 per cent of all the about 17 million positive cases detected since mid-January. The consortium of 10 government labs across the country with the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Delhi, as the nodal lab is tasked with looking for coronavirus variants that might be associated with unusual outbreaks, higher transmission or altered disease patterns. Some medical researchers have said they are worried about both the low quantum of sequencing in the country and the significant lags between sample collection and sequence submission into the database for pattern detection and actionable alerts to governments. The sequencing study by scientists at the Institute of Bioinformatics and Biotechnology (IBAB), Bangalore, has found that India’s median, or midpoint, collection-to-submission time (CTS) lag was 57 days for the 15,614 sequences submitted. The UK has had the shortest lag of 16 days for over 417,000 genomes while the US lag was 26 days for over 498,000 genomes. “We know this virus is evolving rapidly — countries should aim to track variants as early as possible,” said Gaurav Sharma, the IBAB scientist who led the study, not yet peer-reviewed but posted on bioRxiv, an online preprint server. “A lag of 57 days would mean variants get eight weeks to circulate unnoticed,” he said. India’s 57-day lag is not the longest in the continent. Asia’s average lag is 72 days for over 95,000 genomes, with Singapore’s 26-day lag for 2,405 genomes being the shortest and Qatar’s 289 days for 2,298 genomes being the longest. Sharma and his colleagues Gayatri Saberwal and Kishan Kalia have called for urgent steps to address “bottlenecks” that contribute to long lags between collections and submissions. While logistical challenges may delay sequencing, they said, it is possible that even after rapid sequencing, genomes might not be promptly uploaded for various reasons, expressing concern that in some countries bureaucratic processes might delay submissions. In countries with long lags, the variants may get enough time to establish themselves over a region or even evolve into completely new variants if quick tracking, tracing and actions to stop transmission are not undertaken rapidly, the scientists have cautioned. The Insacog initiative, announced in late December as a centrally supported multi-agency drive, didn’t receive funds until March, delaying sequencing efforts, consortium scientists have said, explaining one factor that they say contributed to India’s relatively low genome-to-case ration. “But even when signals emerged about possibly worrisome variants, from Maharashtra in mid-February and from Punjab by mid-March, we didn’t see the rapid actions that could have curbed further spread and perhaps save lives,” a senior consortium scientist told The Telegraph. A Pune lab had by mid-February spotted what would later be designated the B.1.617 variant in samples from unusually large outbreaks in central Maharashtra. Two senior consortium scientists have told this newspaper that follow-up action on the variant was slower than it should have been. By March 23, sequencing efforts at the NCDC had indicated that 80 per cent of samples from Punjab were B.1.117, the fast-spreading variant first detected in the UK. “That was adequate evidence to justify strong and immediate interventions,” one of the two scientists said. A query sent by this newspaper to the NCDC asking whether the detection of the B.1.117 in the Punjab samples should have triggered interventions or public alerts calling for extra precautions did not evoke a response. But while the counts of daily new infections grew in Maharashtra, Delhi and Punjab, along with other states, in March, the scientist said, there were no special public alerts about extra precautions that were needed to curb the spread of the B.1.117 or the B.1.617. “The consortium started with strong ambitions but they’ve been watered down,” another scientist said. “Instead of sequencing 5 per cent genomes from positive samples, the health ministry has asked states to send 300 samples per month. Is that enough to detect early signals? I’m not sure.” Amid such concerns, Kerala and Maharashtra have launched their own sequencing efforts. Health authorities in both states are collaborating with the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi, to sequence 100 genomes from every district each month — 1,400 genomes from Kerala’s 14 districts and 3,600 genomes from Maharashtra’s 36. Kerala has already used genome information for policies, said a senior doctor involved in the state’s programme. “The emergence of the highly transmissible B.1.117 variant in the state was one of the reasons the state called on people to wear double masks,” the doctor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-62
14-06-2021||India||Indian-origin author claims to have turned down an MBE in the Queen’s Birthday Honours List||Indian-origin author Nikesh Shukla has revealed he turned down an MBE in the Queen’s Birthday Honours List because he does not wish to be associated with what it stands for — “Member of the Order of the British Empire”. He tweeted: “Last month I was offered an MBE for services to literature. I said no thanks. I do not wish to be a member of the order of the British Empire.” He added: “The main reason for not accepting the MBE was because I hate how it valorises the British Empire, a brutal, bloody thing that resulted in so much death and destruction. To accept the MBE would be to co-sign it.” Shukla, who is 40, was born and brought up in Britain but like many East African Indians, his father grew up in Kenya, his ancestors having gone there from Gujarat. Shukla, who writes about racism, identity and immigration in Britain, is best known for editing a collection of spiky essays in 2016, The Good Immigrant: 21 Writers Explore What It Means to be Black, Asian & Minority Ethnic in Britain Today, which he followed up three years later with The Good Immigrant: 26 Writers Reflect On America. He is also the author three novels — Coconut Unlimited (2010), Meatspace (2014) and The One Who Wrote Destiny (2018) — which he says were written partly to give his daughters a sense of who they were. A profile on the author noted: “Nikesh considers it his duty, as a British Asian, to try and normalise non-white narratives.” The honours system is a legacy from the days when Britain did have an empire. Along with the MBE, there are other honours — CBE stands for Commander of the Order of the British Empire; OBE for Officer of the Order of the British Empire; and BEM for British Empire Medal. Although they are given out in the name of the Queen, the list is actually drawn up and vetted by a government committee, which is bombarded by nominations from British Asians, Indians especially. The first generation of Indians was grateful to find a home in Britain, where non-white people were still called “coloured”. But some of their UK-born-and-bred grandchildren are altogether more assertive, and have started challenging the notion that the empire did more good than bad. As British nationals, they cannot be chucked out for being “trouble makers” but in the intensifying “culture wars”, the Right wing has launched a counter campaign against those demanding a re-examination of British history, especially the country’s involvement in the slave trade and imperial rule, especially in India. Shukla has drawn attention to a programme called “Operation Legacy”, which was an attempt to identify and destroy colonial-era files that could prove embarrassing to subsequent British governments. The author commented: “As the country fights over the history of the Empire and whether it was good or bad, I considered Operation Legacy. A project to destroy all colonial documents that might embarrass the British. If the Empire was so good, why need Operation Legacy?” Shukha received thousands of “likes” for turning down an MBE but one critic told him sarcastically that “you want to make damn sure we all know you were offered it. Congratulations.” Another, representing white society presumably, said: “Sometimes it’s another form of gaslighting — we offered to honour and recognise you and you turned down our honour and recognition so don’t complain next time we treat you in a way that does not honour or recognise you.” In a sense, the government is damned if it does and damned if it doesn’t. A government statement emphasised: “The honours system strives to be inclusive of all of the UK society. Of the 1,129 people who receive an award: 15 per cent of the successful candidates come from an ethnic minority background: 6.8 per cent of recipients are from an Asian ethnic group.” The youngest recipient is 21-year-old Amika George, founder of the “Free Periods Campaign”, who becomes an MBE for her work championing the distribution of sanitary wear in UK schools. George, who is from an Indian background, said she was humbled by her MBE but had to think twice before accepting it — given its association with Britain’s colonial past. In accepting, she said, she wanted to “draw attention to our lack of education around the Empire and Britain’s history, but also to show other young people, particularly from the Asian community, who maybe don’t feel very empowered politically or don’t feel seen”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-62
14-06-2021||India||Govt on G7: Tackling 'biggest global crises' is not possible without India’s 'involvement and support'||The Narendra Modi government on Sunday said India’s participation at the G7 sessions reflected an understanding within the bloc that a resolution to “the biggest global crises of our time” was not possible without the country’s “involvement, engagement and support”. P. Harish, additional secretary (economic relations) in the external affairs ministry, made the assertion while briefing reporters on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s virtual address to the G7 summit in the UK. What the government said about India’s indispensability in addressing “the biggest crises”, if they include Covid-19 and the threat to democratic rights, cannot be disputed. Consider the facts: India’s Covid-19 epidemic is the second largest in the world with over 29 million cases after America’s count of over 34 million cases. India’s Covid-19 death count so far is 370,411, the third largest after the 610,000 deaths in the US and 480,000 in Brazil. The Modi government’s vaccination policy and its multiple metamorphoses have earned their right to demand a separate global study to ensure that no one would repeat it. India has administered over 250 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines, the US 308 million doses and the UK over 70 million doses. The proportions of fully vaccinated (two doses) among their populations are 3.5 per cent in India, 43 per cent in the US and 44 per cent in the UK. The external affairs ministry said that in his virtual address to a session on “open societies and open economies” at the G7 summit, Modi had highlighted India’s civilisational commitment to democracy, freedom of thought and liberty. Modi’s claim came against the backdrop of sedition cases, information technology intermediary guidelines that have ignited concerns over free speech and the right to privacy, and at least one cartoonist losing his contract after the government made known its discomfort with him. “The Prime Minister’s views were appreciated by other leaders in the gathering,” Harish said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-62
14-06-2021||India||Covid: Children who lost parents during pandemic stare at uncertain future, scramble for aid||According to the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), 3,621 children have been orphaned during the pandemic, and over 26,000 children have lost one parent. Shatakshi Sinha, 10, is one of them. The Delhi-based girl lost her father to Covid-19 a month ago. Her mother Kalpana Sinha said: “Nothing will ever be normal again.” Kalpana’s 57-year-old husband was an  editor at a Hindi publishing house and the sole breadwinner of the family. After scrambling for an ambulance and a bed for hours, by the time we reached the hospital, we had lost him. I remember my little daughter running after the ambulance, pleading with me to take her along,” Kalpana recalled. Gaurang (13) and Daksh Gupta (6), who live in Uttam Nagar in Delhi, lost their father, an e-rickshaw driver and the family’s sole earner. Even before the tragedy, life was so tough that the parents had decided to take the younger child out of school and shift the older one to a government school. Three siblings — aged 9, 11 and 13 — lost both their parents to Covid-19 in the first week of May. Their landlord refused to let their tenancy continue unless they paid rent. Their uncle, a welder, took the three children in. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-62
14-06-2021||India||Scam cry on land deal for Ram Temple in Ayodhya||A senior official of the trust set up to monitor the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya has been accused of buying a piece of land worth Rs 2 crore for Rs 18.5 crore, or over nine times the price, for the shrine. Two Opposition politicians — Aam Aadmi Party Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh and former Samajwadi Party minister Pawan Pandey — have brought the money-laundering charges against Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust general secretary Champat Rai. The leaders have alleged that Rai had been aided by trust member Anil Kumar Mishra. The allegation has been refuted by Rai and Mishra. Quoting purported entries of the registered sale deed of the land, Singh told reporters in Lucknow on Sunday that the trust had entered into an agreement with Sultan Ansari on March 18 and he was paid an advance of Rs 17 crore, besides Rs 1.29 crore as stamp duty. Ansari had purchased the 1.208-hectare plot at Bag Bijaisi village in Ayodhya Sadar area only minutes ago from a woman named Kusum Pathak for Rs 2 crore, according to the purported documents. Mishra was a witness in both deals. Contacted over phone, Mishra told The Telegraph: “The deal was done in keeping with all the norms. We have followed the rules of the market and discussed every aspect before buying it.” Told about Singh’s allegation that the trust was misusing the money donated by the people of the country, Mishra, a homoeopath in Ayodhya, said: “I don’t know what he has said as I was busy in a meeting of the trust the whole day. But whatever we are doing is transparent.” Singh and Pandey have sought a probe by the CBI and the ED into the land purchase for the temple premises. “Champat Rai, the general secretary of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, with the help of trust member Anil Mishra, bought the land worth Rs 2 crore at Rs 18.5 crore. This is a case of money laundering and the government should get it probed by the ED and the CBI,” Singh said. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government must initiate a thorough probe by the CBI and the ED, and the corrupt persons should be sent to jail as it is a question of the faith of crores of devotees of Lord Ram who have given their hard-earned money for the construction of the Ram temple,” Singh said. Former Ayodhya MLA Pandey reiterated the allegation in the temple town. AAP leader Singh pointed out that in any trust, the board makes a proposal for the purchase of land. “How come in five minutes this proposal was passed and the land was immediately purchased?” he asked. Rai issued a statement saying: “Allegations of even assassinating Mahatma Gandhi were levelled on us. We do not fear allegations. I will study the allegations levelled on us, and probe them.” Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted: “Lord Ram, what kind of days are these? Scams are happening by taking donations in your name….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-62
14-06-2021||India||Uttarakhand Congress leader  Indira Hridayesh no more||Indira Hridayesh, the senior-most Congress politician of Uttarakhand who was the leader of the Opposition in the hill state and had served as an elected representative for seven terms, passed away following cardiac arrest in New Delhi on Sunday. She was 80. “Indiraji had put up at the guest house of the Uttarakhand government in New Delhi where she had gone for a party meeting. She suffered cardiac arrest and was rushed to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, where she breathed her last,” said Suryakant Dhasmana, the vice-president of the Uttarakhand Congress Committee. Hridayesh had tested positive for Covid-19 in April this year and had undergone a heart surgery after recovery. Hridayesh’s officer on special duty Abhinav Mishra said her last rites would be conducted on Monday in her hometown Haldwani, which she represented as an MLA. Hridayesh had been a four-term member of the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council (Upper House) before Uttarakhand was carved out in 2000. In Uttarakhand, she was elected MLA from Haldwani three times — in 2002, 2012 and 2017. Amid speculation that the Congress could return to power in Uttarakhand in 2022 because of the BJP’s perceived failure on all fronts, Hridayesh had told reporters in Haldwani on May 8: “The Congress leadership knows very well who can bring the party back to power in the state. There are many important faces here. Pritam Singh, the state president of the party, is there. Harish Rawat, who had been chief minister, is also an important face. Obviously, I am there as a senior member. It will be decided after the elections.” Rawat said on Sunday: “She was the first finance minister of Uttarakhand and played a major role in shaping the state. She was a teacher before joining politics and was respected by all. Members of both the government and the Opposition used to remain alert in the House whenever she was present.” Congress president Sonia Gandhi said: “She was particularly popular amongst her colleagues for her knowledge of legislative processes and procedure as also her performance as an able administrator. Her contribution to the Congress party will be treasured and cherished by all.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted: “Dr Indira Hridayesh Ji was at the forefront of several community service efforts. She made a mark as an effective legislator and also had rich administrative experience. Saddened by her demise. Condolences to her family and supporters. Om Shanti.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-62
14-06-2021||India||India guarded on G7 plan to counter China's Belt and Road Initiative||India on Sunday remained non-committal on joining the US-led G7 plan to launch a “Build Back Better World (B3W)” project to meet the infrastructure needs of low and middle income countries as a counter to China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) through which Beijing is expanding its footprint across the world. While projecting India’s participation in the G7 meeting as a guest country to be a recognition of the vital role New Delhi “plays and must continue to play in global decision-making and responding to global challenges”, the external affairs ministry was guarded in its response to questions on whether India welcomed B3W, what the government’s position was on it, and whether the country would participate in the new initiative. Responding to these questions together in general, additional secretary (economic relations) in the external affairs ministry P. Harish said: “The Prime Minister emphasised that democracies should demonstrate that we can deliver on project implementation within the country and outside. He referred to India’s experience in neighbouring countries, in Africa and those countries that fall within the framework of our development partnership. “The Prime Minister also indicated that India stands ready to do more in this regard.… On the specifics of the B3W proposals put forth, relevant agencies of the government of India would study them and engage with them as appropriate at a later stage.” Asked if Prime Minister Narendra Modi — who participated in the summit on the G7 outreach segment via videoconference — raised the issue of Chinese aggression given that containing China was one of the major issues on the agenda, Harish said he did not, pointing out that the three sessions in which Modi took part dealt with other issues — health, environment and open societies. As per a White House fact sheet, the B3W is a “values-driven, high-standard and transparent infrastructure partnership led by major democracies to help narrow the $40+ trillion infrastructure need in the developing world, which has been exacerbated by the Covid-19 pandemic”. The fact sheet added: “Through B3W, the G7 and other like-minded partners will coordinate in mobilising private-sector capital in four areas of focus — climate, health and health security, digital technology, and gender equity and equality — with catalytic investments from our respective development finance institutions.” This apart, additional secretary Harish said there was “widespread support” at the meeting in Cornwall, UK, for text-based negotiations on the India-South Africa proposal for a Trips (Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights) waiver for Covid vaccines at the World Trade Organisation. The US and Brics countries have already backed this proposal. Harish said Australia — which was also a guest country at this year’s G7 — backed the proposal. Harish said India would remain engaged with the G7 and guest partners on all major global issues — health governance and access to vaccines, climate action and climate justice, diversification of supply chains and building economic resilience.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-63
14-06-2021||India||Flurry of weekend activity around Ayodhya suggests BJP plans to use Ram temple to try and win UP polls||A flurry of weekend activity around Ayodhya after chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s return from Delhi suggests the BJP plans to use the Ram temple to try and win next year’s crucial Uttar Pradesh elections. Nripendra Misra, chairman of the temple-building committee of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, arrived in Ayodhya on Sunday, a day after Adityanath met his ministers and officials to discuss developing the temple town into a major pilgrimage centre. Misra, a former bureaucrat who was principal secretary to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, was scheduled to hold a series of meetings with construction companies and Teerth Kshetra Trust members on Sunday and Monday. “Work is on in two shifts round the clock. We hope to complete the work by October 11 this year,” Champat Rai, general secretary of the trust, said. Adityanath’s meeting on Saturday came after he had returned from Delhi, having met Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP president J.P. Nadda on Thursday and Friday and apparently discussed the strategy for the Uttar Pradesh polls, due in March. The BJP is desperate to win the state not just to rebound from the Bengal drubbing and the bad press over its Covid mismanagement but to create momentum ahead of the 2024 general election. That the BJP would milk Ayodhya to achieve this becomes clear from a statement released by the Uttar Pradesh information and publicity department about Adityanath’s videoconference meeting with finance minister Suresh Khanna, transport minister Ashok Katariya and senior officials from Ayodhya. It quotes Adityanath as saying that Ayodhya would be developed “while keeping the ancient culture, heritage and tradition intact” and that the town would be “recognised internationally as a centre of spirituality, tourism and sustainability”. Sources said the meeting discussed building a Ram museum in Ayodhya and roads connecting the proposed temple to every district mentioned in the Ramayan as places Ram visited. Adityanath had held similar meetings on Ayodhya’s development immediately after taking over as chief minister in March 2017, but there was little follow-up after that. Then, in February this year, his government earmarked Rs 100 crore for Ayodhya’s beautification and Rs 300 crore to connect all roads in the district directly to the site of the proposed Ram temple. It also approved Rs 140 crore for the integrated development of the town and the Surya Kund temple, more than 500 years old. But no progress has been made since then. Observers believe that at last week’s meetings in Delhi, the BJP central leadership had nudged Adityanath to get cracking on Ayodhya ahead of the Assembly polls. The Delhi meetings had also discussed a “course correction” to improve Adityanath’s image as an uncaring and inefficient autocrat who had put off many party leaders and allies, sources had said while ruling out a leadership change. On Sunday, state BJP vice-president Dayashankar Singh said in Mathura: “We will contest the 2022 Assembly elections under Yogi Adityanath.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-63
14-06-2021||India||Covid: Government researchers urge districts to establish data dashboards to control future surge||Government researchers have urged districts across India to establish data dashboards to control any future Covid-19 surges and curb deaths amid suspicions that gaps in statistics have handicapped responses and contributed to undercounts of infections and casualties. The National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE), Chennai, has developed a Covid-19 control toolkit that asks districts to use data dashboards to monitor three key parameters — test positivity rates, changes in case counts, and hospital bed occupancy — to calibrate district-level responses. The NIE guidance comes at a time India’s second Covid-19 wave is receding with daily new cases in a near-steady fall since May 6. But health officials and experts have cautioned that localised surges or even a nationwide wave may reappear if large susceptible pools of people are exposed to the virus. “Data dashboards would allow district authorities to monitor the state of the epidemic and control a future surge before it gets too big,” said Manoj Murhekar, the director of the NIE, a unit of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The NIE has described data dashboards as among the “weakest components” of India’s Covid-19 response, echoing concerns among sections of researchers who say the handling of the epidemic could have been better and counts of deaths more reliable through better data management. The Union health ministry had up to Sunday recorded 370,411 Covid-19 deaths, but some health researchers, citing anecdotal evidence of overcrowded crematoriums and funeral sites and bodies dumped into rivers or relying on theoretical estimates, have suggested in recent weeks that India has vastly undercounted Covid-19 deaths. Over the past week, Bihar and Maharashtra have reclassified earlier deaths as Covid-19 deaths, amplifying suspicions that many deaths in the country have not been documented as caused by the coronavirus disease. The Union health ministry has asserted that it has consistently directed states to correctly record deaths with emphasis on a “robust reporting mechanism for monitoring district-wise cases and deaths on a daily basis”. States consistently reporting low deaths were asked to recheck data. But the ministry also said “there shall always be differences” in deaths recorded during a profound, prolonged public health crisis such as Covid-19 and well-conducted studies on excess mortality, done when mortality data is available from reliable sources”. The NIE has said all deaths should be counted, “irrespective of the cause” every week and the data analysed by age, gender, rural and urban, and dashboards updated. It has also recommended that every death be audited to identify gaps in surveillance, testing, transport, or treatment. “It is good to see recommendations highlighting efficient data management — how we’ve used data during the epidemic remains a blackbox,” said Oommen John, a senior physician and research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. John and others have expressed concern that while the ICMR and the National Centre for Disease Control, New Delhi, have collected data on testing and clinical outcomes through the epidemic, it is unclear how the information has been used to guide public health responses. Sections of doctors and researchers have pointed out that there still isn’t clear data to help determine whether there were any differences in the disease characteristics between India’s first wave and the second surge, dominated by new variants. “We need comparisons of epidemiological and clinical data across the two waves,” said Gagandeep Kang, professor of clinical microbiology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. “We need information about how did the earlier versions of the virus behave versus the new ones. We need information on how many died and after how many days. Without access to epidemiological, clinical and molecular data, we cannot have a full picture about the differences between the two waves,” Kang added. John said: “While India aspires to be a data-driven economy, this was an opportunity to leverage robust data science approaches, use it to guide our responses and demonstrate our capability in public health informatics — but it looks like we squandered it away.” The NIE’s control strategy would require districts to intensify restrictions and enhance physical distancing measures as the test positivity rate (the number of positive cases among those tested), percentage change in seven-day average of daily new infections and bed-occupancy increase. Irrespective of the other parameters, a district would need to go into a “full lockdown” with only essential services functioning when the oxygen or intensive care unit bed occupancy there exceeds 75 per cent. However, it has recommended lower levels of restrictions when the test positivity rate exceeds 5 per cent, or if percentage change in the seven-day average increases from the previous week, or if bed occupancy rises beyond 50 per cent. The NIE, outlining infrastructure requirements, has said districts should prepare for 15 oxygen beds and two intensive care unit or ventilator beds for every 100 active cases, and three ambulances for every 100 new infections, assuming 25 per cent patients would require hospitalisation. It has also recommended two doctors and four nurses for every 30 oxygen beds and two doctors and two nurses for every 10 intensive care unit or ventilator beds, each team on eight-hour shifts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-63
14-06-2021||India||Odisha govt approves four industrial projects envisaging investment of around Rs 1,637 crore||The State Level Single Window Clearance Authority of the Odisha government has given its approval to four industrial projects, including manufacturing of an oxygen cylinder plant, envisaging an investment of around Rs 1,637.41 crore. Once these projects get going, it will generate direct employment opportunities for 1,116 people. Principal secretary industry Hemant Kumar Sharma said: “The proposals are mainly from the sectors like downstream manufacturing, metal, and power sector. The proposers are well known industrial houses and their coming in will provide further fillip to the sectors.” The project includes expansion of Tata Steel Limited’s iron ore beneficiation plant from 12MMTPA to 17.6MMTPA with an investment of Rs 946 crore. It will be set up in Joda in Keonjhar district and will create employment opportunities for over 803 persons. “We have also given approval for setting up an oxygen cylinder manufacturing plant with capacity of 10,80,000 cylinders per annum by M/s. ShyamMetalics and Energy Limited against an investment of Rs 55.10 crore to be set up in Rengali Industrial Estate in Sambalpur, with potential employment potential for over 162 persons,” officials said. The other proposals include a 50MW solar PV power generation plant by M/s Mahanadi Coalfields Limited against an investment of Rs 254.71 crore to be set up in Boudh, with employment potential for over 36 persons. “The authority chaired by chief secretary has also given its nod to the railway wagon manufacturing plant having capacity of 1,500 Wagon per annum along with 0.394 MMTPA Electric Arc Furnace (EAF)” officials said, adding that 0.5 MMTPA Railway Siding plant by M/s. Shyam Metalics and Energy Limited will come up against an investment of Rs 381.60 crore. The plant will be set up in Hirakud in Sambalpur district. It will create employment opportunities for over 115 persons. Managing director IPICOL (Industrial Promotion and Investment Corporation of Odisha Limited) Nitin Bhanudas Jawale said, “Because of the improved ‘ease of doing business’ and facilitating promotional policies of state government, major investors are now considering Odisha as a flourishing destination of investment.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-63
14-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal lockdown extended till July 1, but malls open 11am to 6pm ||The Bengal government on Monday extended the ongoing Covid-induced lockdown till July 1, keeping in place exisiting restrictions on public transport, but eased certain curbs on offices and business establishments from June 16. “We have allowed extension of business hours with the condition that the staff be vaccinated. We don’t want business to suffer,” said chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Government and private offices have been allowed to work with 25 per cent staff from June 16 with hours fixed between 10am and 4pm for the latter. Also, private offices will have to ensure transportation of employees who need to attend office, for which the state government will allow e-passes. The transport sector, including private buses, metro rail services, local trains will continue to remain shut during this time, except for the staff special trains that have been allowed to run. Taxis and autos will be allowed only in case of medical emergency. Private vehicles will not be allowed to run from 9pm to 5am. For the health-conscious Bengali, the government has decided to open parks between 6am to 9am, where only vaccinated morning walkers will be allowed. However, the government has not clarified whether first dose recepients would be prevented entry to parks. Sports activities will resume in stadiums sans spectators, while swimming pools and gymnasiums remain closed. Local markets selling vegetables, fruits, eggs, milk, grocery, and other shops selling household necessities will be operational between 7 am and 11am. Other retail shops, including those in shopping malls, will be allowed to operate between 11am-6pm.  At shopping malls, retail shops can allow only 30 per cent customers at a given time to be catered to by 25 per cent of the work force. Restaurant and bars can run with 50 per cent sitting capacity. The Bengali entertainment industry is also back in business with the government allowing film and television shootings amid all Covid precautions by units with at least 50 vaccinated crew members.  “The entertainment industry had requested me. We have decided to allow them to work with all protocols followed,” said Mamata, a self-confessed fan of Bengali soap operas. Mamata said the government had vaccinated two crore people till date. “When the elections were being held, our positivity rate (for Covid tests) was around 20-22 per cent. On the last day of polling, it was at 32 per cent. We have now brought it (positivity rate) down to 6 per cent and are working towards reducing it further,” she said. Since the restrictions were imposed, Bengal has seen a steady decline in the number of Covid cases. In the last 24 hours, the state had registered, 3,.984 new cases. The current recovery rate of Bengal is around 97.64 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-25
14-06-2021||West Bengal||Mukul Roy to help Trinamul bolster national identity ||The once-formidable Mukul Roy is likely to lead the Trinamul’s charge across the country as Mamata Banerjee makes another attempt to pitch herself on the national stage following her spectacular Assembly elections victory. After his return to the Trinamul Congress, Roy has been made an all-India vice president with brief to spread the word about Trinamul and expand its support base across the country. The move while accommodating Roy without leaving him in the lurch like he was in the BJP for the last two years, also keeps him away from the party’s organisational matters, which is now firmly with Mamata's nephew and the party's all-India general secretary, Abhishek Banerjee. “It would have been difficult to keep Roy out of any organisational role. Since he is an old hand and there are many who owe their allegiance to him after Mamata di, he would have turned into another power centre. Neither Abhishek nor Mamata di want that to happen,” said a Trinamul leader. Roy, however, is unlikely to get a free hand in his new role since pollster and political consultant Prashant Kishor has already been handling much of the party’s forays at the national level _ the latest being his meeting with the NCP chief and Maratha strongman Sharad Pawar. “PK is already doing the liaison for the party with other leaders, though he is mostly working behind the scenes,” said the Trinamul leader. Soon after his name was announced as the party’s all-India general secretary, a post that Roy held till his departure from the Trinamul in 2017, Abhishek articulated his desire to make the Trinamul a national party. “We will not simply contest polls in other states to increase our vote share. Our aim from now on will be to come to power in these states,” he had said last week. Mamata’s success against the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah combine in Bengal, has helped raise her stocks among the section of voters who are against the BJP but are uncomfortable with a Congress-led by Rahul Gandhi. Having been an MP from 1984 to 2011, with one break in 1989, Mamata has had cordial relationships with several regional satraps, including the Yadavs of UP and Bihar, the Abdullahs in Kashmir, the Pawars in Maharashtra and Chandrababu Naidu, the TDP chief, who has been one of her most vocal supporters. Mamata’s attempts at going national have not met with any success over the last few years. It was her poll triumph in Bengal in 2011 that had prompted the Trinamul chief to pitch for a greater role in national politics. Trinamul has contested polls in Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Assam, Tripura, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and even Kerala, where it had announced 70 candidates in the 2016 Assembly polls. In Manipur, for example, the sole Trinamul legislator from Thanga Assembly constituency had initially supported the BJP to form a coalition government and later joined the Congress. Likewise in Punjab, an expelled Congress leader, Jagmeet Singh Brar, close to Mamata during her days as an MP, was made Trinamul’s Punjab unit president in 2016 ahead of the north Indian state’s Assembly elections. The Trinamul unit in Arunachal got merged with the People’s Party of Arunachal in 2013. “It’s a long task ahead. It is not possible for us to just go into any state and win elections. In Bengal too it took Mamata di three decades to establish herself as the alternative to the Left. But after her spectacular win in the Assembly polls, she is in a much stronger position to take on the BJP at the national level. No other leader in the country has that kind of a stature,” said a Trinamul MP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-25
14-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal reports 2,497 recoveries, 3,984 new cases||Bengal on Sunday reported a rise for the fourth consecutive day in its total of active Covid-19 cases, by 1,403 to 17,651, as only 2,497 recoveries were logged against 3,984 new infections detected. The state also recorded 84 deaths, including 15 in Calcutta and 20 in North 24-Parganas, the two worst-hit districts. Though this was the first instance in 65 days since April 9 of fewer than 4,000 new infections in a day, the renewed rise in total active cases drew more attention. Bengal’s recovery rate, which began declining on Friday to cause the 39-day spell of rise to snap, fell to 97.64 per cent. The national recovery rate is 95.24 now. Calcutta logged 426 new infections, North 24-Parganas 597. The daily confirmation rate, which had peaked in the second wave with nearly 33 per cent, fell to 6.63 per cent on Sunday. The state now has a total of over 14.61 lakh cases, since the first was reported on March 17 last year. The total includes 14.26 lakh recoveries, besides 16,896 deaths. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.15 per cent, while the national rate is 1.25.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-25
14-06-2021||West Bengal||One dead, three fishermen missing as hilsa trawler capsizes near Nandigram||A trawler driver drowned and three fishermen went missing late on Saturday night when their vessel, moored at Gangamela ghat on river Hooghly in East Midnapore’s Nandigram, capsized during a sudden high tide. The crew of 14 aboard the vessel, Maa Karunamoyee, had been shifting 14 barrels of diesel, each of 200-litre capacity, to fuel the trawler for a new season of hilsa fishing from June 15. Sources said the barrels caused the vessel to lose balance. Nine men on board jumped out and swam to safety, one more was rescued. But trawler driver Pradip Manna, drowned. Three fishermen, Rupesh Khanra, Kashinath Sheeth and Bistupada Maity, have eluded rescue teams so far. Civil defence and coast guard personnel were pressed into rescue operations at daybreak on Sunday, but the search for the three missing fishermen was unsuccessful till sundown. One of the rescue personnel said that the lifeless body of the driver, Manna, was recovered soon after the incident. The body was then sent to Contai subdivisional hospital in East Midnapore on Sunday for a post mortem. District authorities explained that the fishermen, all of whom hailed from Marisda in Contai, had been making preparations to start fishing, particularly hilsa, starting Monday night. “Every year, June 15 marks the yearly cessation of fishing restrictions that start in mid-April in order to allow various breeds of fish, particularly the hilsa, to spawn,” said a district official. Sources added that fishermen look forward to June 15 but this time mishap struck before that. Starting early on Sunday, Haldia deputy magistrate Kishore Biswas and Nandigram BDO Sumita Sengupta supervised the rescue operations at Kendemari Jalpai, on whose banks the Gangamela ghat is located. “We have had no luck in locating the three missing youths yet but we are trying our best,” said Biswas. “Prima facie, it seems the imbalance caused by the barrels of diesel may have been a contributing factor (to the capsizing of the vessel),” he added. Fishing trawlers often remain at sea for days on end before returning to shore with their catch, an equation in which the size of the catch must be able to offset the amount of fuel spent. The surviving fishermen of the Maa Karunamoyee team are upset and anxious. Survivor Dipak Gyne said most of them had begun to unwind after dinner when a ferocious wave struck.“At that time, most of the diesel barrels were to one side, so we knew immediately that we had to jump out and swim,” he said. Added Gurupada Sit, another survivor: “We had high hopes for 2021 as the last two years have been bad seasons for hilsa, but this (the mishap) has been an unimaginable setback.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-25
14-06-2021||West Bengal||Three killed in truck and fuel tanker collision on NH2 in Asansol||Three persons were killed when an empty oil tanker collided head-on with a medicine-laden mini truck on NH2 in Asansol early on Sunday. Both vehicles reportedly caught fire with the collision and were gutted before three fire engines could douse the blaze in an hour. The incident occurred around 5am near Kalla crossing, at Asansol North police station limits when the driver of the mini truck lost control while trying to evade two cyclists, both brothers and fish vendors, and entered into another lane to collide with the empty oil tanker, sources said. The two cyclists, Santosh Gorai, 40, and Rakhohari Gorai, 35, residents of Barabani, died sandwiched between the two vehicles, which caught fire on impact. The charred body of the truck driver was found in the vehicle’s cabin. He could not be identified till Sunday evening. The driver of the oil tanker escaped. “The cyclists were crossing the road when the truck driver, on the Delhi-bound lane, entered the Calcutta-bound lane, and in trying to avoid the two cyclists collided head-on with the oil tanker. Both vehicles burst into flames,” said an eyewitness. “The driver of the oil tanker managed to jump out of the cabin seconds before the collision,” said a source. Police said the truck carrying the medicine consignment was bound for Dhanbad in Jharkhand, and the oil tanker was headed for Rajbandh in West Burdwan’s Kanksa. Fire officials said despite the oil tanker being empty, the fire was ignited from the sheer impact of the collision between the two large vehicles. “Initially, we brought two fire-fighting engines from the Asansol fire station but later another engine was pressed into service from our station at Raniganj. We doused the blaze but the vehicles were gutted. We found one charred body in the truck’s cabin,” said a fire official. Traffic came to a halt for about an hour on the busy Calcutta-Delhi highway following the incident till police were able to clear the remnants of the mishap. Sources said police rushed the two cyclists to Asansol district hospital, where they were declared dead on arrival. The charred body of the truck driver was sent to a morgue. Police said they were trying to identify the owners of both two vehicles as of Sunday afternoon but the registration plates and documents were too burnt to be of any use. “We will be able to identify the deceased truck driver and track the missing oil tanker driver only after tracing the owners of both vehicles. We are trying our best,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-25
14-06-2021||West Bengal||Centre decides to revamp NH10 with stress on safety||The central government has decided to revamp NH10, the principal highway that connects Sikkim with the rest of India, with slope restoration and landslide mitigation under the National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP). The highway connects Sevoke — around 20km from Siliguri — in Bengal with Sikkim capital Gangtok via Rangpo, the town on the border of the two states. The road also connects Kalimpong with Siliguri. In a letter sent to Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista, Union minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari said the Bengal public works department had been assigned the task of preparing a detailed project report for refurbishing the highway that is also strategically important for India as it leads to the China border in Sikkim. “One DPR for major slope restoration and landslide mitigation measures at about 20 vulnerable locations in Sevoke-Rongpo section (around 55 kilometres) of NH 10 is under preparation with the State PWD of West Bengal. The work has been proposed under National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) and we have planned to award the work in FY 2021-22 (within the current fiscal year),” Gadkari said in the letter dated June 7. The NIP, which was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2019, is a government exercise planned to improve infrastructure across the country. A task force headed by the secretary of the department of economic affairs that functions under the finance ministry was formed to draw up projects. NH10 is a precarious hilly road, particularly between Sevoke and Teesta Bazaar (a stretch of 32km). The highway has a number of landslide-prone zones and often gets blocked as debris come down the hillside during the monsoon. The road witnesses several accidents every year and in many cases, vehicles go off and plunge into the Teesta which flows parallel to the highway. “There had been recurring accidents and landslides which have led to loss of lives along the road. For years, there hasn’t been any major expansion of the highway which leads to such mishaps. That is why I had written to the Union minister. I thank him for responding to my letter and including the project in the NIP,” said the Darjeeling MP. Gadkari said in the letter that crash barriers would be installed along the route to curb accidents, particularly falling of vehicles into the Teesta. “There will be other provisions like rescue ambulances, patrol vehicles and tow-away cranes. This is according to the new policy of incident management services formulated by the ministry under which all new NH projects would be included,” said a source. The MP said the state PWD should speed up the DPR preparation. “A refurbished NH10 will enhance travel safety of lakhs of residents of Sikkim and Kalimpong and thousands of tourists,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-25
14-06-2021||West Bengal||Three leopards from South Khayerbari rescue centre to get new zoo homes||Three leopards from the South Khayerbari rescue centre here will head for three zoos in south Bengal. Rescued leopards of north Bengal are brought to this centre. Their upkeep is costly, a forester said, and a leopard can’t be released at the site it was found to prevent man-animal conflict according to Central Zoo Authority (CZA) norms. Hence, the state forest department had urged the CZA to allow shifting of rescued leopards to Bengal zoos. “The CZA has given us approval and so three leopards from South Khayerbari will be sent to zoos in south Bengal in 10 days,” said Rajendra Jakhar, chief conservator of forests (wildlife, north). After that, 18 leopards will remain at the rescue centre. A leopard from Bengal Safari Park near Siliguri will also be sent to south Bengal, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-26
14-06-2021||West Bengal||Woman stripped by mob and paraded over alleged affair ||A 35-year-old married woman was stripped of her clothes and forced to parade through a village here after she returned to her husband’s home after six months as “punishment” for allegedly staying with a person with whom she had an affair. The incident occurred on Thursday evening but became known when video clips, showing her humiliation, surfaced on social media on Sunday. Police rescued the woman and admitted her to a hospital. They are also conducting raids to nab those involved in the incident. Sources said the woman was having problems with her husband. Six months back, she left the village with a person with whom she allegedly had an affair. “On Thursday, as she returned to her husband’s place, some villagers started questioning her about her whereabouts in the past six months. As she fumbled in replying, villagers decided to convene a salishi sabha (kangaroo court) to decide her fate,” said a police source. The same day, the kangaroo court was held. Some people dragged her out of her house and beat her, asking her to explain where she was till now, sources said. “Another group of villagers got more agitated. They tore off her clothes and forced her to walk through the village. During all this, some people shot her videos. The victim was so shocked that she fled and was traceless for days till the police found her,” the source added. The policemen and local panchayat representatives, however, had no inkling of the incident on Thursday. It was only on Sunday that police officers and local Trinamul leaders came to know about the incident as the video clips surfaced on social media. “I came to know about the incident this morning. It is barbaric and we want the police to take stringent steps against all involved, even if any happen to be from our party,” said local Trinamul leader Dhiresh Roy. “We will arrest all responsible for the incident,” said Bholanath Pandey, SP, Alipurduar. Police sources said the woman is still in shock. Sources said the police will record the victim’s statement. “She is yet to recover from shock. Doctors have kept her under observation,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-26
14-06-2021||West Bengal||‘Cut money’ charges pile up against bank manager in Malda||A number of complaints have been docketed with superior authorities against the branch manager of a nationalised bank accused of seeking a cut against loans from applicants. Aggrieved customers of the Tulshihata branch of Indian Bank, in Harischandrapur of Malda district, have demanded stern action against the bank manager. The accused, Sanjay Kumar Singh, however, denied the charges. Raihan Reja Choudhury, a student pursuing a medical course, has sent an email sent to the nodal officer of the grievance cell and the higher officials of the bank, alleging he was asked by the manager to pay an hefty amount as “cut money” against a study loan. “I was so desperate for the loan and I and my family members even requested the bank manager to reduce the cut amount. But he refused to listen to us or sanction the loan. Eventually, I applied for the same loan in another bank and got it promptly sanctioned. I want action against the bank official,” the student said. Raghunath Ram, another customer of the bank, alleged that back in 2018, he had put his property on mortgage with the bank and had got his cash-credit loan approved by another person who was the branch’s manager then. “However, when this person (manager Singh) took charge, he went on delaying the process and harassed me as I could not pay him the money he asked as a cut. I filed a complaint with senior bank officials,” he said. Biplab Gupta, who has an account at the branch, said he had to pay 10 per cent of the loan amount sanctioned by the bank to the manager. “Later, the bank had offered to increase my loan amount, and subsequently, I was asked to pay more cut money to avail the bigger loan,” Gupta said. Singh called the charges baseless and attempts to defame him and the branch of the bank. “A loan cannot be sanctioned if proper papers and proofs are not submitted with applications.  I cannot violate guidelines,” Singh said. The complaints have also reached Sushanta Haldar, the lead bank manager of Malda. “We have taken note of the grievances and have forwarded those to competent authorities,” Haldar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-26
14-06-2021||West Bengal||Sacrifices have to be made if one chooses to be in BJP: Dilip Ghosh||Beleaguered Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Sunday stressed the need for “sacrifice and austerity” for one to stay in the party, but his sermon amid whispers of mass defections to the Trinamul Congress drew derision from sections within the saffron camp. Floodgates of defections — many in the saffron camp now fear — may have been opened by the return to Trinamul of the BJP’s national vice president Mukul Roy on Friday. “Defection has become a habit for many now. The BJP relies on those who have shed blood and sweat to establish the party,” read a social media post by Ghosh in Bengali. Ghosh and others in the BJP have been resorting to philosophy and lofty ideals — while frantically insisting that defections to Trinamul won’t damage the party, and, instead, would strengthen it — since the saffron camp was left blindsided by the body blow of the Krishnagar North MLA’s departure. There are apprehensions of at least a dozen MLAs — from the BJP’s meagre total of 77 — following Roy, besides several MPs and countless leaders, office bearers and workers. “In order to stay in BJP one will have to practice sacrifice and austerity. Those who only wish to enjoy power, will not be able to stay in the BJP, we are not going to let them stay,” added Ghosh’s post. The post prompted sarcastic criticism not only from Trinamul but also the BJP. Many within the BJP saw the statement as a continuation of Ghosh’s desperate attempts to display bravado in the face of the imminent crisis, which according to them turns out to be counterproductive more often than not. Another section of BJP leaders said it was Ghosh’s attempt to stay relevant amid rumours that he would be removed from the post. Several state and national leaders of the BJP that this newspaper spoke to were of the opinion that Ghosh had to shoulder a bulk of responsibility for the electoral “decimation” in Bengal and the crisis within the party that inevitably followed. “Dilip da would’ve undoubtedly claimed the credit — like after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls — if the party had been able to wrest power here. Since, the party was, instead, trounced in the election, he should gracefully claim responsibility and resign,” said a state BJP office bearer. “His didactic, patronising and laughable post wouldn’t do the party any good” Trinamul vice president Saugata Roy had similar advice for Ghosh. “We have seen everywhere that leaders take responsibility for such defeats and resign from their posts. Why isn’t Dilip Ghosh doing so?” asked the Dum Dum MP. Speaking on Ghosh’s claim that the BJP would weed out opportunists, education minister Bratya Basu asked: “Why didn’t he remember this when his party was celebrating the induction of turncoats from other parties?” Several key sections in the BJP state leadership questioned the prepoll stress on inorganic growth through en masse defections. They said the strategy — among several others such as the obsession with polarisation in a state such as Bengal, with which it continues to persist — monumentally backfired in the election and was now bleeding the BJP further. “Ahead of the election, we welcomed countless defectors with open arms to promote the perception that a BJP victory was a foregone conclusion. Nearly half of our candidates were turncoats, most of whom were handed a drubbing,” said another state BJP functionary, adding that numerous BJP old timers had raised objections, but the leadership turned a deaf ear to them. One such leader who had played a major role in inducting and promoting Trinamul turncoats was the party’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya — omnipresent in Bengal till the results, conspicuous by his near complete absence since. Vijayvargiya was known for his proximity to Roy. On Sunday, former Bengal BJP chief Tathagata Roy ridiculed Vijayvargiya on social media. Roy — one of several BJP leaders bitterly critical of the party’s decisions in the wake of the results — took to Twitter and wrote: “A faithful English translation of a tweet from a devout BJP supporter. I have added or subtracted nothing. “Auntie (Buaji) Mamata, please take this stupid cat (Vijayvargiya) into Trinamool. He may be heartbroken missing his friend! They used to remain closeted together for the whole day.” Also on Sunday, Dulal Bar, a former MLA and the chief of the Scheduled Caste wing of the Bengal BJP, said Mukul Roy was unhappy in the BJP since he didn’t get the respect he deserved in the party. Bar added that although he had not decided about his own future, nothing was impossible in politics. Amid such developments, Bengal BJP held a meeting to discuss the course of action on possible defectors. The meeting was attended by state general secretaries and general secretary (organisation) Amitava Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-26
14-06-2021||North East|| Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma for fast probe in girls' 'shocking deaths'||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Sunday visited the residence of the two girls found hanging from a tree on Friday near their village under Kokrajhar police station and directed the police to “expeditiously” unearth the truth behind the  “shocking deaths”. Sarma said one of the reasons for visiting the family at Abhayakuti village was to send a message to the masses that his government will not tolerate any kind of atrocity against the poor and ensuring the safety of women shall always remain a top priority of his government. “... I met them today to console & share their pain. Assam Govt stands firmly by them,” Sarma later tweeted. Soon after taking charge as the chief minister on May 10, Sarma had said that safety and security of the indigenous communities and women would be a priority areas of his government. After meeting the affected family-members, locals, police and the Bodoland Territorial Council chief Pramod Boro at Abhayakuti, Sarma said prima facie it could be a case of murder or suicide under duress. “Whatever the cause, I have instructed the police to expeditiously unearth the truth. If it is a murder, we need to find the culprits. And if it is suicide, we need to find out the reasons. The family sees no reason for them to die by suicide. There is a mystery which needs to be resolved solved,” he said. Police have so far arrested five persons, between 20 and 27 years, from nearby areas in connection with the case, Kokrajhar SP Prateek Thube told The Telegraph. “Few more people are under the scanner. We are awaiting the post mortem to know the exact cause of death,” he said. The chief minister has said two of those held in connection with the case had deleted all their messages and photos from their mobile phones. The girls, aged 16 and 14, hailing from the Rabha community were school-dropouts. The Rabha Joutha Mancha had supported the ruling BJP-led alliance in the recently-held Assembly election. The girls were missing since Friday afternoon and their bodies were founding hanging from a mango tree about 600 metres away from their residence late evening. “Their bodies were found to be hanging 10 feet above the ground,” a police source said. Their family members were working in the paddy field and discovered the duo missing when they returned home around 4pm. “It is a very remote village, about 20km from Kokrajhar town. There are around 60 houses, mostly scattered in the village. The family is poor. The deceased were related — were aunt and niece,” a source who visited the village on Sunday said. The nearest Salbari and Singimari villages are located about 1 and 2 km away respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-2
14-06-2021||Opinion|| It’s raining fritters||Sir — It is official: the monsoon has landed in Calcutta. This piece of news — the horrors of slush and water-logging notwithstanding — is unlikely to dampen our spirits. For it rains telebhajas at this time of the year, with Bengalis tucking into their beloved savouries in huddles in front of street stalls. But a raging pandemic stands between the pneyaaji and the palate this year. It remains to be seen how Calcutta finds a way around this challenge. Biswanath Banik, Calcutta Sir — Reading the article, “Interpreters of Maladies” (June 13), by Upala Sen was like taking a walk down memory lane. It is both exhaustive and well written and it took me a while to believe that someone has so many similar memories as me. But I would like to add some more medicines to those listed in the article. First, there was Calacreme which came in pale yellow tubes and worked wonders in lightening the scars left behind by smallpox and chickenpox. The 1974 smallpox epidemic in India gave a huge boost to the sale of this cream. Even as late as 2001, doctors have been known to prescribe the cream for the same purpose. Second would be Vinkola-12, a vitamin and iron tonic manufactured in Serampore. This tonic was believed to work wonders for the health and well-being of girls with menstrual problems, especially those suffering from excessive blood loss. Then, of course, there is Lacto Calamine, a facial lotion that Bengali mothers believed would make their daughters fair complexioned. I would also like to add that of all the cures mentioned in the article, I still use Mercurochrome and Boroline. Chameli Pal, Batanagar Sir — Upala Sen’s article made for delightful reading. It reminded me of a friend of mine who lives in New Jersey. Each time she comes to visit her family in Calcutta she travels back with, ironically, biryani from Arsalan for her family and friends and bottles of Aqua Ptychotis carefully wrapped in paper and old cloth. Other panaceas like Boroline, Isabgol, Milk of Magnesia and Gelusil are still doing brisk business in Bengal and can be found in most households. In fact, these ‘medicines’ cut across barriers of class, caste and religion and unite a people known for their hypochondria. Sohini Chatterjee, Calcutta Sir — The decision of the GST council to reduce tax rates of some Covid-19 related items from 12 to 5 per cent is too little and too late. The tax should have been removed from all products given the nature of these items. These can be the difference between life and death. There is already a thriving black market for these goods, a tax burden will add to people’s woes. D.V.G. Sankararao, Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-10
14-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Stuck there||Indian politicians may have perfected the art of blowing their own trumpets, but India’s academic community clearly has not. Experts claim that this is a factor in the unexciting positions of Indian higher educational institutions in the Quacquarelli Symonds world university rankings. Although Indian universities have done well in the academic reputation and research parameters in this year’s list, their excellence is inadequately presented in the international arena. Of the three institutions that have made it to the top 200 of the rankings, the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, in 186th position, has the highest possible score in research, although its rank has fallen since last year. The Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi has improved its position to overtake it to 185, while IIT, Bombay, at 177, tops the Indian entries, but after dropping a few notches. These little changes are inconsequential in the light of the fact that no Indian institution has made it to the top 100 yet. Also, although there are four first-timers such as Jawaharlal Nehru University in the first 1000 — 22 universities in all — 14 universities have lost their previous ranks. Some of the IITs have improved their status, which is good news in a generally static picture. Indian institutions have fared badly in the faculty-student ratio. Vacant teachers’ posts do not help when the government wants more seats, the latest quota being arranged for students from the economically weaker sections. Scores in the parameters of international faculty and international student ratios are poor too. The present Indian government’s ambition of having two lakh overseas students in Indian institutions by 2023 through its ‘Study in India’ programme seems difficult to fulfil since their enrolment has not crossed 50,000 for two years. Investment — for the best possible faculty, filled posts, equipment and infrastructure — as well as autonomy are needed for excellence in education; the government tends to skimp on both. Comfortable accommodation and a safe environment are of the greatest importance for international students and faculty; this is rare too. It is also a comment on the imbalance inherent in India’s education system that specialized institutes are, in general, far ahead of traditional universities in global perception. The huge potential of traditional universities will remain untapped unless they are freed from financial constraints and government interference.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-10
14-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Prodigal sons||A wilted leaf seems to have left a tree shaking. The president of the state unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party, Dilip Ghosh, has stated that a “wilted leaf” — presumably Mukul Roy who has now returned to the Trinamul Congress after a brief stint in Mr Ghosh’s party — poses no threat. Yet, Mr Ghosh’s confidence may be misplaced. There are murmurs of a massive ‘reverse migration’ of BJP leaders and, equally worryingly, foot soldiers who had moved away from the TMC before the assembly elections in Bengal. Several BJP legislators — defectors from the TMC — have expressed their intention of returning to Mamata Banerjee’s outfit; this could lead to a significant dip in the BJP’s electoral strength in the Bengal assembly. What should concern Mr Ghosh equally is the possibility of mass defections among the cadre. The BJP, in spite of its promising performance in the last parliamentary elections, remains organizationally deficient in the state. Mr Roy was viewed within the saffron party as a prized catch on account of his organizational skills. The return of Mr Roy to the TMC combined with an exodus of workers could have an adverse effect on the state BJP’s morale and structural strength. While it may be argued that this ghar wapsi from the BJP to the TMC is yet another instance of political opportunism, it could also be read as the embodiment of the prevailing public mood. That should leave Mr Ghosh’s ‘tree’ quivering. Some broader speculations may be made on the basis of these developments. Ms Banerjee, an adroit reader of the political pulse and the public mood, is likely to use this momentum in her favour. She has already stated that Mr Roy’s induction would have consequences at the national level and the meeting between Prashant Kishor, a trusted aide of Ms Banerjee, and Sharad Pawar has added grist to the political mill. The possibility of a resurgent Opposition throwing down the gauntlet to Narendra Modi and his party with Ms Banerjee in the lead may not be an untenable proposition. That could energize the TMC — and Bengal. Yet, there is also a caveat that Ms Banerjee will do well to remember. The TMC’s reversals began with the party’s endeavour to dominate Bengal’s political space by combining intimidation with defections. The TMC must shun this wish because absolute power turns parties authoritarian, eroding the democratic space in the process. As for the BJP, a past master in the game of defections, life has come full circle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-10
14-06-2021||Opinion||Risks of a vaccine rollout||Some experts consider the vaccine rollout a reason for the surge in the number of Covid cases. It may sound curious, but they argue that the perceived sense of safety induced low adherence to the preventive measures needed to resist infection. Alarmingly, many vaccinated people — fully or otherwise — thought they could discard Covid-appropriate behaviour. Even those not yet vaccinated felt safe. In an article titled “Risk Compensation and Covid-19 Vaccines”, Brit Trogen and Arthur Caplan of New York University Langone Health discuss an old concept, the Peltzman effect, to explain ‘pandemic fatigue’ and post-vaccination behaviour. As Covid-19 vaccines were rolled out across the globe amid messages of optimism and euphoria, what was supposed to be a panacea actually weakened adherence to safety measures. Trogen and Caplan observed: “the effects of risk compensation such as wearing masks, washing hands, and avoiding large crowds tend to fade over time as the novelty of a threat wears off and pandemic fatigue sets in. As the number of people vaccinated increases, this effect may intensify due to a misplaced sense of security”. The Peltzman effect is named after Sam Peltzman, a professor of economics at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, who claimed that individuals respond to safety measures with a compensatory increase in risky behaviour. Peltzman published his findings in a seminal article titled “The Effects of Automobile Safety Regulation” in the Journal of Political Economy in 1975. The idea was conceptualized in the late 1960s when the government of the United States of America made the wearing of seat belts mandatory in response to an increase in motor accidents and deaths. Peltzman observed that there was no decrease in automobile death rates in spite of such safety measures and improved car safety technologies. In fact, people drove more recklessly owing to the perceived safety of their seat belts, resulting in an increase in accidents. While the safety measures made the occupants safer it made the bystanders or pedestrians or bicyclists wearing helmets less safe, which was an unintended consequence of this regulation. The American economist, Hyman P. Minsky, developed a theory which is more or less the stock market version of the Peltzman effect. A lowering of the perceived risk of loss raised capital asset prices and encouraged higher levels of borrowing and lending. In his 1970 article, “Financial Instability Revisited: The Economics of Disaster”, Minsky argued that “stability begets instability”. The level of riskiness keeps rising until things become unstable. In his 1975 article, Peltzman argued that regulation changes behaviour that can offset the benefits of government policies. The Peltzman effect in medicine, however, is not simply an unanticipated effect of an intervention, but a specific compensatory response by patients or providers to a perceived sense of safety. A widely cited example in this context is that of risky sexual behaviour among patients receiving treatment or pre-exposure prophylaxis for HIV. The introduction of medications that dramatically lessened the risk of HIV transmission has also been associated with decreased intention to use additional protection — the benefit is thus less than what would be expected. What’s more, “[c]onsciously or not, even those who have not received a Covid-19 vaccine may forgo masks and social distancing if they know that others are receiving the vaccine,” Trogen and Caplan opined. Acknowledging and understanding the Peltzman effect is thus critical to counteracting its possible negative effects. The Peltzman effect is also an important lesson for public policymakers. Continual counselling of people, including those receiving the vaccine, is a must.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-10
14-06-2021||Opinion||Troublesome copycats: Covid-inappropriate behaviour||There is no dearth of media coverage of inappropriate behaviour on the part of people in respect to Covid-19. But that has not stopped our blatant disregard for such norms as maintaining social distancing or wearing masks. This collective disregard for SOPs and guidelines is the root cause of the disaster. Alas, such caveats appear to have no impact on public conduct. Behavioural economics, a relatively new stream in economics, may have some explanations to offer to resolve the conundrum. We have been discussing Covid-appropriate behaviour for almost a year. Large gatherings are said to be one of the major contributors of the second wave. In March 2020, the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz mosque was termed as a superspreader event. Over four thousand confirmed cases and 27 deaths were linked to the gathering. The country did not learn anything from that disaster. The Kumbh Mela took place one year later. Although the Centre and the Uttarakhand government laid down SOPs on this occasion, these remained largely on paper. There are numerous anecdotal evidences of people contracting the virus after visiting the Kumbh Mela. Al Jazeera reported dozens of cases across India being traced back to the celebration. Last but not the least, that Great Indian political festival — elections — needs to be mentioned in this context. The question is why do people not learn from past events? Behavioural economics offers an answer in this respect: the answer is that the present behaviour of people is what they have learnt from the past. Influencing people’s behaviour by publicizing information — known as ‘social nudge’ — is one way of motivating people towards a desired change in behaviour. The other option relies on command and control policies, such as rules and laws. Lockdown is an example of this kind of intervention. Since it requires monitoring for implementation, it may become cost ineffective in a large and populous country like India. The economic losses incurred due to lockdowns make command and control inefficient. Social nudges, on the other hand, are cost effective as changes may take place more organically. But a social nudge can become counterproductive if the information content is not designed appropriately. In their book, Nudge: Improving Decisions About Health, Wealth, and Happiness, Richard H. Thaler and Cass R. Sunstein delineate the different types of social nudges for behaviour change. One way of nudging people would be to tell them about correct behaviour. However, people tend to follow others. In Norms in the Wild, Cristina Bicchieri, an Italian-American philosopher, termed people’s tendency to watch others’ behaviour as ‘empirical expectation’, which motivates their behaviour in the same direction. Thus, when people flout Covid-19 SOPs and the information is publicized widely, it sets empirical expectations that others tend to follow. Thaler and Sunstein argue that social nudges are effective only when the information is positive or conforms to appropriate behaviour. If you want to make people tax compliant, policymakers should spread the information that a large number of people pay their taxes. Or, say, if you want to nudge people to give up addiction, then disseminate how many have left the harmful habit. Robert B. Cialdini, an American professor of psychology and marketing, conducted an experiment on the behaviour of visitors to parks in respect to widespread littering. He found that sending the message, “A lot of people are doing this wrong” also meant “A lot of people are doing this”. This may encourage bad habits instead of nudging public behaviour towards a desired outcome. Therefore, there is a possibility that widely publicized news and visuals of the flouting of Covid-19 SOPs, originally meant to raise alarm and warn people, have actually encouraged people to disobey these protocols since they saw others doing the same. The media should produce greater evidence of people adhering to Covid-19 norms. This may be more effective in changing public behaviour. A carefully-crafted social nudge can contain the second wave of the pandemic and even nip the third wave in the bud. Indranil De is Associate Professor, Institute of Rural Management, Anand||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-10
14-06-2021||Opinion||A fragile moment||To understand the political drama playing out in Israel and the tentative formation of a national unity coalition to topple Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, you don’t need to speak Hebrew. You need only to understand one thing: Netanyahu makes his enemies even angrier than Donald Trump does. Just like Trump, Netanyahu’s main political strategy for winning elections has been to foster an intense personality cult and try and gain and hold power with slim majorities by dividing Israel along as many lines as possible — in his case, primarily Jews versus Arabs, Left versus Right, religious versus secular and patriots versus traitors. And just like Trump, Bibi did not stop at red lights. He was perfectly happy to undermine Israel’s democratic institutions, the press and the rule of law — anything that could restrain his quest to retain power after 12 years in office. That explains why today he is struggling to stay alive politically at the same time his future is tied up with investigations and legal proceedings over bribery, fraud and breach of trust. Sound familiar? As with Trump, Bibi was, and continues to be, ready to take Israeli society to the edge of civil war to hold on to power, which is why Israel is at a delicate moment and the process of forming a post-Netanyahu government is far from over. Before the fragile, incredibly ideologically diverse, ‘Change Coalition’ that has come together to oust Netanyahu is sworn in, which may take place today, Bibi and his political cult followers will ruthlessly use every trick in the book — and out of the book — to stop this transition of power. Sound familiar? In many ways, the unlikely coalition that has come together in Israel to try to unseat Bibi is Israel’s equivalent of Bidenism — a movement of the people who believe that society has to repair its torn political fabric, back away from the brink, and restore respect for institutions and for one another. The Israeli version of Bidenism should be called Lapidism — after Yair Lapid, a former television host and the founder of the centrist Yesh Atid party. He is the Israeli political leader who, more than anyone else, sublimated his own ego to put together this coalition in which he will rotate being prime minister with his right-wing rival and now partner, Naftali Bennett, a pro-settlements religious nationalist. Lapid is even letting Bennett assume the top leadership post first to cement his support, even though Bennett’s party is much smaller. Lapid has been all about downplaying ideology, pragmatically doing what works and restoring the health of Israel’s democratic institutions — so badly stressed in the Bibi era. A few weeks ago, when Israel’s president granted Lapid a chance to try to form a government, Lapid declared that “we’ve had enough of anger and of hate” and that his goal was to “start something different”. Well, Lapid and his right-wing and left-wing coalition allies are certainly on track to do that. So intense is the desire of the anti-Bibi coalition to oust him that it is breaking the biggest political taboo in Israeli political history: being willing to serve in a national unity coalition with an Israeli-Arab Islamist party whose four seats in Parliament were essential to produce this new ruling majority. As the Israeli media have noted, Mansour Abbas, the leader of the Israeli-Arab Raam party, known as the United Arab List in English, “made Israeli political history… by signing an agreement that will for the first time see an Arab party join a government.” Abbas told reporters that he, Lapid and Bennett “reached a critical mass of agreements in various areas that serve the interests of Arab society.” This is amazing. Abbas’s view is that it is high time for Israeli-Arabs to play the game of Israeli politics the same way the other big non-Zionist political bloc in Israel — the Jewish ultra-Orthodox parties — plays that game. And they play by using their swing votes to extract as many budgetary resources as possible for their community. Ynetnews reported that Bennett and Lapid promised Raam significant new money “to tackle the rampant violence and organized crime in Arab society” and “to repair crumbling infrastructure in Arab towns and villages” over the next 10 years. Reality check: one thing I have learned from four decades of reporting about the Middle East is that the eight most dangerous words to ever put into a news story or column after some big event are — “The world will never be the same again.” But it is not hard to be wowed by the unprecedented picture of Abbas, Lapid and Bennett, sitting around a little table (picture), cobbling together their coalition agreement and smiling for the cameras. “It was a historic picture captured in a hotel room by an aide of Mansour Abbas: the key moment when the majority for a government that may replace Benjamin Netanyahu — although still not for sure — was achieved,” wrote Haaretz’s Anshel Pfeffer. But, he added, let us not forget that “the man who made it all possible wasn’t there. Netanyahu created this moment.” Yes, the primary cement of this coalition is indeed opposition to Netanyahu. Alas, though, I have also learned that in Middle East politics, most big breakthroughs actually happen when you get the big players to do the right things for the wrong reasons. If you wait for everyone to do the right things for the right reasons, you wait forever. Many left-wing commentators denounced the recent normalization of relations between Israel and the United Arab Emirates engineered by the Trump administration because the deal was greased with American arms sales to the UAE. I am shocked, shocked. Hello? The same grease was used to bring about the Israel-Egypt and Israel-Jordan peace deals — and they have held, and relations between Israel and these Arab states have indeed never been the same since. So, yes, I am still wary that this Israeli ‘Change Coalition’ can actually hold together long enough to assume office — given how fragile it is and the vicious and possibly violent forces gathering to stop it. But if there is a silver lining that can never be taken away, it is the fact that not only Israeli-Jewish parties but Israeli right-wing Jewish parties have agreed to serve in an Israeli national unity coalition — and not only with an Israeli-Arab party but with an Israeli Arab Islamist party. With that taboo now broken, who knows what new possibilities will open up in the future to improve relations between Israeli-Arabs and Jews and also — maybe, maybe, maybe — between Israelis and Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza. Just as the ransacking of the US Capitol by a Trump-inspired mob forced Americans to peer into the abyss of what a civil war might look like, the 11-day war between Israel and Hamas, in which the Israeli army was forced to confront Palestinian-Arabs on the Gaza, Lebanon, West Bank and internal fronts, all on the same day — has forced Israeli Jews to peer into a similar abyss. I wish I could say that having stared into that abyss, I am certain the forces of decency in both societies — on both the left and the right — are now backing away and that Bidenism and Lapidism are the future. Yes, I wish that I could say that. But I can’t. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-10
14-06-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city trio support blood donation drive ||Steel city residents Surendra K. Jha and Jayant Kumar Bhuyan on Monday visited Jamshedpur Blood Bank to encourage and congratulate their childhood friend for continuing with the noble gesture for the 94th time on World Blood Donor Day. Both centurion blood donors, they wanted to mark the special day by pumping up the spirit of Shashank Shekhar who too would join their century club in months to come. World Blood Donor Day, first celebrated in 2004, raises awareness to the need for blood donation and to thank blood donors for their voluntary service. While 59-year-old Jha, a resident of Sonari, has donated blood 158 times, Bhuyan, an international chess arbiter who resides in Bhuiyandih, has donated 109 times. Jha breached the 150 mark in May, 2019. "I could not donate blood on Monday since I had given the same months back. One can donate blood four times a year (in every three-month interval). But I feel happy my friend Shashank is continuing with this noble gesture and nearing the century mark. The visit to the blood back was just to be at his side and encourage him on this special day," Jha said. Echoing Jha, Bhuyan said both he and Jha had planned to be at Shashank's side on World Blood Donor Day. "I felt very happy and congratulated our friend. It would not be long before Shashank joins our century club," he added. All three blood donors appealed to the people to come forward and donate blood in Covid time. "There is a shortage of blood in pandemic and people shpuld come forward to donate blood. People should voluntarily donate blood,” they said in unison. Shashank, a resident of Sakchi and Tata Steel employee, thanked Jha and Bhuyan for being at his side. "I felt very happy with the presence of my friends. I promise to continue donating blood. Blood donation comes to me from within," he added. Jha, Bhuyan and Shashank are friends for decades. They love adventure and have trekked to Sandakphu, the highest point of Singalila Ridge in Darjeeling, Bengal, in December 2017. The three also often go trekking to Dalma hills and had undertaken a cleanliness drive inside the elephant abode some years back. They also distributed soaps by visiting a leprosy colony in city in March last year and also spread awareness about coronavirus. They have also planned a trip to a new destination (for adventure) once the Covid-related situation improves.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
14-06-2021||Jharkhand||Education Minister Jagarnath Mahto returns to state after lung transplant||Jharkhand Education Minister Jagarnath Mahto, who underwent lung transplant at a Chennai-based hospital in November last year after battling Covid-19, returned home in a charter flight on Monday after eight months of treatment in the Tamil Nadu capital. Two doctors from the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, Dr. PK Bhattacharya and Dr. Ajit Dungdung, went to Chennai on Monday morning to review Mahto’s condition and returned along with him in the charter flight by evening. Mahto’s flight took off from the Chennai Airport at 5pm on Monday and landed in Ranchi at around 7.30pm. Chief Minister Hemant Soren and Agriculture Minister Badal gave a warm welcome to Mahto at the Birsa Munda Airport. Earlier in the day, Hemant visited Mahto’s Doranda-based residence in the state capital and checked all the arrangements made for the education minister. Hemant also inspected the medical equipment at the minister’s residence and directed the concerned staff members to take all possible precautions for Mahto’s safety. Dr. Suresh Rao, who was a part of the team that carried out Mahto’s lung transplant in Chennai, said that Mahto was fit to resume work and attend assembly sessions in Jharkhand. “He is fit to attend assembly sessions and do his work now. The infection that he developed in his lung is gone and he will be able to lead a healthy and active life now on,” said Dr. Rao, Co-Director, Institute of Heart and Lung Transplant and Mechanical Circulatory Support at MGM Chennai. Mahto, who tested positive for Covid-19 on September 28 last year, underwent treatment in different hospitals over a period of several months. Soon after testing positive, he was admitted to state-run RIMS in Ranchi. On October 1, 2020, he was shifted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in the state capital and put on non-invasive ventilation. However, his condition further deteriorated and he had to be flown to Chennai in an air ambulance on October 19. The 54-year-old MLA from Dumri was put on a life support system called Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) for around three weeks at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) Healthcare in Chennai before he underwent a lung transplant surgery on November 10. However, Mahto’s problems did not seem to end there. He was discharged from the hospital on February 8, but he returned with complains of chest pain and congestion. He developed an infection on the wall of his chest and had to be on high dose antibiotics at the MGM Hospital for months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
14-06-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city youngsters excel in chess festival||Steel city youngsters Adhiraj Mitra and Navieka Jaiswal won the online state under-12 championship, part of the Jharkhand Chess Association’s chess festival. While Adhiraj, who earlier topped the under-18 event and secured the runner-up slot in the under-14 age group, bagged the title in the open category, Navieka stamped her authority in the girl's section. Adhiraj, the youngest Fide-rated player in Jharkhand, proved his supremacy by scoring 6 points (out of maximum 7) and finished with a full point ahead of a group of half a dozen players. Navieka and  Saara Jain (also from Jamshedpur), on the other hand, tied for the title in the girl's category. The former was declared winner on better tiebreak. The chess festival concluded with the under-12 event. It gave ample opportunity to players who remained in touch with the game in Covid times. "The chess festival is being conducted successfully. We congratulate the players who participated in the state championship," said AJCA secretary Neeraj Kumar Mishra. According to him, Jharkhand players participated in the virtual National Under-18 Open and Girl's Championship which concluded on Saturday. In the open category, Ishant Kumar (Dhanbad) secured the 89th spot with 6 points while Souryadipta Sarkar (East Singhbhum)   managed 144th place with 5 points. A total of 232 players took part in the open section. In the nationals for girls, Dyuti Chakraborty and Kriti Kumar (both from East Singhbhum) finished 104th and 107th, respectively with points each. In all, 128 players were part of the national meet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
14-06-2021||Jharkhand||Railways to run special train from Bengal via Tatanagar||The South Eastern Railway has decided to run a weekly superfast special train between Howrah and Sainagar Shirdi via Tatanagar railway station. The 02594 Howrah-Sainagar Shirdi Special will leave Howrah on June 17, Thursday at 2.35 pm. The train will reach Sainagar Shirdi at 7.10 pm, the next day. The train will run from Howrah every Thursday. In the opposite direction, 02593 Sainagar Shirdi-Howrah Special will leave Sainagar Shirdi on June 19, Saturday at 2.10 pm. The train will arrive at Howrah at 7.30 pm, the next day. The return train will run every Saturday. The train with one AC two-tier, two AC three-tier, eight sleeper class and five general second class (fully reserved) coaches will have stoppages at Kharagpur, Tatanagar, Chakradharpur, Rourkela, Jharsuguda, Bilaspur, Raipur, Durg, Gondia, Nagpur, Akola,  Bhusaval, Manmad, and  Kopargaon Stations  between the two destinations- Howrah and Sainagar Shirdi. This train will have fully reserved accommodation. Garden Reach, the headquarters of South Eastern Railway on Monday also notified restoration of Howrah Ranchi Shatabdi special. The train had stopped operation in April due to the spike in Covid-19 cases. "It has been decided that the 02019/02020 Howrah-Ranchi Shatabdi Special (except Sunday) will be restored to its original path with  timings and stoppages  remaining unchanged from June 17 till further advice, " said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway. With declining cases of Covid-19, the South Eastern Railway has decided to run special trains between Santragachi - Anand Vihar and Hatia - Anand Vihar (via Barkakana and via Gomoh) The 02585 Santragachi-Anand Vihar Special resumed journey from Monday. The train left Santragachi  at 10 am and will reach Anand Vihar at 08.40 am on Tuesday. In the opposite direction, 02586 Anand Vihar-Santragachi Special  will leave Anand Vihar every Tuesday w.e.f June 15  at 1.25 pm and will arrive Santragachi at 4.15 pm, the next day ie. Wednesday. The train with one AC- two- tier, two AC- three tier, eight sleeper class and five general second class(Reserved) coaches will have stoppages at Kharagpur, Tatanagar, Purulia,  Gomoh, Gaya, Pt. Deen Dayal Upadhyaya, Prayagraj, Kanpur and Aligarh between Santragachi and Anand Vihar. According to a schedule released by SER headquarters the 02583 Hatia-Anand Vihar Special will leave  Hatia every Monday, Tuesday and Thursday with effect from June 15  at 1.40 pm and  will reach Anand Vihar at 1.10 pm, the next day. In the opposite direction, 02584 Anand Vihar-Hatia Special will leave Anand Vihar every Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday with effect from June 16 at 8.45 pm. The special train will arrive at Hatia at 7.40 pm, the next day. The train with two AC-two tier, six AC-three tier, seven sleeper class and four general second class(Reserved) coaches will have stoppages at Ranchi, Muri, Ramgarh Cant., Barkakana, Patratu, Tori, Daltonganj, Garwa Road, Garhwa, Nagar Untari, Renukut, Chopan, Sonbhadra, Chunar, Prayagraj and Kanpur between Hatia and Anand Vihar. The 02579/02580 Hatia-Anand Vihar-Hatia Special will run via  Gomoh. The 02579 Hatia-Anand Vihar Special will leave Hatia every Wednesday, Friday and Sunday with effect from June 16 at 2.35 pm. The train  will reach Anand Vihar at 1.10 pm, the next day. In the opposite direction, 02580 Anand Vihar-Hatia Special will leave Anand Vihar every Thursday, Saturday and Monday with effect from June 17 at 8.45 pm . The train will reach Hatia at 4.45 pm,  the next day. The train with two AC- two tier, six AC-three tier, seven sleeper and four general second class(Reserved) coaches will have stoppages at Ranchi, Muri, Bokaro Steel City, Chandrapura, Gomoh, Koderma, Gaya, Guraru,  Rafiganj,  Anugraha Narayan Road, Dehri on Sone, Sasaram, Bhabua Road, Pt. Deen Dayal Upadhyaya, Prayagraj and Kanpur between the two destinations- Hatia and Anand Vihar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
14-06-2021||Jharkhand||Active monsoon triggers heavy rain across Jharkhand ||An active monsoon, coupled with a low-pressure currently hovering over southern Jharkhand, resulted in heavy rain at various places across the state during the last 24 hours. Weathermen at IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre said an associated cyclonic circulation was also extending upto the mid-tropospheric level  which was assisting in rainfall activity across various districts. The monsoon trough was on Monday running from west Rajasthan to northeast Bay of Bengal across eastern Rajasthan, north Madhya Pradesh, north Chattisgarh and southern Jharkhand extending upto 0.9 Km above mean sea level. Met statistics revealed that Kurdeg in Simdega district recorded the heaviest rainfall of around 70mm during the past 24 hours (8.30am of Sunday to 8.30am of Monday). This was followed by Hariharganj in Palamau which too experienced heavy showers of around 55 mm. Sikatia in Godda district and Kolebira in Simdega district recorded over 50 mm of rain. Daltonganj and Ramgarh recorded around 30 mm of rain while Latehar, Koderma , Jamtara, Giridih, Bokaro, Rajmahal and several other places in north eastern parts of Jharkhand recorded moderate rainfall between 20 and 25 mm. According to Met statistics, over a dozen IMD observatories recorded rainfall between 10mm and 20 mm during the past 24 hours. Met data further revealed that the state as a whole recorded a surplus rain of 57 per cent so far in the month of June. Against a normal of 57.8 mm, the state has so far actually received 90.7 mm of rain, which is a gain of about 57 per cent. The southwest monsoon reached Jharkhand on June 12, three days ahead schedule. Head of Ranchi Met Centre Abhishek Anand said the monsoon has covered the entire state and that most districts would continue to get a good spell of rain in the next 72 hours or so. "Heavy rainfall is also expected to take place  at a few isolated places especially in  north,  central and southern Jharkhand during the next two to three days, " he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
14-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia cave-in causes panic among residents||A 30 feet deep and 10 feet wide crater was spotted in a locked house in the underground fire affecting Lilori Pathra locality of Jharia about 11 km from Dhanbad district headquarters on Sunday night causing panic among around two thousand local residents. The residents protested against the crater filling operation launched by the BCCL on Monday morning. The crater developed at the house of Surendra Pandey, who had shifted to a newly constructed house at Dhanbad town around 20 km from Lilori Pathra last week. Pandey informed officials of Kujama Colliery area following which two staff members of the BCCL visited the site and took stock of the situation assuring the local residents against any immediate danger. Senior officials of BCCL and District Administration, led by Jharia Circle officer, Parmeshwar Kushwaha; Office in Charge of Jharia police station, Pankaj Jha; Additional General Manager of  Lodna Area o BCCL, Dhananjay Akhare; Area Planning officer , RK  Sharma and project officer of Kujama Colliery, AK Kundu who reached at the site somehow controlled the situation and convinced them of early rehabilitation. “Despite the fact that our area is subsidence prone and minor incidents of subsidence had taken place several times earlier, no serious effort has been initiated to shift us and only around 141 families out of around 440 living in area have been allotted quarters at Belgarhia area of Jharia,” said Triloki Prasad. “Majority of 141 families of Liloripathra and Ghanudih who have been allotted quarters in Belgaria have also not shifted there as some of family members at Liloripathra have not been allotted quarters in Belgarhia” said another local resident Narendra Mandal. A.K. Kundu, project officer of Kujama Colliery said, “We have launched the filling up operation of the crater today for which we had to dismantle two adjoining houses but all affected persons have been provided houses at other places.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
14-06-2021||Jharkhand||Angry 22-year-old slaughters family before killing himself||Four persons of a family were killed on Monday morning in connection with a family dispute in Gandhi Nagar locality under Dhansar Police station less than five km away from Dhanbad district headquarters. The incident came to light when Sudhir Kumar Raj, a neighbour of the deceased Munna Yadav, woke up in the middle of the night and found blood coming out of Yadav’s room. He then went over to the house and found Munna Yadav and his step son, Rahul  Yadav (22); his wife, Mina Devi (43) and his son Rohit Yadav (14) lying in a pool of blood. Raj informed other neighbours, including the General Secretary of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Ajay Narayan Lal and they reached the site with a Dhansar police team. The police team broke open the door and found all four persons lying in a pool of blood. The police team also recovered a dagger lying under the body of Rahul Yadav suggesting that he killed his mother, step father and step brother before dying by suicide. Police collected some samples from the site with the help of forensic experts and sent all the four bodies for post mortem at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital. Officer-in-charge Jairam Prasad said, “Prima facie it seems that Rahul Yadav has killed the other three members of the family with the dagger before committing suicide but more investigation in this regard is pending.” “Rahul seems to be unhappy with the second marriage of his mother Mina Devi with Munna Yadav and used to stay away and arrived at the Gandhi road resident of his mother about a month ago and probably killed his mother and step father and step son before dying by suicide,” said Prasad. Sudhir Kumar Raj,who first spotted the blood coming out of the house of Mahendra Yadav said, “Everything was normal in the family till last night and we also never  came to know about any dispute among the family members especially between Mahendra Yadav and his wife, Mina Devi.” General Secretary of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Ajay Narayan Lal said, “We in the locality are stunned after coming to know about the incident of death of four family members in our neighborhood as Munna Yadav had no animosity with anyone as per our knowledge.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
14-06-2021||Jharkhand||On World Blood Donors' Day, Jharkhand launches digital donation certificates||On the occasion of World Blood Donors' Day on Monday, chief minister Hemant Soren announced the setting up of blood component separation units in six districts and launched an online system of issuing digital blood donation certificates. Promising similar facilities in all other districts in future, the chief minister also unveiled an annual donation calendar prepared by Jharkhand State Aids Control Society (JSACS) which also started a YouTube channel. Hemant appealed to all, especially the youth, to take up blood donation on mission mode to serve humanity. “Blood donation is considered to be a noble gesture as it can save lives. However, there are instances when the needy find it difficult to get the right amount of blood or its allied products on time due to lack of stock. We have, therefore, decided to strengthen blood related facilities in all districts but will also push donations,” he said. Officials of JSACS, who were also part of the online function along with the chief minister and state health minister Banna Gupta, said that in the first phase, blood component separation units were being set up at sadar hospitals of Ranchi, Hazaribagh, Giridih, Gumla, Palamau and East Singbhum (Jamshedpur). Gupta said the new facilities would boost blood related services acorss the state. “Blood component separation units will play a crucial role in treating  patients of dengue or those struggling with blood related ailments. These units can easily churn out platelets, white blood cells, plasma among others as per patients' requirements. This will help prevent wastage too," he explained. Currently, only Rajendra Institute of Medica Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi and Jamshedpur blood bank have blood separator units. Critical patients frpm across the state have to come to either Ranchi or Jamshedpur to avail blood components like platelets, WBC etc. Jharkhand has 59 blood banks out of which 39 are supported by the National AIDS Control Organization (NACO). The rest are privately owned. As per  figures available with JSACS, Jharkhand requires around 3.5 lakh units of blood per year but it often falls short by about a lakh units. To tackle the shortage, JSACS has now worked out an annual donation calendar to be followed round the year in all 24 districts. “We have decided to run mega donation camps on Shaheed Divas in memory of martyrs of the state,” said an official, adding that their  new YouTube channel would upload programmes and related content to encourage voluntary blood donation. The state government will also issue digital blood donation certificates from now onwards. “Earlier, donation certificates weren’t given but from now onwards, the moment anyone donates blood, a digital certificate will be sent on their registered mobile number and email id,” said the JSAC official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
14-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand's active Covid caseload drops below 3.5k||At least 713 Covid patients recovered on Sunday against 154 fresh cases of infection, bringing the active caseload in Jharkhand down to 3395, while two more patients died on the day, taking the Covid toll to 5084, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. At least two districts – Pakur and Godda – did not report fresh cases of infection on the day, a bulletin released by NHM stated. As per the bulletin, East Singhbhum reported 32 cases of Covid-19, the highest among Jharkhand districts. The district, however, reported 342 recoveries on the day, which brought the active caseload there down to 412, the NHM bulletin further stated. Ranchi and Ramgarh reported on Covid casualty each, which took the toll in Ranchi to 1580 and that in Ramgarh to 196. As per NHM data, at least 59 recoveries against 17 cases brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 1194 – the highest among all the districts in the state. At least 20 districts reported a single-digit-spike in Covid cases on Sunday. Hazaribag reported 19 cases against 41 recoveries on the day while seven people were found infected in Bokaro and six patients recovered there. Simedga reported 12 cases against 38 recoveries on Sunday. The state on Sunday tested swab samples of 35,472 residents and less than 0.5 per cent of them were found infected by Coronavirus. The daily Covid positivity rate in Jharkhand has been less than 1 per cent for almost a week now, government data highlights. The growth rate of infection in the state also dropped to 0.08 per cent on Sunday against the national average of 0.22 per cent while the doubling rate jumped to 883.4 days in Jharkhand against the national doubling rate of 319.98 days. The vaccination drive against Covid-19 has also gained momentum in Jharkhand since Friday. The state on Sunday administered the first dose of vaccine to 1,06,586 residents and the second dose to 14,335 beneficiaries, a separate report from NHM stated. Jharkhand has vaccinated more than 1 lakh residents daily since Friday on an average. As per government data, over 3.43 lakh people have been infected by Coronavirus in the state so far and 97.53 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.48 per cent have died. The national Covid recovery rate was 95.30 per cent and fatality rate was 1.20 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
14-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: NDRF team recovers body of teenager||Jamshedpur: An 18-year-old youth drowned in Satnala dam on Saturday evening and a middle-aged woman was rescued from Kharkai River along Bagbera locality of the steel city on Sunday morning. The woman identified as Priya Sharma of Bagbera Colony had jumped into the swollen river at Kushum ghaat along Bagbera around 6 am on Sunday. As she plunged into the river, another woman who was taking a bath, alerted others, present there. Two fishermen present at the river side swung into action and saved the woman from drowning. OC of Bagbera thana, Rajesh Kumar Singh, confirmed the incident. "From a statement from the woman, we learnt that the woman wanted to die by suicide due to a family dispute," said Singh to The Telegraph Online. In another incident, five youths from Azadnagar area of Mango went to Satnala dam situated at Dobo village in the adjoining Chandil thana area on Saturday late afternoon. The youth, in the age group of 18-19 years, wanted to take a bath in the dam, but as there was a police party posted there, the latter thwarted them away. Eventually, after the police party returned from their post at 4 pm, the youths returned to the dam. The OC of Chandil thana, Sanoj Chaudhury said the four youths who knew swimming had jumped into the dam for a bath. "The fifth one, identified as Aftab Hussain, too took a plunge into the water body though he did know how to swim. Soon Aftab drowned and none of the remaining four could save him, "Chaudhury said to The Telegraph Online. The OC of Chandil thana said an NDRF team present at Jamshedpur was pressed into service on Sunday morning and the body was finally recovered. A resident of Old Purulia Road in Azadnagar, Aftab was a student of Karimcity College. (Kumud Jenamani) Ramgarh: The culvert on the Potamdaga Kulhi road of Dulmi block under the district was submerged in Bhairavi Dam water after incessant rainfall on Sunday. The construction work of the bridge has been halted midway for several months. Local villagers are disconnected from capital Ranchi. They have to undertake 10km journey to reach Ranchi. Congress leader and social worker Sudhir Mangalesh, said,"The river water is flowing from 1 feet above the culvert. Dozens of villages of Dulmi block, including Gola Sikidiri and Gola have to reach Ranchi by joining Charupath, but after the culvert was filled with water, the arrival here completely stopped." Congress leader Sudhir Mangesh said that the bridge construction work started here on 2018 and work had to be completed by 2019, but due to the negligence of the contractor and the department, the work has not been completed till date. The problem will be borne by the villagers of Dulmi block area. Sudhir Mangesh said,"Legal action should be taken against the contractor. He should be blacklisted.” "We have met the local MLA Mamta Devi and demanded the dismissal of the contractor," said villagers. Daltonganj: The state health department has notified Palamau district of a civil surgeon instated within forty days. The notification read that Anil Kumar will be in-charge civil surgeon in addition to his existing role as district reproductive child health officer. The outgoing civil surgeon Dr John F Kennedy was infected with coronavirus in the second week of April following which his family members rushed him to a super speciality hospital in Bihar's Patna where Kennedy remained on life support system for weeks. DC Palamau Shashi Ranjan said as the chair of the civil surgeon had to be filled following the acute sickness of the then civil surgeon, Anil Kumar Srivastava was brought in as an acting civil surgeon. The newly-appointed Anil Kumar took charge after Srivastava served for 40 days. (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
