15-06-2021||Calcutta||Vaccination: From drive-in to walk-in ||Beneficiaries who had registered for a covid jab at Quest Drive-in centre and didnt have their vehicle numbers registered were asked by officials at Quest to go to St Xavier's College walk-in centre to get the scheduled jab, which is conducting a parallel vaccination drive. On Sunday, when Tangra resident Anjali Marwah was having her mother, a diabetic, registered for a drive-in vaccination slot at the Quest Mall for Tuesday, little did she know that her hope of getting her mother immunized by exposing her to minimal risk would be shattered. Talking to The Telegraph Online from Quest Mall, a distressed Marwah said, “My mother is diabetic and a senior citizen. I wanted to have her take the jab with minimal risk of exposure and wait. But when we came here, we along with many registered jab-seekers were in for a rude shock when we were told that we would need to go to St Xavier's College for a walk-in vaccination as our vehicle numbers were not registered while booking the slot.” She continued, “I understand that the vehicle numbers need to be registered, but we as applicants are not at fault. We followed the step-by-step procedure to get registered. We, unlike a few, had not been asked to feed in our vehicle number. And there are many like us, who now have two options – either go for the walk-in or come back later.” She even claimed that she had spotted lots of people without vehicles coming to the drive-in centre for the jab and being refused. “There is some communication gap and the officials need to take care of it,” Marwah. Soumik Das, an MNC employee and a Covid survivour was also informed by the officials at Quest to get vaccinated at St Xavier's Walk-in drive. He said, “My father is 82-years-old and a diabetic. My aunt who is accompanying us is also a senior citizen.  The whole idea for registering for a drive-in was to minimise the risk. But the technical glitch has now left us with no option but to wait at St Xavier's for the jab." He added, "We don’t want to go back home without getting immunized as we know that there is a vaccine crunch.” When The Telegraph Online contacted the CMHO Dr. Subrata Roy Choudhary, he said, “We are aware of the glitch and are trying our best to have the issue resolved so that none of those registering for drive-in vaccination have to face a similar issue in the future.” He even acknowledged having interacted with a lady (Anjali Marwah) on the issue and having requested her to go to the alternate venue mentioned by CMC for the shot. On being asked about people complaining about having to wait at St Xavier's with senior citizens for the jab, he assured that it would be taken care of. Significantly, within15 minutes of having interacted with the CMHO, this correspondent got a call from Marwah once again. “I had initially thought of going back, but on second thought I came to St Xavier's just to check if CMC would take care of so many vaccine-seeking individuals who had been asked reluctantly to opt for the walk-in organized by the institute. I am glad that I did. The people here were extremely helpful and cooperative. My mother finally got vaccinated,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
15-06-2021||Calcutta||Eateries to remain open during 12 noon to 8pm with 50 per cent seating capacity||Dine-in, which had stopped because of the Covid-19 curbs, is set to resume across restaurants from lunch on Wednesday. “Restaurants and bars including in hotels and shopping malls may remain open during 12 noon to 8pm with 50 per cent seating capacity,” said the notification issued by Nabanna on Monday. All restaurateurs The Telegraph spoke to welcomed the eight-hour window, saying it would give a much-needed fillip to the industry, which is bleeding because of the bar on diners. Online orders and takeaways roughly make up only a third of the business, they said. “The prolonged shutdown for diners was hurting us badly. I was still paying a partial salary to my employees but another month’s closure (for diners) would have cast a shadow on that as well,” said the owner of a restaurant in south Calcutta. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had on June 3 spoken about the possibility of a 5pm-8pm window for eateries. But a notification was never issued. The owners of many eateries had been sceptical about the three-hour window. “The 5pm-8pm is a dull period for us. Before the new curbs, lunch rush ended around 4pm and dinner rush started around 8pm. The noon-to-8pm window will let us cater to the lunch crowd in its entirety,” said Nitin Kothari, the owner of Peter Cat and Mocambo. If the government went ahead with the 5pm-8pm window, Kothari said he would have opened only Mocambo for diners since it had a larger kitchen. “Diners would have had the option of ordering from the Peter Cat menu as well at Mocambo. But there was no point in going ahead with the establishment costs for two places for a slot which was least likely to be financially viable,” said Kothari. The Calcutta chapter of the National Restaurant Association of India had written a couple of letters to the state’s chief secretary, requesting for a noon-to-evening window. “We will anyway have to invest in transportation of our employees and other Covid-19 protocols. But investment for a three-hour window that usually sees little footfall does not make sense. The noon-to-8pm window is a much more viable slot,” said Sagar Daryani, the head of NRAI’s Calcutta chapter and the co-founder and CEO of Wow! Momo. Suresh Poddar, the president of the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Eastern India, echoed Daryani. “This move will save the livelihood of thousands of people dependent on the industry,” said Poddar, who had sought some relaxations for the sector from the chief minister during her interaction with representatives of business chambers and trade bodies on June 3. The owners of multiple bars and restaurants said the proposed 5pm-8pm window would have done more harm than good because it would have jeopardised their rent negotiations. Hefty rent is one of the major components of the fixed cost of restaurateurs. Some of them have been able to wriggle out some concessions from the landlords, citing a crippled income over the past few months. “The moment we open, even for three hours, my landlord will ask for full rent. I cannot pay the full rent without some revenue,” said the owner of a bar-cum-restaurant in Salt Lake. Some restaurant owners, however, sought clarity on how diners would come to the restaurants. The Monday notification prohibited movement of private cars and cabs “except to and from hospitals, nursing homes, diagnostic centres, clinics, terminal points, airports, media houses etc”. More than one police officer said the resumption of dine-in would be interpreted as a go-ahead to people to drive to a restaurant. Restaurant owners said they would arrange for transportation of their staff. The “50 per cent cap” is also a familiar terrain for them, having operated with half the seating capacity for months last year. “We will focus on employees who live near the restaurants. We are looking forward with hope,” said Shiladitya Chaudhury, the owner of Oudh 1590.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
15-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: State govt opens parks for vaccinated morning walkers||The state government has allowed people who have received both doses of a Covid vaccine to visit parks from 6am to 9am, but civic officials who manage these places wonder how such a norm will be implemented. A notification issued by the state government on Monday mentioned that “parks may remain open for morning walks, physical exercise etc during 6AM to 9AM and only vaccinated people shall be allowed”. The notification will be effective from Wednesday. While making the announcement at Nabanna on Monday afternoon, chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi stressed that only those who had taken both doses of a Covid vaccine would be allowed in parks. The civic authorities in Calcutta said they would need more clarification on how to check the vaccination status of the visitors. Will a soft copy of the vaccination certificate do? Or should the visitors be asked to carry a printed copy of the certificate. A number of morning visitors do not carry any stuff with them as they find it difficult to run or walk with even a mobile phone in hand. Officials of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) and the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) said they were not sure whether they would open the parks on Wednesday in the absence of clarifications from the government. The CMC manages about 700 small and large parks in the city. Not all have guards, who are supposed to check the vaccination status of the visitors before allowing them in. At many parks the staff comprises only gardeners. The CMDA manages some of the largest parks of the city such as Rabindra Sarobar, Subhas Sarobar and Vivekananda Park. While announcing a slew of relaxations of the Covid curbs, chief secretary Dwivedi told a news conference at Nabanna that parks would stay open from 6am to 9am. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee interrupted him and said: “Only those who have taken vaccines will be allowed.” Dwivedi then added: “Only those who have been vaccinated can enter the parks. Taking both doses is mandatory to be able to enter parks.” An official of the CMC said they were not sure how to go about checking whether a visitor had been fully vaccinated or not. “I do not know how far practicable it would be to check everyone’s vaccination status. We have seen the order. We will discuss and take a decision tomorrow,” said a senior CMC official. The CMC official said that many of the 700 parks managed by them did not have guards or or gardeners. A CMDA official, too, said they would need more clarity on how to check the vaccination status. “We will need a day to make the parks ready. We will also need some clarity on the order,” said the official. All parks were open till May 14. They were closed down with the imposition of stricter Covid norms across the state on May 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
15-06-2021||Calcutta||Real estate companies and leather goods manufacturing units rush to get workers vaccinated ||Real estate companies and leather goods manufacturing units are rushing to get their workers vaccinated to restore normality in their sectors. Construction work at most sites had come to a standstill with stricter Covid curbs coming into force across the state on May 16. Work has resumed since June 1 but at a slow pace because of a lack of enough personnel and other reasons. The demand for processed leather and finished goods from Europe and the US is increasing but production in the tanneries and leather goods units has been tardy because of shortage of personnel. Business owners said the failure to get workers vaccinated against Covid in large numbers was the principal reason for production not picking up. Another reason is that many workers are still stuck in their hometowns and villages as the curbs are yet to be lifted. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced that work in construction and leather manufacturing sectors could start from June 1 with workers vaccinated against Covid. A state government official said the move by realtors and leather goods manufacturing units to get their workers vaccinated would go a long way in restoring normality in the sectors. “This will ensure that Covid protocols are maintained and also help vaccinate a large number of people, for many of whom getting a dose on their own is difficult,” the official said. The owners of companies said many of their workers had tried to get vaccinated in their villages and hometowns but were unable to do so because of shortage of doses. At Calcutta Leather Complex in Bantala, the association of manufacturing units and the tanneries is holding a vaccination drive for the workers. “There are around 3 lakh workers at the Bantala complex, of whom about 10,000 have been vaccinated. A lot of orders are pending from companies in Europe, South Africa and the US. If we cannot meet the demands, it can affect our future business,” said Imran Ahmed Khan, the general secretary of the Calcutta Leather Complex Tanners’ Association. He said many companies were also asking their workers to get vaccinated at private hospitals saying the management would reimburse the cost. Some export units are tying up with private hospitals to get their workers vaccinated in bulk. Many real estate companies as well as associations are organising vaccination camps, too. “We will start a vaccination drive for construction workers on Wednesday. Our initial target is to vaccinate 5,000 workers and finally cover 10,000,” said Nandu Belani, the president of CREDAI Bengal, a realtors’ body. The first two programmes, in collaboration with the state micro small and medium enterprises department, will be held at Acropolis Mall and South City Mall, he said. Belani said work was going on at 300-odd construction sites in Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. “Work was proceeding slowly during the lockdown (May 16 to 31). Now, the government has allowed movement of materials but progress is still slow because workers are yet to be inoculated. So, we have taken the initiative to vaccinate as many workers as possible,” said Belani. Bengal Peerless Housing Development Company got 236 of their construction workers vaccinated at a camp at Kishore Bharati Stadium on Monday. “About 90 per cent of the construction workers are in the 18-44 age group. So, initially most of them could not get vaccinated,” said an official. The Merlin group has around 12 projects going on in Calcutta with about 3,000 workers. “There are barely 25 per cent workers at these projects at the moment. We are trying to vaccinate as many workers as possible but procuring doses was a problem initially. We have sites for vaccinating a large number of workers and they can be provided transport to come to Calcutta, but vaccine doses and those who would administer them were not available,” said Sushil Mohta, the chairman of Merlin Group and president, CREDAI, West Bengal, the state chapter of the real estate body. “Earnings have stopped for many workers who used to get paid on a daily basis. For them it is even more important to get vaccinated and join the project,” he said. Ketan Sengupta, the CEO of Bengal Peerless, said the company had an ongoing project at Mukundapur. During the peak of construction, the project had around 800 workers. Only around 30 per cent of them are at the site now. “We are hoping to get the entire workforce vaccinated by July,” said Sengupta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
15-06-2021||Calcutta||Helpline launched for students to deal with mental stress getting 15 calls every day ||A helpline launched by South Point High School for students to deal with mental stress has been getting at least 15 calls a day from children across the city. Cheer Up, a free helpline for teenagers from any school, is a joint effort of South Point High School and Crystal Minds (a mental wellness clinic), in association with Young Metro & 91.9 Friends FM. Launched on June 8, the helpline is open nine hours a day and will be functional till June 23. The students have spoken about their fear of losing a loved one, uncertainties regarding their future as exams are getting scrapped and frustration of living a locked-up life for more than a year now. South Point has been holding mental health sessions for its students. It thought of opening the helpline keeping in mind the plight of students who lack access to counsellors or who need to be helped confidentially, said Krishna Damani, a trustee of the school. “There are schools that have counsellors that reach out to their students or families who have a strong support system for their children. But there are also a whole lot of children who have no access to counsellors. The pandemic has brought upon children grief and other anxieties that need to be addressed,” said Damani. The psychologists are talking to the children directly, and not to their parents. “Students are hearing about death and loss more often. They are scared about their loved ones or what if it happens to them,” said psychiatrist Rima Mukherjee, the founder director of Crystal Minds. Mukherjee also said that for many students this long stretch of online classes was making them demotivated. “Some of them are also complaining about being angry all the time because they are unable to cope with pressure or about their frustration of staying indoors,” she said. Psychologists said the students needed a validation of their anxiety and someone who would listen to them without “lecturing”. “What the students in distress need is to be heard out and mental health professionals do that. They need to be told that it is alright to feel what they are feeling,” said Mukherjee. She said there were instances of students directing their anger at their parents or friends. “We give them ways to cope with the situation without judging them.” A total of 18 psychologists are taking calls six days a week (Monday to Saturday). Those seeking help can send a WhatsApp message to 8910963680 between 9am and 1.30pm or to 7439715358 from 1.30pm to 6pm. In response to the messages, contact details of the students, a brief description of their problems and the parents’ name are sought. Following this they are registered to get a call from a mental health professional. “Students in general have their own demons to tackle, besides dealing with the pressure of performing well as well as remaining focussed. The buzz of classrooms and support of their friends are largely missing in the present circumstances and they have turned lonely and at times have nobody to turn to...,” said South Point High School principal Rupa Sanyal Bhattacharjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
15-06-2021||Calcutta||Drive-in vaccination units in Sector V and New Town||A drive-in vaccination centre will be set up in Sector V and another in New Town next week. The Sector V centre will come up inside the multi-storey parking lot in the AQ Block opposite Positional Astronomy Centre, near the Technopolis bus stop, an official of the Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) said. The one in New Town will be set up in the parking lot off Eco Park’s gate number 1, an official of  the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) said. “The doses will be administered for free. Anyone who is 18 years or older can get the first or the second dose at the centre though the focus will be on employees who work in Sector V,” the official said. "The recipients will not have to step out of the car to get vaccinated.” Like the other NDITA-run centres, the jabs will be administered at the drive-in facility from 10am to 6pm. “Recipients will have to register on the CoWIN portal before arriving at the centre. They do not need to book a slot. This will be helpful for the aged and the ailing,” said an official. Recipients will have to travel in four-wheelers. NDITA chairman Debashis Sen said: “We want to ensure that most of the workforce in Sector V is vaccinated and safe.” At the New Town centre, too, the jabs will be administered for free, said an official of the NKDA. The New Town authorities are also planning to vaccinate the aged and people with mobility problems at their homes, an NKDA official said. The NKDA is also plan-ning to increase the number of vaccine centres and they are likely to come up near markets and community centres.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
15-06-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s University to admit students through online tests||St Xavier’s University will admit students to its undergraduate programmes through online tests, marking a departure from the practice of selecting students based on their marks in the Class XII board exams. The board exams could not be held this year because of a surge in the number of Covid cases. The admission tests will be held between July 10 and 12. An online mock test will be conducted on July 8 and 9. The online submission of application forms and fees started on Monday and will continue till July 3. “Admission tests will bring out the potential of an aspirant to study the programme. It will give a level playing field to all applicants,” said Father Felix Raj, the vice-chancellor of the university. Across boards, plus-II students are likely to be evalu-ated on the basis of internal assessments or home assignments conducted by schools. “The boards might try to outstrip each other while giving marks generously to the Class XII students. So, it is advisable to screen applicants through admission tests,” said Father Felix Raj. Over the past two years, for all subjects except mass communication, the university had been admitting students on the basis of their Class XII scores. But this year, for all five subjects — commerce, management, economics, English and mass communication — applicants will be screened only on the basis of the online admission tests. The entrance test questions will be set in a way to test the proficiency of the aspirant in the subject he or she wants to pursue, Father Felix Raj said. “The entrance tests will examine an aspirant’s proficiency in English, reasoning and the subject. As part of a common pattern, the candidate has to take a test in English and reasoning. The questions will be of multiple-choice type. The applicant has to prove his or her grasp on the subject to answer them,” Father Felix Raj told The Telegraph. Since Class XI exams, including the pre-board selections tests, could not be conducted last year for the current plus-II batch, admission tests will have to be held to screen applicants, an official of the university said. An official of St Xavier’s University said that since the aspirants would write the tests from home, the university would take steps for “remote proctoring” so that no one could adopt unfair means. “The aspirants will be asked to keep their desktop or laptop cameras on so that there can be remote invigilation,” he said. The schedule and the syllabi for the tests will be announced on the university’s website. St Xavier’s College (Autonomous) is considering some kind of “filtering process” and may conduct online interviews to make the final selection from shortlisted candidates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
15-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Free vaccination camp at Bhawanipur Education Society College||Young adults, many of whom do not have smartphones, went to a college in south Calcutta to get their Covid shots at a day-long vaccination camp on Monday. The camp was jointly organised by Calcutta police, SSKM Hospital, The Bhawanipur Education Society College and the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. Three-hundred people in the 18-44 age group received the first dose of Covaxin for free. “About 70 per cent of those who came did not have a smartphone, which itself was an indicator of their background. We had deputed college students, who helped them with the registration on the CoWIN portal so they could get vaccinated,” said Miraj D. Shah, vice-chairman, The Bhawanipur Education Society College. The camp was held on the college campus from 10.30am to 4pm. Shah said the process was slow initially but when students of the college lent a hand, it picked up pace. The camp was flagged off by Soumen Mitra, the commissioner of Calcutta police; Manimoy Bandyopadhyay, the director of IPGMER-SSKM; and Shah. The infrastructure was provided by the college and the authorities maintained all Covid protocols such as distancing and sanitisation. Areas on the premises were clearly demarcated so that physical distancing could be maintained. “Space allocated for us to sit while maintaining distance and once we received the jab, we waited in a separate area,” said a person who received a vaccine shot. Shah said the college’s management, teachers and students were doing everything possible to beat the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
15-06-2021||Calcutta||Pool car owners urge govt to utilise vehicles as ambulances||The owners of around 3,000 pool cars that would ferry children to school in Calcutta and its adjoining areas have urged the government to use their vehicles as ambulances so the drivers and other workers can find means to survive. In a letter to transport minister Firhad Hakim, the Pool Car Owners’ Welfare Association has written: “Due to the pandemic all schools have been shut since March 2020. It has directly affected our business. We have had no source of income since then. This is to request you to look into the matter as early as possible and arrange for an alternative source of income for us.” Pool cars play a key role in ferrying a large number of children to school and back home in Calcutta and its adjoining areas in North and South 24-Parganas and Howrah. The 3,000-odd pool car operators were involved in ferrying around 60,000 schoolchildren every day. To qualify as a pool car, an operator needs to collect a “pool car permit” from the transport department after meeting certain specifications and pay Rs 14,000 to Rs 15,000 for a five-year permit. “Our income has stopped and our bank balances are almost gone. Over 50 vehicles have been taken away because the owners couldn’t pay their EMIs. How do we survive?” asked Sudip Dutta, the secretary of the association. “If the vehicles are utilised as ambulances a few of the families would be able to meet their basic expenses.” Last October, the pool car operators had requested guardians to pay 50 per cent of the fees so that they could stay afloat. Hardly anyone responded. “Some of the drivers have started selling vegetables. The vehicles are rotting,” said Moloy Kanti Guha, a pool car owner in Tollygunge. “We don’t have funds for maintenance.” Last August, the state government had waived taxes on commercial vehicles till this June. Even the annual permit fee was waived bringing a relief of around Rs 5,000 for every vehicle. The pool car owners have also requested Hakim to extend the waiver beyond June.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
15-06-2021||Calcutta||South 24-Parganas administration launches WhatsApp chatbot to book slots for Covid vaccine jabs||The South 24-Parganas administration on Monday launched a WhatsApp chatbot for residents of the district 45 years or older to book slots for their Covid vaccine jabs. Officials of the district administration said people willing to book slots through the chatbot have to WhatsApp “Hi” to 8335999000 and answer a few questions related to the sender’s age, Covid-19 status and the vaccination status. The person will get confirmation about the slot and location of the vaccine centre through WhatsApp, an official said. The district magistrate of South 24-Parganas, P. Ulganathan, said: “The idea is to get the maximum number of people vaccinated without causing them the inconvenience of standing in queues.” The chatbot service covers nine vaccination centres in the district — run by the Rajpur-Sonarpur, Maheshtala, Budge Budge, Pujali, Baruipur, Joynagar-Majilpur and Diamond Harbour municipalities, and in Kakdwip and Canning. Officials said the service would later be opened to people in the 18-44 age group. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation and the New Town authorities had earlier opened similar chatbots for residents to book their vaccination slots. Doorstep jabs The South 24-Parganas administration will on Thursday launch a service called “Vaccine on Wheels” to inoculate Sonarpur residents 80 years or older in their neighbourhoods. A vehicle carrying medical staff and a refrigerator stocked with doses will move from one location to another to vaccinate elderly people. “We will announce in advance the travel schedule,” said an official of the district administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
15-06-2021||Calcutta||Tolly’s Nullah turned into a sewage canal: Report||Tolly’s Nullah has turned into a sewage canal, devoid of living organisms, a state pollution control board report has pointed out. According to the report, based on water samples collected in February, the Bansdroni stretch is the most polluted, followed by stretches near Shahid Khudiram Metro station, Karunamoyee and Kudghat. The BOD (biochemical oxygen demand), a parameter of wastewater and sewage pollution, at Bansdroni was found to be 40mg per litre at low tide. The limit is 3mg. The amount of dissolved oxygen along all stretches was nil. “PCB data shows the poor state of Tolly’s Nullah despite huge sums being spent on its restoration. I will raise the issue with the National Green Tribunal,” environmental activist Subhas Datta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
15-06-2021||Business||Finance ministry to meet Infosys over portal glitch||The Central Board of Direct Taxes on Tuesday said issues related to the glitches in the recently launched e-filing portal of the Income-Tax Department will be taken up at an interactive meeting on June 22 by the Ministry of Finance. Some senior officials are scheduled to have a meeting with a team of Infosys on Tuesday, ndtv.com reported. Other stakeholders including members from ICAI, auditors, consultants and taxpayers will also be a part of the meeting scheduled to be held between 11 am and 1 pm on June 22, a press release said. "Written representations on the problems/difficulties faced in the portal have also been invited from the stakeholders. Representatives from the Infosys team will be present to answer queries, clarify issues and receive inputs on the working of the portal, to remove glitches and sort out issues faced by the taxpayers," the release added. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on June 8 had sked Infosys and its Chairman Nandan Nilekani to fix technical glitches being encountered on the income tax department's new e-filing website after users flooded her Twitter timeline with complaints. Infosys was in 2019 awarded a contract to develop the next-generation income tax filing system to reduce processing time for returns from 63 days to one day and expedite refunds. The portal went live on June 7. "I see in my TL grievances and glitches. Hope @Infosys & @NandanNilekani will not let down our taxpayers in the quality of service being provided," she tweeted later. TL here stands for timeline. "Ease in compliance for the taxpayer should be our priority," she said while quoting a tweet from a user who was unable to log in to the new e-filing portal. Infosys had also developed the GST Network (GSTN) portal, used for GST payment and return filing. The software major had faced flak for the slow functioning of the GSTN portal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-18
15-06-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty leap to new highs||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped by another 221 points to scale a new closing high of 52,773 on Tuesday, propelled by gains in index majors Reliance, Infosys, and HDFC twins amid largely positive global cues. At the closing bell, the 30-share BSE index quoted 221.52 points or 0.42 per cent higher at 52,773.05. Likewise, the broader NSE Nifty rose 57.40 points or 0.36 per cent to settle at a fresh high of 15,869.25. Asian Paints was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, ICICI Bank, Hindustan Unilever, IndusInd Bank, Infosys and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, Bajaj Finserv, Dr Reddy's, Titan, Sun Pharma, Bajaj Finance and PowerGrid were among the laggards. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo and Seoul ended on a positive note, while Shanghai and Hong Kong were in the red. Equities in Europe were trading with gains in mid-session deals. International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.32 per cent higher at USD 73.09 per barrel. Meanwhile, the rupee slipped 2 paise to close at 73.31 against the US dollar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-19
15-06-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 220 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 220 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index-heavyweights HDFC twins, Infosys, TCS and Reliance.  The 30-share BSE index was trading 220.67 points or 0.42 per cent higher at 52,772.20 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 62.35 points or 0.39 per cent to 15,874.20.  All the Sensex constituents were trading with gains in morning trade.  Asian Paints was the top gainer in the pack, surging around 1.5 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, ONGC, Bajaj Finserv, Hindustan Unilever, Bharti Airtel and Kotak Bank.  In the previous session, the 30-share BSE Sensex ended 76.77 points or 0.15 per cent higher at its new closing peak of 52,551.53. The NSE Nifty rose 12.50 points or 0.08 per cent to a record 15,811.85.  On the macro-economic data front, rising prices of edible oils and protein-rich items pushed the retail inflation to a six-month high of 6.3 per cent in May, breaching the comfort level of the Reserve Bank and thus rendering reduction in interest rates a difficult proposition in the near term.  The wholesale price-based inflation accelerated to a record 12.94 per cent in May, on account of rising prices of crude oil, manufactured goods and a low base of last year. In May last year, WPI inflation was (-) 3.37 per cent and in April 2021, WPI inflation hit double-digit at 10.49 per cent.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 503.51 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Shanghai and Hong Kong were in the red.  US equities finished mixed in the previous session.  International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.25 per cent higher at USD 73.04 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-19
15-06-2021||Business||Amara Raja announces plans for a foray into lithium ion segment||Amara Raja, the makers of lead acid batteries under the Amaron brand, on Monday announced its plans for a foray into the lithium ion segment. The Tirupati-based company also announced the reorganisation of roles and succession as it plans to expand its business. “From a lead acid battery company we now want to transform into an energy and mobility company. First part is value maximisation of the lead acid business for growth and profitability. Second is entry into new energy which is lithium ion and other related products and services,” industrialist and politician Jayadev Galla told The Telegraph. He will take over as the chairman of Amara Raja Batteries Limited from founder chairman Ramachandra Galla, who steered the company for 36 years. The company has set up a New Energy strategic business unit to focus on lithium cell and battery packs, EV chargers, energy storage systems, advanced home energy solutions and related products. GeNext on board The board of the directors of the company has decided to induct Harshavardhana Gourineni and Vikramadithya Gourineni as executive directors and next-generation leaders from the promoter family. Ramadevi Gourineni has stepped down as non-executive director of the company. Current CEO S. Vijayanand has been named president of New Energy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-19
15-06-2021||Business||GST Council culture wrecked: Amit Mitra||The GST Council is moving away from a consensus-based approach to conduct business to an ‘authoritarian and majoritarian regime’ where big decisions are being rammed through without taking opposing views on board, Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra alleged on Monday. Two days after his suggestions and those of eight other non-BJP ruled states to bring all Covid-related items to under zero rated tax were undermined and Mitra’s last minute objection was overlooked under controversial circumstances, the Bengal FM described the events at the Council as a ‘worrying sign’ for the future of the only all-inclusive federalist structure of the nation. He cited many instances from the past when the GST Council ploughed through differing opinions of the states to come to a consensus, especially when Arun Jaitley was the Union finance minister. “Things have slipped in the last couple of years. The Council has moved away from a consensus building approach to an omnipotent authoritarian regime,” Mitra said at a press conference. Nirmala Sitharaman became the FM during the second BJP government in 2019. The minister who had alleged that his voice was muzzled on Saturday, prompting him to write a letter to record an official dissent note, said the Council was being taken for granted when it comes to decisions on procedures or rates. He demanded that an enquiry should be made why he could not be heard as the microphones were controlled by the central government establishments. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee also referred to it this afternoon, slamming the BJP for not allowing Mitra to speak. Even though rules of conducting business allows voting on a proposal, the Council, where all states and Union Territories are members, took that route only once in the past. Mitra said he had supported Gujarat when the Centre wanted to keep all business activities within 12 kilometres from the coastline under central GST. “If we go for voting, it becomes a majority decision, not based on consensus. What we can see that the Centre is not willing to build consensus but ram through their decisions,” Mitra said. The GST implementation council, which comprises nine members — secretaries from four states, four secretaries from the Centre and one from the GST secretariat — is now framing rules and bringing them to the Council for mere approval. Similarly, the fitment committee, which is supposed to look at rates, sends its proposals at the last moment to the states, which merely approve them at the meeting. At times, the decisions are taken outside the Council meeting. For instance, the Centre stuck to its guns insisting that states must borrow from the market to meet the shortfall in collection of cess to provide compensation at the end of a Council meeting in 2020. However, when the RBI suggested that the Centre should borrow and pass it on the states back to back, it agreed without calling a Council meeting. Asked what could be the next course of action for states that had demanded a zero rated tax on Covid related items, Mitra said he wanted to bring the matter before the ‘people’s court’.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-19
15-06-2021||Business||Tata Motors to raise up to Rs 500 crore through issue of securities||Tata Motors on Monday said its board has approved a proposal to raise up to Rs 500 crore through the issue of securities on a private placement basis. A meeting of the duly authorised committee has approved subscription of up to 5,000 rated, listed, unsecured, redeemable, non-convertible debentures (NCDs) of face value of Rs 10 lakh each, aggregating up to Rs 500 crore, the auto major said in a regulatory filing. The Mumbai-based company, however, did not share details as to how it plans to use the capital. Shares of the company were trading 1.03 per cent down at Rs 347.15 apiece on the BSE. Shriram Transport Non-banking finance company Shriram Transport Finance (STFC) on Monday said it has raised Rs 1,998.98 crore through its qualified institutional placement (QIP) issue. The issue, which was launched on June 7, 2021, received 6.3 times oversubscription, a company release said. Several foreign institutional investors and domestic institutional investors participated in the QIP issue. The issue was priced at Rs 1,430 per share, representing a discount of 0.23 per cent to the Sebi floor price of Rs 1,433.32. The company said its board also approved on June 7, 2021 a preferential issue of Rs 500 crore, equally split between equity shares and convertible warrants to the promoter, Shriram Capital Limited, at the issue price of Rs 1,440 per security.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-19
15-06-2021||Business||Sebi imposes Rs 15 crore penalty on Franklin Templeton AMC senior officials||Sebi on Monday imposed a penalty of Rs 15 crore on senior officials of Franklin Templeton AMC and its trustee for violating regulatory norms in the case of winding up of six debt schemes in 2020. However, a spokesperson of Franklin Templeton said they disagree with the findings in Sebi’s order and intend to file an appeal with the Securities Appellate Tribunal. A fine of Rs 3 crore has been levied on Franklin Templeton Trustee Services Pvt Ltd and Rs 2 crore each on Franklin Asset Management (India) Pvt Ltd president Sanjay Sapre and its chief investment officer Santosh Kamat, according to the Sebi order. In addition, the regulator imposed a penalty of Rs 1.5 crore each on fund managers — Kunal Agarwal, Pallab Roy, Sachin Padwal Desai and Umesh Sharma — as well as former fund manager Sumit Gupta. Besides, a Rs 50 lakh penalty has been levied on chief compliance officer Saurabh Gangrade. They have been directed to pay the penalty within 45 days. Sebi noted that the trustees of Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund (MF) and these officials failed to avert certain lapses in the functioning of the mutual fund. ‘‘The acts and deeds committed by them while discharging their duties are not in the interest of the unitholders in specific and the investors in general,’’ Sebi said in its 151-page order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-19
15-06-2021||Business||Coal India reports marginal 0.79% fall in consolidated net profit||Coal India on Monday reported a marginal 0.79 per cent fall in consolidated net profit for the quarter ended March 2021 on the back of low production and sales. Net profit during the quarter came in at Rs 4,588.96 crore against Rs 4,625.76 crore in the corresponding quarter a year ago. Total income during the quarter under review was Rs 27,974.12 crore against Rs 29,820.97 crore in the year-ago period. Coal India had produced 203.42 million tonnes (mt) of coal during the quarter against 213.71mt a year ago. Offtake during the quarter was flat at 164.89mt against 164.33mt a year ago. The board of directors, which met on Monday, recommended a final dividend of Rs 3.50 per equity share for 2020-21. Coal India has already paid a cumulative Rs 7,703.43 crore through two interim dividends of Rs 7.50 per share and Rs 5 per share in November 2020 and March 2021, respectively. The consolidated expenses of the company during the quarter dropped to Rs 21,565.15 crore from Rs 22,373.46 crore in the year ago period. Average realisation of coal supplied through the fuel supply agreements was Rs 1,391.73 per tonne during the January-March quarter of 2020-21 against Rs 1,445.75 per tonne in the same quarter a year ago. There was also a moderation of coal sales realisation through the electronic auction from Rs 2105.74 per ton to Rs 1752.03 per ton during the quarter under review. Coal India scrips at Rs 159.30 per share was down 2.06 per cent over the previous close at Bombay Stock Exchange.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-19
15-06-2021||Business||RBI proposes uniform regulatory framework for microfinance sector||The Reserve Bank on Monday proposed a uniform regulatory framework for the microfinance sector, wherein MFIs can provide collateral-free loans to households at board-determined interest rates. Microfinance is a form of financial service which provides small loans and other financial services to poor and low-income households. The key proposals of the “Consultative Document on Regulation of Microfinance” include a common definition of microfinance loans for all regulated entities, capping the outflow on account of repayment of loan obligations of a household to a percentage of the household income, and a board approved policy for household income assessment. It also suggests non requirement of collateral and greater flexibility of repayment frequency for all microfinance loans. According to the consultative paper released by the RBI on Monday, a microfinance loan would mean collateral-free lending to households with an annual income of Rs 1.25 lakh in rural areas and Rs 2 lakh in urban and semi-urban centres. The entities engaged in microfinance lending will be required to display board-approved minimum, maximum and average interest rates charged on loans. They will also be required to disclose pricing related information in a standard simplified fact-sheet. There will be no-prepayment penalty, said the consultative paper on which the RBI has invited comments from the stakeholders by July 31. On pricing related guidelines, the paper proposed that the board of each NBFC-MFI shall adopt an interest rate model taking into account relevant factors such as cost of funds, margin and risk premium and determine the rate of interest to be charged for loans and advances.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-19
15-06-2021||Business||PNB Housing deal under Reserve Bank and Sebi scan||In a setback to PNB Housing Finance, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) are reportedly looking into ‘regulatory issues’ related to the proposed Rs 4,000 crore-investment by US-based private equity firm Carlyle and others in the housing finance firm. A PTI report quoting sources said that the concerns of minority shareholders, corporate governance and other regulatory aspects would be looked into by the two regulators. The news led to shares of PNB Housing Finance slumping 5 per cent to close at Rs 776.85 on the BSE on Monday. Late last month, PNB Housing Finance had announced that the Carlyle group will lead a Rs 4,000-crore capital infusion in the firm with other investors that include Aditya Puri, the former MD and CEO of HDFC Bank. Pluto Investments, an affiliated entity of Carlyle Asia Partners IV, LP and Carlyle Asia Partners V, LP, will invest up to Rs 3,185 crore through a preferential allotment of equity shares and warrants, at a price of Rs 390 apiece. However, a proxy advisory firm, Stakeholders Empowerment Services (SES), expressed concerns about the deal. It wondered if Punjab National Bank (PNB) had willingly surrendered control without taking a fair compensation. The firm asked whether PNB had sacrificed over Rs 2,000 crore in a deal that was an “unfair transaction, against public shareholders and PNB”. The deal is “ultra vires” to the Articles of Association, it added. SES said the proposed deal will change the control of PNB Housing Finance — from PNB being the sole promoter to a joint control holder with Carlyle Group. PNB’s stake will come down to 20.28 per cent from the existing 32.64 per cent, while that of Carlyle will rise to 50.16 per cent from 32.21 per cent. Carlyle will become the major shareholder and promoter along with its persons acting in concert (PACs), including Puri. Earlier this year, the RBI had shot down a proposal of PNB to infuse capital into the subsidiary through a rights issue. Recently, PNB managing director and CEO S.S. Mallikarjuna Rao said the bank will neither be investing nor divesting its stake but because of investment from other sources, its shareholding could come down to 21 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-19
15-06-2021||Business||Retail inflation accelerates to a six-month high of 6.30 per cent in May||Retail inflation accelerated in May to a six-month high of 6.30 per cent as fuel and food prices rose at a higher pace, putting pressure on the central bank to tame prices amid a faltering economic recovery. Retail inflation in May breached the RBI’s comfort level on the back of costlier food items. According to data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO), inflation in the food basket was 5.01 per cent in May, significantly up from 1.96 per cent in the preceding month. The consumer price index (CPI) based inflation stood at 4.23 per cent in April. The previous high in retail inflation was 6.93 per cent in November 2020. Wholesale price-based inflation also accelerated to a record 12.94 per cent in May on account of rising prices of crude oil, manufactured goods and the low base of last year due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The government has asked the RBI to keep retail inflation at 4 per cent with a margin of 2 per cent on either side. The RBI, which mainly factors in retail inflation while arriving at its monetary policy, had left the key interest rate unchanged earlier this month. The central bank has projected the CPI inflation at 5.1 per cent during 2021-22; 5.2 per cent in Q1; 5.4 per cent in Q2; 4.7 per cent in Q3; and 5.3 per cent in Q4 of 2021-22. “At 6.3 per cent, the retail inflation has already gone past the RBI’s target level. Although it is still too early to believe that retail inflation will remain above 6 per cent on a sustained basis given the high base of last year, a rising wholesale inflation, which is gradually finding a reflection in retail inflation, is going to make things difficult for the RBI. However, given the growth inflation dynamics, the RBI will not be in a hurry to tinker with either the policy rate or its accommodative policy stance,” said Sunil Kumar Sinha, principal economist, India Ratings & Research. Inflation in the fuel and light category remained elevated at 11.58 per cent in May against 7.91 in April. The inflation rate in edible oil and fats soared to 30.84 per cent in May from 25.91 per cent in April.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-19
15-06-2021||Business|| Adani group stocks clobbered on the bourses||An air of potboiler-worthy intrigue hung over markets on Monday after stocks of the Adani group were clobbered on the bourses, precipitated by media reports that the National Securities Depository Ltd (NSDL) had frozen the demat accounts of three Mauritius-based overseas funds that had invested in Adani Enterprises, the group’s holding company, and three other subsidiaries that were valued at Rs 43,500 crore as of last Friday. Late in the afternoon, Adani Enterprises sent a note to the bourses denying that the demat accounts through which these funds held their investments in the group companies had been frozen. The clarification from the group came to the exchange 30 minutes before trading ended for the day. It said: “These reports are blatantly erroneous and is done to deliberately mislead the investing community. This is causing irreparable loss of economic value to the investors at large and reputation of the group,” the conglomerate said. The three overseas funds were Albula Investment Fund, Cresta Fund and APMS Investment Fund which together held shares in four Adani group companies: Adani Enterprises, Adani Transmission, Adani Total Gas and Adani Green Energy. Stock exchange data reveals that these funds collectively hold 6.82 per cent in Adani Enterprises, 8.03 per cent in Adani Transmission, 5.91 per cent in Adani Total Gas, and 3.58 per cent in Adani Green Energy. Adani Enterprises said the statement was being issued after its registrar and transfer agent — Ahmedabad-based Link Intime Pvt Ltd — had sent a “written communication...clarifying that the demat account in which the aforesaid funds hold the shares of the company are not frozen”. But by then, the damage had been done. Investor wealth worth around Rs 53,000 crore had been wiped out across Adani group stocks as six listed Adani group stocks were battered in a bout of frenzied trading. Adani Enterprises, the flagship firm, plunged around 25 per cent to an intra-day low of Rs 1,201.10, while the three other stocks fell by by up to 5 per cent. The meltdown struck Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone — in which these funds do not hold shares above the reportable threshold of 1 per cent — as well which plunged by almost 19 per cent. The NSDL website said these accounts had been frozen on May 31. It added that the freeze could be due to insufficient disclosure of information regarding beneficial ownership of these funds. Market regulator Sebi and the depository maintained a studied silence throughout the day. It wasn’t clear why the Adani group’s statement came only after 3 pm. If the accounts had not been frozen — and the statement had been issued earlier — investors would have been spared the mayhem in the markets. Market observers said it was not still not clear when the freeze on the accounts had been lifted. A Reuters report, quoting a senior NSDL official, said the depository had frozen accounts of the funds that hold certain other securities and not those holding Adani company shares, adding that freeze was “not new”. “Foreign portfolio investors generally have one account. But in certain circumstances, they can have multiple accounts. In this case, the funds hold at least more than one account, ” the report quoted the official as saying, adding that he had spoken on condition of anonymity because he was not authorised to speak publicly on the issue. Widening empire The Adani group shares have seen a stupendous rally over the past one year as group chairman Gautam Adani — who was recently declared as the second richest man in Asia after Mukesh Ambani with a net worth of $66.5 billion —  expanded his empire by snapping up control of the Mumbai international airport,  winning city gas distribution rights across the country, promoting a clutch of seaports and even bidding for the redevelopment of Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji terminus (CST) railway station. The stock of Adani Total Gas, for instance, has surged by 1087 per cent in the past year. Adani Enterprise has leapfrogged by around 972 per cent while Adani Green Energy has yielded a return of 237 per cent. There have been questions about the valuations of some of these stocks because of the low free float as promoters holding remains very high and a few overseas funds hold a substantial amount of the stock, leaving very little opportunity for retail investors to buy the stock. ‘‘When the floating stock is low, concentrated aggressive buying can push up stock prices way too high,’’ said V.K. Vijayakumar, chief investment strategist at Geojit Financial Services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-20
15-06-2021||India||High Court slams government for charging Narwal, 2 other students under UAPA, upholds right to protest||For Natasha Narwal, the judgement came too late to see her dying father. She wasn’t given bail until after her father passed away and even that was only for three weeks. Now the court has come down heavily on the government for charging Narwal and two other students, saying the state has “blurred the line’ between constitutionally guaranteed ‘right to protest’ and terrorist activity.” In three separate rulings for each appellant, the court went on to warn that “if such blurring gains traction, democracy would be in peril.” Former Supreme Court judge Deepak Gupta hailed the ruling as “a beacon of hope for people who believe in liberties, especially civil liberties of the citizens.” Gupta told Bar & Bench: “This is very important in another context, because these are cases in which the UAPA is invoked where there is a presumption that bail cannot be granted unless the court comes to the conclusion that a prima facie case is made out that bail has to be granted.” “This judgement lays out the law which is crystal clear,” says senior advocate Dushyant Dave, a former president of the Supreme Court Bar Association. The three appellants, Narwal, Devangana Kalita and Asif Iqbal Tanha, were arrested at different times last year. Narwal and Kalita, both JNU students, were arrested in January, and charged with making inflammatory speeches and inciting people to protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). Tanha, a Jamia Millia Islamia was arrested in May, accused of being part of a “premeditated” conspiracy to provoke the riots. The judges set aside a decision by the trial court to refuse bail to the three accused. They were asked to post a personal bond of Rs 50,000 each as well as two sureties of similar amounts. All three accused were charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. However, the two-judge bench of Justice Sidharth Mridul and Justice Anup Jairam Bhambhani declared: “We are unable to discern in the subject charge-sheet the elemental factual ingredients that are a must to found the offences defined under Section 15, 17 or 18 UAPA.” The judges added: “Alleging extremely grave and serious penal offences under sections 15, 17 and 18 UAPA against people frivolously, would undermine the intent and purpose of the Parliament in enacting a law that is meant to address threats to the very existence of our Nation. Wanton use of serious penal provisions would only trivialise them.” Despite the High Court ruling, a Delhi sessions judge refused a petition for the immediate release of Narwal and Kalita and called for a police report about their home addresses by 1 pm Wednesday. The 133-page judgement in Tanha’s case looked in detail at the law regarding bail applications and also whether the appellant had committed the offences that had been alleged to justify charging him under UAPA. The High Court noted in Iqbal’s order that in the chargesheet, there were no specific allegations other than “those sought to be spun by mere grandiloquence”. The High Court went on to say that even if for argument the accused had crossed the line of peaceful protests allowed under the Constitution, that that would not “yet amount to commission of a ‘terrorist act’ or a ‘conpiracy’ or an ;’act preparatory’ to the commission of a terrorist act’ “ under the UAPA. The court also pointed out that 740 prosecution witnesses had been listed for the trial which was yet to commence. In addition, it pointed out that because of the pandemic, trial proceedings had “effectively been stalled’. The judges added: “Should this court then wait until the appellant has languished in prison for a long enough time to be able to see that it will be impossible to complete the deposition of 740 prosecution witnesses in any foreseeable future, especially in view of the prevailing pandemic when all proceedings in the trial are effectively stalled? Should this court wait till the appellant’s right to a speedy trial guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution is fully and completely negated before it steps in and wakes up to such violation?” Dave pointed out that the judges had merely enunciated the law as it stands and that almost everyone from the police to public prosecutors was ignoring the constitution. He says: “The rot has set in at every stage. The police and the public prosecutors should work under the constitution.” He adds: “These kids were in jail for what? You are radicalising youth.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-58
15-06-2021||India||Court defers immediate release of JNU students||A court in New Delhi on Tuesday deferred immediate release of JNU students Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal, who have been granted bail by the Delhi High Court in the riots 'conspiracy' case, from jail and sought a verification report from the police by Wednesday. Following the grant of bail by the high court, Kalita and Narwal moved the court through their seeking immediate release from judicial custody. Additional Sessions Judge Revinder Bedi disposed of the application and asked the police to submit the verification report on the particulars of the accused and sureties by 1 pm on June 16. Earlier in the day, the high court set aside the trial court orders denying bail to Narwal, Kalita and Jamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha. The women activists moved the court through advocate Adit S Pujari seeking immediate release from judicial custody. The high court granted them bail and directed them to furnish a personal bond of Rs 50,000 each along with two sureties of the like amount. The three student activists were arrested in May 2020 and are accused of being the "masterminds" of the February 2020 violence, which had left 53 people dead and hundreds injured. Narwal, along with 17 others, are accused in the case. Communal violence broke out in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year after violence between supporters of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and those opposing it spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-58
15-06-2021||India||Twitter appoints interim Chief Compliance Officer for India||Twitter on Tuesday said it has appointed an interim Chief Compliance Officer and the details of the official will be shared with the IT Ministry directly soon. The Government had issued a notice to Twitter giving it one last chance to "immediately" comply with the new IT rules and warned that failure to adhere to the norms will lead to the platform losing exemption from liability under the IT Act. Following this, Twitter had assured the Indian government last week that it is in advanced stages of finalising the appointment of chief compliance officer as required under the new IT rules, and that it will submit additional details within a week. A Twitter spokesperson on Tuesday said the company continues to make every effort to comply with the new guidelines, and is keeping the IT Ministry apprised of progress at every step of the process. An interim Chief Compliance Officer has been retained and details will be shared with the Ministry directly soon, the spokesperson added. The move by Twitter assumes significance as the microblogging platform has been facing heat over delay in complying with the IT rules that mandate large digital platforms to undertake greater due diligence, and make them more accountable and responsible for the content that is hosted. As per the rules, significant social media intermediaries -- those with over 50 lakh users -- are required to appoint a grievance officer, a nodal officer and a chief compliance officer. These personnel have to be residents in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-58
15-06-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi condemns Ghaziabad attack, Yogi hits back||Uttar pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday hit back at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi after the latter condemned an attack on an elderly Muslim man in Ghaziabad. Accusing Rahul of spreading "poison" through "lies", the UP CM tweeted, “The first lesson of Lord Shri Ram is - "Speak the truth" which you have never done in life. You should be ashamed that even after the police told the truth, you are engaged in spreading poison in the society. In the greed of power, humanity is being humiliated. Stop humiliating, defaming the people of Uttar Pradesh.” Earlier in the day, Rahul reacted sharply to an incident in Ghaziabad in which an elderly Muslim man was allegedly beaten up and asked to chant 'Jai Shri Ram', saying such cruelty is shameful for both society and religion. In a video on social media, the elderly Muslim man has accused four men of beating him up, chopping his beard and asking him to chant 'Jai Shri Ram' in the Loni area of Ghaziabad. The Ghaziabad police said it has already registered an FIR and arrested a man, Parvesh Gurjar, for his involvement in this alleged incident which took place on June 5 but was reported to police two days later. Tagging a report on the incident, Rahul Gandhi said, "I am not willing to accept that true devotees of Lord Ram can do such a thing."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-58
15-06-2021||India||Anyone above 18 can walk in for Co-WIN registration: Govt||The Ministry of Health on Tuesday said anybody over the age of 18 can walk into their nearest vaccination centre to get themselves registered on the Co-WIN platform and get vaccinated against Covid-19. The Centre said it was no longer compulsory to pre-register online or book an appointment to get the vaccine in a bid to increase the pace of vaccination and tackle the 'vaccine hesitancy' reported from rural areas. “Pre-registration for vaccination through online registration and prior booking of appointment is not mandatory to avail the Covid-19 vaccine,” the health ministry said. It added,” Anyone aged 18 years and above can directly go to the nearest vaccination centre wherein the vaccinator performs the on-site registration and provides vaccination.” The Centre had said last week that vaccine hesitancy was "a globally accepted phenomenon and should be addressed by scientifically studying the issue at the community level". During a press briefing on Tuesday, the Centre said that there has been an almost 85 per cent decline in daily Covid-19 cases since the highest reported peak on May 7 and currently, there are 20 states and UTs where active cases are less than 5,000. On the Delta plus variant of Covid, the government said that it has been around since March and it is not yet a variant of concern'. "We have to learn more about it and track its progress," it said. During the second wave of the pandemic, the government said, about 11.62 per cent cases were seen in the below 20 years age group, while it was 11.31 per cent during the first wave. It also said that a sharp decline of 78 per cent has been noted since the highest reported weekly Covid case positivity rate of 21.4 per cent, which was recorded between May 4 and 10 during the second wave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-58
15-06-2021||India||Press Council seeks report from UP authorities over scribe death||The Press Council of India (PCI) has sought a report from the Uttar Pradesh government and police on the death of a TV journalist who had recently reported on the liquor mafia. According to Uttar Pradesh police, journalist Sulabh Srivastava died in a road accident in Pratapgarh after his bike rammed into a pole on Sunday. However, the Opposition parties and the Editors Guild of India (EGI) have questioned the claim of the state police. The TV journalist had recently run a story about the liquor mafia in the region. Later, he reportedly wrote to the police seeking protection, apprehending a threat to his life. Taking serious note of the death of journalist Sulabh Srivastava in Pratapgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Press Council of India chairman Justice Chandramouli Kumar Prasad has taken suo motu cognisance in the matter, the Council said in a statement in Hindi on Tuesday. The Government of Uttar Pradesh, the state Director General of Police and the Superintendent of Police, Pratapgarh have been asked to send a report based on the facts in the matter, the council said. The death of the TV journalist in Uttar Pradesh has sparked a row with the opposition parties demanding a free and fair probe. While Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav has sought a high-level inquiry into the case, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati has called for a swift, impartial and credible probe. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has demanded a CBI probe into the case. The Editors Guild of India on Monday said that it was shocked by the cavalier manner in which the Uttar Pradesh Police was treating the mysterious death of the TV journalist. The Press Council of India (PCI) has sought a report from the Uttar Pradesh government and police on the death of a TV journalist who had recently reported on the liquor mafia. According to Uttar Pradesh police, journalist Sulabh Srivastava died in a road accident in Pratapgarh after his bike rammed into a pole on Sunday. However, the Opposition parties and the Editors Guild of India (EGI) have questioned the claim of the state police. The TV journalist had recently run a story about the liquor mafia in the region. Later, he reportedly wrote to the police seeking protection, apprehending a threat to his life. Taking serious note of the death of journalist Sulabh Srivastava in Pratapgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Press Council of India chairman Justice Chandramouli Kumar Prasad has taken suo motu cognisance in the matter, the Council said in a statement in Hindi on Tuesday. The Government of Uttar Pradesh, the state Director General of Police and the Superintendent of Police, Pratapgarh have been asked to send a report based on the facts in the matter, the council said. The death of the TV journalist in Uttar Pradesh has sparked a row with the opposition parties demanding a free and fair probe. While Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav has sought a high-level inquiry into the case, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati has called for a swift, impartial and credible probe. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has demanded a CBI probe into the case. The Editors Guild of India on Monday said that it was shocked by the cavalier manner in which the Uttar Pradesh Police was treating the mysterious death of the TV journalist.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-59
15-06-2021||India||Himaani Chetaan- A Woman with Integrity and Passion!||Himaani's desire to help brands in showcasing themselves drove her to start her own firm. She approaches life with a can-do attitude and a desire to succeed, achieving all of her goals and dreams. Himaani has always enjoyed travelling, running, and feel-good music, or simply relaxing with interesting books, in addition to being passionate about her profession. She has spent almost a decade gaining experience and working in the events and travel industry, with well-known brands primarily in marketing and advertising, and was always in charge of a team and the face of any project she embarked on, which allowed her to gather a lot of skill in understanding how a business works as well as network with a lot of people, allowing her to make quality contacts in the industry. She genuinely believed that her skills and expertise would be valuable to start-ups and other businesses looking to build a reputation for themselves. Her drive and excitement for developing PR strategies for her clients gave her the confidence to start BeetRRuz. She founded BeetRRuz on the belief that every brand should have a strong digital presence and market reputation on a worldwide scale, using the pandemic as an example of how important it is. BeetRRuz is a public relations and advertising agency with contacts at major news outlets, publications, and influencers or celebrities who can help you shine a light on your growth and success. This agency works with some of India's most well-known brands, like Forbes India, Business Today, Fortune, India Today, and others, to assist their clients tell their stories on these platforms. Himaani explains “Our brand name is inspired on BeetRoot, a popular root vegetable with numerous health advantages and a dark colour that represents passion. In today's world, it's more crucial than ever to think about your brand's health, and BeetRRuz ensure that your reputation remains spotless. The logo, as well as the capitalised letters in our brand name is inspired by the initials of their core values: a) Being Social b) Reliable c) Relentless Improvement”. “From sleepless nights to morning celebrations of success, it’s been a rough yet exciting journey for me, in only around 6-7 months of prepping”, says The Founder. Himaani continues on to state, “Even though owning a business can be difficult at times, the joy I receive when we successfully complete a PR campaign for our clients and see them beam with pride makes it all worthwhile”. Despite a few people attempting to bring her down, she remained focused on her dream and worked hard to get to where she wanted to be. Now, here she is, celebrating her fourth month with her brand, working with clients for whom her team works relentlessly to make absolutely sure their clients receive the outcomes they expect with BeetRRuz- The House of Buzz||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-59
15-06-2021||India||Chirag Paswan removed as Lok Janshakti Party Chief||The Lok Janshakti Party on Tuesday removed Chirag Paswan as the party president, a day after five of the six MPs joined hands to elect Pashupati Kumar Paras, the youngest brother of Paswan's late father and party founder Ram Vilas Paswan, in his place, causing a big churn in Bihar politics. The LJP faction headed by Chirag expelled the five MPs of the party who had rebelled against him. While Chirag Paswan has been isolated in the parliamentary party as all other MPs beside him have backed Paras, sources said he continues to draw support from other leaders in the organisation. The matter is now likely to reach the Election Commission as both factions have claimed to represent the party. Chirag was ousted on basis of the "One Man, One Post", said the rebel MPs, who have chosen Suraj Bhan as the new working president and election officer of the LJP, according to a report by ndtv.com. Bhan has been asked to conduct an election for the new president within five days by calling the party's national executive, the report added. In his first reaction after his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras ousted him Chirag likened the organisation to a mother who should not be "betrayed". In a tweet, he said he made efforts to keep the party founded by his father Ram Vilas Paswan and his family together but failed. People are supreme in a democracy, Paswan said and thanked those who have kept faith in the party. Chirag also shared a letter he had written to Paras, the youngest brother of his father, in March in which he had highlighted his uncle's unhappiness over a number of issues, including his elevation as the party president. The Lok Sabha Secretariat on Monday evening recognised Paras as the leader of the LJP in the House, a day after the five MPs informed Speaker Om Birla about their decision. Paras lauded Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar as a good leader and "vikas purush" (development-oriented man), highlighting the deep fault lines within the party as his nephew has been a strong critic of the supreme JD(U) leader. "I have not broken the party but saved it," Paras, the MP from Hajipur, told reporters. He asserted that 99 per cent of LJP workers were unhappy with the turn of events in Bihar as Chirag led his party against the JD(U) and it fared poorly in the 2020 assembly polls. The LJP has been on the brink of collapse, he said in reference to its poor show in the polls, and lashed out at "anti-social" elements in the party, an apparent pointer to a close aide of Chirag whose proximity to him has not gone down well with many party leaders. Paras said his group will continue to be part of the BJP-led NDA, and added that Chirag can remain in the organisation. There has been no comment from Chirag on the development in his party. Soon after Paras spoke to reporters, Chirag drove to his uncle's residence in the national capital to meet him. Chirag's cousin and MP Prince Raj also stays there. Chirag, who has not been keeping well for some time, waited for over 20 minutes in his car before he was let into the house and then left after spending more than an hour inside. He left without saying a word to waiting media persons. Paras had long been unhappy with Chirag's style of functioning and was joined by other MPs, including Chandan Singh, Veena Devi and Mehboob Ali Kaiser, as they believed that his campaign against Nitish Kumar had left them at a disadvantage in the state's politics. Kaiser has been elected the party's deputy leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-59
15-06-2021||India||India confirms first death due to Covid vaccine||A government panel studying Covid-19 vaccine side effects has confirmed the first death due to anaphylaxis following vaccination. The causality assessment of 31 reported Serious Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI) cases following Covid-19 vaccination was carried out by the panel. According to a report by the National AEFI Committee, a 68-year-old man died due to anaphylaxis (severe allergic reaction) after being vaccinated on March 8, 2021. However, the health ministry said that the benefits of vaccination are overwhelmingly greater than the small risk of harm "It is the first death linked to Covid-19 vaccination due to anaphylaxis. It re-emphasises the need to wait for 30 minutes at the inoculation centre after receiving the jab. Most of the anaphylactic reactions occur during this period and prompt treatment prevents deaths, Dr NK Arora, chairperson, National AEFI committee, told PTI. The Committee examined five such cases that took place on February 5, eight cases on March 9 and 18 cases on March 31. As per data in the first week of April, the reporting rate is 2.7 deaths per million vaccine doses administered and 4.8 hospitalisations per million vaccine doses administered, the report stated. The panel said mere reporting of deaths and hospitalisations as serious adverse events does not automatically imply that the events were caused due to vaccines. Only properly conducted investigations and causality assessments can help in understanding if any causal relationship exists between the event and the vaccine, the report said, adding for causality assessments, priority has been given to death cases. Of the 31 causally assessed cases, 18 were classified as having an inconsistent causal association to vaccination (coincidental - not linked to vaccination), 7 were classified as indeterminate, 3 cases were found to be vaccine product related, 1 was anxiety-related reaction and two cases were found to be unclassifiable, the government panel report said. Vaccine product-related reactions are expected reactions that can be attributed to vaccination based on current scientific evidence, it said. Examples of such reactions are allergic reactions and anaphylaxis, etc. Indeterminate reactions are reactions which have occurred soon after vaccination but there is no definitive evidence in current literature or clinical trial data that this event could have been caused due to the vaccine, the report said, adding further observations, analysis and studies are required. In the two other cases of anaphylaxis, two persons were given vaccines on January 19 and 16 and both of them were hospitalised and have since recovered. Unclassifiable events are events that have been investigated but there is not enough evidence for assigning a diagnosis due to missing crucial information. When this relevant information becomes available, the case may be reconsidered for causality assessment. Coincidental events are events that are reported following immunisation but for which a clear cause other than vaccination is found on investigation. The panel said the benefits of vaccination are overwhelmingly greater than the small risk of harm and as a measure of utmost precaution, all emerging signals of harm are being constantly tracked and reviewed periodically.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-59
15-06-2021||India||Amit Shah's meet with MPs sets off cabinet expansion buzz||Union home minister Amit Shah's meeting with groups of BJP MPs, which generated speculation about a cabinet expansion, was part of an ongoing feedback exercise on the work of the government, Covid situation and other issues, sources said. Over the last five days, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had also held meetings with the minsters along with BJP chief JP Nadda. Shah had met MPs from Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat and some other states on Saturday and Sunday at his residence. Around 30 MPs and some ministers had visited him over the weekend, according to a report from ndtv.com. According to sources, political activities and physical meetings have resumed as the second wave of Covid has receded. The focus of the meetings this time is on the situation in the MPs' constituencies, the handling of Covid and their performance during the pandemic, and the grievances of the people. Also any reshuffle in the ministry is usually preceded by appraisal and stock taking. Over the last weeks, there has been talk of cabinet expansion with 28 berths remaining vacant. One was vacated by the death of Lok Janshakti Party chief Ram Vilas Paswan, who was in charge of the Food and Public Distribution portfolio. At present, there are 21 Cabinet ministers, nine ministers of state with independent charge, and 23 ministers of state besides PM Modi. An expansion is also expected to settle political tensions within the allies and giving due importance to states where the BJP came to power in assembly elections over the last two years. From Bihar, Nitish Kumar's Janata Dal United is expecting a cabinet berth. Another seat in the Council of Ministers should go to Mr Paswan's Lok Janshakti Party. Rewards are also expected in Madhya Pradesh, which came into BJP grasp after the churn in the Congress and changing of camp by Jyotiraditya Scindia with a chunk of his followers. Mr Scindia has already been given a Rajya Sabha seat, but there is speculation about a cabinet berth for him as well. The exception could be Bengal, where the BJP, while failing to oust Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee from power, won nearly a third of the assembly seats. There is speculation that Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh might get a cabinet berth. Sources said whenever the expansion takes place, Bengal will be given more representation to send a message that it is top on the BJP's priority list.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-59
15-06-2021||India||Rs 150 per Covaxin dose to Centre not sustainable in long run, says Bharat Biotech||The supply price of Bharat Biotech's COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin to the central government at Rs 150 per dose is not sustainable in the long run, the vaccine maker said on Tuesday. The Centre's supplying price is pushing the pricing structure for the private sector upward. Fundamental business reasons ranging from low procurement volumes, high distribution costs and retail margins among few others contribute to higher pricing of Covaxin, Bharat Biotech said justifying the higher price when compared to other COVID-19 vaccines available for the private sector in India. "The supply price of Covaxin to the government of India at Rs 150 / dose, is a non-competitive price and clearly not sustainable in the long run. Hence a higher price in private markets is required to offset part of the costs," it said in a statement. Bharat Biotech has so far invested over Rs 500 crores at risk from its own resources for product development, clinical trials and setting up of manufacturing facilities for Covaxin, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-59
15-06-2021||India||Sukhbir Singh Badal detained while protesting outside Punjab CM's house||Police on Tuesday used water cannons to disperse Shiromani Akali Dal and BSP leaders and workers when they were forcing their way to 'gherao' the residence of Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh in Mohali. Protesters led by SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal were shouting slogans against the Congress-led government over several issues including irregularities in the purchase of Fateh kits and alleged diversion of Covid-19 vaccine doses to private hospitals. BSP state president Jasbir Singh Garhi was also present at the protest. Several Akali leaders, including Badal and Bikram Singh Majithia, were detained by police. It was the first joint protest of the SAD and BSP, days after both the parties had stitched an alliance for the 2022 Punjab Assembly polls. Police personnel were deployed in strength and multi-layered barricades were put up on the road leading to the Chief Minister's residence. The SAD and BSP had planned to 'gherao' the CM's residence at Siswan in Mohali. Initially, scores of Akali and BSP protesters forced their way through the first layer of barricades. Police used water cannons when protesters tried to cross the second layer of barricades. In the melee, turbans of several protesters were tossed aside as police resorted to water cannons. Mohali Senior Superintendent of Police Satinder Singh was also present at the spot. Earlier, addressing the workers, SAD chief Badal slammed the state government over the issue of alleged irregularities in the purchase of Fateh kits and alleged diversion of vaccine doses to private hospitals. A 'Fateh kit' contains a pulse oximeter, thermometer, face masks, a steamer, sanitiser, Vitamin-C and zinc tablets and some other medicines for Covid-19 patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-59
15-06-2021||India||Nine MLAs from Mayawati's party meet Akhilesh Yadav||At least five MLAs suspended by the BSP last year met Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday, triggering speculation that they may join his party. "The meeting with SP chief Akhilesh Yadav, which lasted for 15-20 minutes, witnessed discussions on the upcoming UP Assembly elections, and it was a nice meeting," Sushma Patel, MLA from Mungra Badshahpur assembly constituency in Jaunpur district told PTI. When asked about the future course of action, Patel said, "Personally, I have made up my mind to join the Samajwadi Party." At present, there are 18 Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLAs in the 403-member Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly. When asked what prompted the suspended BSP MLAs to meet Akhilesh Yadav, Patel said, "We were suspended in October 2020 during the Rajya Sabha elections, and we were categorically told not to use the flag and banner of the BSP, and also to not attend any party meeting." "At the time of the Rajya Sabha elections, the BSP did not issue any whip, nor did we indulge in cross-voting. We were suspended without any basis. We were suspended as we had gone to meet Akhilesh Yadav," she added. "Now, we have to look for alternatives. So, in this context, we had called upon Akhilesh Yadav," she said, and added that now she has nothing to do with the BSP. Others who met the SP chief are Mohd Aslam Raini, Hakimlal Bind, Mustafa Siddiqui and Hargovind Bhargav. In October 2020, seven BSP MLAs were suspended by party president Mayawati. They had opposed the nomination of party's official candidate Ramji Gautam for the elections to the Rajya Sabha. Apart from the five who met Yadav, Chaudhary Aslam Ali and Vandana Singh had also been suspended from the BSP. Earlier this month, Mayawati had expelled BSP's legislative party leader Lalji Verma and Akbarpur MLA Ram Achal Rajbhar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-59
15-06-2021||India||Liquor not allowed to be served in hotels, restaurants in Delhi||Booze lovers will have to wait for some more days before they could enjoy drinks at their favourite spots, as serving liquor at bars in hotels, clubs and restaurants in the city is yet not allowed, clarified Excise department. With a significant improvement in the COVID-19 situation in the national capital, liquor shops and restaurants that were closed after the imposition of lockdown in April have reopened now. "Bars in the hotels, clubs and restaurants are not allowed to open till further orders," stated a clarification issued by the Excise Department of Delhi government on Monday. All liquor shops in markets, malls and market complexes (outside containment zones) are allowed to operate between 10 am to 8 pm, it said. The liquor vends in the city reopened in Delhi on June 6. The clarification was issued in view of queries about bars in hotels, clubs and restaurants after Delhi government allowed restaurants to reopen from Monday, an official said. The restaurants permitted to serve takeaways have now been allowed to run with 50 per cent seating capacity on a trial basis till June 21. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) in its order on Sunday stated that markets and restaurants will be under close watch for strict implementation of Covid appropriate behaviour and other guidelines. If cases of coronavirus start increasing in the city, the restrictions may be clamped again, it said. The DDMA also directed that liquor, pan, gutkha, tobacco should not be consumed in shops, malls, markets, market complexes, restaurants and other such places. A close watch and supervision will be maintained on the overall functioning of markets, market complexes, malls and restaurants by district magistrates, DCPs and other officers. In case it is found that Covid appropriate behaviour is not being followed in the markets, market complexes, malls, restaurants and if the number of COVID-19 positive cases start increasing in Delhi, they will be closed without any loss of time, warned the DDMA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-59
15-06-2021||India||HC grants bail to JNU, Jamia students in north east Delhi riots case||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday granted bail to JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita and Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, who were arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with a case related to larger conspiracy in the north east Delhi riots in February last year. The three accused were arrested in May last year in connection with the riots in north east Delhi. A bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup Jairam Bhambhani set aside the trial court's orders denying bail to the three accused and allowed their appeals by admitting them to regular bail. The high court directed Pinjra Tod group activists Narwal and Kalita and Tanha to surrender their passports and not to offer any inducement to prosecution witnesses or tamper with the evidence in the case. It directed them to furnish a personal bond of Rs 50,000 each along with two sureties of the like amount. The three accused shall not indulge in any unlawful activities and shall reside at the address as mentioned in prison records, the high court said. Communal clashes had broken out in north east Delhi on February 24 last year after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured. Tanha had challenged a trial court's October 26, 2020 order dismissing his bail application on grounds that he allegedly played an active role in the entire conspiracy with reasonable grounds for believing the allegations to be prima facie true. Narwal and Kalita had challenged the trial court's January 28 order dismissed their bail pleas, saying the allegations against them were prima facie true and provisions of anti-terror law have been rightly invoked in the present case. They had had filed their appeals challenging a trial court's order dismissing their bail pleas in a Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) case related to the riots.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-59
15-06-2021||India||SC closes criminal case in India against Italian marines ||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the closure of criminal proceedings in India against two Italian marines, accused of killing two fishermen off the Kerala coast in February 2012. A vacation bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and M R Shah quashed the FIR and proceedings emanating from the case against the two Italian marines. The bench said that as per the international arbitral award accepted by India, the Republic of Italy shall resume further investigation in the case. The top court termed the Rs 10 crore compensation paid by the Republic of Italy over and above the payment already made as reasonable and adequate . It said that out of the Rs 10 crore compensation, Rs 4 crore each shall be deposited in the name of heirs of two deceased Kerala fishermen and two crore shall be given to owner of boat. In February 2012, India had accused the two marines on board the MV Enrica Lexie -- an Italian flagged oil tanker -- of killing two Indian fishermen who were on a fishing vessel in India's Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-60
15-06-2021||India||India's daily Covid caseload lowest in 75 days||India saw a single-day rise of 60,471 new coronavirus infections, the lowest after 75 days, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 2,95,70,881, while the daily positivity rate declined to 3.45 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The COVID-19 death toll climbed to 3,77,031 with 2,726 fresh deaths, the data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases further declined to 9,13,378 comprising 3.09 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 95.64 per cent.A net decline of 59,780 cases has been recorded in the COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 17,51,358 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 38,13,75,984. The daily positivity rate dropped to 3.45 per cent. It has been less than 5 per cent for 8 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 4.39 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 33rd consecutive day.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,82,80,472, while the case fatality rate increased to 1.28 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 25,90,44,072 COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 2,726 new fatalities include 1,592 from Maharashtra, 254 from Tamil Nadu, 161 from Kerala and 120 from Karnataka. A total of 3,77,031 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,12,696 from Maharashtra, 33,033 from Karnataka, 29,801 from Tamil Nadu, 24,839 from Delhi, 21,858 from Uttar Pradesh, 16,974 from West Bengal, 15,602 from Punjab and 13,334 from Chhattisgarh. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-60
15-06-2021||India||G7 summit: PM signs Open Societies pact on universal rights||Fresh from signing an Open Societies Statement that commits signatories to “freedom of expression, both online and offline”, the Narendra Modi government has been reminded of how it is seeking to run with the hare and hunt with the hounds in the digital age. The Opposition jogged Modi’s memory by pointing out that India holds the chart-busting record on Internet shutdowns. For three years in a row, India has topped the global charts on Internet shutdowns, according to Access Now, an advocacy group for digital rights. On Sunday, India had joined G7 countries and other invitees to the 47th Summit in signing the Open Societies Statement that takes stock of the situation across the world on universal rights. The Modi government’s endorsement appears all the more rich because the statement, keeping China in mind, specifically mentions politically motivated Internet shutdowns. “We are at a critical juncture, facing threats to freedom and democracy from rising authoritarianism, electoral interference,... manipulation of information, including disinformation, online harms and cyber attacks, politically motivated Internet shutdowns, human rights violations and abuses, terrorism and violent extremism,” the Open Societies Statement says. According to Access Now’s report for 2020, India accounted for 109 of the 155 Internet shutdowns across the world, leaving runner-up Yemen way behind with just six such clampdowns. Till date this year, there have been 21 Internet shutdowns — 16 of them in Jammu and Kashmir and the remaining in the National Capital Region in January and February in the midst of the farmers’ protests. Given this background, plus the use of draconian provisions in the law books to curb freedom of expression, the Opposition was quick to seize the opportunity to call out what they saw as the Modi government’s doublespeak on democracy. “If only Modiji could practise in India what he preaches to the world. India has the highest number of govt imposed Internet shutdowns in the world — so much for freedom of expression online,” tweeted the Congress. “G7: India signs off on joint statement: Reaffirms the values of ‘freedom of expression, both online and offline’. Sign statements abroad, violate them at home. Freedoms devalued: Internet shutdowns, sedition targeting journalists, students, academics, etc,” chipped in Kapil Sibal of the Congress. CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury referred to various reports detailing India’s record on Internet shutdowns. “India leads the world in Internet shutdowns. Since 2014, sedition cases up 96%; 2,301 new UAPA detentions without trial or bail. By making these tall claims internationally, Modi makes India a laughing stock. The facts are there for the world to see,” Yechury tweeted. Quoting the Prime Minister’s tweet in which he referred to his G7 speech and said “democracy and freedom are part of India’s civilisational ethos, and find expression in the vibrancy and diversity of India’s society”, Trinamul Congress MP Mahua Moitra tweeted: “Irony just died a thousand deaths.” The G7 countries reaffirmed commitment to democracy as an alternative to the Chinese system that has been gaining ground the world over. Reviving democracy at home and overseas is also a priority concern of US President Joe Biden who has made it a cornerstone of his Build Back Better agenda for America which has now become a mantra for the G7 also after this summit. The iteration comes at a time when the world’s oldest and largest democracies, the US and India, have been placed among the countries that have contributed to an accelerating wave of autocratisation, according to the latest Varieties of Democracies Index report released earlier this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-60
15-06-2021||India||Covid: Novavax shows 90.4 per cent efficacy against the infection||India’s hopes to administer two billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines between August and December have received a boost with a new US-made vaccine to be produced in India by the Serum Institute showing high protective efficacy. The US-based vaccine maker Novavax announced on Monday that its protein-based Covid-19 vaccine has demonstrated 90.4 per cent efficacy against the novel coronavirus infection and 100 per cent efficacy against moderate and severe disease. The vaccine also showed 93 per cent efficacy against predominantly circulating variants of concern (VoC) or variants of interest (VoI), the company added, reporting the results of a clinical trial on over 29,900 participants at 119 sites across the US and Mexico. “Today, Novavax is one step closer to addressing the critical and persistent global health need for additional Covid-19 vaccines,” Stanley Erck, chief executive officer of Novavax, said in a statement. “These results reinforce that the vaccine is extremely effective and offers complete protection against both moderate and severe Covid-19 infection.” The Pune-based Serum Institute of India is expected to produce 1 billion doses of the Novavax vaccine during 2021 under a pact between the two companies last September. Novavax, which also has partner manufacturing sites in the Czech Republic, Japan, South Korea, Spain, the UK and the US, has said it will have a global production capacity of over 2 billion doses during 2021. “This is a major development with encouraging implications for India,” said Shahid Jameel, a senior virologist and director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University. “The Serum Institute has a large production capacity.” The Centre has said it expects to procure 200 million doses of the Novavax vaccine from the Serum Institute between August and December this year as part of a plan to acquire and administer over two billion doses during those five months. India’s vaccination campaign had until Monday morning administered over 254 million doses with about 47 million (3.5 per cent of the population) fully vaccinated with two doses. But health officials have said India hopes to immunise its entire eligible population by the end of 2021 through a bouquet of vaccines — Covaxin, Covishield, Sputnik, and jabs from Biological E and Novavax. The Novavax trial observed 77 Covid-19 cases, 63 among participants who received a placebo and 14 among participants who received the vaccine. All cases in the vaccine group were mild while the placebo group had 10 moderate and four severe cases, yielding a vaccine efficacy of 100 per cent against moderate or severe disease. The company said it intended to file for regulatory approvals in the third quarter and remained on track to reach a production capacity of 100 million doses per month by the end of the third quarter and 150 million doses per month by the end of the fourth quarter of 2021. Genome sequencing data were available for 54 of the 77 cases, the company said. Of the sequenced cases, 35 were VoCs, nine were VoIs and 10 were other variants. The trial recorded 38 VoCs or VoIs in the placebo group and six in the vaccine group. “The data show the vaccine is highly effective against variants,” said Jameel. “We’ll have to establish if this is also seen against the delta variant.” Genome and epidemiology studies have suggested that the delta variant, first detected in India, had contributed significantly to the country’s second wave. Although Novavax does not mention the delta variant in particular, the strain has been demarcated as a VoC by the World Health Organisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-60
15-06-2021||India||Lawyer union urges CJI to reject plea to elevate SC advocates as high court judges||A union of lawyers has urged Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana to reject a plea to elevate Supreme Court advocates as judges of high courts, contending that it will undermine the independence of the judiciary and the transparency of the appointment process. “We are afraid that such a move, if true, would cause far-reaching negative consequences impacting the independence of the judiciary and its transparency, and would lead to substitution of the opinion of the High Court Collegium by that of the Supreme Court Collegium, in violation of Article 217 of the Constitution and constitution benches’ decisions of the Honourable Supreme Court of India with respect to appointment of judges of Honourable High Courts,” the All India Lawyers Union (AILU) said. “It militates against the federal principles, the autonomy of the High Courts and the constitutional norms in this regard,” the letter addressed to CJI Ramana added. Under Article 217 of the Constitution, a person can be appointed to a high court as a judge only if he or she has been a judge of a lower court for over 10 years or has been a lawyer with a minimum of 10 years’ experience in one or more high courts. The AILU’s opposition comes against the backdrop of a move by the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA), which represents lawyers appearing in the top court, to set up a search committee for the purpose of recommending names of eminent lawyers from the Supreme Court as judges of high courts. Now, Supreme Court lawyers are considered only for judges’ posts in the top court. AILU president Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya told The Telegraph: “The new process, if adopted, will also curb the rights of the lawyers practising in high courts. This move is backed by the BJP, which is trying hard to centralise powers.” Bhattacharyya added: “Not only us, more or less the Bar associations of every high court have opposed the move. The Calcutta High Court Bar Association sent a letter on Monday. The leaders of three bodies of Calcutta High Court will sit together in a day or two and jointly send a memorandum protesting against the move.” CJI Ramana at a recent conference of chief justices of high courts had also referred to the plea of the SCBA, but had not given any assurance on the matter. The SCBA is of the view that many advocates in the Supreme Court with over two decades of practice and with expertise in constitutional, criminal, civil, arbitration and other legal subjects should be considered for appointment as judges of high courts in view of the massive backlog of vacancies. India has over 4.5 crore pending cases at its 25 high courts, which are functioning at 50-60 per cent of their sanctioned strength. However, the AILU in its letter addressed to the CJI on Sunday through its president Bhattacharyya and general secretary P.V. Surendranath said it “notices with great concern and consternation the reported statement of the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) that the Hon’ble CJI has agreed to the request made by the SCBA to consider elevation of Supreme Court lawyers as judges of High Courts and requested Chief Justices of High Courts to consider lawyers practicing in the Supreme Court for elevation to their High Courts”. The AILU took exception to the SCBA constituting a search committee for identifying and selecting suitable candidates from the Supreme Court Bar. “So far, no opportunity is conceded to the Bar Associations of the Honourable High Courts to constitute any ‘Search Committee’ to identify eligible suitable candidates from the Bar and to propose names to the Chief Justices of the High Courts for elevation as judges of the High Courts. In such a context, the… proposal of a ‘Search Committee’ and to institutionalise such appointments may lead to unhealthy and disastrous consequences,” the union said. The AILU added: “We, as a responsible organisation of lawyers concerned with an independent and accountable judiciary and a strong Bar, respectfully appeal that this sort of seminal issues may not be decided without affording sufficient opportunity for a thorough democratic and informed debate among all the stakeholders, including the Bar Associations of the High Courts. “The All India Lawyers Union (AILU) urges the Honourable Chief Justice of India to reject the proposal of the SCBA and may be kind enough to withdraw instructions, if any, given to the Honourable Chief Justices of the High Courts in favour of the proposal of the SCBA in this regard.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-60
15-06-2021||India||Ayodhya Ram temple: Congress urges SC to investigate land deal||The Congress has urged the Supreme Court to investigate the land deal in Ayodhya under which a plot was allegedly bought by the Ram Temple Trust for Rs 18.5 crore from buyers who had minutes earlier purchased it for Rs 2 crore. The Opposition party has also asked for a comprehensive audit of the cash donated by people for the construction of the temple, arguing that Ram symbolises faith and justice and that there can be no bigger sin than committing a fraud using the Lord’s name. The Sangh parivar ran a door-to-door fund collection drive and gathered around Rs 3,000 crore for a Ram temple in Ayodhya, after the Supreme Court paved the way for the construction of one. “The Ram Temple Trust was constituted by the Prime Minister on instructions from the Supreme Court. The entire fund collection should be audited under the court’s supervision,” Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said on Monday. “The Supreme Court should constitute a special investigation team (SIT) to examine the collections, the expenditure and all the land registrations,” he added. On Sunday, at separate media briefings, leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party and the Samajwadi Party had made the allegation of fraud. Both parties have sought probes by the CBI and the ED. The Congress stressed on the immorality of a fraud in the name of Ram to corner the RSS-BJP ahead of the Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, where the start of the temple construction in Ayodhya could have been flagged as a big achievement by the ruling party. Surjewala asked: “Will the Prime Minister answer who gives patronage to sinners? Who are playing with the people’s faith in Lord Ram? How many more plots were purchased in the name of a temple in Ayodhya?” He added: “Those who deceive the Gods will not spare human beings. Trade in the garb of faith is a sin. The BJP has committed a sin by misusing the money given for the construction of the temple.” As the Congress addressed media conferences in Delhi and Lucknow and held demonstrations seeking the resignation of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Rahul Gandhi set the tone by tweeting: “Lord Ram is himself justice, truth and religion. Fraud in his name is irreligious.” Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted: “Crores of people contributed to the construction of the temple because of faith and devotion. Misusing that money is anti-religion, a sin, an insult of their faith.” The Opposition has kicked up a huge ruckus to blunt the advantage in the election that the BJP could have got using the temple plank. A temple-oriented discourse will now create space for an effective intervention by the Opposition, and the BJP might be compelled to tone down its rhetoric. Giving the background, Surjewala said: “Kusum Pathak and Harish Pathak sold the land (12,080 square metres) on March 18 at 7.10pm for Rs 2 crore to Ravi Mohan Tiwari and Sultan Ansari. Same day at 7.15pm, Tiwari and Ansari sold the plot to the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Trust (via general secretary Champat Rai) for Rs 18.50 crore. “Witnesses for both deals are Anil Mishra and Rishikesh Upadhyay. Mishra is a member of the trust and a senior RSS leader and Upadhyay, a BJP leader, is mayor of Ayodhya, supposed to be close to both Yogi and Modi.” Surjewala said “the scandal is obvious” and argued that the value of no plot in the world has appreciated at this rate in five minutes. “It is interesting that Tiwari and Ansari got an e-stamp certificate for sale at 5.22pm but the trust got the e-stamp certificate at 5.11pm itself,” he said. Both Rai and Mishra have denied wrongdoing. Rai said in a statement that the purchase was transparent and the amount paid was less than the current market rate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-60
15-06-2021||India||Ayodhya Ram temple: UP deputy CM pledges land deal probe||Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said on Monday that the state government would conduct an inquiry into the allegation that the trust set up to monitor the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya had bought land at a highly inflated rate. An Aam Aadmi Party Rajya Sabha member and a former Samajwadi Party minister had alleged on Sunday that Champat Rai, general secretary of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, with the help of trust member Anil Kumar Mishra, had bought a plot for Rs 18.50 crore, a rate over nine times higher than the Rs 2 crore for which it had been purchased from its original owner the same day. Rai and Mishra have denied the charges of money laundering levelled against them. Maurya, the deputy chief minister and BJP leader, said in Lucknow on Monday: “An inquiry will be conducted into the allegations and those found guilty must be brought to book.” Maurya, however, added that those who were “against the devotees of Lord Ram have raised this issue”. Quoting purported entries of the registered sale deed of the land, AAP leader Sanjay Singh and Samajwadi politician Tej Narayan Pandey had claimed at news conferences in Lucknow and Ayodhya, respectively, that the temple trust had entered into an agreement with Sultan Ansari on March 18 and he was paid an advance of Rs 17 crore, besides Rs 1.29 crore as stamp duty. Ansari had purchased the 1.208-hectare plot at Bag Bijaisi village in Ayodhya Sadar only minutes ago from Kusum Pathak for Rs 2 crore, according to the purported documents. Mishra was a witness in both deals. The two politicians have demanded probes by the CBI and the ED into the land deal. Rai issued a statement on Monday saying: “…The 1.20 hectares of land at Bag Bijaisi, Ayodhya, has been purchased in a transparent manner for some important temples, including Kaushalya Sadan. “Several agreements were struck in favour of the present seller involving the said land in 2011, 2017 and 2019…. The rate offered for the land was cross-checked as per the market rate. The rate was fixed at Rs 1,423 per square foot, which is less than the current market rate. (1.208 hectares is 130,028.04sqft. The price of 130,028.04sqft at Rs 1,423 per sqft comes to Rs 18.5 crore). “After a decision on the rate, it was necessary for those associated with it to fulfil their previous agreements….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-60
15-06-2021||India||JDU criticises Chirag Paswan for LJP split||The Janata Dal United on Monday took potshots at Chirag Paswan after a split in his Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) came out in the open, saying that he was bearing the brunt of his own actions. Chirag has been left cornered in a revolt led by his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras, the LJP MP from Hajipur, and supported by four other party MPs, including nephew Prince Raj. “There is a saying that you reap what you sow. Chirag is reaping the fruit of his own actions. He was heading a party, which was with the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). But he adopted a stance that damaged it in the Assembly polls, leaving the leaders and party workers uneasy and dissatisfied,” JDU national president R.C.P. Singh told mediapersons in Patna. The remarks by Singh, a Rajya Sabha member, were a reminder of last year when LJP chief Chirag had gone all out against Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar in the run-up to the 2020 Assembly elections — criticising and attacking him despite being in the NDA. Nitish was the face of the poll campaign of the NDA and the chief ministerial candidate, but Chirag fielded candidates in constituencies where the JDU was contesting. It was seen not only as an attempt to undermine the JDU, but also to ensure that it gets fewer seats in comparison to ally BJP, which was said to be providing tacit support to Chirag and the LJP. His aim was to help BJP get the top place in the alliance, and ensure his rise to prominence in the state. “Getting a high position in the party without hard work is easy, but to digest it is hard. If you do not respect your seniors and colleagues then what will happen? This was the reason that the LJP MPs distanced themselves from him (Chirag). A person has to be stable and cool to become a racehorse that is up for the long haul,” Singh said. However, the JDU chief showered praises on LJP founder and former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, who died in October 2020. “Ram Vilas ji was a good person. He established the LJP. His coordination with the NDA was better and due to it the alliance managed to win 39 out of 40 Lok Sabha seats in Bihar (in 2019),” Singh added. The JDU leader refused to speak on speculation on the breakaway LJP leaders joining his party. Meanwhile, the BJP, whom ally JDU had blamed for encouraging the LJP to go against it in the Bihar Assembly elections, tried to distance itself from Chirag. “Chirag was taking all the decisions on his own during the state polls. His decisions helped the (Opposition) Grand Alliance. The LJP leaders and workers were angry with him since then,” BJP spokesperson Prem Ranjan Patel said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-60
15-06-2021||India||Five Lok Janshakti Party MPs revolt against Chirag Paswan||The Lok Janshakti Party witnessed a coup on Monday when five of its six MPs revolted against party chief Chirag Paswan and elected his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras as the parliamentary party leader. The sudden implosion of the party formed by veteran Ram Vilas Paswan, who passed away last year, bore signs of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s cold revenge, months after Chirag led an aggressive campaign against Nitish and his Janata Dal United in the Assembly polls and spoilt its show. Five of the six LJP MPs (Chirag is the sixth) met at Hajipur Lok Sabha member Paras’s residence on Sunday, elected him leader of the parliamentary party and then went to meet Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to submit a letter and inform him about the decision. Chirag woke up to the coup on Monday morning and rushed to his uncle’s residence for rapprochement but had to return empty-handed. The LJP chief had to wait for nearly 30 minutes outside his uncle’s residence before he was let in and but Paras was not present in the house. The breakaway group of five MPs, led by Paras, reposed faith in the leadership of Nitish in Bihar and said they were part of the NDA, both at the national and state level, lending credence to the JDU’s role in the operation. “I have not split the party but saved it according the desire of five of our six MPs,” Paras told reporters, terming Nitish a “vikas purush (development man)”, stressing party workers were opposed to Chirag’s decision of contesting against the JDU. Taking control of the party after his father’s death, just ahead of the Bihar polls in October-November last year, Chirag had broken out of the NDA and unleashed a scathing campaign against Nitish. The JDU believes its seat tally dropped sharply because the LJP candidates played spoilsport. The LJP too had performed poorly, winning just one Assembly seat and the MLA has now defected to the JDU. Big brother BJP, which was believed to have indirectly backed Chirag’s oust-Nitish campaign, maintained silence over the sudden developments. Chirag had fielded candidates mostly against the JDU, while declaring his admiration for Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The timing of the revolt was linked with the speculations of a cabinet expansion in Delhi. By asserting that he was part of the BJP-led NDA at the Centre and the Nitish-led alliance in Bihar, Chirag’s uncle appeared to be eyeing a berth in the Modi government. Paswan was a key minister in the Modi government as an ally. His son Chirag was hoping to get a place but internally, his claim was opposed firmly by the JDU, arguing that he had broken out of the NDA. The JDU’s opposition had also forced the BJP to cancel an invite to Chirag to attend a virtual NDA meeting in January this year. While BJP leaders claimed they had no role in the current development, LJP leaders close to Chirag felt the Lok Sabha Speaker agreeing to meet the rebel group so easily couldn’t have happened without a nod from the ruling party. “While we have no role in whatever is happening in the LJP but at the same time we have nothing to worry because the rebel group has said they will be part of the NDA,” one BJP leader said. This leader also slammed Chirag saying: “The young leader had gone too far.” BJP leaders handling the Bihar affairs of the party said they can’t annoy the JDU, since the party with 16 MPs, is currently the second largest constituent of the ruling NDA at the Centre after the departure of the Shiv Sena with 18 MPs. “Allies like Shiv Sena and Akali Dal have quit the NDA and so we need the JDU to send a good message,” one Bihar BJP leader said. Sensing the current perception, particularly after the BJP’s drubbing in Bengal and the upcoming Uttar Pradesh polls, the JDU has started building pressure by demanding a “respectable share” in the Modi government. Nitish’s party had refused to join the Modi government after it was offered only a token representation. The JDU could now also press for inclusion of the LJP faction led by Paras, to increase its heft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-60
15-06-2021||India||Covid: Panel asks Centre to reserve 10% ICU beds for children||A paediatric panel has urged the Centre to earmark 10 per cent of Covid-19 intensive care unit beds for children, while asserting that there is no evidence to suggest that an anticipated “third wave” would be harder on kids than the earlier waves. The 14-member panel has recommended nationwide augmentation of paediatric care facilities through increase in beds, equipment and medications, training to enhance healthcare staff skills, and expanding telemedicine services amid concerns about gaps in paediatric critical care. It has also called on the government to reserve 20 per cent of general Covid-19 ward beds for children and to add ICU beds in non-Covid paediatric wards to manage cases of post-Covid multi-system inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) in any future surges. The paediatricians said available data indicates that the vast majority of children have mild disease, better infection outcomes and low mortality in comparison with adults. However, infants and children with underlying illness may be at higher risk and will require greater monitoring. “There appears to be no substantial evidence to suggest that children would be more affected or would have greater illness severity due to Covid-19 infections in the anticipated third wave,” the doctors said in a paper. “Further, we have insufficient information to estimate risk in children due to the new (coronavirus) variants and the consequences in children due to increase in adult vaccination rates,” they said. The paper — published by The Lancet Covid-19 Commission India Task Force, an initiative by the medical journal — comes at a time when India’s paediatric community has been trying to douse speculation that a future wave would be harder on children than the first and second waves. The panel analysed infection outcomes of over 2,500 hospitalised children aged below 10 years admitted in 10 public and private hospitals across the country during India two surges — between March and December 2020 and January and April 2021. In both waves they observed a mortality rate of about 2.4 per cent among hospitalised children aged below 10 years with about nine per cent of cases showing severe illness. About 40 per cent of the children who died had underlying health disorders. “We’re asking for earmarked paediatric ICU beds because during the earlier surges, there were instances of paediatric ICU beds used for adults,” said Siddarth Ramji, professor of paediatrics at the Maulana Azad Medical College, New Delhi, and a panel member. Ramji and other panel members said their recommendations are intended to strengthen overall paediatric care facilities in hospitals across the country, especially in the public district hospitals, the vast majority of which currently lack paediatric critical care resources. “We see this as an opportunity during adversity,” said Dr Sushma Nangia, professor of paediatrics and head of neonatology at the Lady Hardinge Medical College, New Delhi, and another panel member. “While resources for newborn care have improved in district hospitals across the country, most of them still do not have paediatric ICU facilities required to manage severe respiratory distress. They will need equipment and adequately trained staff,” Dr Nangia said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-60
15-06-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh: ABP News journalist found dead||A journalist with ABP News and ABP Ganga was found dead on an Uttar Pradesh road, his clothes torn and his face bearing multiple injuries, a day after he had written to police expressing fear that the liquor mafia would “harm” him and seeking protection. Police initially said that Sulabh Srivastava, 42, died in an accident after falling off his motorbike when it skidded on a rain-soaked road in Pratapgarh town late on Sunday night and hit a hand pump. On Monday, the police registered a case of murder and criminal intimidation against unknown persons on the basis of a written complaint from Renuka Srivastava, Sulabh’s wife, said Surendra Dwivedi, additional superintendent of police of Pratapgarh district. Sulabh had written to the additional director-general of police of the Allahabad zone, Prem Prakash, on Saturday mentioning that he feared for his life and that of his family after he had reported on the liquor mafia. The letter in Hindi, widely shared on social media, said: “The applicant Sulabh Srivastava, a resident of Sahodarpur, Kotwali, Pratapgarh, is a district correspondent of the esteemed ABP News and ABP Ganga…. The police had recently conducted raids on the liquor mafia at Kunda, Hathigawa and Antu (in Pratapgarh).... The applicant had covered the incident…. I had also filed an article on the digital platform (of ABP Ganga) on June 9. “Since then there has been a lot of buzz about this report. I’ve come to know from my sources that the liquor mafia are unhappy with me. For the past two days whenever I leave home, it appears as if someone is following me. I fear that the liquor mafia might harm me or my family.” Sulabh had requested police protection. ADG Prakash confirmed that he had received Sulabh’s letter. “I had forwarded it to district officers and discussed the issue with them,” he said. According to Dwivedi, Sulabh was riding home on Sunday when his bike skidded and hit a handpump. The officer said: “He fell from his motorcycle near a brick kiln. Some labourers lifted him and called up his friends from his cellphone. The labourers also called an ambulance. He was taken to the district hospital where doctors declared him dead.” The police said Sulabh had suffered a head injury and died of excessive bleeding. “However, we are probing all angles,” Dwivedi said. NDTV reported that a photograph of the body taken at the scene of the “accident” showed Sulabh lying on the ground and there appeared to be multiple injuries on his face. His shirt seemed to have been almost entirely removed and his trousers unbuttoned and pulled down. A relative of the journalist, requesting anonymity, corroborated that Sulabh had been “found half-naked” and that “there were many injury marks on his face”. The relative told local reporters in Pratapgarh that the family was living in fear “as some people have been watching us”. Renuka, Sulabh’s wife, alleged on Monday after filing the police complaint that the liquor mafia had murdered her husband. She alleged that Sulabh had received threats to his life after reporting on the liquor mafia and that the police had not taken any action despite being informed in writing. Renuka said Sulabh had shown her on his mobile phone the letter he had written to the police. Renuka said that on Sunday her husband had gone to report on an illegal arms factory and that she received news of his death in a “motorcycle accident” around 11 at night. She said she rushed to the hospital but he had died by the time she reached. Akash Tomar, the superintendent of police of Pratapgarh, said: “We are probing the case and will not spare the guilty if we find that anybody is involved in his death.” Sulabh’s death triggered widespread condemnation. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra accused the Yogi Adityanath government of fostering lawlessness in Uttar Pradesh. “The liquor mafia have been on a killing spree, from Aligarh to Pratapgarh, but the UP government is silent. Journalists are asking dangerous questions to expose the truth, but the government is asleep. Does the UP government, which nurtures jungle raj, have any answer to the tears of the family members of journalist Sulabh Shrivastava?” she tweeted in Hindi. Over 100 people had died in Aligarh two weeks ago after consuming spurious liquor. Chief minister Adityanath claims that his government has cracked down on the liquor mafia by booking cases under the National Security Act and the Goonda Act, and confiscating properties of those involved, in cases of death after consuming illicit liquor. Police sources said large quantities of illicit liquor had been manufactured in view of the recent panchayat polls in the state. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted on Monday: “Shocked at the demise of ABP journalist Sulabh Srivastava in Uttar Pradesh. Sad to see that despite ‘democracy & freedom’ being a part of our ethos, we are unable to save lives who are working tirelessly towards unfolding the truth.” The Editors Guild of India expressed shock at the “cavalier manner in which Uttar Pradesh police is treating the mysterious death of TV journalist Sulabh Srivastava in Pratapgarh”. The Guild noted that Sulabh’s death had come at a time when the media were under increasing pressure from the Centre and several state governments “who insist that they follow the official narrative regarding the administration’s handling of the pandemic”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-61
15-06-2021||India||Girl child labour rescued from retired collector’s house ||A 12-year-old girl was rescued on Monday from the house of a retired collector at IRC Village in Bhubaneswar where she was working as a domestic help. The former bureaucrat’s son is a professor at the National Law University in Hyderabad and his daughter-in-law runs an English medium school for kids at IRC Village. “The child was trafficked from her village at Berhampur in November 2020 and was engaged in domestic servitude. When she was trafficked, she was studying in Class V. Though the daughter-in-law of the house owner runs a school in Bhubaneswar, she never allowed this girl to sit in the classroom. It is really shameful. The girl’s father is a rickshaw puller and her mother works as a domestic help.” Childline director Dr Benudhar Senapati told The Telegraph. The director said the officer concerned had served as Ganjam collector and retired in 1994. “Using his contacts, he had managed to bring the girl from Berhampur in Ganjam district to Bhubaneswar. It needs to be investigated how many children he had engaged as domestic help over the years. It’s also shameful that his son allowed such things to happen despite being a teacher of laws.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-61
15-06-2021||India||Covid: Odisha govt to cover study costs of orphan children||The Odisha government has decided to bear the education cost of children who have lost their parents to Covid-19. Thirty-five children in the state have so far been orphaned by Covid-19. Talking to the media on Monday, advisor to the women and child development department, Sulata Deo said: “The education cost of the children who have lost their parents to Covid-19 will be borne by the state government. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik has issued directions to bear the entire cost toward their studies in medical, engineering and technical courses also.” Apart from this, she said the state would also bear the expenses of orphaned children pursuing courses in private institutions. Minister for social security and empowerment of persons with disability, Ashok Chandra Panda told The Telegraph:  “We will soon come out with a detailed list of the children who have lost their parents in the pandemic.” “The state will provide a stipend to these children under the Madhu Babu Pension Yojana (a social security scheme) and they will be given the monetary advance for three months. They will get the money till they attain the age of 18. The officials have been asked to meet these children at their houses and hand over the money to them.” The orphaned children are entitled to get monetary assistance of Rs 500. To protect children from becoming the victims of a possible third wave of Covid-19, the state has given direction to officials to ensure their safety. “All the district administrations have been directed to set up paediatric wards in every Covid hospital in their respective districts. The special paediatric wing is being set up with an objective to check possible transmission of the virus from the Covid affected children to the non-covid affected kids,” said additional chief secretary in charge of health department P.K. Mohapatra. Officials said as many as 357 beds will be available in seven state run-medical colleges and hospitals for treatment of the children affected with the infection. Of the total beds, 44 will be in the HDU, 94 in paediatric care units and special newborn care units and 64 in neonatal intensive care units. “Nearly 114 doctors and 1,036 health workers from community health centres to medical college level will be trained in handling Covid cases in children. All the district administrations have been directed to make provisions for 10 isolation beds in all district headquarters and sub-divisional hospitals and 155 beds, including 64 newborn intensive care units in the seven state-run medical colleges and hospitals,” officials said. Besides, dedicated Covid blocks will come up in the Sishu Bhawan (Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Postgraduate Institute of Paediatrics) in Cuttack. “Breastfeeding corners will be established in all the dedicated Covid facilities. Mother’s milk is the best for a child,” said officials adding that in areas where the caseload is expected to be high, the government will consider setting up standalone paediatric Covid care facilities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-61
15-06-2021||India||Gujarat polls 2022: Kejriwal opens AAP office in Ahmedabad ||Delhi chief minister and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal blew the bugle for next year’s Assembly polls in Gujarat by inaugurating a party office in Ahmedabad and inducting a senior journalist on Monday. Kejriwal slammed both the ruling BJP and the Opposition Congress and pitched his “Delhi model of welfare” as an alternative to the “Gujarat model” of growth touted by Narendra Modi. “For the past 27 years, only one party has been ruling Gujarat. But the past 27 years are a story of the partnership between these two parties. Whenever the BJP needs, supply of leaders and resources is fulfilled by the Congress. Who will think about Gujarat? The farmers of Gujarat are committing suicide. The condition of the government schools and hospitals is extremely poor,” Kejriwal told reporters in Ahmedabad. He added: “A few months ago, I was to meet a very big Chamber of Commerce to which I had been invited. At the last minute, the Gujarat authorities pressured them to cancel my tour. The traders of Gujarat are scared and in the past year amid the pandemic, the state has been left orphaned.” Kejriwal said the AAP would contest all seats in the state and welcomed popular Gujarati news anchor Isudan Gadhvi into the party. The AAP had contested 29 of the 182 seats in 2017 and got only 0.62 per cent of votes. “The people of Gujarat have understood that the Congress and the BJP are alike. They have got a competent choice in AAP. Citizens of Gujarat also deserve free 24X7 electricity, good schools and hospitals” Kejriwal said. The AAP received a shot in the arm after it wrested the Opposition mantle from the Congress in the Surat Municipal Corporation earlier this year, winning 27 of 120 seats. The Congress drew a blank. The BJP increased its tally from 80 to 93. However, veteran political commentator and author Achyut Yagnik was sceptical of AAP’s prospects. “Surat and other places with a large number of outsiders are different from the rest of Gujarat. History and caste equations make it difficult for any party to go beyond the BJP-Congress binary here. The AAP will attract dissidents from both parties, but is unlikely to make any significant difference to the outcome of the elections,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-61
15-06-2021||India||Lakshadweep: Aisha Sultana moves Kerala HC for anticipatory bail||Filmmaker Aisha Sultana on Monday moved Kerala High Court seeking anticipatory bail in a sedition case filed against her in Lakshadweep. Police in Kavaratti had on Friday registered an FIR based on a complaint filed by local BJP president C. Abdul Khader Haji and charged Aisha under IPC Sections 124A (sedition) and 153B (assertions against national integration) over her reference to a “bio-weapon” while speaking on the Covid outbreak on the islands during a TV debate. Later, the 26-year-old filmmaker had clarified that she had meant controversial Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel while referring to the “bio-weapon”. But the BJP’s Haji had in his complaint accused Aisha of describing the Union government as a “bio-weapon”. In the anticipatory bail plea, she cited imminent arrest as she has been summoned to appear before Kavaratti police on June 20. “The applicant apprehends imminent arrest and detention… for allegedly committing non-bailable offence,” the plea stated. “The applicant is absolutely innocent of the allegations levelled against her. The applicant has been falsely implicated in this case with ulterior motives and vexatious intentions,” her bail application said. The plea also pointed out that her remarks did not amount to sedition since there was no call for violence. “It is further submitted that the offences under Section 153B of the IPC also will not stand against the applicant as the words spoken are not prejudicial to national integration or causing disharmony or feelings of enmity or hatred or ill-will,” the application said. Aisha on Monday joined the islanders in their Black Day protest to mark the weeklong visit of Patel to Lakshadweep. She posted on Facebook her picture clad in a black dress and a black mask. “No longer will we, the people of Lakshadweep, tolerate fascism. We will stand against totalitarian policies, and we will survive this siege on Lakshadweep. As long as fascism tries to discriminate, my voice will never abate. Today is a black day for Lakshadweep natives…,” she wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-61
15-06-2021||India||Lakshadweep greets Praful Khoda Patel with Black Day||Praful Khoda Patel arrived in Lakshadweep on Monday after more than a month to a cold reception as people observed Black Day by wearing black clothes and holding black flags against the controversial administrator. The special aircraft carrying Patel flew directly to Agatti airport in Lakshadweep as he bypassed the usual practice of flying from Kochi since protesters in Kerala, including MPs and MLAs, had been waiting at Kochi airport to meet him to raise their objections to his overbearing reforms. Only his subordinates were present to receive Patel at Agatti airport. The administrator is on his third trip to the archipelago after taking over on December 5. The icy welcome was in sharp contrast to the manner in which the islands’ residents had welcomed Patel the first time he had landed at Agatti in December when elected representatives had received him and thousands of men and women had held up placards greeting him. On Monday, people dressed in black protested at their homes, respecting the Covid protocols. They held up placards and banners with “Recall Praful Khoda Patel” and “Go Back Praful Khoda Patel” written on them. The administrator’s unpopular reforms have shaken the Union Territory and affected the life and livelihood of the 68,000 people who depend on fishing and coconut farming. Police removed a large number of black flags strung on fences of residential properties in several places, including Kavaratti, the headquarters of the Union Territory, ahead of Patel arrival. Kavaratti village panchayat member Thaha Malika of the Congress was among those who were left stranded as the police surrounded the area around the administrator’s bungalow as he arrived at 2.40pm. “We were at a house near the bungalow, but were not allowed to even step out as he arrived. I have never seen this kind of security here,” Malika told The Telegraph. Patel has been widely accused of pushing the “saffron agenda” in the Muslim-majority islands by removing beef from mid-day meals in schools, painting tree trunks in saffron, bringing an anti-gangster law in a place with near-zero crime rate, introducing a two-child norm for panchayat members, empowering the administration to take over anyone’s land and destroying fishing infrastructure — all in the name of transforming the place into “another Maldives”. The Save Lakshadweep Forum, an all-party initiative formed recently to protect the rights of the people, has decided not to cooperate with the administrator if Patel does not invite them for talks. “This is the first time the people of Lakshadweep are observing a ‘Black Day’ to mark the arrival of the administrator. Historically, we have accorded warm receptions to all the administrators every time they have come to the islands,” local CPM leader and SLF joint convener Komalam Koya told this newspaper on Monday. “We will not go to him seeking anything. But if he invites us, our six-member core committee will meet him and present our memorandum demanding the immediate withdrawal of all the controversial reforms,” he said. Lakshadweep district panchayat member Asif Ali of the NCP said all parties were on the same page. “Many BJP leaders have quit or expressed open support to the movement against Patel’s anti-people reforms. We will not cooperate with him (Patel) unless he is ready to correct his steps,” Ali told this newspaper. Although the Lakshadweep unit of the BJP is a part of the SLF, a spate of resignations protesting the drastic changes brought about by Patel and backseat driving from the Kerala unit of the party have left it divided. The party’s Kerala-based national vice-president, A.P. Abdullakutty, who is in charge of the Lakshadweep BJP unit, has been at the receiving end of criticism from his own party men in the islands with many blaming him for the decision to book filmmaker Aisha Sultana for sedition over her reference to a “bio-weapon” during a TV debate. A series of audio clips from his telephone conversations with party leaders in the islands have kicked up a row. In the latest audio recording, Abdullakutty can be heard warning party members against participating in the 12-hour hunger strike on June 7.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-61
15-06-2021||West Bengal||Not bothered about Sovan Chatterjee’s political move, says Dilip Ghosh||Making light of city ex-mayor Sovan Chatterjee's visit to senior TMC leader Partha Chatterjee's residence, which raised speculation over his next political move, the Bengal unit of the BJP on Tuesday said it "wasn't bothered about individuals who joined his party when the situation was favourable and left thereafter". State BJP president Dilip Ghosh asserted that "loyal leaders are still with the party", without naming anyone. Asked about the possibility of Chatterjee's return to the TMC, following in the footsteps of Mukul Roy, Ghosh said, "These individuals had failed to enrich the saffron party in any way. It doesn't matter where they go. They cannot cause any harm to our organisation." The former mayor, who had joined the BJP in 2019, left the saffron party ahead of the assembly polls this year, and had since not taken part in active politics. Chatterjee had on Monday evening paid a courtesy visit to the residence of his former TMC colleague to extend condolences following his mother's demise. He was accompanied by friend Baisakhi Banerjee. "It was a courtesy visit. I do not have the mind frame to discuss politics with someone whose mother has just expired," he had told reporters. Baisakhi Banerjee, however, thanked TMC supremo and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for standing by Sovon Chatterjee after he was arrested by the CBI, along with three other leaders, in connection with the Narada sting case. "This shows that Didi's love for us has remained intact. Personal ties go beyond politics," she had added. In an apparent dig at the ex-mayor, TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh said on Tuesday that "some people who would address BJP leaders as Kailashji (Vijayvargiya), Naddaji (J P Nadda) are now heaping praise on Bobbyda (TMC minister Firhad Hakim), Subratada (TMC minister Subrata Mukherjee), Didi (TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee). "One cant help but notice the change in the behaviour of these people in just a few months," the TMC leader added. Not bothered about Sovan Chatterjee’s political move, says Dilip Ghosh||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-24
15-06-2021||West Bengal||BJP MPs demand separate North Bengal Union Territory||A controversial demand for carving out a union territory comprising North Bengal districts out of Bengal, made by two BJP MPs from the region has sparked off a sharp reaction with the ruling TMC with party Supremo Mamata Banerjee stating she would not allow any part of Bengal to lose its freedom and be dependant on New Delhi. At a closed-door meeting at the residence of BJP MP for Alipurduar John Barla at Lakhipara Tea Garden, the demand for a separate Union Territory was raised and discussed on Sunday. Barla told PTI in a telephonic conversation on Tuesday, "I made the demand there have been movements here for a separate Kamtapuri, a greater Cooch Behar and for Gorkhaland. My belief is that North Bengal should be detached and made into a separate union territory." The MP who has earlier led an agitation for an autonomous tribal area in the last decade, said small states perform better. North Bengal is neglected, it also faces security issues. Our economy is affected, tea gardens are being shut down. We will be better off as a Union territory. Barla, said that he along with others from the region would be meeting both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah on this issue as well as would raise it in Parliament. BJP has four MPs from the region and at least one of them Jayanta Roy from Jalpaiguri said that though Barlas comments were made in is personal capacity, he supported them. However, BJP Bengal unit state president Dilip Ghosh said his party does not have any such agenda. "None of our officials has said any such thing," he said, claiming that attempts are being made by the TMC to malign the BJP by raking up various issues. "I want to make it clear that the BJP has no such agenda to divide Bengal or create a different state," Ghosh said. The Trinamool Congress has came out strongly despite BJPs denials. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said They should be ashamed after their humiliating loss in the elections but, instead, they are trying to divide Bengal. In whose interest are they trying to split Bengal? She argued that formation of a Union territory takes away a peoples rights as it denies them of the benefits of statehood. I will not allow anyone to divide Bengal. UT means being at the mercy of New Delhi and losing all freedom. But I will not allow North Bengal or any other part of Bengal to lose its freedom and become dependent on New Delhi." The longest and most violent agitation movement in North Bengal was for a separate territory for Gorkhaland which was resolved by a series accords which finally saw the setting up of Gorkhaland territorial Administration. Other movements such as for Kamtapuri which saw the setting up of the proscribed Kamtapur Liberation Organisation, have largely petered out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-24
15-06-2021||West Bengal||TMC extends contract with Prashant Kishor's I-PAC till 2026||The Trinamul Congress has extended its contract with poll strategy group Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC) till 2026, months after a successful partnership made Mamata Banerjee’s party win by a landslide victory in the Bengal Assembly elections. According to a report by ndtv.com, this time, star election strategist Prashant Kishor will not be leading the I-PAC day-to-day operations, who has been largely deemed responsible for Trinamul’s huge success in the 2021 polls. Kishor had said he wanted to quit the space days after the election results were out. A report by anandabazar.com says that the TMC leadership wants to keep up the “PK Magic” in the upcoming days and has therefore made the decision keeping in mind the 2024 Lok Sabha and the 2026 Assembly elections. The new contract says I-PAC will be involved in all state elections - panchayat and local body said NDTV in its report. This comes a week after TMC leader Partha Chatterjee said that the party was looking to extend its wings nationally. Kishor on Friday had called on NCP president Sharad Pawar at the latter's residence here and held talks with him for around three hours, setting tongues wagging in political circles. NCP sources said apart from discussing the prevailing political situation, Pawar hosted lunch for Kishor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-24
15-06-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul watches anxiously as Governor announces Delhi visit||Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar is scheduled to go to Delhi on Tuesday evening for a three-day visit that comes right after a delegation of BJP MLAs met him at Raj Bhawan on Monday. “Hon’ble Governor West Bengal. Shri Jagdeep Dhankhar will be visiting New Delhi. Governor Dhankhar will leave for Delhi on the late evening of June 15, 2021 and return to Kolkata on June 18, 2021 in the late afternoon” the governor tweeted on Tuesday morning, without any further elaboration on his appointments there. Sources said he governor is likely to meet Union home minister Amit Shah during his stay in the national capital. “We are keeping a watch on what he says during his stay in Delhi and immediately after return to Calcutta. If necessary, we will press for the demand of his removal again,” said a Trinamul MP. The law and order situation in the state, especially its legacy of political violence, has been a contentious point between the two. Soon after his meeting with the BJP legislators on Monday, Governor Dhankhar had again referred to attacks on political rivals in the state and pointed fingers at the police. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee holds the home department portfolio making her directly responsible for the law and order situation in the state. “Over 50 Opposition MLAs expressed serious concern at lawlessness and partisan stance of West Bengal Police and Calcutta Police and sought intervention as the situation was sliding,” the Governor had tweeted. In the same tweet, while assuring the Opposition lawmakers of looking into the matter, he specified that he was aware (of the situation). Mamata has repeatedly dismissed the charges levelled by the BJP in Delhi and Calcutta as “fake and false.” The Governor’s ties with the Bengal government have been tenuous since his arrival at the Raj Bhawan and has steadily deteriorated over the months. The Trinamul had in January this year written to  President Ramnath Kovind seeking the governor’s removal. The governor is known to regularly summon top bureaucrats and police officers in the state, as well as seek apologies from the chief minister publicly from his Twitter handle. He had once asked the state government to submit details of the expenses incurred for its annual business summit, which had irked Mamata and the Trinamul leadership. Even his sudden visits to the districts have not gone down well with the state government. His visit to Cooch Behar’s Sitalkuchi where five people were killed on polling day had prompted Mamata to write a letter informing him that the visits “violated standard protocol.” “He has been directly acting on the orders of the Umion home minister. His is on a political agenda,” said a Trinamul source. The Trinamul MP Kalyan Banerjee had directly blamed the governor for the arrest of the Trinamul ministers and leaders in connection with the Narada sting operation scandal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-24
15-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal reports rise in total active cases for fifth consecutive day ||Bengal on Monday reported a rise for the fifth consecutive day in its total of active Covid-19 cases, by 1,270 to 18,921, as only 2,171 recoveries were logged against 3,519 new infections detected. Bengal now has 2.05 per cent of the national total of active cases and back to the top 10 at No. 9 among states with most active cases, having fallen to 13th spot last week. The total of active cases, at an all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21, had fallen by around 89 per cent till Wednesday to 14,702. But over these five days, it rose once again by over 4,000 (29 per cent). The state recorded 78 deaths, including 11 from Calcutta and 17 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst-hit districts. “The daily recovery count, has somewhat, nose-dived since Thursday, going from well over 10,000 a day to barely 2,000 a day in just five days. We are examining this closely, trying to figure out whether this is the onset of another spell of rise or just an aberration,” said a minister. “We have been doing well in terms of steady reduction in the daily count of new infections found, having brought it down from over 21,000 to around 3,500. If only we can get the recoveries to take off again, we will be back on track,” he added. The recovery rate, which began declining on Friday snapping a 39-day spell of rise, fell to 97.55 per cent. The national recovery rate is 95.57. Daily confirmation rate, which had peaked in the second wave with nearly 33 per cent, fell to 6.49 per cent on Monday. Among the day’s 3,519 new Covid-19 infections, Calcutta reported 373 and North 24-Parganas 584. Bengal’s mortality rate, with 16,974 deaths in all, remained at 1.15 per cent, while the national rate rose to 1.27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-24
15-06-2021||West Bengal||Anti-defection law takes centre stage in Bengal politics; BJP and Trinamul hunt defectors||The anti-defection law has taken centre stage in Bengal politics with bitter rivals Trinamul Congress and the BJP demanding its invocation against deserters. Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, on Monday sought governor Jagdeep Dhankhar’s intervention amid fears in the state BJP of an exodus of its MLAs to Trinamul. Mamata Banerjee’s party also demanded before Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla that the law be used against Suvendu’s father and Contai MP Sisir Adhikari, and Burdwan East MP Sunil Mandal, as both had won on Trinamul tickets but defected to the BJP shortly before the Assembly elections. Suvendu’s move — tagged frantic even by sections in his own party — was prompted by the return to Trinamul of Krishnagar North MLA Mukul Roy, a national vice-president of the BJP. The BJP fears that Roy’s ghar-wapsi could prompt at least a dozen MLAs to follow him, besides several MPs and countless leaders, office-bearers and workers. Sections within the BJP — where dislike of Trinamul turncoat Suvendu’s sudden ascent has become rife — admitted the “blatant ethical hypocrisy” in his ruckus for use of the anti-defection law. “It is good Suvendu has raised this issue with the governor. But he, least of all, has the moral standing to go to town over something like this. His father and his aide (MP Mandal) defected without resigning as MPs. His MP brother (Trinamul’s Tamluk MP Dibyendu Adhikari) almost did the same, and everybody knows what his leanings are,” said a BJP state office-bearer. “Suvendu’s braggadocio over the anti-defection law would have suited him had he not been so conspicuously silent on an identical offence by Sisirda and Sunil in the Lok Sabha,” he said. The office-bearer pointed out further that Suvendu, while in Trinamul was a “master-engineer” of defections from the Left and the Congress, bleeding them white on his home turf, besides districts he was in charge of, such as Murshidabad and Malda. “He tried doing the same for us, ahead of the election, with passable success,” he added. Hours before the Suvendu-led delegation’s visit to the Raj Bhavan, Trinamul’s leader in the Lok Sabha Sudip Bandyopadhyay, once again called up Speaker Birla, demanding action against Sisir and Mandal. The Calcutta North MP later said Birla had told him that a committee had been formed to look into the matter and both the MPs would be asked to appear before it. “I will also have to appear before the committee... the Speaker told me. I replied that I’m well equipped with all the proof of defection to do so,” said Bandyopadhyay. At the Raj Bhavan, Suvendu led a group of 50 of his party’s 70-odd MLAs in the 294-seat Assembly to submit a memorandum to Dhankhar, urging him to ensure the use of the law in the state. Speaking to journalists after the meeting, Suvendu said Dhankhar was told that the anti-defection law had not been used in Bengal in 10 years of the Trinamul regime. “The MLA of Krishnanagar North has quit our party. We want him to resign from his MLA post in two days. If that doesn’t happen, we shall go to the Speaker. We will write to him by Wednesday and request him to take necessary action. If that doesn’t work, we will move court...” Suvendu said. He added that central BJP leader Bhupendra Yadav and Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad would look into the matter. Asked to react to Trinamul’s request to the Lok Sabha Speaker regarding the membership of his father and aide, Suvendu said he could speak only regarding MLAs and not MPs, without clarifying why it was so. The Left and the Congress, the main Opposition in the previous Assembly, had made numerous requests to Speaker Biman Banerjee to use the law and cancel the membership of 18 members who had defected to Trinamul and of eight others defectors to the BJP. None was disqualified. The Congress and the Left had also jointly moved court, but the matter remained pending. Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta — who contested unsuccessfully on a BJP ticket from the Tarakeswar Assembly seat this summer — took to Twitter asserting that not everybody who had joined the BJP after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls ought to be treated as a Trojan horse. “It is wrong to view everyone who joined BJP in Bengal after May 2019 as Trojan horses. Many new entrants participated in the election with sincerity. They must not be made to feel unwelcome. Politics is not a game of exclusion; it involves adding support & creating new leaders,” he tweeted. “As for those who see a political party as a vehicle of personal gratification alone, the door is always open to explore other options,” he added in striking contrast to the opinion of state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh and his predecessor Tathagata Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-24
15-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: WhatsApp chatbot to book vaccination slots indicates discomfort among jab takers||Serpentine queues in front of Covid-19 vaccination centres are a common sight across the country but not at Capitol Hall in Darjeeling. The issue is not vaccine hesitancy but technophobia. The state government has introduced a WhatsApp chatbot to book vaccination slots and Capitol Hall is the only centre in Darjeeling where all bookings have to be made through WhatsApp number 8335999000. Through the chatbot, people aged above 45 years can avail either of the two doses of Covishield. C.P. Subba, secretary, Darjeeling municipality, admitted the centre was receiving only 55 to 65 registrations a day against their daily target of 100 jabs ever since the initiative started about 10 days back. “We have not been able to reach our daily target of 100 jabs,” said Subba. Subba suggested “probably most people above 45 years old” have been vaccinated in Darjeeling. “Also, not many are turning up for a second dose of Covishield as most cannot fulfil the 84 days gap between two doses of Covishield,” he added. However, many residents this newspaper spoke to in Darjeeling did talk about being technophobic. Some pointed out snags, others could not follow chatbot messages diligently and hence could not register themselves. Piyush Salunkhe, the SDO of Darjeeling who is also the administrator of Darjeeling municipality, recently held a meeting with social organisations on ways to popularise the chatbot. Turnout is more at a centre with the traditional first-come, first-serve system for vaccination, indicating discomfort with the chatbot. “At the Ghoom-Jorebunglow centre, also run by the Darjeeling municipality, where you can just walk in, we get a daily footfall of 160-170 people against the allotted quota of 200 jabs,” said Subba. But booking through chatbot gives every registered person a day and time, making the jab process smooth. There is no need to stand for hours. “We received messages from registered users appreciating the smooth vaccination process,” said Subba. In neighbouring Kalimpong, which has managed to vaccinate the highest percentage of its population among districts of Bengal, including the 18-plus population, chatbots are a problem. Vimala Ranganathan, the DM of Kalimpong, said not many were registering for vaccines via the chatbot. South 24-Parganas administration also launched a Whatsapp chatbot to book vaccination slots for people aged above 45 in nine locations of all the seven municipalities, district magistrate P Ulagananathan said. The number is 833599000. The usual system of first-come, first-serve, will continue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-24
15-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal to join Centre’s ration scheme within next three months||Mamata Banerjee on Monday said her government was working to join the “One nation, one ration card” scheme — which is yet to be implemented in the state — and Bengal is likely to be a part of the central project within the next three months. “We are working on it and it would take another three months to complete groundwork for it,” the chief minister said during a news meet at Nabanna on Monday. Sources said if the state wanted to join the Union government’s scheme, it had to link Aadhaar cards with ration cards and share the database with the Centre. The Bengal government had earlier refused to join the scheme in 2019 as it had reservations about sharing biometric and other details with the Centre that was pushing the Citizenship Amendment Act hard at that time. But now, sources said, the chief minister has made it clear that no person should be deprived of food grains in the backdrop of the ongoing pandemic. “We have already linked Aadhaar cards with ration cards of 80 per cent of nearly 10 crore beneficiaries. The remaining ration cards are expected to be linked with Aadhaar cards within the next three months,” said a senior food and supplies department official. The idea behind the one nation, one ration card scheme is to ensure that if a beneficiary of the National Food Security Act (NFSA) moves out of his residential address, he will still be able to collect his quota of allotments from anywhere in the country by matching his biometric details though point-of-sale (PoS) machines installed at any ration shop. Bengal has 6.01 crore NFSA beneficiaries. Of these, 7 to 8 per cent beneficiaries have migrated to other states. If the scheme is implemented in the state, they would be able to collect their allotments from the states where they are staying at present, sources said. All the related information, including biometric data of beneficiaries, is stored in the central server of Bengal’s food and supplies department. Once the state joins the Centre’s scheme, it has to share the beneficiary data with the Union government’s server. Most states have already shared their respective beneficiary data with the server of the Centre. Explaining Bengal’s initial misgivings about the scheme, an official said: “A file was moved forward to Nabanna, seeking approval to join the scheme in September 2019. But it had been gathering dust since the Centre was pushing the CAA hard and the state government was opposing it vehemently.” The pandemic caused the shift in mindset, said sources. “The chief minister has asked the food and supplies department to implement the scheme as she does not want to deprive anybody from their rights amid the pandemic,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-24
15-06-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court allows probe into Suvendu ‘theft’ case||Calcutta High Court on Monday turned down the prayer of the leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, who had sought quashing of an FIR drawn up by Contai police accusing him and four others, including his brother Soumendu, of stealing tarpaulins from the civic body’s godown on May 29. Justice Tirthankar Ghosh also declined to issue an interim stay on an inquiry into the alleged theft. So now, if they want, investigators can take any punitive step, including issuing arrest orders, against the Adhikari brothers. On June 1, Ratnadwip Manna, a Contai civic board member, had complained with Contai police that on May 29, a few armed men barged inside the civic body godown, picked up tarpaulins kept for aid, dumped them in a vehicle and fled. According to the complaint, two other members of the board, Himangshu Manna and Pratap De, were with the men. Ratnadwip also alleged that Himangshu and Pratap told him that the tarpaulins were taken on orders of Suvendu and Soumendu. The Contai police has arrested Pratap. Soumendu and Himangshu are “absconding”, according to the police. Soumendu and Himangshu are also not available on the phone, a police officer said. The lawyer appearing for Suvendu said this case was part of a conspiracy by the ruling Trinamul Congress to frame the Adhikari brothers as they had recently joined the BJP. The state government’s counsel said that considering the gravity of the allegation, the high court should not restrain investigators from a probe. The next hearing of the case will be on June 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-24
15-06-2021||West Bengal||Hilsa trawler capsize: National Disaster Response Force recovers bodies of three fishermen||Members of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) on Monday recovered the bodies of three fishermen who had gone missing late on Saturday night when their trawler capsized in the Hooghly river in East Midnapore’s Nandigram amid a sudden high tide. Police sources said that  the bodies of Rupesh Kumar Khanra, 20, Kashinath Sheet, 42, and Bistupada Maity, 27, were found floating around 6km from where the hilsa trawler had capsized. All the three fishermen were from Marishda, East Midnapore’s Contai. The body of the trawler driver Pradip Manna, 40, had been recovered on Sunday itself. Akhil Giri, state fisheries minister, said: “It was a very unfortunate incident as four persons lost their lives. We will reach out to the families with government compensation very soon.” “Each family (of the deceased) will get compensation of Rs 2 lakh,” said Kishore Biswas, a deputy magistrate in Haldia. The crew of 14 on the trawler, Maa Karunamoyee, had been shifting 14 barrels of diesel, of 200-litre capacity each, to fuel the vessel for a new season of hilsa fishing starting from June 15. Sources said that the weight of these diesel barrels made the vessel lose balance and topple. Nine among the 14 on board could swim to safety after the capsize. The accident cast a pall of gloom in the area. Fishermen who had been looking forward to the new hilsa season had told this paper on Sunday that accident was a setback that they would never forget all their lives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-25
15-06-2021||West Bengal||Both north and south Bengal will continue to be parts of West Bengal: Mamata on UT demand||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday wondered whether the BJP wanted to muzzle voices of people in Bengal like it did in Kashmir after certain district presidents of the party in north Bengal had demanded that the region be carved out of the state and declared as a Union Territory. Central BJP leaders, including president J.P. Nadda, had held a virtual meeting with the party’s district chiefs in Bengal on Sunday. Sources said some district chiefs in north Bengal had flagged alleged infiltration from Bangladesh and attacks on party workers in the region and underscored north Bengal’s strategic importance. “The district chiefs told the central leaders that if north Bengal was declared a Union Territory, those issues could be addressed. They also mentioned that the party enjoyed considerable support in north Bengal as was evident from the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and the recent Assembly elections,” said a BJP insider. Told about the Union Territory demand, the chief minister said: “We will not let them play the politics of divide and rule. Both north and south Bengal are parts of Bengal and will continue to be parts of West Bengal. It is not so easy…. the state’s assent is required to make such a decision.” “What does it mean… does it mean… to muzzle peoples’ voices like they have done in Kashmir? Do they want to detain them and snatch away their right to live and constitutional rights by dividing Bengal? Those who are making such devious plans will get an apt response from the people of Bengal. We condemn such demands and suspect some central leaders of the party are inciting them (leaders in Bengal),” she added. Mamata also reeled off development projects she had undertaken in north Bengal after coming to power in 2011. “In some cases, there has been more development in north Bengal than southern parts of the state. Let us make it clear if any such attempts are made, those who are advocating such division will have to roam around in future with a written declaration on their chest that they are not associated with the BJP.” BJP’s pitch for “Union territory” of north Bengal will have far-reaching repercussions, say political analysts. On one hand, it can rekindle old demands like separate Gorkhaland, Kamtapur and Greater Cooch Behar states raised by different communities. On the other hand, it can trigger counter-movements against these demands. “The BJP might have a number of MLAs and MPs from the region but it would be wrong to perceive that whoever voted for the party will support the demand for the Union territory status. North Bengal has witnessed a number of movements over the demand of separate statehood and every time, there was a clear message that the divisive card didn’t help political parties which had played it,” said a political observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-25
15-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Malls, restaurants, bars and parks to open in a limited manner||Malls, restaurants, bars and parks can open in a limited manner from Tuesday evening or Wednesday morning, the Bengal government announced on Monday while extending the stricter restrictions till June 30. “Some relaxations have been given as it is better than keeping everything closed.… The daily (Covid) positivity rate has come down to 6 per cent from 32 per cent recorded during the last phase of elections.… We will bring down this rate too,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said. The relaxations will formally come into force after 6pm on Tuesday (June 15), when the ongoing phase of restrictions will end. But the attendant conditions will ensure that many establishments will have to wait till Wednesday morning to reopen. The state government said that restrictions would continue on the movement of suburban trains, inter-state and intra-state bus services, Metro rail services and all modes of road transportation. Sources said restrictions on all outdoor activities would remain in force between 9pm and 5am. Some of the key relaxations announced on Monday: ⚫ Private offices can operate from 10am to 4pm with 25 per cent attendance. Employers should make transport arrangements and obtain e-passes from Calcutta police or the district administration concerned. ⚫ All production units and IT companies can operate with 50 per cent employees in each shift, subject to vaccination. ⚫ All government departments, except those dealing with emergency services, will operate with 25 per cent staff. ⚫ Retail shops selling vegetables, fish, fruits, bread, milk, meat and eggs can operate between 7am and 11am. ⚫ All other retail shops can function from 11am to 6pm. ⚫ Restaurants and bars, including in hotels and malls, can function between 12noon and 8pm at 50 per cent seating capacity. ⚫ Retail shops in malls and market complexes will operate from 11am to 6pm with 25 per cent employees and at 30 per cent customer capacity. (Since the curbs were announced, only outlets selling essentials were open in malls.) ⚫ Parks will open between 6am and 9am for morning walk and physical exercise. But only those who have taken two doses of vaccine will be allowed to enter. ⚫ Tea auction is allowed with 25 per cent employee strength. ⚫ Indoor and outdoor shooting for television and films is allowed with a maximum of 50 people at a time, subject to vaccination. ⚫ Banks and financial institutions can function between 10am and 2pm. ⚫ Games and sports may resume in stadiums and clubs with sports facilities but without spectators. Sources said the restrictions in place since May 16 had helped bring down daily Covid cases to 3,519 (on Monday) from 19,511 recorded on May 15, but lifting all restrictions now would be detrimental to containing the spread of the pandemic. “It was discussed that some kind of restrictions should be in place until the daily positivity rate comes down to less than 5 per cent of the total number of samples being tested. At present, around 60,000 samples are tested across the state daily. At the same time, the state government has introduced some relaxations to ensure that economic activities continue in the state,” a senior government official said. Although the state made it clear that the heads of the departments of the government should prepare a roster to ensure 25 per cent of employees attend office and arrange vehicles for their transportation to and from office, a section of employees said they might face difficulty in reporting for duty in the absence of suburban trains. “Many state government employees come from outside the metropolis and I doubt whether the office will provide a pick-up and drop facility for those living in places afar,” said an employee of the land department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-25
15-06-2021||West Bengal||Police arrest six persons in kangaroo court torture case ||Police have arrested six persons in connection with the barbaric “punishment” handed to a homemaker for her alleged affair by a village salishi sabha last Thursday. After a salishi sabha was held, she was dragged out of home, stripped and forced to parade through the village, during which people shot videos of her humiliation. On Sunday, police came to know about it when the videos appeared on social media. The victim, who had fled after the torture, was spotted in Assam and was hospitalised. Police spoke to the woman who named 12 villagers. Accordingly, four police teams were formed and late on Sunday, three persons were arrested, followed by three more on Monday, said Bholanath Pandey, SP, Alipurduar. The woman was sent to her parents’ home in Assam. Search is on to nab the rest of those named by the victim. The trio arrested on Sunday night were produced in a local court on Monday and remanded in police custody for 12 days. “The other three would be produced on Tuesday,” said a source. The woman was sent to her parents in Assam after a medical examination and counselling, police said. “A probe is on. We hope to nab the remaining six persons soon. Those in custody would be interrogated for more information,” a police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-25
15-06-2021||North East||Non-tribal Karbi Anglong groups plea to 'ensure' rights||At least nine non-tribal organisations from the undivided Karbi Anglong district of Assam have moved President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah to “ensure” the rights of their people when the government signs a proposed peace deal with six militant outfits from the region. Before the Karbi Anglong-based groups, several Naga organisations had also expressed reservations over the proposed deal after Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had revealed during his recent visit to Delhi that the government was on the verge of signing a peace pact with six militant outfits from Karbi Anglong and West Karbi Anglong districts. These outfits had joined the mainstream in February this year. Though the details of the deal have not yet been made public, Anil Toppo, chief adviser, All Adivasi Students’ Association of Assam (AASAA), Karbi Anglong district committee, told The Telegraph they have articulated their concerns to the government over the proposed peace agreement. “We just want the government to ensure that the rights of the non-tribal communities living in Karbi Anglong are not diluted in any way. Our land rights and our voting rights should be ensured like before. “We also want that at least 12 seats in the Karbi Anglong Autonomous Council are open for even the non-tribals to contest,” Toppo said. The Adivasi leader said non-tribals constitute over 60 per cent of the undivided district’s over 10 lakh population and they could contest in all the 26 seats of the existing council during polls. KAAC is one of the three autonomous councils in Assam under the Sixth Schedule which provides for protection of the rights of tribal people. The other two councils are the Bodoland Territorial Council and the North Cachar Hills Autonomous Council (NCHAC). The signatories to the June 12 memorandum emailed to Kovind, Modi and Shah included the AASAA, Bokajan District Demand Committee, Karbi Anglong Adivasi Youth and Students’ Council, Assam Gorkha Sanmilan, East Karbi Anglong Hindi Bhashi Sanstha, All Assam Minorities Students’ Union (AAMSU), Assam Gorkha Autonomous Council Demand Committee, Adivasi Ekta Manch and two units of the All Assam Gorkha Students’ Union. The Naga Students’ Federation and the NSCN (IM) too have reservations over the proposed pact with the NSF claiming the Naga populace of the district were not consulted, while the NSCN (I-M) said the proposed Karbi Anglong Autonomous Territorial Council should not “override” the interests of Rengma Nagas living there. The NSCN (I-M) upped the ante on Monday by asserting the “present Karbi Anglong areas” were officially declared Rengma Naga Hills in 1841 under the British rule. “The Karbis who are immigrants from different places like Sivasagar, Nagaon, Cachar, Tezpur, Lakhimpur, Silchar and Khasi and Jaintia Hills during the British rule cannot claim themselves the status of original inhabitants,” an NSCN (I-M) statement said. After the proposed peace deal is signed, it will be the second pact inked by the central government since January 2020. The first peace deal was signed with all the National Democratic Front of Boroland factions which saw the Bodoland Territorial Area Districts (BTAD) being renamed as the Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR) and vested with more powers, among others.  The NSCN (IM) on Monday claimed that security forces  gunned down “eight” cadres of  the DNLA on May 23 in a “fake encounter” at Dugudisha in Assam’s Karbi Anglong district. “The security forces should not drag NSCN’s name to save its face...,” the Naga organisation said while denying allegation of using the  Dimasa National Liberation Army (DNLA) for extortion in Assam. Officially, six DNLA cadres were killed in the encounter bordering Dimapur district of Nagaland. An intervention application has been filed in the Supreme Court  in WP (C) 620 of 2021 on behalf of students of Assam,  seeking cancellation  of Class X and Class XII board examinations in the state. The application contends that it will be just , reasonable and equitable that the examinations are cancelled to ensure the mental health of students as well as equality among students of various boards. The government has asserted it will hold the examinations before Between July-August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-2
15-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Easily solved||The Bharatiya Janata Party evidently has its own notion of people’s power. It is supposed to function after a BJP government has done its bit according to its agenda. The statement of the chief minister of Assam, Himanta Biswa Sarma, that Assam’s minority immigrants should adopt a “decent” population policy and the minority community should check population growth to reduce poverty and land encroachment transfers responsibility to one group of people. This was Mr Sarma’s response to demands that people becoming homeless because of the government’s evictions should be rehabilitated. Population control may be a good thing in regions of comparatively high birth rate and land hunger. But the situation is a delicate one in Assam with tensions between Bengali-speaking Muslim immigrants and the state’s original inhabitants. The BJP promised to weed out illegal immigrants, although the National Register of Citizens did not yield the anticipated results. The evictions, which Mr Sarma defended by saying that people could not be allowed to encroach on temple and forest land, are professedly necessary to protect forests and sanctified premises and also to let the government distribute land to indigenous landless people. The Opposition and organizations representing religious and linguistic minorities say that the evicted people are mainly from the minority community. If they are illegal immigrants they should be deported, says one demand, but if they are Indian citizens it is the duty of a democratic government to protect them. They are being rendered homeless in the middle of a pandemic. Many lost their homes because of river erosion and were forced to settle on government land. Inevitably this move is being seen as part of the BJP’s polarization strategy. Evading the point of the criticism, Mr Sarma retaliated by declaring that population control in the minority community was the solution even though data from the fifth National Family Health Survey of 2019-20 revealed that Muslims have witnessed the sharpest fall in fertility since 2005-06. There is already a two-child policy for government jobs in place; it is neutral and not cause for protest. But Mr Sarma’s comments on population control are selective. Besides, his emphasis on the need to educate women of the minority community in association with the aim of reducing population growth is patronizing and doubly discriminatory. Policies for population control may help the whole state irrespective of gender or faith, but of what use are they to people already left homeless after eviction?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-9
15-06-2021||Opinion||Think again: Sedition case against director Aisha Sultana||Sir — Last week, the Lakshadweep police registered a case of sedition and hate speech against the director, Aisha Sultana, for calling the Union territory’s administrator, Praful Khoda Patel, a “bio-weapon” that is being used by the Centre on the island’s people. The case was registered based on a complaint filed by the chief of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Lakshadweep unit, C. Abdul Khader Haji. After 11 months of being free of Covid infections, Lakshadweep now has over 9,000 active cases. Patel is accused of exacerbating the crisis by changing quarantine protocols in January. Since taking over the administration, Patel has also pushed through a slew of new laws and proposals without consulting locally elected representatives. This has led to widespread mistrust and anger towards the BJP government. As many as 93 retired bureaucrats sent a letter to Narendra Modi criticizing the “partisan attitude” of the new administrator and urged him to protect the unique culture and tradition of Lakshadweep. But rather than engaging in course correction, the Centre has chosen to misuse the sedition law. The Centre must recall the administrator at the earliest and reassure the islanders. S.S. Paul, Nadia Sir — Several BJP leaders and workers in Lakshadweep resigned in protest against the sedition case lodged against Aisha Sultana. Sultana had blamed Praful Khoda Patel for the surge in coronavirus cases in Lakshadweep. She further alleged that the Centre was using him as a “bio-weapon”. In a strongly-worded letter, 12 leaders and workers said the case against Sultana was “false and unjustified” and that she had rightly criticized the administrator’s “unscientific, irresponsible decisions”. It is time that Patel is removed from the post. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Double the win Sir — In a remarkable feat, the Czech athlete, Barbora Krejcikova, became the first player to win both the women’s singles and doubles titles at Roland Garros since 2000. Krejcikova, who won her maiden Grand Slam at the French Open, has shown that she is a force to be reckoned with. It is rare to see players excel in both the singles and doubles formats. Krejcikova has a bright future ahead of her.Garima Sethi,Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-9
15-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Hollow ring||India’s endorsement of the ‘Open Societies’ declaration at the G7 summit remains open to interpretation. The joint statement that was signed by the G7 nations along with India, South Korea, South Africa and Australia aims to uphold the importance of such values as the freedom of expression which, in turn, is pivotal to safeguarding the future of democracy. This commitment on the part of the bloc is being seen as an attempt to tick off China and Russia. But there is a line of thought that argues that India’s own record in this respect in recent years is enough to merit similar scrutiny. This is because in spite of Narendra Modi’s attempt to remind the world of India’s long and cherished commitment towards freedom and liberty at the summit, data reveal that there may be a hollow ring to the prime minister’s assurance. Indeed, a global non-profit outfit working in the fields of digital rights and online freedom found that 70 per cent of internet shutdowns around the world had taken place in India last year. Internet services suffered for a long time in Jammu and Kashmir even though the Supreme Court has declared access to this vital service to be a fundamental right. Old and new concerns continue to blight India’s freedom charter. Sedition remains a popular legal stick in the hands of the authorities to beat dissenting voices with in New India; the new rules to regulate information technology intermediaries have sparked widespread concerns about encroachments on privacy and free speech; the ruling dispensation stifles criticism by invoking the bogey of anti-nationalism. Little wonder then that India continues to register a precipitous slide in international assessments of democratic conditions and press freedom even as the prime minister reiterates the nation’s fidelity to protect rights and freedoms. In fact, there is a need for the international fraternity to widen the conceptual ambit of ‘Open Societies’; the precept should not be limited to an appraisal of incursions on technology and rights. A truly open society is one that is receptive to stimulating ideas, plurality, equality. It should also be able to energetically challenge regressive forces that make fundamental rights contingent upon public duty. It would be interesting to see how Mr Modi’s India fares on these parameters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-9
15-06-2021||Opinion||Work together: Native languages to combat Covid||A young doctor posted at a primary health centre in Maharashtra’s remote Melghat region found a simple solution to convince the local Korku tribal community to get inoculated. He spoke to them in their native language, persistently, and turned their reluctance into willingness with advocacy. This is in Amravati, a district that was among the first to be hit by the second wave of Covid-19 in early March. Melghat is infamous for malnutrition among the impoverished Korkus. Miles away, in inaccessible Binagunda at the foothills of Abujh Maadh in the restive Gadchiroli district, a local kotwal, tehsil revenue officer and a recently-recruited project officer of the tribal department joined hands with the Madia community to not only convince them but also quickly vaccinate all tribal villagers. Madias, who are a primitive vulnerable tribal group, had earlier refused to take the vaccine owing to prevailing misconceptions and the inaccessible nature of healthcare. Last month, teams of government officials walked miles through the Maoist-dominated, thickly-forested territory to deliver vaccine doses to tribal people once the community heads, convinced about the benefits of inoculation, had prevailed over their fellow villagers. The local head was among the first to take the jab in front of the people of his village. The process was easy from there on. Quite encouragingly, the health and district administration of Nandurbar, an economically backward part of north Maharashtra, also dispelled inoculation-related misconceptions and rumours among the predominantly tribal population with awareness campaigns designed in the local language and run with the help of community institutions. The result? Several inaccessible, scattered hamlets have been fully vaccinated, while many others are getting there. The lesson is two-fold and long-term. One, native languages and dialects are key to convincing local populations of vaccination benefits. Two, having communities and their institutions, both formal and informal, by your side are critical for any programme delivery. Currently, Indian administrators are struggling with a paucity of ideas to keep children in schools, more so in the remote and rural corners. The use of native languages and drafting in the community to help are both essential for quickly tackling the crisis and its many social fallouts, and to avert another Covid wave. What is quite reassuring is that local political players and government officials, usually unenthusiastic about shouldering these massive challenges, are taking such initiatives and deploying decentralized strategies. They are even partnering with communities to overcome the hurdles when the country’s top-level political and bureaucratic leaderships are failing in their responses to the crisis. While the second wave has not ended, vaccine-related hesitation prevails in many parts of India. Against this backdrop, these examples of positive action hold promise, as many other villages in Maharashtra and perhaps in other states are now achieving full vaccination — subject to vaccine availability — using these strategies of advocacy in native languages and community support. India, with a dynamic history of language development, is home to innumerable languages belonging to the Indo-Aryan, Dravidian, Austro-Asiatic and Tibeto-Burman language families. Advocates of decentralization and local language preservation have long argued that language chauvinism and administrative hegemony do not work in a diverse country as ours. But our administrators, who revel in hierarchy, have a distaste for community wisdom and promote centralization of power. They have abused the very concept of community participation and treated the subaltern with disdain. Gandhi’s ‘consensual democracy’ is difficult to practice, but some of the examples noted above show that it is the only effective tool in dealing with heterogeneity and the diversity of languages and thought.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-9
15-06-2021||Opinion||The root of the poison: Political violence in Bengal||Even though the number of cognizable crimes per lakh of population in 18 Indian states is higher than that of West Bengal, the latter has acquired the dubious distinction of recording the highest number of episodes of political violence for quite some time. According to the latest report of the National Crime Records Bureau, the crime rate — the number of cognizable crimes under IPC per lakh of population — was the highest in Kerala (499.7) in 2019, followed by Haryana (386.4) and Assam (358.9): Bengal stood 19th (162.3). In terms of the number of murders per lakh of population, Jharkhand (4.3), Arunachal Pradesh (4.0) and Haryana (3.9) occupy the first three positions. Bengal (2.0) ranks 17th. In economic offences, the rank of the state is 15th. In all these headers, Bengal’s crime rate is lower than that of the national average. As far as crimes against women per lakh of population is concerned, the first three spots have gone to Assam (177.8), Rajasthan (110.4) and Haryana (108.5) with Bengal being 8th (64.0). Crimes against scheduled castes are the lowest in Bengal (excluding the predominantly tribal states). Yet murders committed due to ‘political reasons’ are the highest in Bengal (12), followed by Bihar and Jharkhand (6 each) and Andhra Pradesh (5). Murder for political reasons is perceived differently when compared to other motives for murder — property or family disputes, personal vendetta, illicit relationship, dowry, insurgency, dacoity, serial killing, honour killing, killing due to religious or caste reasons and so on. Whereas the first kind is thought to be directly linked to the democratic entitlements of people, the other motives are considered to be related to the criminal instinct of an individual or a mob. During Left Front’s rule in Bengal, the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance at the Centre often talked of the ‘deteriorating law and order’ in the state citing instances of violence rooted in partisan politics. There were allegations that political violence in Bengal is not reflected in police records as thanas refused to register such complaints. The narrative did not change when the Bharatiya Janata Party came to power at the Centre and the Trinamul Congress in the state. In order to understand the roots of political violence in Bengal, we need to look into the evolution of grassroot politics in Bengal in the last four decades. The first Left Front regime (1977-82) implemented a three-tier panchayati raj system in 1978 and delegated enormous financial and administrative powers to zilla parishads, panchayat samitis and anchal panchayats. Although panchayats or union boards were there in many Indian states in some form or the other, the Left Front’s experiment in Bengal was unique on two counts. First, the financial and the administrative powers delegated to these grassroot institutions were considerable; second, the elections were fought right up to the village level on party lines. The decentralization of power transformed rural Bengal in the initial years and set up the base of the popularity of the Left Front that enabled it to rule for the next three decades. Ramakrishna Hegde of the Janata Party adopted the Bengal model as chief minister of Karnataka in a slightly different form to empower the people at the grassroots. Rajiv Gandhi as prime minister was so impressed by these two models that he wanted to amend the Constitution to make panchayati raj a mandatory, integral system of district-level administration for the whole of India. The 73rd amendment brought by the P.V. Narasimha Rao regime in 1992 entrusted powers to the gram sabha by the state legislatures and envisaged the institution to perform specific functions. This amendment did not specify the method to be followed in the establishment of panchayats. Many states — Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana — continued to have elections at the village level on a non-political level. In Bengal, however, gram panchayat elections were fought along political lines. Since the 1990s, it has been argued that the social fabric of rural Bengal has been getting divided along the lines of partisan politics ever since the introduction of the panchayati raj system. The introduction of electronic voting machines enabled political parties to get an idea about how many votes have been polled in a booth and perhaps even who supported them and who didn’t. As a result, political parties started taking ‘remedial’ steps at the booth level. Enhanced ‘booth management’ facilitated bitterness among villagers and, sometimes, within families. One consequence has been the intensification of political violence before or after elections. Even in states where village-level elections are fought on non-political lines, the political affiliation of candidates is well known to voters. But the fact that the candidates fight these polls sans party symbols helps in restricting the competitiveness. The political leadership and the law-makers must think of ways of minimizing the venom at the grassroots to lessen political violence. Gautam Bhattacharya is a former civil servant||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-9
15-06-2021||Opinion||Bet on the jab||Growth anxiety remains high in spite of the fact that infections are down, activities are resuming and the economy contracted less than expected last year (-7.3 per cent). Backsliding demand is one reason for the growth jitters: initial data about gross domestic product do not capture the bigger, informal economy very well. Moreover, the pandemic has wiped out many jobs, shrunk the middle class by 32 million last year relative to what its size otherwise may have been, and tipped 75 million people into poverty, according to Pew Research. The second wave has dented this year’s prospects too. On June 4, the Reserve of India Bank lowered its growth forecast to 9.5 per cent in 2021-22, the World Bank to a less optimistic 8.3 per cent. Either outcome represents a respective 1.6 per cent and 0.4 per cent growth over 2019-20 levels. The recovery outlook is unusually uncertain because of the pandemic. A quickened pace of mass immunization is central to the path visualized by all mainstream forecasters. The spotlight is upon vaccination, which is where the real action lies. How does that augur for the vaccine bet on growth? The government’s goal is to accelerate the vaccination speed that slowed down owing to insufficient doses, thus limiting universal availability. Aspiring for herd immunity, it intends to cover the country’s adult population by December. The vaccine policy has been uneven. It was decentralized in April to the states with which manufacturers were unwilling to deal. Last week, it reverted to centralized purchases and distribution; vaccine allocation norms are now based upon population, disease burden, progress and wastage; and a quarter per cent of the supply is for private hospitals, with an electronic platform for equitable access by smaller and remote ones and non-transferable electronic vouchers for those wanting to pay for the poor. During the period between August and December, 2.16 billion doses will be available, of which 0.74 billion doses are so far secured in advance. If immunization progresses at a planned pace, it may limit virus outbreaks, moderate public fears and clear the way for a smooth economic pickup. This is how advanced nations have proceeded, pulling rapidly out of last year’s depressions, with some likely to pace their fastest ever. The United States of America, for example, is poised to grow an unmatched 6.4 per cent; along with China, whose real GDP is expected to be growing at 8.4 per cent, the two countries are the locomotives of the world economy in 2021. The Indian government’s recent actions to ramp up procurement and hasten immunization are a hint that ‘vaccine policy is economic policy’, a piece of advice imparted by the International Monetary Fund chief, Kristalina Georgieva, many times in recent months. In a report, the finance ministry, too, has urged the inoculation of 70 crore people by September with at least one dose for herd protection, boosting consumer and investor confidence, and helping regain the recovery momentum. Will the vaccine strategy pay off, and ensure that growth lifts well upwards? The effective vaccination of a critical threshold population in six months’ time is no doubt a colossal challenge. The finance ministry’s estimates illustrate the scale: around 113 crore doses would be needed (93 lakh doses each day from mid-June) to meet the September target; it advocates a round-the-clock drive, particularly in August-September when supplies improve, with an ambitious one crore being vaccinated every day. The current daily pace of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered (seven-day rolling average) is 2.87 million as on June 11; 46.3 million are fully vaccinated and 151.13 million partly so according to www.ourworldindata.org. Slippages and disruptions are possible, including insufficient supply. Building satisfactory public trust with demonstrated vaccine efficacy could take time. Freeing up of restrictions and operations is not linked to vaccination levels or those vaccinated, raising doubts if low positivity rates are enough to instil a sense of safety and security in the public. Recurrent outbreaks cannot be altogether dismissed therefore. These could restrain economic activities to sub-optimal levels for uncertain time periods and degrees. In fact, it is by acknowledging such possibilities that Maharashtra, the largest sub-national economy and biggest contributor to India’s national output, has a five-level unlocking plan. It is gradual, governed by the case positivity rate and medical infrastructure, and will vary across districts. Above all, the looming uncertainty is whether en masse scaling-up of vaccination will eliminate the biggest downside risk, namely the eruption of a third coronavirus wave and/or newer mutants in the interval. It remains to be seen if the vaccination strategy and steps inspire economic confidence and consumer sentiments as quickly as imagined. There are other legitimate reasons why a recovery may not be as surely inclined upwards even if vaccination gains traction as contemplated. Psychological and financial scars from the second wave could affect or change economic behaviour and attitudes. This has been observed in China, as reported by Bloomberg, in spite of the virus having been in check for nearly one year: post-pandemic consumer behaviour displays a conservative turn owing to unequal savings made during the pandemic, caution and fear have prompted spending cuts, especially on services, while the Chinese central bank’s surveys find more people intent on saving extra and fewer with plans to increase spending, since confidence about future income is still lower than pre-pandemic levels. India, where Covid-19 is far from durably checked, shares some of these traits. Inequality is estimated to have increased with buoyant corporate profits and the ascendant wealth of a few contrasting sharply with raised unemployment levels, small business closures and heavy income losses reported by several surveys. This May, current perceptions and one-year forward expectations of consumers on employment, income and discretionary spending plunged to their lowest depths ever measured by the RBI’s consumer confidence surveys; these are far lower than April-May 2020. The near-absent fiscal support in the second wave, following a bare-boned one last year, has also squeezed disposable incomes, which limits the extent of comparison with other countries. There is a counter view that is more ebullient. This upholds that the inherent optimism of Indians will brush aside the scars and apprehensions, unleash suppressed demand and unwind accumulated savings; daily wagers, low-wage earners and those without jobs may have little choice but to resume operations to recoup economic losses and fortify finances; there will be a strong impetus from exports. Nothing about this glowing scenario is certain any more than one is sure about a recovery marked by bumps, warts and all. It is fairer to consider if mass vaccinations can lead to a decisive shift in sentiments and confidence, and if the demand momentum will be persistent or prove to be a one-off. We should know soon how the vaccine bet plays out. Renu Kohli is a macroeconomist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-10
15-06-2021||Jharkhand||JMM founding member A.K. Roy’s bust unveiled at Dhanbad||Politicians cutting across the party line and other people from different walks of life congregated at Nunudih in Dhanbad on Tuesday to pay rich tribute to the most respected people’s representative of Dhanbad -- Late AK Roy -- on his 86th birth anniversary when his bust was unveiled. The occasion also witnessed the felicitation of around 30 tribal Hadams of the nearby Chandankiyari area, sanitation workers, policemen and doctors by AK Roy Memorial Committee led by local social worker Subur Gorai. Notably, Roy spent the last 15 years of his life at the house of Gorai, which was later converted into AK Roy Memorial Smriti Bhavan from where a host of social activities are conducted. He founded the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha in 1973 along with Shibu Soren and Binod Bihari Mahto. An M.Sc degree holder of Surendranath College of Calcutta (1959) batch, Roy worked as a senior research engineer at Fertilizer Corporation of India and later left his job, peeved over the corruption prevalent in the public sector units. He fought and won the election from Sindri Assembly Constituency as a CPI(M) candidate in 1967. Roy again won Assembly elections from Sindri in 1969 for the second time as a CPI(M) candidate and won the same seat as an independent candidate in 1972 Assembly elections for the third time. Following differences with Shibu Soren in 1977 he left JMM and established Marxist Coordination Committee to win Parliamentary Elections from Dhanbad three times in 1977, 1980 and 1989. Former Nirsa MLA Arup Chatterjee was present during the function at Nunudih along with Tundi MLA of JMM, Mathura Prasad Mahto, former Dhanbad Mayor of BJP Chandrashekhar Agarwal, Chandankiyari MLA, Amar Bauri and former Sindri MLA Anand Mahto. Speaking on the occasion, Chatterjee said, “We don’t know any politician with no bank account, no savings and no personal family life -- who devoted his entire life for the service of the common man” “We help in the treatment of old and lonely persons, bear the marriage expense of daughters of poor parents, carry out blood donation for needy persons, help the physically challenged, widow and other people in getting the pensions as per different welfare schemes of the government and further have plans to expand our activity,” said Gorai, adding that they are working to register their organization under the societies act. “We planned to establish the bust of Roy Da about three months back so that the generation can learn from the life, works and life of simplicity of one of the most honest politicians,” said Gorai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
15-06-2021||Jharkhand||Elephant creates ruckus near Chandil forest, destroys houses||An elephant, which has pulled down homes in different villages and also wiped out foodstock, is giving sleepless nights to foresters of Chandil range of the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district. The tusker is part of a herd but stays aloof from it. The herd is presently stationed around the Chandil dam. However, the tusker is in the jungles near Chowka village of the Chandil sub-division. Chandil foresters are patrolling the area to drive away the elephant. A QRT (Quick Response Team) from Chakulia forest range has been called to keep the tusker at bay from villages and hamlets. Chandil range officer Ashok Kumar said serious efforts were being made to drive away the elephant from the past two days. “Some of our forest workers were down  with Covid and have now recovered. They have become weak to patrol the area. It is not easy to chase and drive away elephants. But we are trying our best and have called a QRT from the Chakulia forest range,” he added. Speaking to The Telegraph Online, the  range officer blamed the villagers for the elephant menace. “We have distributed crackers and specifically asked the villagers to burst them only if the tusker nears their home. But the villagers are not listening and burst the crackers whenever they spot the tusker. This irritates the elephant and forces him to attack homes and wipe out foodstock,” Kumar added. According to him, they have told villagers that the elephant would go on its own and teasing it would not solve the problem. “The tusker doesn’t stay with a herd. It remains aloof. The herd has come from Tamar  jungles,” Kumar informed. According to a forester, it has pulled down homes of fishermen residing at Chowka and Adardih villages under the Kukru block. “Besides the elephant, the herd has also attacked homes and wiped out foodstock. A woman who was injured when her thatched hut was attacked has been accommodated at a government school. Some children and men have also been injured,” he added. The elephant has damaged around a dozen homes. The foresters are keeping a watch over the movement of the herd stationed near Chandil dam. Efforts are being  to keep them at bay from paddy farms The Chandil forest range is the favourite for elephants from Tamar, Seraikela-Kharsawan and neighbouring Bengal. The herds often slip into the range and damage standing paddy, destroy homes and wipe out food.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
15-06-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI to host leadership talk with K. V. Subramanian||The placement committee of the Executive-Post Graduate Diploma in Management (Ex-PGDM) will organise an interactive session with  Krishnamurthy Subramanian, the Union government's chief economic advisor on economic reforms on Friday, as a part of XLRI's Leadership Talk Series-2021. The event will be organised on a virtual mode.   XLRI Talk Series is designed to appreciate and learn from leaders' experiences from all walks of life. It was launched in 2017. It is an initiative to develop different perspectives while addressing challenges in a highly dynamic environment. Since then, many eminent personalities from different domains and parts of the country have provided invaluable knowledge, experiences, and insights, which have enhanced the learning curve for all the students.   The audience would be a mix of MBA students across various fields, like IT, manufacturing, banking, marketing, engineering, aviation, shipping, oil and gas, Education, etc.    The XLRI Ex-PGDM batch of 2021-2022 is a diverse group of people with exemplary skills. The students of the batch have a minimum of five years experience in various roles in different industries and sectors. The batch is very active and keen and has taken several initiatives to further develop its expertise in various fields. Subramanian is a leading expert on economic policy, banking, and corporate governance. He is an alumnus of IIT Kanpur, IIM- Calcutta, and the University of Chicago. He has been conferred the Distinguished Alumnus Award by his alma mater IIT-Kanpur. Apart from being the youngest chief economic advisor to the government, Subramanian, is among the youngest to receive this honor from his alma mater.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
15-06-2021||Jharkhand||Vaccination drive for students and others going abroad begins||The East Singhbhum district administration started a special vaccination drive for students and others going abroad for work on Tuesday. The  vaccination drive, organised at the district collectorate building at Sakchi, saw as many as 18 people getting their Covid-19 vaccine in the presence of deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar and other officials. In all, 88 students and others who are all going abroad, have registered themselves for the service. Health department officials said only Covishield would be administered during the special drive and that the time interval between two doses had been reduced from 12-16 weeks to four weeks for their convenience. "Those seeking vaccination during the special drive will have to carry their passport, Aadhaar card and visa to get the shot at the vaccination centre. A vaccination certificate would be issued from the vaccination centre," said an official of health department. The health official explained that those who had already taken the first dose of the vaccine and needed to travel abroad, either for work or studies, would also benefit from this drive. The vaccination drive which will begin at 9am and continue till 5pm everyday will offer both the first and second doses of Covishield. Notably, every year, several students from the steel city fly to the USA and other countries for pursuing higher studies. “The special vaccination drive would benefit such students going abroad for further studies or have secured jobs outside the country. We started the special vaccination drive for all those who are leaving for abroad as they need to get vaccinated at the earliest, without any hassles,” said Dinesh Ranjan, an official at the district collectorate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
15-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand extends partial shutdown till June 24 ||Jharkhand extended the ongoing partial lockdown to June 24 along with a slew of fresh relaxations on Tuesday, but there will be a total lockdon across the state during the coming weekend from 4am, Saturday, June 19 to 6am, Monday, June 21. Under the new rules, malls and departmental stores will be allowed to reopen and private & public offices can function with 50 per cent attendance. All other existing curbs, announced earlier, will continue to be in force, according to a statement issued by the state IPRD department. These decisions were announced after a meeting of the state disaster management authority under the aegis of chief minister Hemant Soren in the afternoon. On the weekend lockdown, the official communiqué read, “It will be in force from Saturday 4pm (June 19) to Monday 6am (June 21) during which all kinds of business entities, including vegetables and fruit shops, will remain closed. Only medicine and milk shops will be allowed to run.” The ongoing phase of the partial lockdown, called health safety week, was to end at 6am on Thursday, June 17. State health minister Banna Gupta told reporters after the meeting that the government was treading cautiously whie plnning to "unlock" considering the current Covid situation. “Cases are dipping but the key is to ensure they don’t peak again. We are also evaluating the situation amid fears of a third wave. All attempts are being made to streamline life and livelihood with great caution,” he said. All shops will be able to function till 4pm. As per the state government's earlier announcement, shops were allowed to reopen everywhere except in East Singbhum (Jamshedpur) where garment, footwear and jewellery outlets were asked to stay shut due to Covid cases. “However, even in East Singhbhum, all kinds of shops can function till 4pm now from June 17,” said Gupta. Similarly, offices can also function till 4pm with 50 per cent attendance. Bus services will continue to remain closed. Educational institutions, cinema halls, parks, clubs, banquets, stadiums and gymnasiums will remain out of bounds for the public. Gathering of more than five persons at public places is banned, and driving within districts in private vehicles will require e-passes. All incoming travelers to the state will need to be in seven-day home quarantine except in certain cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
15-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid-19 hits routine immunisation in Jharkhand ||Owing to Covid-19 and lockdown restrictions, Jharkhand achieved only 53 per cent of its routine immunisation target for children in April, officials of the health department said on Tuesday, claiming that civil surgeons of all districts in the state have been directed to conduct "catch-up" rounds of immunisation in the state's hinterland. “Routine immunisation programmes have been running well in the state for years, but we could achieve only 53 per cent of our target in April as the focus shifted to Covid vaccination and precautionary measures to prevent the spread of novel coronavirus,” said Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer of health department’s Information, Education and Communication (IEC) wing. Officials at the district level have been asked to identify  “left out” and "drop out"  children and vaccinate them. 'Left out' children are those who did not receive any dose of vaccines since birth, while 'drop out' children are those who got a couple of vaccine doses but did not complete their full course of immunisation, officials said. Routine immunisation plays an important role in preventing cases of measles, influenza, Japanese Encephalitis, polio, tuberculosis, diphtheria, hepatitis and rotavirus. As per data with the health department, around 8.5 lakh babies are born every year in Jharkhand and their immunisation process begins at the age of 1.5 months. Catch-up rounds for immunising children who missed out will be run at the panchayat and block levels by Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (ANMs), health officials said. However, they clarified that routine immunisation will be held along with vaccination campaigns against Covid-19 across the state. As per the latest National Family Health Survey (NFHS), at least 30 of 1,000 infants die in rural Jharkhand. Around 165 mothers die per 1 lakh deliveries in the state every year. The government also launched a vaccination campaign against pneumonia this month in Jharkhand. Around 77,000 infants are scheduled to get doses of Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine (PCV) by the end of June. Talking about Covid the ongoing vaccination, NHM officials claimed that vaccine wastage in Jharkhand dropped to 1.7 per cent on Tuesday. Officials from the National Health Mission (NHM) said that a total of 58,17,250 vaccine doses were made available to the state by the Centre so far, and around 1,00,844 doses have been wasted since the launch of the immunisation programme against Covid-19 on January 16. On June 10, the Centre claimed that vaccine wastage in Jharkhand was 33.95 per cent, the highest among states in India. But that was due to a lag in updating vaccination numbers in the Co-WIN portal,  the state has clarified.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
15-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs 151 fresh Covid cases against 483 recoveries in a day||The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped close to 3000 in Jharkhand on Monday as at least 483 patients recovered in the state against 151 fresh cases of Coronavirus infection, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. The state also reported one Covid casualty on the day, which took the toll to 5085 in Jharkhand and 1030 in East Singhbhum, the district which accounted for the death, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. All the 24 districts reported a spike of less than 50 cases on Monday with East Singhbhum reporting 27 cases, the highest among the districts. However, the district also reported 172 Covid recoveries on the day, which brought the active caseload there down to 267, the NHM stated in its bulletin. Ranchi, which reported 12 Covid cases against 32 recoveries on Monday, continued to be the only Jharkhand district with more than 1000 active cases. As per NHM data, as many as 1,173 residents of Ranchi were battling the viral infection by the end of Monday. At least three districts – Dumka, Pakur and Sahebganj – did not report fresh Covid cases on the day, while 15 districts reported a single-digit-spike, government data highlighted. Bokaro, Saraikela and Simdega reported four cases each, while Dhanbad reported 23 cases against 17 recoveries. The state on Monday tested swab samples of 38,711 residents and less than 0.5 per cent of them were found infected by Coronavirus. The positivity rate in the state has been less than 1 per cent in the past one month, indicating that lockdown measures have put a check on the spread of the virus, health officials said. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand also dropped to 0.06 per cent against the national average of 0.21 per cent on Monday, while the doubling rate in the state jumped to 1163.44 days against the national doubling rate of 337.40 days. So far, over 3.43 lakh people have been infected by Coronavirus in Jharkhand and 97.62 per cent of them have recovered, highlights NHM data. However, about 1.47 per cent of the patients have died in the state so far. The national Covid mortality rate was lower at 1.20 per cent. The state on Monday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 64,523 residents and almost 45,000 of the beneficiaries were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. The second jab was administered to 16,586 residents, stated a separate NHM report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
15-06-2021||Jharkhand||Loan boost for water projects in Jharkhand   ||The work on the first phase of the “Jharkhand urban water supply improvement project” will start by the end of June in four urban local bodies, including Ranchi, after the finalisation of a three-tier loan negotiation between the Asian Development Bank (ADB), Union government and the Jharkhand government on Friday evening. “Under the first phase of the Jharkhand urban water supply improvement project, the scheme for water supply through taps in every house of Ranchi, Medininagar (Daltonganj), Jhumritilaiya and Hussainabad city will commence shortly by the end of this June. “The work is estimated to be completed by the end of 2024 and would benefit nearly 5 lakh beneficiaries,” said Utkarsh Mishra, deputy project director of the Jharkhand Urban Infrastructure Development Corporation (Juidco), a wing of the state urban development department. The loan-negotiation meeting was held between the secretary of the urban development department, Vinay Kumar Choubey, director of the State Urban Development Authority (SUDA), Amit Kumar, Union finance ministry economic affairs department director Juhi Mukherjee and Asian Development Bank’s mission leader Sanjay Joshi and co-mission leader Vivek Vishal. “Through these schemes, the resolve of the state government to supply piped water to every household will be fulfilled. With the joint cooperation of the state government and the Asian Development Bank, projects worth $654 million (Rs 4,700), are to be completed in the cities of the state. Under this all types of urban infrastructure have to be developed,” said the urban development spokesperson. The first phase of the Jharkhand urban water supply improvement project will have a total cost of around Rs 1,200 crore. “The work of preparing this project was going on by the state government for the last one and a half years. Around 70 per cent of the total cost of the project will be spent by the Asian Development Bank and 30 per cent from the state government’s share which means ADB will spend a total of Rs 840 crore, while the state government will spend Rs 360 crore,” the spokesperson added. Though the first phase will benefit four urban local bodies, the amount from the loan will also be used in reforms in all 50 municipal bodies of Jharkhand, especially in training the personnel for the strengthening of operation and the maintenance of the water schemes of the government through a proper revenue generation model.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
