16-06-2021||Calcutta||Veteran actor Swatilekha Sengupta passes away||Veteran actor Swatilekha Sengupta passed away on Wednesday following a heart attack at a private hospital in Calcutta. She was 71 at the time of her death and is survived by her husband, theatre personality Rudraprasad Sengupta, and daughter Sohini. According to a report by anandabazar.com, she was suffering from kidney-related ailments for a long time, and was undergoing regular dialysis. She was in the ICU for 21 days, the report stated. Sengupta started her acting career in 1984 with late actor Soumitra Chatterjee and Victor Banerjee. Even today, viewers praise her role as Bimala in Satyajit Ray’s Ghore Baire. Fans have always looked up to the pair of Chaterjee and Sengupta. But she was not seen outside the theatre stage after that. After 31 long years, he returned to the screen with Soumitra and was seen in producers-directors Nandita Roy and Shivprasad Mukherjee’s film ‘Bela Sheshe’. The film received so much praise that the duo acted in a sequel called ‘Bela Shuru’ but both passed away before the film got released. Sengupta,  a recipient of the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award, was one of the spearheads of theatre group Nandikar along with her husband and daughter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
16-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Arrest over manufacturing sanitiser without valid papers||The manager of a Rajarhat unit that manufactures chemicals was arrested and 500 litres of liquid seized in a raid on Monday. The Bidhannagar commissionerate raided the unit based on information that the factory was producing “hand sanitiser” without valid papers. An officer found 500 litres of blue liquid being packaged. “The liquid has been sent for tests. We did not find any document required to manufacture sanitisers,” said an officer. The arrested manager has been identified as Tapas Mitra. Haridevpur: A young man has allegedly been cheated of over Rs 4.5 lakh against false assurances of a job by a purported online job portal. Abhishek Upadhyay in his complaint said he registered with the portal by paying Rs 1.5 lakh. The fraudsters convinced him to take a personal loan of Rs 3.14 lakh in such a way that it was sanctioned in his name but deposited in their account, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
16-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid lockdown: Financial stress behind homemaker’s suicide||A 52-year-old homemaker committed suicide apparently unable to bear the stress of her son’s unemployment because of the lockdown and inadequate income of her husband, which was not enough to pay house rent or sustain the family of three. A resident of a modest housing in Sarsuna, Krishna Sen Chowdhury was found hanging in her room on Monday night. Her husband and son were not home then. Her husband, who works as a contractual worker with the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, earns a few thousand rupees less than the flat’s rent. Her son, who was involved in several contractual projects, could not find a proper job during the lockdown last year as well as this year. He, too, is unable to contribute to the family income. Police have found that the husband, Naren Sen, earns Rs 6,600 a month. The monthly rent of their house is Rs 7,000. “When asked how they could manage to pay the rent, he (Naren) said his younger brother used to pay Rs 4,000 every month and he would pay the remaining amount,” said an officer of Sarsuna police station. The woman, who, according to neighbours, was “nice and friendly” left a purported note that mentioned no one was responsible for her death. She was taken to a hospital on Monday night where she was declared dead. “Her husband had not been keeping well for the past few years and the family was debt-ridden because of the medical expenses. Her son was unable to get a proper job. Their debt was piling up. Possibly she could not sustain that pressure any more,” said a relative. Sen said they had taken multiple loans to tide over the financial crunch. “My son had been assaulted several times because we were unable to repay the loan in the last few months. My wife was deeply disturbed because of this. But we could not imagine she would end her life like this,” Sen said. A neighbour said the family did not make it apparent  that they were under such financial duress. “She had a lot of self-respect,” a neighbour added. Last year, several people in the city had reportedly ended their lives during the lockdown period — some of them unable to repay loans, while some were unable to sustain the family expenses. The prolonged shutdown this year had again cast a long shadow on the lives of tens of thousands of people in the margins.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
16-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Two Calcutta shopping malls to offer jabs from Wednesday||Two shopping malls in the city will start vaccination on their premises on Wednesday. Recipients can drive in or walk in without booking a slot. South City Mall on Prince Anwar Shah Road will begin a drive-in vaccination while Acropolis Mall will offer walk-in vaccination. AMRI Hospitals will provide vaccinators and doctors, apart from the doses. Opening vaccination sites in places like malls, which are frequented by many Calcuttans, creates a feeling of comfort among recipients. Many who have a mental block in visiting clinics to take the jab could find it easier to get vaccinated at a place they have visited multiple times before, said a Calcuttan. “The drive-in vaccination will be held in the first-floor parking area. We have nine levels of parking at South City Mall. Visitors will not have any problem parking their cars,” said Dip Biswas, the deputy general manager of South City Mall. Recipients will not have to step off the car to get vaccinated. An official of AMRI Hospitals said recipients would only have to register on the CoWIN portal but they would not have to book a slot. The same rule applies to those who will be vaccinated at Acropolis Mall. “Register on the CoWIN portal and walk into Acropolis Mall. You will not need to book a slot,” said the AMRI official. Both facilities will administer Covishield. A portion of the fourth floor of Acropolis Mall has been converted into a makeshift vaccination centre, said an official of the mall. “There is empty space on the fourth floor where the vaccination will be held. We have been vaccinating our retailers as well as those who are employees of offices located in the building,” said the official. Quest Mall had started the first drive-in vaccination facility in Calcutta earlier this month. It was stopped for a day because of unavailability of doses and has since resumed. The mall will, however, keep open its drive-in vaccination facility for a shorter duration from Wednesday. “Till Tuesday, the drive-in vaccination at Quest Mall was held between 10am and 4pm. But as malls would open for visitors from Wednesday, the hours of drive-in vaccination would be reduced to between 10am and 12.30pm,” said Dilip Sen, the managing director of Quest Mall. Unlike at Quest Mall, the doses to be administered at South City Mall and Acropolis Malls are chargeable. The drive at Quest is being conducted with doses supplied by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. City Centre Salt Lake had also started a walk-in vaccination. It plans to offer the service at least till the end of June, said an official of the Ambuja Neotia group, the owner of City Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
16-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Malls to reopen from Wednesday but public transport absent||Malls are ready to go. The worry is how to reach them. The government has allowed reopening of malls from Wednesday with a cap of 30 per cent visitors and 25 per cent employees. Mall operators said the absence of public transport would automatically translate to a much lower footfall. The same reason has put people who work in malls in a spot of bother. Store owners said the worry was about finalising the workforce and the modes of their journey between home and work. Mall operators, on the other hand, have arranged for the accommodation of a pool of workers either inside the malls or at a place nearby. A lifestyle store in South City Mall, spread across two floors and spanning 70,000sqft, had over 450 employees across all divisions, from housekeeping to cash. “The announcement came suddenly. We are splitting hairs to shortlist the number of employees we will start operations with from Wednesday. A section of our employees went back to their native places just before the new curbs came into being. They cannot be called back immediately because of the suspension of train services,” said the manager. An apparel store in Quest Mall would resume operations with four employees instead of 10. “Two of us have two-wheelers. We will pick up a colleague each while coming to work and drop them home,” said the manager of the store. Mall operators said since only people with private vehicles are expected to drop in, the number of visitors at a mall would be on the lower side. The rush, if any, would be at restaurants especially on weekends, they said. “We have a retail space of around 700,000sqft. A third of our capacity would be above 30,000 people. But we are not expecting more than 3,000 people at a time,” said Dip Biswas, deputy general manager, South City Mall. Based on last year’s post-lockdown experience, mall operators said the footfall would be between 2,000-3,000 at a time at most. “When we had resumed operations after the lockdown last year (from June 8), it took a long time for the footfall to go up. We don’t expect anything different this time,” said K. Vijayan, the general manager of Acropolis Mall. The Monday notification also put a 25 per cent cap on the workforce. Most malls have a large workforce. Some of the bigger stores inside the malls have hundreds of employees. All employees reporting for duty from Monday have at least got the first dose of a Covid-19 vaccine, said mall operators. Quest Mall has a staff size of over 400. “We are looking at 120-odd people to start with. A section of them has been living on site. For the rest, we will arrange a pickup and drop, like we had been since last year,” said Sanjeev Mehra, the vice-president of Quest Mall. South City Mall and Acropolis Mall would not arrange for transport for all their employees immediately. “The agency in charge of security has kept guards in barracks near the mall. Our housekeeping staff usually live in the vicinity of the mall and come on two-wheelers. Other employees would come on two-wheelers or their private vehicles, picking up colleagues on their way to work and dropping them home,” said Vijayan. Biswas said a team of around 150 people involved in security, housekeeping and other facility management work have been living inside the mall. “The operations staff would drive or ride their two-wheelers to work. We are encouraging car-pooling,” he said. Some smaller stores with fewer people will not be able to abide by the 25 per cent cap. “We have a 1,500sq ft store and just six employees. We will operate with three persons each in two shifts from Wednesday,” said the manager of an Italian apparel brand’s store in Quest Mall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
16-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Sarobar visitors need to show vaccine certificates||The civic bodies in Calcutta and Bidhannagar will put up posters at their parks announcing that only fully vaccinated people would be allowed in. The CMDA has asked guards at its parks to check whether the visitors are carrying vaccination certificates. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation, Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation and the CMDA have taken the decisions following the state government’s announcement that parks will remain open from 6am to 9am from Wednesday and only those who have taken both doses of a Covid vaccine can enter. “There will be notices outside the parks telling visitors to enter only if they are fully vaccinated. It is not feasible to check whether every visitor is vaccinated,” said an official of the CMC, which manages about 700 parks. Visitors to Rabindra Sarobar could face some screening as the CMDA, the custodian, has asked its guards to check whether the visitors are carrying vaccination certificates. “We have decided to keep six of the 13 gates of Rabindra Sarobar open on Wednesday morning. If we open all 13 gates, it would be impossible to scan the vaccination status of the visitors,” the official said. Among the gates that will be open are two major gates on Southern Avenue, the ones near Bengal Rowing Club and the one near Buddha Mandir. At Subhas Sarobar, all gates will remain open, said the CMDA official. Krishna Chakraborty, the chairperson of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation's board of administrators, said they would put up notices asking visitors to step in only if they were fully vaccinated. Most parks in Salt Lake have multiple gates and they remain unlocked throughout the day. The forest department has told guards at Central Park to ask visitors whether they are vaccinated, said Raju Das, the additional principal chief conservator in the state forest department, which maintains the park. All parks in New Town have guards. Debashis Sen, the chairman of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority, said: "We have decided to go by what people tell us. In most cases people don't even carry phones during morning walks….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
16-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Mixed bag as vaccine rush ebbs in Calcutta||Several private hospitals have reported a reduced footfall for Covid vaccines on their premises over the past week. The good in that is the decentralisation of the vaccination drive seems to have had an effect. And the bad is that some doctors and public health experts see fresh hesitancy creeping in with swirling rumours about adverse effects and efficacy. Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals was vaccinating 800 to 900 people every day on its premises. But over the past week, the footfall has come down to around 500. “The frantic calls for slots, which we had been getting since the beginning of May, have stopped,” said an official of the hospital. "The reduced footfall at the hospital could be because many other centres in the city are vaccinating people.” Some of the big private hospitals that had procured doses directly from the manufacturers after May 1 have sent requisitions for fresh doses to the state government, which had offered to help private units source vaccines. Officials of these hospitals said they were not sure when the next consignments would arrive and so they have slowed the drive. The three units of AMRI Hospitals were together vaccinating 3,500 to 4,000 people every day a week back. The hospital chain was also inoculating an almost equal number of people daily at residential complexes and offices of corporate houses. "We have now restricted vaccination to around 2,000 people at our hospitals and 3,000 at off sites because of stock issues," said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI. "We are distributing the existing stocks in a way to ensure that we don't have to discontinue the vaccination drive completely at one point. We have stocks for another five to six days and the manufacturer of Covishield has informed us that a consignment of 48,000 doses, for which we had paid earlier, would arrive in a week,” he said. Fortis hospital is asking residents' welfare associations and corporate houses who are approaching them for off-site vaccination to get the doses from other hospitals. “We are left with only 500 doses of Covishield and 5,000 doses of Covaxin. We have sent a requisition for around 2 lakh Covishield doses and 20,000 Covaxin doses to the state government. We are awaiting feedback from the government,” said Richa Singh Debgupta, the chief of strategy and operations at Fortis Healthcare. However, some hospitals said they were not sure why the footfall had gone down. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences was administering vaccines to around 3,000 people at its Mukundapur unit daily. Now, the footfall has come down to 1,500. “We are procuring doses centrally and have also submitted a requisition to the state government. There is no shortage of doses but the footfall has reduced," said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, which runs the Mukundapur hospital. Some of the doctors and public health experts said certain rumours - such as vaccinated persons developing magnetic fields in their bodies, people dying after vaccination and inadequate formation of antibodies even after two doses - could have slowed the drive. "These baseless rumours... forwarded through social media... can do a lot of harm. Vaccine is the only weapon against Covid till now," said public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury. Chandramouli Bhattacharya, a consultant in infectious diseases, felt such rumours could lead to fresh vaccine hesitancy. "Once cases go down further, such rumours could trigger another phase of hesitancy,” said Bhattacharya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
16-06-2021||Calcutta||Three friends turn alms seekers into farmers ||Three professionally successful friends had been running a community kitchen for a group of people who were surviving on alms. The three have now scaled up their project with the same group and started a small farm in Birbhum. The beneficiaries of the project, who used to beg on the streets of Gangte village, about 12km from Birbhum’s Suri, will now have earnings from selling the produce of the farm. As day breaks in the village, the men and women can be seen ploughing the land, sowing seeds and adding water to grow pumpkin, gourd, eggplant, ladies finger, spinach and other vegetables on the piece of land that the three friends have bought to start the farm. Having grown up in the village, basic farming is not new to the group. They began work in April and have already started getting the yield, with which they now cook their own meals. They no longer depend on alms for their food. A pond has been dug on the land for pisciculture and a piece of fish may soon be added to their lunch. Lakshmi Sardar and Sanjay Majhi are part of the group that works on the farm, which measures two-and-a-half bighas, a little less than an acre. An alumnus of the erstwhile Bengal Engineering College, Shibpur, Debendra Narayan Chattopadhyay, one of the three friends, has been running a consultancy firm specialising in civil infrastructure since 1989. He has been carrying out philanthropic activities over several years. A voluntary organisation from the village had approached him late last year and told him about the plight of some 65 villagers, whose only mode of income was begging in nearby towns, which ended with the onset of the lockdown last year. “In January, the three of us — myself, Dipankar Roy, a mechanical engineer from BHU and Sumit Chakraborty, also from BE College — pooled resources to help the organisation launch a community kitchen to feed these people. Gradually, we realised if the community kitchen has to be sustained, we have to adopt a different approach. This gave birth to the farm,” said Chattopadhyay, 69. Roy retired from an Indian multinational company last year. Chakraborty worked at a PSU and retired in March last year. Together, they bought land adjacent to the voluntary organisation at a cost of Rs 3.50 lakh. Of the 65 people, most were fit enough to work, a few were physically weak. “Many of them gained strength after eating at the community kitchen. We have started getting the yields and so, we are increasingly buying lesser volumes of items. Now that the monsoon has set in, we will have the full yield soon. A part of it that will not be consumed, will be sold in the market and the earnings will be shared among the group,” said Roy. He said they wanted to ensure the group no longer had to survive on alms. “By giving doles over a period of time, we won’t be able to give them a respectable way of living. Besides, helping them through the year may not always be possible amid a health scare. So, we will continue supporting them for two years to make them self-reliant,” said Chakraborty. Before the travel restrictions following renewed Covid cases, the three friends would visit the farm to oversee the work. With the help of a fourth friend, who is in the medical profession, a permanent shed has been built to run the kitchen safely. “We have so far spent over Rs 15 lakh and are working on a plan to start poultry farming, too,” said Chatto-padhyay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
16-06-2021||Business||How to Calculate TDS on Fixed Deposit?||Fixed Deposits (FD) are popular financial instruments for growing money and earning assured interest on your savings. However, the accrued interest income is fully taxable as per the Income Tax Act, 1961. If the interest you earn falls under a taxable slab, the amount subtracted from the income on your fixed deposit investment is Tax Deducted at Source (TDS). Let us understand TDS rates applicable on FDs. How is TDS on fixed deposit calculated? TDS is applicable if the interest income exceeds specified limits in any provided fiscal year. Banks levy TDS at a 10% rate on the earned FD interest in a financial year. This amount is only deducted when your interest amount exceeds Rs. 40,000 in a fiscal year, and your income does not fall under the exempted slab. If you are a senior citizen (an individual over the age of 60 or more), no TDS applies if your interest income is lower than Rs. 50,000 for the given year. For NRI or Non-Resident Indian investors, TDS is deducted on the interest earned from FDs at a 30% rate, as per Section 195 of the Income Tax Act (1961). Surcharge and cess also apply to the deduction. 20% TDS is charged if you do not share your PAN details for the FD account with your bank. For joint account holders, TDS on FD is deducted against the PAN details of the primary account holder. Here the deductions do not apply to the secondary account holder. Banks typically deduct TDS on fixed deposits at a fiscal year’s end automatically. Besides, interest income earned from a tax saver fixed deposit is also liable for the tax deduction. It is crucial to understand that the interest earned is subject to taxation if it exceeds the limits mentioned above. The principal amount invested in an FD is not liable for the deduction. How to apply for a TDS waiver on FDs? If you do not earn interest income above the defined limits, you can inform your bank not to deduct tax at the source. As an Indian resident, you can apply for tax remission by submitting Form 15H or Form 15G to your bank. Here, Form 15H is for senior citizens and Form 15G is for whom the interest is not chargeable for TDS. Both the forms have a self-declaration section where you state that tax on your income (estimated) for the given financial year is non-deductible. Things to remember about FD tax deductions Your bank calculates the TDS when your interest is due for the deposit and not when the bank pays it. This means that you pay the TDS on interest income annually and not when your FD matures. If your bank has deducted tax at source, but you are applicable for a lower tax rate, you can file an Income Tax Return (ITR) and claim the amount as a refund. Besides, if you fall under a high tax slab of 20% or 30%, you must pay TDS through a self-assessment tax form.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-17
16-06-2021||Business||Net tax collection doubles so far this fiscal, says Centre||The net direct tax collection has doubled to over Rs 1.85 lakh crore so far this fiscal, mainly driven by personal income tax and advance tax mop up, the I-T department said on Wednesday. The net direct tax collection also includes corporate income tax (CIT) collection at Rs 74,356 crore and Personal Income Tax, including Security Transaction Tax (STT) at over Rs 1.11 lakh crore. The net direct tax collections (after adjusting refunds) between April 1-June 15 stood at Rs 1,85,871 crore, compared to Rs 92,762 crore over the corresponding period of the preceding year, representing an increase of 100.4 per cent over the collections of the preceding year, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said in a statement. Refunds amounting to Rs 30,731 crore have been issued in current fiscal. The gross collection of direct taxes for this fiscal stood at over Rs 2.16 lakh crore, compared to Rs 1.37 lakh crore in the corresponding period of the preceding year. The gross corporate income tax (CIT) mop up stood at Rs 96,923 crore and personal income tax (PIT) stood at over Rs 1.19 lakh crore. While Advance Tax mop up stood at Rs 28,780 crore, Tax Deducted at Source was at Rs 1,56,824 crore. Self-Assessment Tax stood at Rs 15,343 crore and Regular Assessment Tax at Rs 14,079 crore. "Despite extremely challenging initial months of the new fiscal, the Advance Tax collections for the first quarter of the FY 2021-22 stand at Rs 28,780 crore against Advance Tax collections of Rs 11,714 crore for the corresponding period of the immediately preceding Financial Year, showing a growth of approximately 146 per cent," the CBDT said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-17
16-06-2021||Business||Modi invites global investors to invest in India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday called for focus on 'repair and prepare' as the nation emerges out of a devastating pandemic. "Over the past year, we have witnessed a lot of disruption in different sectors. Much of it is still there. Yet, disruption does not have to mean despair," he said at VivaTech Summit. "Instead, we must keep the focus on the twin foundations of repair and prepare," he said referring to the need to augment healthcare infrastructure in the country as well as prop up the economy. Indian economy suffered its worst contraction in decades in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021, as the pandemic-induced lockdown impaired economic activity. The government, however, continued with the reforms that would help sustain higher growth rates after the world emerges from the pandemic. India implemented huge reforms across sectors - from mining to space, from banking to atomic energy, he said. "This goes on to show that India as a nation is adaptable and agile, even in the middle of the pandemic." "India offers what innovators and investors need," Modi said. "I invite the world to invest in India based on the five pillars of talent, market, capital, eco-system and culture of openness." Stating that India's strides in the world of tech and start-up are well-known, he said the country is home to one of the world's largest start-up eco systems and several unicorns have come up in recent years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-17
16-06-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty fall from record highs||Benchmark indices Sensex and Nifty retreated from record high levels on Wednesday following intense selling in Reliance and HDFC twins as investors turned cautious ahead of the outcome of the US Federal Reserve's policy meeting. The 30-share BSE index ended 271.07 points or 0.51 per cent lower at 52,501.98. It had closed at an all-time high of 52,773.05 on Tuesday. The broader NSE Nifty retreated from a record and declined 101.70 points or 0.64 per cent to 15,767.55. PowerGrid was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, Reliance, L&T, UltraTech Cement and Bajaj Finance. On the other hand, Nestle, NTPC, ONGC, Bajaj Finserv Hindustan Unilever and Infosys were among the gainers. Investors kept an eye on the two-day US Federal Reserve meeting, which is set to conclude on Wednesday. Lack of fresh trigger from overseas markets also weighed on the local stocks as Asian markets closed mixed. Bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended on a negative note, while Seoul settled with gains. Equities in Europe were trading mixed in mid-session deals. International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.14 per cent higher at USD 74.09 per barrel. Meanwhile, the rupee slips 1 paisa to close at 73.32 against the US dollar, logging its seventh straight day of losses. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) emerged as net buyers in the capital market as they bought shares worth Rs 633.69 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-18
16-06-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty decline ahead of US Federal policy outcome||Equity benchmark Sensex fell over 90 points in early trade on Wednesday, tracking tepid global cues ahead of the US Federal Reserve's policy outcome.  The 30-share BSE index was trading 90.5 points or 0.17 per cent lower at 52,682.55 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 23.55 points or 0.15 per cent to 15,845.70.  PowerGrid was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 1 per cent, followed by Dr Reddy's, Titan, HDFC Bank, Asian Paints, Reliance Industries and Axis Bank.  On the other hand, ONGC, M&M, Bajaj Finserv, Hindustan Unilever, TCS and Infosys were among the gainers.  In the previous session, the BSE Sensex quoted higher by 221.52 points or 0.42 per cent at a new peak of 52,773.05. Likewise, the broader NSE Nifty rose 57.40 points or 0.36 per cent to settle at a fresh high of 15,869.25.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo, Shanghai and Hong Kong were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals, while Seoul was trading with gains.  US equities finished lower in the previous session ahead of the outcome of the Fed policy meeting on Wednesday.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) emerged as net buyers in the capital market as they bought shares worth Rs 633.69 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data.  International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.95 per cent higher at USD 74.69 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-18
16-06-2021||Business||Non-bank microfinance companies expect level playing field with banks and small finance banks||Non-bank microfinance companies (NBFC-MFI), which constitute 30.8 per cent of the overall microfinance credit portfolio, expect a level playing field with banks and small finance banks if the proposed changes under the ‘consultative document on regulation of microfinance’ released by the RBI take shape. With no caps on interest rate spreads, no restriction on number of lenders approaching a borrower, no end use restriction of credit and a simplified cost structure, NBFC-MFIs could explore differential rates for borrowers based on risk assessment and take the competition to banks and small finance banks which together constitute around 60 per cent of the micro credit outstanding. A CEO of an NBFC-MFI said under the existing guidelines there is a cap of 12 per cent on spreads that can be charged specifically by small NBFC-MFIs and  10 per cent on large NBFC-MFIs. There are no such thresholds under the proposed norms. Further, there are ceilings on the loan amount — Rs 75,000 for the first cycle and Rs 1,25,000 in subsequent cycles. As such limits were not applicable on banks and small finance banks, they could take on a greater exposure per borrower thus outcompeting NBFC-MFIs. The consultative document has shifted the threshold definitions around income and indebtedness of the household with the Reserve Bank paper recommending a 50 per cent limit on household indebtedness. “It was always a request from the industry that regulations should not be entity based. It will now be a fair game and both borrowers and lenders will have options,” said Kuldip Maity, MD and CEO, Village Financial Services. “The revised norms could swing the balance of competitive equilibrium in favour of NBFC-MFIs,” said HDFC Securities in a sector update. Small finance banks, which can now classify loans to small micro-finance institutions as priority sector loans, see the long-term benefits from the proposed regulations. “These recommendations are beneficial for the borrowers and the industry as a whole – so everyone will benefit in the long run,” said Nitin Chugh, MD and CEO of Ujjivan Small Finance Bank. “In having a common definition of microfinance for all regulated entities, it will ensure a level playing field,” said Alok Misra, CEO and director, MFIN “RBI’s consultative paper is forward looking and it will have an enormous positive impact on the sector,” said P. Satish, executive director, Sa-Dhan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-18
16-06-2021||Business||Toyota Kirloskar Motors partially resumes operations at Bidadi plant in Karnataka||Toyota Kirloskar Motors (TKM) has partially resumed operations at its plant at Bidadi in Karnataka on Tuesday. Operating at the prescribed workforce strength of 50 per cent, TKM is also training its employees for the “new normal”, both in terms of facilities and processes. “Since the outbreak of the pandemic, we are very clear that we will respond to the needs of those in the midst of this outbreak, making prompt decisions and taking immediate action to help ensure safety and security of all our employees and other stakeholders,” said a company spokesperson. The company said it will first focus on clearing pending orders that could not be met due to the non-production days of planned annual maintenance shutdown, followed by the lockdown announcement by the state government. It is also vaccinating both employees as well as their families. BMW Motorrad BMW Motorrad India has launched the all-new BMW S 1000 R in India. The roadster will be available as a completely built-up unit (CBU) and can be booked at all BMW Motorrad India dealerships from Tuesday onwards. Vikram Pawah, president, BMW Group India, said, “The second generation of the all-new BMW S 1000 R is designed as a power-packed roadster.” The motorcycle is available in three variants. The Standard variant is priced at Rs 17.90 lakh, the Pro variant costs Rs 19.75 lakh and the Pro M Sport is at Rs 22.50 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-18
16-06-2021||Business||Reserve Bank revokes deposit-taking status of Dewan Housing Finance||The Reserve Bank has revoked the deposit-taking status of Dewan Housing Finance (DHFL), the first financial services firm to go in for bankruptcy proceedings, and has reclassified it as a non-deposit taking housing finance company, before approving the Piramal group’s bid towards the end of the resolution process. The revelation comes in the June 7 NCLT Mumbai order that has approved the Rs 35,250-crore bid by Piramal Capital & Housing Finance, forcing an over 65 per cent haircut on the creditors and just Re 1 to its NCD holders to whom it owes more than Rs 45,000-crore. On the 14th page of the 86-page NCLT order by H.P. Chaturvedi and Ravikumar Duraisamy, it says DHFL no longer is a deposit taking NBFC but a non-deposit taking one. The changes were made in February 2021 after the RBI gave a non-objection to the January 25, 2021 application by R. Subramaniakumar, the DHFL administrator, citing Rule 5 of its FSP (financial services providers) Rules.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-18
16-06-2021||Business||HDFC mobile banking app faces some 'issues'||The mobile banking app of HDFC Bank faced some “issues” on Tuesday following which the lender asked its customers not to use the net banking facility till the problem was resolved. The problem was resolved in an hour. HDFC Bank said the issues surfaced late in the morning on Tuesday, though it did not specify what these problems were. Some customers complained that they were unable to log in to this service. “We are experiencing some issues on the MobileBanking App. We are looking into this on priority and will update shortly,” the lender’s vertical head of corporate communication, Rajiv Banerjee, tweeted. An hour later, Banerjee tweeted that the issues had been resolved. HDFC Bank has been in the news for network outages and after three instances, the RBI had taken strict measures, including prohibiting it from onboarding new credit card customers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-18
16-06-2021||Business||Union cabinet likely to tweak FDI policy to allow 100% ownership of BPCL||In a move to sweeten the deal for bidders of sale-bound BPCL, the Union cabinet is likely to tweak the foreign direct investment (FDI) policy to allow 100 per cent ownership of the state-owned refinery by global players through the automatic route. Officials said the matter could be taken up by the cabinet at its meeting on Tuesday, which could send a positive signal to investors and fasttrack the privatisation of the state-owned refiner. According to the existing FDI policy, up to 49 per cent FDI is permissible through the automatic route in petroleum refining PSUs, without any disinvestment or dilution of domestic equity in existing PSUs by the government. However, the policy allows for 100 per cent FDI through the automatic route in petroleum refining in the private sector. The limit of 49 per cent, however, remains for refining PSUs that have not been lined up for divestment, the officials said. The Centre has approved the sale of its entire 52.98 per cent shareholding in BPCL, along with the transfer of management control to a strategic buyer. Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan has said the government received three preliminary bids for the acquisition of a controlling stake in BPCL. Anil Agarwal’s Vedanta group and two American funds — Apollo Global and I Squared Capital — have reportedly submitted expressions of interest. Several rounds of discussions have taken place among the divestment department,  department of economic affairs and the trade and industry ministry — who  have all agreed on the proposal to issue the clarification. For the quarter ended March 31, 2021, BPCL had reported a net profit of Rs 11,940.13 crore. It had posted a loss of Rs 1,361.01 crore in the year-ago period. The state-owned refiner had reported a 610 per cent increase in net profit to Rs 19,041.67 crore in the financial year 2020-21 against a net profit of Rs 2,683.19 crore in the previous fiscal. The government has lined up a host of companies for divestment, including the strategic sale of Bharat Petroleum, Air India and Shipping Corp of India Ltd and initial public offering of Life Insurance Corp of India Ltd. Besides the BPCL exercise, Air India has reportedly received multiple bids, including from the Tatas. The listing of LIC is also likely to be pushed back to the second half of the year because of the insurance behemoth's valuation, which involves the sales of its real estate and art assets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-18
16-06-2021||Business||Finance ministry notifies new reduced GST rates on Covid essentials||The finance ministry has notified the new reduced goods and services tax (GST) rates on Covid essentials but remained silent on the rates of the items that are with the stockists. The reduced rates, which have come into immediate effect, will remain in force till September 30, 2021. “It is better that the government should clarify for no disputes... stockists should be allowed refund as they have paid higher rates of GST on stocks prior to the latest notification and will be selling at a lower rate,” Bimal Jain, tax expert, said. Uday Pimprikar, national leader indirect tax, EY LLP, said: “The GST mandates that the stocks need to be sold at a lower rate and the government should clarify to remove ambiguity where it exists.” The GST Council, chaired by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and comprising state ministers, on June 12, had slashed the tax rate on Covid drugs such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab as well as on medical oxygen, oxygen concentrators and other Covid essentials. The finance ministry’s revenue department on June 14, notified the lower rates for 18 Covid-related supplies like hand sanitiser, pulse oximeters, BiPAP machine, testing kits, ambulances and temperature check equipment. “It remains to be seen how the industry will ensure that the said benefits reach the end users with immediate effect. The goods requires change in MRP to be reflected in the product packaging. This means the benefit will only reach the common public once the MRP on such products is revised to reflect the change. This may not be possible for the stock already lying with the retailers on such short notice,” said Shareen Gupta, partner J. Sagar Associates. Ranjeet Mahtani, partner, Dhruva Advisors, said in the case of MRP products lying in stock with retailers, the benefit of reduced rates will have to be passed on in the form of discounts or reduction of value. “Alternatively, the MRP will have to be adjusted to reflect the revised GST. For non-MRP products the invoices will have to be at the revised GST rate.” Smita Singh, partner, Singh & Associates, said though changes in GST rates have been brought forth to reduce the cost of Covid-related treatment, such change is applicable on goods supplied post issuance of notification. “An important aspect that escaped consideration is regarding treatment of goods already in stock on which MRP has been declared with old GST rate,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-18
16-06-2021||Business||NCLT voices surprise over value arrived in resolution of 13 Videocon group firms||A division bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) has voiced its surprise over the value arrived in the resolution of 13 Videocon group firms which will now be controlled by Anil Agarwal-led Twin Star Technologies. On June 8, the NCLT bench comprising Ravikumar Duraisamy and H.P. Chaturvedi  approved the resolution plan proposed by Twin Star Technologies. This plan was earlier approved by its committee of creditors (CoC) in December 2020. Videocon owed its lenders Rs 71,433.75 crore and the NCLT admitted claims of Rs 64,838.63 crore. The resolution plan proposed a payment of Rs 2,962.02 crore, meaning the lenders will lose 95.85 per cent of their dues (haircut). In its order, the two-judge bench observed that the registered valuers valued the assets of 13 companies which have varied business interests that include oil and gas, consumer electronics, home appliances, digital solutions, real estate, and electronic retail chain. The liquidation value of these companies was Rs 2,568.13 crore, while the fair value of the assets is Rs 4,069.95 crore. “Surprisingly the resolution applicant (Twin Star) also valued all the assets and liabilities of all the 13 companies and arrived at almost the same value of the registered valuers,’’ the bench observed. It pointed out that the regulations under the corporate insolvency resolution process say the liquidation value and fair market value be kept confidential, with the committee of creditors informed only at the time of finalising the plan. In this case, the liquidation and fair market values were known to the creditor’s panel at their 15th meeting. “Therefore, even if the confidentiality clause is in existence, in view of the facts and circumstances as discussed above a doubt arises upon the confidentiality clause being in real time use... therefore, we request IBBI (Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India) to examine this issue in depth so as to ensure the confidentiality clause is followed unscrupulously...” “If not, IBBI can frame appropriate regulations, safeguards thereby the maximisation of value of the assets of the corporate debtor(s) would further increase, which in turn will benefit all the stakeholders,’’ the bench said. On the resolution plan, it observed that the assenting secured financial creditors would get only 4.89 per cent, dissenting secured financial creditors would get only 4.56 per cent and assenting unsecured financial creditors would get only a very meagre amount of 0.62 per cent. Dissenting unsecured financial creditors would get nil or zero amount and operational creditors would also get a very meagre amount of only 0.72 per cent. “The successful resolution applicant is paying almost nothing and 99.28 per cent hair cut is provided for operational creditors. During the course of hearing it is also submitted that voluminous number of operational creditors are also MSME and if they are paid only 0.72 per cent of their admitted claim amount, in the near future many of these operational creditors may have to face insolvency proceedings which may be inevitable,” the bench said. It requested both the CoC and Twin Star to increase the pay-out amount to the operational creditors especially MSMEs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-18
16-06-2021||India||Fire breaks out at AIIMS hospital in Delhi, no injuries reported ||A fire broke out at the Convergence Block of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi on Wednesday night. According to the fire department, a call about the fire was received at around 10.30 pm after which 22 fire tenders were rushed to the spot. No injury has been reported so far in the fire that broke out on the ninth floor of the hospital's Convergence Block, they said. The site of the fire does not house patients and mostly houses laboratories and the examination section. It is a diagnostic building with multipurpose labs, examination section as well as an in-built auditorium with AIIMS SET Facility. Fire-fighting operations are underway and the cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, the officials said. The cause of the fire is not known and the extent of damage has not been ascertained so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-55
16-06-2021||India||Russia's Sputnik V pilot in final leg, scaled up to 9 other cities||Dr Reddys Laboratories which has soft-launched Russias COVID-19 vaccine Sputnik V here has expanded the pilot which is in the final leg to other cities such as Mumbai, Bangalore and New Delhi. Presently it being a limited pilot phase, registration on CoWIN is not open for the public and will become open once the commercial launch is commenced, a press release from Dr Reddy's said on Wednesday. The limited pilot soft-launch of the Sputnik V vaccine in India that was initiated by Dr Reddy's in Hyderabad on May 14 has now been successfully scaled up to other cities such as Visakhapatnam, Bengaluru, Mumbai, Kolkata and Delhi, Baddi, Chennai, Miryalaguda and Kolhapur with more cities to follow in the next few days, Dr Reddy said in an update. The pilot programme for Sputnik V, which received clearance from the drug regulator for emergency use in April, was launched on May 17 by Dr Reddy's in collaboration with Apollo Hospitals. Dr Reddys Laboratories is in a pact with Russian Direct Investment Fund to sell the first 125 million people doses (250 million vials) of SputnikVin India. The Indian drug-maker recently received nearly three million doses of Sputnik V. The pilot has allowed Dr Reddys to test the cold storage arrangements of -18C temperature in the cities, CoWIN integration, track and trace and other logistical arrangements ahead of the commercial launch, the release said. The limited pilot phase is currently in its final leg as we gear up to ensure a smooth commercial launch, it said. Adequate number of cold chain units is being deployed and the last mail arrangement is being validated at every partner hospital to ensure seamless storage and handling of the vaccine, Dr Reddys said. According to a ndtv.com report, the Russian vaccine has a high efficacy rate of 91.6 per cent. According to the Centre's pricing schedule, it will be priced at ₹ 1,145, including hospital charges and tax.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-56
16-06-2021||India||Centre approves restructuring of Ordnance Factory Board into seven new entities||In a major reform initiative, the government on Wednesday approved a long-pending proposal to restructure the nearly 200-year-old Ordnance Factory Board that operates 41 ammunition and defence equipment production facilities into seven separate corporate entities to improve its accountability, efficiency and competitiveness. The decision to corporatise the OFB on the lines of defence public sector undertakings was taken at a meeting of the union cabinet, nearly two decades after the reform measure was mooted to bring professionalism and significantly enhance its productivity. Describing it as a "historic decision", Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said there will be no change in service conditions of nearly 70,000 employees of the organisation and the decision is driven by efforts to boost India's defence manufacturing sector. "It is a big decision that complements India's national security requirements. It will help in achieving our targets for defence production. There will be no change in service conditions of the employees," he told a small group of journalists. Officials said each of the seven entities will be like any other defence public sector undertaking (DPSU) and they will be operated by professional management with a larger goal of enhancing the product range, increase competitiveness and improve cost-efficiency. They said the reform process is being implemented as part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision for self-reliance in the defence sector. "All employees of OFB (Group A, B and C) belonging to the production units would be transferred to the corporate entities on deemed deputation initially for a period of two years without altering their service conditions as central government employees," said an official. The pension liabilities of the retired and existing employees will continue to be borne by the government, according to the Cabinet decision. At present, the OFB functions under the department of defence production of the Ministry of Defence. The seven entities will include an ammunition and explosives group, vehicles group, weapons and equipment group, 'troop comfort items group', ancillary group, optoelectronics group and parachute group, the officials said. The ammunition and explosives group would be mainly engaged in the production of ammunition of various calibre and explosives and its focus would be to exploit the huge potential to grow exponentially including for the export market. The vehicles group would mainly engage in the production of defence mobility and combat vehicles such as tanks, BMPs (infantry fighting vehicle) and mine protected vehicles. The focus of the group would be to increase its share in the domestic market through better capacity utilisation and also to explore new export markets. The weapons and equipment group would be mainly engaged in the production of small arms, medium and large-calibre guns, and other weapon systems and is expected to increase its share in the domestic market through meeting domestic demand as well as product diversification, the officials said. "Today's decision would allow these companies autonomy, as well as help improve accountability and efficiency in the functioning of the 41 factories under the new companies," said another official. He said the restructuring would help in overcoming various shortcomings in the existing system of OFB by eliminating inefficient supply chains. The government has also decided to delegate the authority of the cabinet to an empowered Group of Ministers headed by Singh to decide on matters related to the restructuring of the OFB. At present, the government has to shell out around Rs 5,000 crore annually to pay the salaries of the OFB employees. Additionally, it gives around Rs 3,000 crore to OFB as an operational cost. The ordnance factories were set up as "captive centres" to serve the needs of the armed forces, but they have been facing performance-related issues for a long time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-56
16-06-2021||India||Delhi court defers order on release of Pinjra Tod activists||Student-activists Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and Asif Iqbal Tanha, who were granted bail by Delhi High Court on Tuesday, weren't released from jail on Wednesday as a Delhi court deferred the hearing of the issue. The court said that it will pronounce a verdict on the matter on June 17 at 11 am. "Order could not be passed due to heavy board of bail applications listed before the undersigned. Be put up for orders tomorrow at 11 am", livelaw.com quoted the bench as saying, The order comes after the Delhi police sought time to verify the sureties and match the residential addresses of the appellants with official records. Narwal, Kalita and Tanha had moved the trial court for their immediate release after they remained imprisoned past the 1 pm deadline set by the High Court on Tuesday. They were ordered to be released on personal bonds of ₹ 50,000 each and two sureties of a similar amount. The case was heard on Wednesday afternoon with the lawyers for the activists pitted against the investigating officer and Special Public Prosecutor. Both sides had lots to say, according to a report in ndtv.com. At the end of it,  Additional Sessions Judge Revinder Bedi said she would pass her order later on Wednesday. “The accused have given permanent addresses as Jharkhand, Assam and Haryana. It has to be verified... (there is) paucity of time to complete the verification,” the special prosecutor said in the court. “Charge sheet lists address as Delhi. Arrest memo shows Delhi address. Parents' address (hometowns) isn't our address here. As adults we rent a place and live in Delhi,” the activists’ lawyer shot back. The Delhi Police have also moved the Supreme Court challenging three separate judgements of the Delhi High Court granting bail to the activists. The three appellants, Narwal, Kalita and Tanha, were arrested at different times last year. Narwal and Kalita, both JNU students, were arrested in January, and charged with making inflammatory speeches and inciting people to protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). Tanha, a Jamia Millia Islamia was arrested in May, accused of being part of a “premeditated” conspiracy to provoke the riots. The high court judges set aside a decision by the trial court to refuse bail to the three accused. They were asked to post a personal bond of Rs 50,000 each as well as two sureties of similar amounts. All three accused were charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. However, the two-judge bench of Justice Sidharth Mridul and Justice Anup Jairam Bhambhani declared: “We are unable to discern in the subject charge-sheet the elemental factual ingredients that are a must to found the offences defined under Section 15, 17 or 18 UAPA.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-56
16-06-2021||India||ICSE Council to declare Class 12 results by July 20||The Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) is likely to announce its Class 12 exam results by July 20, reported ndtv.com, attributing sources. According to the report, assessment will be based on the students' internal marks for Classes 11 and 12. The board will also consider the best performances from 2015 to 2020. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) had called for an online meeting of heads of schools presenting candidates for ISC 2021 on June 7 to discuss issues related to the submission of the average marks of Class 12 examinees scored in Classes 11and 12. But the meeting was cancelled on June 5. The CBSE and the CISCE had earlier informed the Supreme Court that they would lay down “objective criteria” for assessing Class 12 students, now that the board exams had been cancelled. The CBSE and CISCE had cancelled its Class 12 board exams owing to the pandemic situation. The CISCE had on June 1 said in a media release that after the declaration of the ISC results, if some students are not satisfied with the marks awarded to them, it will give an “option to such candidates to write the ISC (Class XII) Year 2021 Examination at a later date, when the situation is conducive to conduct the same”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-56
16-06-2021||India||100 historians of the world express concern over fate of National Archives||The change of land use status of the plot where a part of the National Archives of India is going to be demolished under the Central Vista project has raised concerns among historians who wonder if the facility would be accessible to them once the project is ready. Over 100 historians from across the globe have written to the director-general of the National Archives of India and are still awaiting a response. “Archives are the public repository of memory, the documentary evidence of the relationship between the government and its people. It is the official records of a policy, a social movement pertaining to any particular era. It is very important for the archives to be accessible to scholars and historians,” said Prachi Deshpande, associate professor of history at Calcutta's Centre for Studies in Social Sciences, who had co-drafted the letter with Bhavani Raman, associate professor of history, University of Toronto. The Toronto-based historian said most people were unaware why the archives are important which was precisely why it was crucial tha theirletter be be discussed in public. “Archives for us is an institution that is fundamental to democracy,” Raman said. “Who were consulted on this rebuilding? What is the plan? What will happen to the documents while the rebuilding is on, nothing has been disclosed. We are seeking answers.” Redevelopment of the Central Vista at Rs 20,000 crore, in the heart of Lutyens’ Delhi built in the 1930s, is a pet project of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the work on which has been going on in a war footing despite the raging pandemic that has left a devastating trail of death. The project involves tearing down of several landmarks and government buildings along with building a new Parliament. The National Archives of India’s building and the campus was accorded Grade 1 heritage site status on October 1, 2009. The Delhi High Court had, earlier this month, dismissed a public interest litigation filed before it against the project. The land-use status of the existing building has been changed from “public and semi-public land” to “government land” as per an order issued on March 20, 2020. “How will this change in the land use status affect this public oriented mission, and the rules that govern the public’s access to the National Archives? We seek clarity about the reason behind this change in land use, and details about the deliberation with various stakeholders-professional historians, public consultation, expert committee-deliberation that preceded this decision,” the letter states. The letter highlights the importance of the National Archives as an “invaluable repository of historical documents that pertain to important political, social and cultural developments across the country.” “It belongs as much to India’s diverse citizenry and regions as it does to the sovereign state. Historians from central and state universities from all over India and the world use these papers for their research. We therefore consider your response to be essential to ensure the NAI’s future as an accessible public space for pursuing historical research by scholars and members of a diverse, multi-lingual public,” reads the letter. The historians have also sought a clarification on how long the archives will remain out of bounds for researchers. “Research projects are lined up much in advance, there are deadlines for submitting research papers. We have no clarity yet on how long the archives will remain closed. Research activities will be seriously affected,” Deshpande said. The Centre had earlier stated that the existing building of the National Archives would not be demolished as it was a heritage structure.  However, the annexe building would be replaced. The Union culture minister, Prahlad Singh, had issued a statement on May 20, 2021, to assure  researchers that records would be safely stored and preserved while the annexe was being rebuilding. The government has also remained silent on the deadline for completion of the project, though unnamed officials of the ministry of culture have been reported as saying that the projct could take till 2026 to complete.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-56
16-06-2021||India||Chirag Paswan blames JD(U) for split||Lok Janshakti Party leader Chirag Paswan on Wednesday blamed Janata Dal (United) for engineering the split in his party and rejected the decisions taken by the faction headed by his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras, saying the party's constitution does not authorise them any such power. In his first interaction with media after the split in the party, he struck a combative note by describing himself as "sher ka beta" (lion's son) and asserted that he will fight for the cause of the party founded by his father Ram Vilas Paswan. While blaming the JD(U) for the split, he steered clear of questions regarding the role of the BJP in the development and added that what has happened is also an internal matter for which he will not target others. It is going to be a long battle, he said, as the group headed by him fights the faction of five other party MPs, led by Paras, to claim ownership of the LJP. The JD(U), he alleged, had been working to cause a split in the party even when his father was alive. "A conspiracy was hatched behind my back while I was ill," Paswan claimed. On Tuesday, Chirag contested Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla's decision to name Pashupati Kumar Paras as the leader of the party in the House, saying it is "contrary" to provisions of his organisation. In a letter Paswan had also informed Birla of the party's decision to expel five MPs, who have joined hands against him, and urged the Speaker to review the earlier decision and issue a new circular naming him as the LJP leader in the Lok Sabha. "Since Article 26 of the Constitution of Lok Jan Shakti Party empower Central Parliamentary Board of the party to decide who would be Leader of our Party in Lok Sabha, hence, the decision of announcing Sh. Pashupati Kumar Paras MP as Leader of LJP party in the Lok Sabha is contrary to provision of Constitution of our party," he wrote. Paswan's paternal uncle Paras has been elected as their leader by the five of party's six MPs in place of him. Both factions have now moved to control the party and project their group as the real LJP, founded by Paswan's father Ram Vilas Paswan. While the wing led by Chirag Paswan has expelled the five MPs from the party, the rival group has removed him as its president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-56
16-06-2021||India||Delhi Police moves SC against bail of 3 student activists in riots cases||Delhi Police on Wednesday moved the Supreme Court challenging three separate judgements of the Delhi High Court granting bail to three student activists in last year's north-east Delhi riots cases. The high court on Tuesday had granted bail to two JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita and a Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha saying in its anxiety to suppress dissent, the State has blurred the line between right to protest and terrorist activity and if such a mindset gains traction, it would be a "sad day for democracy". Terming as "somewhat vague" the definition of 'terrorist act' under the stringent UAPA laws and warning against its use in a "cavalier manner", the high court set aside the trial court orders denying bail to the student activists. "We are of the view that the foundations of our nation stand on surer footing than to be likely to be shaken by a protest, however vicious, organised by a tribe of college students or other persons, operating as a coordination committee from the confines of a University situate in the heart of Delhi," the high court had said. In three separate judgements of 113, 83 and 72 pages, the high court had said that although the definition of terrorist act' in section 15 of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) is wide and somewhat vague, it must partake the essential character of terrorism and the phrase terrorist act' cannot be permitted to be applied in a cavalier manner to criminal acts that squarely fall under the IPC. We are constrained to express, that it seems, that in its anxiety to suppress dissent, in the mind of the State, the line between the constitutionally guaranteed right to protest and terrorist activity seems to be getting somewhat blurred. If this mindset gains traction, it would be a sad day for democracy" which would be in peril, the High Court had said, adding there was nothing to show the possible commission of a terrorist act. The high court had directed Pinjra Tod activists Narwal and Kalita and Tanha, who were arrested in May last year in connection with alleged larger conspiracy in the riots, to surrender their passports and not to offer any inducement to prosecution witnesses or tamper with the evidence in the case. The three accused shall not indulge in any unlawful activities and shall reside at the address as mentioned in records, the high court had said. Kalita, Narwal and Tanha are accused in four, three and two cases respectively relating to communal riots that broke out on February 24 last year and will be released from jail now as they have already secured bail in other matters. The high court had said there is absolutely nothing in the charge sheet, by way of any specific allegation to show the possible commission of a terrorist act' within section 15 UAPA, an act of raising funds' to commit a terrorist act under section 17 and an act of conspiracy' to commit or an act preparatory' to commit, a terrorist act within section 18 UAPA. It noted that the charge sheet was filed on September 16, 2020 and there are 740 prosecution witnesses and the trial is yet to commence which is unlikely to begin soon in view of the truncated functioning of courts by reason of the prevailing second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Regarding Narwal and Kalita, the high court had said considering their educational background, profile and position in life, it sees no reason to suspect or apprehend that they are either a flight risk or that they will indulge in evidence tampering, or witness intimidation, or will otherwise impede the trial in any way. It said no specific act is attributed to Narwal, apart from the admitted fact that she engaged herself in organising anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and anti-National Register of Citizens (NRC) protests around the time when violence and rioting broke-out in the certain parts of north-east Delhi. It had said allegations relating to inflammatory speeches, organising of 'chakka jaam', instigating women to protest and to stock-pile various articles and other similar allegations, at worst, are evidence that she participated in organising protests, but there is no specific allegation that she incited violence, what to talk of committing a terrorist act or a conspiracy to commit it. Regarding Kalita, it had noted that as a member of certain women's rights organisations and other groups, she did participate and help organise protests against the CAA and the NRC in Delhi and said the right to protest, which is a fundamental right to assemble peaceably and without arms, is surely not outlawed and cannot be termed as a terrorist act' within the meaning of the UAPA, unless of ingredients of offences are clearly discernible from the allegations. It had added that inflammatory speeches and organising chakka jams are not uncommon when there is widespread opposition to governmental or parliamentary actions. Even if we assume...inflammatory speeches, chakka jams, instigation of women protesters and other actions, to which Kalita is alleged to have been party, crossed the line of peaceful protests permissible under our constitutional guarantee, that however would yet not amount to commission of a terrorist act' or a conspiracy' or an act preparatory' to the commission of a terrorist act...under the UAPA," it had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-56
16-06-2021||India||Centre dispels twisted social media posts on Covaxin||Facts have been "twisted and misrepresented" in some social media posts which suggested that indigenously developed Covaxin contains newborn calf serum, the Union Health Ministry said in a statement on Wednesday. Newborn calf serum is used only for the preparation and growth of vero cells. Serum from bovine and other animals are standard enrichment ingredients used globally for vero cell growth, it said. Vero cells are used to establish cell lives which help in the production of vaccines. This technique has been used for decades in developing vaccines against polio, rabies, and influenza. After growth, the vero cells are washed in water and with chemicals, also technically known as buffer, multiple times to make them free from newborn calf serum. The vero cells are then infected with coronavirus for viral growth, the health ministry said. The vero cells are completely destroyed in the process of viral growth. Thereafter, the grown virus is also killed (inactivated) and purified, it said. The killed or inactivated virus is then used to make the final vaccine. No calf serum is used in the formulation of the final vaccine, according to the statement. "Hence, the final vaccine (Covaxin) does not contain newborn calf serum at all and the calf serum is not an ingredient of the final vaccine product."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-56
16-06-2021||India||Mayawati dismisses reports of BSP MLAs joining Samajwadi Party||A day after reports of some suspended BSP MLAs meeting with SP chief Akhilesh Yadav surfaced, BSP chief Mayawati on Wednesday said it is an illusion. In a series of tweets, she attacked the Samajwadi Party (SP) accusing it of being an expert in "narrow politics". "The Samajwadi Party, which is an expert in narrow politics of despicable manipulations, malice and casteism, is publicising through the media that some BSP MLAs are breaking away to join the SP. This is an intense illusion," she tweeted in Hindi. The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief said that those MLAs were suspended from the party long back for colluding with the SP and an industrialist during the Rajya Sabha elections for defeating a Dalit candidate. She added, "Had the SP been even a bit honest towards these suspended MLAs, it would have not kept them in lurch. The SP knows that if these MLAs join their party, then there will be a rebellion and disunity in SP, whose leaders are eager to cross over to the BSP." "The SP has always been anti-Dalit and they do not want to improve. This is why the SP government had stopped the welfare works undertaken by the BSP. Bhadohi was not made a new district as Sant Ravidas Nagar, which is extremely condemnable," Mayawati said in another tweet. She alleged that the "drama" of publicising the meeting of suspended BSP MLAs with Yadav is a new "stunt" by the SP ahead of the upcoming zila panchayat elections. "BSP has emerged as a party to fulfil the aspirations of the people in Uttar Pradesh and it will continue to do so," she tweeted. On Tuesday, at least five MLAs suspended by the BSP last year met Yadav, triggering speculation that they may join his party. Handia legislator Hakimlal Bind said he, along with Chaudhary Aslam Ali, Mujtaba Siddiqui, Hargovind Bhargav, Aslam Raini and Shushma Patel met the SP chief. The two other suspended legislators are Ramveer Upadhyay and Anil Singh, he said. However, Hargovind Bhargav had told PTI that he was not present at the meeting. "I was in Sidhauli (his Assembly constituency) and did not go there. I also saw my name being flashed on news channels," he said. Mungra Badshahpur MLA Sushma Patel had told PTI, "The meeting with Akhilesh Yadav, which lasted for 15-20 minutes, witnessed discussions on the upcoming UP Assembly elections." When asked about the future course of action, Patel said, "Personally, I have made up my mind to join the Samajwadi Party." In October 2020, seven BSP MLAs were suspended by party president Mayawati. Apart from the MLAs whose name cropped up with regard to the meeting with the SP chief, Vandana Singh is the seventh legislator to be suspended. Earlier this month, Mayawati had expelled BSP's legislative party leader Lalji Verma and Akbarpur MLA Ram Achal Rajbhar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-56
16-06-2021||India||Discussions underway over Covishield dose gap, says NTAGI chief||Discussions are underway whether India should revert to a four or eight weeks interval for the Covishield vaccine and the emerging evidence regarding efficacy of partial versus full immunisation is also being considered, Chairman of India's Covid-19 Working Group of NTAGI, Dr N K, Arora said. He stressed that the decision to increase the gap between two doses of Covishield from 4-6 weeks to 12-16 weeks was based on scientific decision and there was no dissenting voice among the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) members. "Covid-19 and the vaccination are very dynamic. Tomorrow, if the vaccine platform tells us that a narrower interval is better for our people, even if the benefit is 5%-10%, the Committee will take the decision on the basis of merit and its wisdom.On the other hand, if it turns out that the current decision is fine, we will continue with it," Arora said. The decision to increase the gap lay in the fundamental scientific reason regarding behaviour of adenovector vaccines, a Health Ministry statement quoted him as telling DD News. Arora’s statement comes a day after NTAGI scientists, classified by the government as three of the 14 “core members”, said the body did not have enough data to make such a recommendation. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday backed Arora and tweeted, “The decision to increase the gap between administering two doses of Covishield has been taken in a transparent manner based on scientific data. India has a robust mechanism to evaluate data. It is unfortunate that such an important issue is being politicised!” In the last week of April, the data released by Public Health England, United Kingdom's executive agency of the Department of Health, showed that vaccine efficacy varied between 65-88 per cent when interval is 12 weeks. "This was the basis on which they overcame their epidemic outbreak due to the Alpha variant. The UK was able to come out of it because the interval they kept was 12 weeks. We also thought that this is a good idea, since there are fundamental scientific reasons to show that when interval is increased, adenovector vaccines give better response. Hence the decision was taken on May 13, to increase the interval to 12-16 weeks," he said. “This also gives flexibility to the community, since everyone cannot come at precisely 12 weeks or so,” he added. “We have a very open and transparent system where decisions are taken on a scientific basis. The Covid Working Group took that decision, with no dissenting voice. This issue was then discussed threadbare at an NTAGI meeting, again with no dissenting notes. The recommendation was that the vaccine interval has to be 12-16 weeks," he said. Dr Arora said the earlier decision of four weeks was based on the bridging trial data available then. He also cited that the increase in gap between two doses was based on studies that showed higher efficacy with increase in gap. Initial studies on Covishield were very heterogeneous. Some countries like the UK went for a dose interval of 12 weeks when they introduced the vaccine in December 2020, he said. "While we were privy to this data, when we had to decide our interval, we went for four weeks interval based on our bridging trial data which showed good immune response. Later we came across additional scientific and laboratory data, based on which after six weeks or so, we felt we should increase the interval from four weeks to eight weeks, since studies showed that vaccine efficacy is about 57 per cent when it is four weeks and about 60% when it is eight weeks,” he said. On why the NTAGI did not increase the gap earlier to 12 weeks, Arora said,” We decided we should wait for ground-level data from the UK (the other biggest user of AstraZeneca vaccine).” He also said that there were other examples like Canada, Sri Lanka and few other countries that are using the 12-16 weeks interval for AstraZeneca vaccine, which is the same as Covishield vaccine. On the protection from single-dose versus two doses, Dr Arora explained how emerging evidence and reports regarding efficacy of partial versus full immunisation were being considered by NTAGI. “Two-three days after we took the decision to increase the dosage interval, there were reports from UK that single dose of AstraZeneca vaccine gives only 33 per cent protection and two doses give about 60 per cent protection; discussion has been going on since mid-May whether India should revert to four or eight weeks," he said. He also said that it was decided to establish a tracking platform to assess the impact of the vaccination programme. "When NTAGI took this decision, we also decided that India will establish a vaccine tracking platform - to assess not only the impact of the vaccination programme, but also type of vaccine and interval between doses, and what happens when someone is fully/ partially immunized. This is very important in India since around 17-18 crore people have received only one dose, while around 4 crore people have received two doses,” he said. Dr. Arora referred to a study by PGI Chandigarh which compared effectiveness of partial versus full immnunisation. A PGI Chandigarh study very clearly shows that vaccine effectiveness was 75 per cent for both partially immunised and fully immunized. So at least in the short run, effectiveness was similar whether you are partially or fully vaccinated. This was in relation to the Alpha variant which had swept Punjab, Northern India and came to Delhi. This also meant that even if you received only one dose, still you are protected. Results from the CMC Vellore study are similar, he says. “Few days back, another very important study by CMC Vellore, Tamil Nadu which covers most of the current epidemic wave India experienced in April and May, 2021 shows that if somebody is partially immunised, vaccine effectiveness of Covishield is 61% and with two doses, the effectiveness is 65% - and there is very little difference, especially since there is some degree of uncertainty involved in these calculations,” he said. Dr Arora said that besides PGI and CMC Vellore studies, two other studies are coming up from two different organizations within Delhi. And both these studies show that breakthrough infection with one dose is around 4 per cent, and around 5 per cent with two doses, basically hardly any difference. And the other study shows that 1.5- 2 per cent breakthrough infections, he said. Data from various sources will be integrated to assess and report on the impact of various aspects of the vaccination programme, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-56
16-06-2021||India||UP Police book Twitter, journalists in connection with Ghaziabad attack case||The Uttar Pradesh Police have booked microblogging platform Twitter, a news portal and six persons in connection with the circulation of a video in which an elderly Muslim man narrates his ordeal after he was allegedly attacked by some people in Ghaziabad. The FIR, which was lodged at the Loni Border police station in Ghaziabad around 11.30 pm on Tuesday on the basis of a complaint lodged by a local policeman, alleges that the video was shared with an intention to provoke communal unrest. In the video clip, which surfaced on social media on June 14, the elderly Muslim man, Abdul Shamad Saifi, alleges he was thrashed by some young men and asked to chant 'Jai Shri Ram'. However, the Ghaziabad police, who have arrested six persons, including Muslims, have ruled out a communal angle. They said the accused were unhappy about the 'tabeez' (amulet) he had sold to them. The arrested youth have been identified as Kalloo and Adil. Apart from them, Polly, Arif, Mushahid and Parvesh Gurjar were also involved in the incident, Senior Superintendent of Police Amit Pathak said on Tuesday. Later on Tuesday, the police lodged an FIR against Twitter Inc, Twitter Communications India, news website The Wire, journalists Mohammad Zubair and Rana Ayyub, Congress politicians Salman Nizami, Masqoor Usmani, Dr. Sama Mohammad and writer Saba Naqvi for sharing the clip. "These people did not verify the truth of the matter and shared it online with a communal angle with an intention to disrupt public peace and create a divide between religious groups," the FIR states. "Besides this, Twitter Inc and Twitter Communications India also did not take any measures to remove their tweets," it adds. The FIR has been lodged under Indian Penal Code sections 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 153A (promoting enmity between groups on ground of religion, class etc), 295A (Deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious belief), 120B (criminal conspiracy), among others. The move precedes the Union government’s decision of denying Twitter its 'safe harbour' protection in India over non-compliance with IT rules and failure to appoint key personnel mandated under the new guidelines, despite repeated reminders. The platform will now be liable for action under the Indian Penal Code for third party unlawful content, sources said. IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad later in the day said Twitter failed to comply with intermediary guidelines and has "deliberately" chosen the path of non-compliance despite being granted multiple opportunities. Lashing out at the micro-blogging platform over non-compliance, Prasad said that it is "astounding" that Twitter that portrays itself as the flag bearer of free speech, chooses the path of deliberate defiance when it comes to the Intermediary Guidelines. "There are numerous queries arising as to whether Twitter is entitled to safe harbour provision. However, the simple fact of the matter is that Twitter has failed to comply with the Intermediary Guidelines that came into effect from May 26," Prasad said in a series of posts on homegrown microblogging platform Koo. The minister also tweeted on the issue. Prasad asserted that Twitter was given multiple opportunities to comply with the rules, but deliberately chose the path of non-compliance. "Further, what is perplexing is that Twitter fails to address the grievances of users by refusing to set up processes as mandated by the law of the land. Additionally, it chooses a policy of flagging manipulated media, only when it suits its likes and dislikes," he said. The minister said that what happened in Uttar Pradesh was illustrative of Twitter's "arbitrariness" in fighting fake news. "While Twitter has been over-enthusiastic about its fact-checking mechanism, its failure to act in multiple cases like UP is perplexing as well as points towards its inconsistency in fighting misinformation," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-57
16-06-2021||India||India's active Covid caseload falls below 9 lakh after 70 days||A single day rise of 62,224 new coronavirus infections were reported taking India's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 2,96,33,105, while the active cases were recorded below nine lakh after 70 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The COVID-19 death toll climbed to 3,79,573 with 2,542 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases further declined to 8,65,432 comprising 2.92 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 95.80 per cent. A net decline of 47,946 cases has been recorded in the COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 19,30,987 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 38,33,06,971. The daily positivity rate dropped to 3.22 per cent . It has been less than five per cent for nine consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 4.17 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 34th consecutive day.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,83,88,100, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.28 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 26,19,72,014 COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 2,542 new fatalities include 1,458 from Maharashtra, 267 from Tamil Nadu, 166 from Kerala and 115 from Karnataka. A total of 3,79,573 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,14,154 from Maharashtra, 33,148 from Karnataka, 30,068 from Tamil Nadu, 24,851 from Delhi, 21,914 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,049 from West Bengal, 15,650 from Punjab and 13,342 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-57
16-06-2021||India||Twitter loses legal shield in India||Twitter has lost its 'safe harbour' protection in India over non-compliance with IT rules and failure to appoint key personnel mandated under the new guidelines, despite repeated reminders, and the platform will now be liable for action under the Indian Penal Code for third party unlawful content, sources said. Earlier this month, the government had given one last chance to Twitter to comply with the new IT rules, that came into effect on May 26, and had issued a stern warning that failure to adhere to the norms will lead to the platform losing exemption from liability under the IT Act. Sources in the government confirmed that Twitter has lost the safe harbour immunity, as it failed to comply with the IT rules, and appoint key executives under the new guidelines. While the resident grievance officer and the nodal contact person nominated by the company, is not an employee of Twitter Inc in India, the Ministry had also not received any concrete information on Chief Compliance Officer, the name, or details, sources said. Another source said that Twitter's intermediary status and the legal shield it had, ended automatically on May 26, given its non-compliance with new guidelines. Same is true for any other social media platform, which has not complied with the requirement under the IT rules. The government has confronted Twitter over multiple instances in the past months, including during the farmers' protest and later when it tagged political posts of several leaders of the ruling party BJP, as "manipulated media", triggering a sharp rebuke from the Centre. The last flashpoint was the delay in complying with the IT rules that mandate large digital platforms to undertake greater due diligence as well as appoint a grievance officer, a nodal officer and a chief compliance officer. These personnel have to be residents of India. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), on June 5, had said that Twitter's refusal to comply with the rules demonstrated the microblogging site's "lack of commitment and efforts towards providing a safe experience for the people of India on its platform". The IT Ministry had earlier questioned Twitter over not providing information about the Chief Compliance Officer as required under the Rules. Also, the resident grievance officer and the nodal contact person nominated by the company, is not an employee of Twitter Inc in India as prescribed in the rules, the ministry had flagged. When contacted, Twitter did not comment on queries related loss of the intermediary status. Twitter on Tuesday said it has appointed an interim Chief Compliance Officer and the details of the official will be shared directly with the IT Ministry soon. The US-based company had assured the Indian government last week that it is in advanced stages of finalising the appointment of chief compliance officer, and that it would submit additional details within a week. That deadline ended on Monday. A Twitter spokesperson on Tuesday said the company continues to make every effort to comply with the new guidelines, and is keeping the IT Ministry apprised of progress at every step of the process. Meanwhile, the government has contended that the office address in India mentioned by Twitter is that of a law firm, which is also not as per the rules. "Despite being operational in India for more than a decade, it is beyond belief that Twitter Inc has doggedly refused to create mechanism that will enable the people of India to resolve their issues on the platform in a timely and transparent manner and through fair processes, by India based, clearly identified resources," the IT ministry had said in its notice earlier this month. The ministry had on June 5, also said that though with effect from May 26, 2021, "consequences follow" given Twitter's non-compliance with rules "however, as a gesture of goodwill, Twitter Inc is hereby given one last notice to immediately comply with the rules, failing which the exemption from liability available... shall stand withdrawn and Twitter shall be liable for consequences as per the IT Act and other penal laws of India." The Ministry had warned Twitter that non-compliance will lead to "unintended consequences", including Twitter losing exemption from liability as intermediary under the IT Act. Twitter has an estimated 1.75 crore users in India, as per data cited by the government recently. The new IT rules mandate large digital platforms to undertake greater due diligence, and make them more accountable and responsible for the content that is hosted. Social media companies will also have to take down flagged content within 36 hours, and remove within 24 hours content that is flagged for issues such as nudity and pornography under the new rules.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-57
16-06-2021||India||Kashmiri activist jailed for airing misgivings on outsiders||A Kashmiri activist has been jailed after an IAS officer from outside the state took exception to his declaration that he had no expectations from such officials, bringing into sharp focus the fault lines that mark the Centre’s assimilation policy that followed the revocation of the special status. Ganderbal activist Sajad Rashid Sofi, former sarpanch and son of a retired police officer, was booked on June 10 on the charge of prompting enmity between different groups and under some other sections of the IPC. Sofi is alleged to have offended Ganderbal deputy commissioner Krittika Jyotsna during a Janata Darbar on June 10. By evening, he was in jail. A court granted Sofi, 50, bail on June 12 but the police added two more charges and he continues to be imprisoned, his associates said. The incident comes at a time complaints have been aired that the administration has been increasingly sidelining Kashmiri officials in the Valley after Article 370 was diluted in 2019. CPM state secretary Mohamad Yousuf Tarigami on Tuesday said the arrest of the activist was “an unwarranted and brazen violation of fundamental rights”. Unlike many Kashmiris, Sofi and his associates from Safapora village of Ganderbal have been regularly participating in the Janata Darbars, a public outreach programme aimed at building bridges after the special status and statehood were revoked. The participants are supposed to speak their mind during such events, and Sofi did that, only to land in jail. At last Thursday’s event, lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha’s adviser Baseer Khan was in Ganderbal to listen to the grievances of the residents. During an interaction, Sofi, who headed a delegation from Safapora, is reported to have told the adviser that he could have expectations from the official as he was a Kashmiri. “I can grab you by the collar and seek answers. But what expectations can I have from officers who are not from the state?” a source quoted Sofi as having said at the meeting. Jyotsna, a 2014-batch IAS officer who was recently sent on deputation to Jammu and Kashmir from Uttar Pradesh along with her husband, who too is an IAS officer, was apparently angered by the remarks. A police report said Jyotsna stood up and “strongly objected”. Jyotsna was not available for comment to this newspaper. Ganderbal police chief Suhail Munawar Mir said he “will not comment” on the matter. Safapora sarpanch Sheikh Mehraj, who was part of Thursday’s meeting with the adviser, said Sofi was summoned in the same afternoon by the police. “During the day, he was arrested. He was released in the evening but re-arrested at 10.30pm from his home. An FIR was lodged well past midnight,” Mehraj said. “On Saturday, a local court granted him bail. When we approached the SHO with the bail, he asked us to approach the SSP. But he was not released.” An associate of Sofi, who pleaded anonymity, told The Telegraph: “For the past five days he has been in jail. The police have refused to honour the bail granted by a court. A delegation of village elders on Saturday went to deputy commissioner madam and told her that it was a slip of the tongue.” Sofi’s associate added: “An elderly man in the delegation told her that he saw her as a daughter and asked whether she would not respond to a request from a father-like figure. Initially, she was unmoved but later assured us help. But he continues to be in jail.” The Safapora sarpanch said that after the court granted bail, the police added two more charges (abetment and joining assembly likely to cause disturbance in peace) to the case. Safapora block development council member Gowhar Reshi said: “I think many people would now hesitate to participate in such meetings. If he can be arrested, so can others. “We had gone to the meeting with our longstanding demands, like the establishment of a college and upgrade of a hospital.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-57
16-06-2021||India||Delhi riots: HC grants bail to three activists charged under UAPA||The State’s anxiety to suppress dissent is somewhat blurring in its mind the line between the constitutionally guaranteed right to protest and terrorist activity, Delhi High Court said on Tuesday while granting bail to three student anti-CAA protesters charged under the anti-terror law UAPA. “If this mindset gains traction, it would be a sad day for democracy,” the division bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup Jairam Bhambhani said. The court granted bail to JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, and Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha. The bench questioned the purported evidence furnished by the police against the trio, arrested in April last year and charged with inciting the February 2020 communal riots in Delhi after they participated in protests against the new citizenship matrix. Natasha, 32, Devangana, 31, and Tanha, 25, were all implicated in several cases. The trial courts had withheld regular bail only in the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act case. In its order on Natasha’s bail, the bench said: “Allegations relating to inflammatory speeches, organising of chakka jaam, instigating women to protest and to stockpile various articles and other similar allegations, in our view, at worst, are evidence that the appellant participated in organising protests, but we can discern no specific or particularised allegation, much less any material to bear out the allegation, that the appellant incited violence, what to talk of committing a terrorist act or a conspiracy or act preparatory to the commission of a terrorist act as understood in the UAPA.” It added: “We are constrained to express, that it seems, that in its anxiety to suppress dissent, in the mind of the State, the line between the constitutionally guaranteed right to protest and terrorist activity seems to be getting somewhat blurred. If this mindset gains traction, it would be a sad day for democracy.” The court said it was not convinced by any of the purported evidence against the three. About the two women —  members of the Pinjra Tod feminist student group —  it observed that the allegations “are not even borne out from the material on which they are based”. Granting bail to Devangana, the court said: “We are afraid, that in our opinion, shorn off the superfluous verbiage, hyperbole and the stretched inferences drawn from them by the prosecuting agency, the factual allegations made against the appellant do not prima facie disclose the commission of any offence under sections 15, 17 and/or 18 of the UAPA.” All three students were granted bail against personal bonds of Rs 50,000, two local sureties of the same amount and other routine conditions such as surrender of their passports. Tanha, a member of the Jamaat-e-Islami Hind’s Students Islamic Organisation (SIO), has for the past week been held in a hotel room in south Delhi’s Nehru Place under an “interim custody bail” so he can take his examinations. Devangana and Natasha are in Tihar jail. Natasha had been granted three weeks’ bail in May to attend to the last rites of her father and CPM activist Mahavir Narwal, who had died of Covid. She returned to prison after the three weeks. Granting bail to Tanha, the court said: “… as we speak now these are mere allegations and, as discussed above, we are not convinced prima facie of the veracity of the allegations so made.” A police source said the force would challenge the high court ruling in the Supreme Court. Charges have been framed against 15 people, including six students, in the terrorism case. Of them, only Jamia's Safoora Zargar had till now received regular bail, granted on medical grounds of pregnancy. The CPM politburo said in a statement: “The court has shown the mirror to the government. This applies to numerous cases in which any form of dissent is termed anti-national and individuals are bullied, intimidated, threatened, imprisoned under UAPA and laws of sedition.” Hailing the judgment, the politburo demanded “that the government apply this standard to all the false cases and release all political prisoners”. The high court said the phrase “terrorist act” cannot be applied in a “cavalier manner” to criminal acts that fall under the ambit of the Indian Penal Code. “Where court finds that an act or omission is adequately addressed and dealt with by the ordinary penal law of the land, the court must not countenance a State agency ‘crying wolf’,” the bench said in the order on Natasha's bail. “Since courts often tend to fall into this error, it is extremely important to bear in mind the words of the Supreme Court that grant of bail cannot be thwarted merely by asserting that an offence is grave, since the gravity of the offence can only beget the length of the sentence, which may be awarded upon conclusion of the trial.” Both the BJP-led Centre and the Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government had sanctioned the prosecution, as required under the UAPA. Former Congress municipal councillor Ishrat Jahan and suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain are among those jailed in the terror case. On Tuesday, the Students Islamic Organisation said: “We are glad that the honourable court called out the hollowness of the bogus conspiracy charges against young activists.” “We hope that this verdict will serve as a precedent in curbing the long and unjust incarceration of innocent persons under draconian laws. We pray to Almighty that all the political prisoners languishing in jail will be acquitted and released soon, and the true culprits of the Delhi pogrom will face justice.” The CPIML Liberation’s All India Students' Association said: “Taking cognisance of the spirit of the Delhi HC order upholding the right to protest and democracy, the judiciary should intervene and free Anand Teltumbde, Sudha Bharadwaj, father Stan Swamy and other political prisoners arrested under UAPA in the Bhima Koregaon case.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-57
16-06-2021||India||Covid: Health authorities failed to respond to variant warning||A veteran public health expert warned top Indian officials in early March that a new variant of the coronavirus was spreading quickly in a rural district in Maharashtra and that the outbreak required urgent attention. Federal health authorities failed to respond adequately to that warning, Dr Subhash Salunke, who has 30 years of experience in public health in India, Indonesia and the US, told Reuters. The variant, now known as B.1.617, triggered a catastrophic wave of coronavirus cases in India and has since spread to more than 40 other countries. In May, the World Health Organisation (WHO) termed it a “variant of concern”, citing its high transmissibility. Salunke, a former WHO official advising the Maharashtra government, said he alerted some of India’s most senior health officials in early March, speaking on the telephone to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s main coronavirus adviser, V.K. Paul, and the head of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Sujeet Kumar Singh. In response to Reuters’ questions, Paul said he had spoken with Salunke but described the conversation as Salunke conveying information rather than issuing a warning. The variant’s first impact had been detected months earlier in Maharashtra’s Amravati district, where health authorities recorded a rapid increase in coronavirus infections in early February, even as cases fell elsewhere in India. Salunke told Reuters he had warned both Paul and Singh that the virus was showing signs of mutating in Amravati, that its transmissibility was increasing, and requested federal help in sequencing more samples to establish how the variant was behaving. Reuters could not independently confirm what was said in those conversations. “In spite of a public health person like me giving them a sound warning, they did not take heed,” Salunke told Reuters. Paul rejected Salunke’s accusation that he did not take heed, saying he had requested that India’s National Institute of Virology (NIV) study the variant more closely, and told the Maharashtra government to intensify its existing response to the virus. Reuters could not determine if the NIV carried out any such study. The NIV directed Reuters’ questions to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which did not respond. The government strengthened the sequencing and clinico-epidemiological studies, Paul told Reuters. The government intensely, repeatedly, from multiple fora, emphasised the need for containment using all the tools even more vigorously and optimising testing. The NCDC’s Singh and the Union health ministry did not respond to questions from Reuters about Salunke’s warning. Despite Salunke’s flagging of the problem, and a further warning in early March from a forum of scientific advisers that the new variant was taking hold in the country, the central government allowed election rallies, religious festivals and other mass gatherings to proceed, and failed to take measures to halt the spread of the virus. Within 80 days, the variant went from Amravati to dozens of countries around the world, including the UK, US and Singapore, presenting a setback to global efforts to contain the disease. It is impossible to say exactly how many infections in each country have been caused by the new variant, because very few samples from positive tests have been sequenced. US authorities estimated last week that the variant accounted for 6 per cent of coronavirus infections there. In India, the dramatic rise in infection numbers from April onwards — partly driven by the variant, according to public health studies — overwhelmed the country’s health system, causing hospitals to run out of beds and oxygen and causing crematoriums and graveyards to overflow. India’s health minister, Harsh Vardhan, said last month that the variant had been identified in about 20 per cent of samples in the country that had been sequenced. In late January, when India’s daily count of coronavirus infections had fallen to around 12,000, Modi had all but declared victory at a World Economic Forum event, saying the country had “saved humanity from a big disaster by containing coronavirus effectively”. That sense of optimism was sweeping large parts of India, including Amravati, where cases had dropped to a trickle, according to local health officials. The district, home to 2.9 million people, had reported only dozens of Covid-19 cases daily through much of January, according to government data. “Everyone was relaxed,” said Shyamsunder Nikam, Amravati’s civil surgeon, who supervises public health matters in the district. But case numbers started suddenly rising in late January, alarming Nikam and other local officials. New infections rose to around 200 a day by February 7 and reached 430 a day a week later, as the virus tore through the district’s rural interior that had been largely unscathed during India’s first wave in 2020. A task force set up by the Maharashtra government to guide its pandemic response ordered a probe. Dr Rajesh Karyakarte, who was part of the investigation, said he analysed four positive samples from the region and found they all contained a mutation called E484Q, a sign that a variant was likely at play. Karyakarte told Reuters he had presented the findings to the Maharashtra task force in a videoconference on February 16. Reuters could not independently confirm if he had done so or how the task force responded. Dr Tatyarao Lahane, a member of the task force, did not respond to questions from Reuters. The discovery of the new mutation and spiking case numbers in Amravati alarmed Salunke. He said he travelled to Amravati in late February and conducted coronavirus tests on nearly 700 people. Around half of them turned out positive for Covid-19. Within a few days, he told Reuters, state health authorities sent samples from Amravati to the NCDC for further genetic sequencing to establish if a variant was present. The NCDC did not respond to questions from Reuters about what it did with those samples. Meanwhile, Union health officials played down the potential role of new variants in the spike of infections. “There is no direct relation between the recent surge in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra and some other states with the mutant virus strains N440K and E484Q of Covid-19,” India’s health ministry said in a media statement on February 23. According to Modi’s coronavirus adviser Paul, that assessment had been based on the data authorities had at the time. “We knew that something had been spotted but we didn’t know the significance thereof at that point,” Paul told Reuters. “The true significance of variants emerges with time. Scientific data has now led us to understand the role of these variants.” In late February, central and local officials had a meeting to discuss the spike in Amravati, according to a senior government scientist who attended it. At the meeting, Maharashtra’s state surveillance officer, Dr Pradip Awate, said the rise in cases owed to voters flocking to local elections held in January rather than any kind of new variant, the scientist who attended the meeting told Reuters. Central officials, including some from the Indian Council of Medical Research, appeared convinced by that explanation and did not press for further investigation, the scientist said. “At that time there was certain confusion,” Awate told Reuters, which made it hard to assess exactly why cases were rising. The emergence of the new variant was not treated with the urgency it deserved, said Salunke. “What happened in Maharashtra is a natural phenomenon. And it should have been addressed on a war footing, as an absolute emergency,” he said. “It was ignored and the entire focus was on the elections,” he added, referring to a series of state elections held through March and April, drawing crowds of thousands to rallies by Modi’s party as well as Opposition politicians. Missing the rise of the variant in Amravati in late February was a “major mistake”, said the scientist who attended the Maharashtra meeting. State health official Awate said Maharashtra could have imposed stricter lockdowns and restricted inter-district travel much sooner. Instead, lockdowns were imposed in Maharashtra and other major cities such as New Delhi only in mid-to-late April. Between March and April, the Union government allowed the Kumbh Mela to proceed, drawing millions of people from around the country for a holy dip in the Ganga, many of whom travelled back home carrying the virus, according to public health officials. Even as it spread across India, the variant was carried to other countries where too it sparked a rash of cases. In Britain, a related variant — called B.1.617.2 or Delta by the WHO — was found in areas where many people travel back and forth to India, according to experts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-57
16-06-2021||India||'Murderous attack' on Aam Aadmi Party MP's home||Unidentified men on Tuesday defaced the nameplate at the residence of an Aam Aadmi Party MP who had released documents to the media alleging fraud in the purchase of land for construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. In his complaint to police, AAP Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh said that a “murderous attack” was attempted on him at his North Avenue residence at the behest of unnamed BJP members, at noon. “I was speaking to some people on my lawn when the assailants started raising slogans such as ‘Shoot Sanjay Singh’ and ‘Death to Sanjay Singh’, while advancing towards the door, attempting to break the nameplate and blacken it. The people with me caught two of the attackers and handed them over to North Avenue police station nearby,” Singh’s complaint said. He said after he revealed the fraud and named Ayodhya mayor Rishikesh Upadhyay of the BJP, “… many BJP leaders and IT cell members gave inflammatory statements against me and incited people to make an attempt on my life”. Deputy commissioner of police, New Delhi, Deepak Yadav tweeted, “An attempt was made to deface the name plate at the residence of Shri Sanjay Singh, MP. Two persons have been detained in this regard. No physical injury has been caused to any one. Further investigation is on.” Champat Rai, general secretary of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, had dismissed the allegations of a scam as “misleading”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-57
16-06-2021||India||India-China: New Delhi still silent on restoring status quo along LAC||A year to the day after 20 Indian soldiers died in the Galwan Valley trying to get Chinese intruders to “disengage”, New Delhi remains silent on any restoration of status quo along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh. A ground assessment by Indian forces suggests only a “partial” disengagement by the Chinese from the Galwan Valley and the Pangong Lake along with a massive Chinese build-up at the remaining friction points: the Depsang Plains, Hot Springs and Gogra. On June 15 last year, 20 Indian soldiers had died in the Galwan Valley. The Indians inflicted an unspecified number of casualties on the Chinese. The Indian casualties included the commanding officer, Colonel B. Santosh Babu, and the deaths occurred  during hand-to-hand combat with the Chinese during a “de-escalation process” in the Galwan Valley. Four days later, Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared that no one had intruded into India or occupied Indian territory – a remark never retracted or properly explained and one that Beijing has exploited to call India the transgressor and claim ownership of all the territory under Chinese occupation. “It’s been a year since 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a clash with the Chinese army but the government has so far not provided any clarity on what exactly happened that day. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has rarely named China since then,” a retired lieutenant general said regretfully. China, he recalled, had claimed sovereignty over the entire Galwan Valley after the clash and blamed India for the skirmish. The veteran told The Telegraph that the Galwan Valley had been a settled area on the Indian side of the frontier since the 1962 war, until Chinese troops intruded into the area in May last year. “But our Prime Minister has stuck to his no-intrusion claim,” he said. Modi had told an all-party meeting on June 19: “Neither has anyone intruded into our frontier there, nor is any intruder there, nor is any of our posts occupied by someone else.” Later, under disengagement processes that belied Modi’s no-intrusion claim, the Chinese retreated partially in the Galwan Valley and the Pangong Lake while remaining well within India-claimed lines. In a trade-off seen by veterans as capitulation, Indian troops moved back by the same distance within India-claimed territory, prompting charges that the government was handing over further territory to the Chinese on a platter. A veteran on Tuesday said the Chinese continued to occupy areas within India-claimed lines also at Hot Springs and Gogra and the strategically crucial Depsang Plains, where they were preventing Indian patrols from accessing the Line of Control. “It seems the restoration of status quo ante (to April 2020 positions) at the LAC is not the Indian government’s priority at the moment. There has been no visible urgency to resolve the border standoff,” he said. Eleven rounds of military talks have taken place without any breakthrough. India’s government and army statements, released after each round of talks, have in recent months dropped any reference to the demand for restoration of status quo ante – an omission questioned by many veterans and security experts. China’s army has continued to strengthen its positions on the Depsang Plains and in Gogra and Hot Springs by setting up additional military camps inside India-claimed lines. Indian Army sources say a delay in getting high-speed boats is making surveillance difficult at the nearly 140km long and 7-8km wide Pangong Lake, of which China controls two-thirds. “That we still haven’t provided enough high-speed boats to the army to patrol the crucial Pangong Lake shows our lack of intent even after losing territory to the Chinese,” a retired colonel said. An army official said: “We hope to get delivery (of the high-speed boats) in the next couple of months.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-57
16-06-2021||India||Covishield: Govt decision to increase dose gap raises questions||The Indian government doubled the gap between the two doses of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine without the agreement of the scientific group that it said recommended the increase, three members of the advisory body told Reuters. The Union health ministry had announced the decision to change the gap between doses of Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, from six-eight weeks to 12-16 weeks on May 13, at a time when supplies of the shot were falling short of demand and infections were surging across the country. The ministry said the extended gap was recommended by the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), based on real-life evidence mainly from the UK. Yet the NTAGI scientists, classified by the government as three of the 14 “core members”, said the body did not have enough data to make such a recommendation. M.D. Gupte, a former director of the state-run National Institute of Epidemiology, said the NTAGI had backed increasing the dosing interval to 8-12 weeks — the gap advised by the World Health Organisation. But he added that the group had no data concerning the effects of a gap beyond 12 weeks. “Eight to 12 weeks is something we all accepted, 12 to 16 weeks is something the government has come out with,” he added. “This may be all right, may not be. We have no information on that.” This was echoed by his NTAGI colleague Mathew Varghese, who said the group’s recommendation was only for eight to 12 weeks. The health ministry, citing the head of NTAGI’s working group on Covid-19, said the dosing decision was based on scientific evidence. “There was no dissenting voices among the NTAGI members,” it tweeted on Tuesday. The ministry’s statement on May 13 said that it had accepted the 12-16 weeks’ recommendation from NTAGI’s Covid working group, as had a group of mainly government officials tasked with vaccine administration, known as NEGVAC (National Expert Group for Vaccine Administration of Covid-19). Government health officials told a news meet on May 15 the gap was not increased to address a vaccine shortage but was a “scientific decision”. J.P. Muliyil, a member of the seven-strong Covid working group, said there had been discussions within the NTAGI on increasing the vaccine dosage interval but that the body had not recommended 12-16 weeks. “That specific number was not quoted,” he said, without elaborating. N.K. Arora, head of the Covid working group, declined to comment on its recommendations but said all decisions were taken collectively by the NTAGI at large. A NEGVAC representative said it “respects the decisions of the NTAGI and use them for our work”, declining to elaborate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-57
16-06-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Trade unions to hold demonstrations on June 26 ||Ten central trade unions on Tuesday asked their members to hold demonstrations on June 26 to support the farmers’ agitation against the new farm laws. Farmers under the banner of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions, are protesting since November 26, 2020, against the three farm laws. The 10 central trade unions have been supporting the farmers’ agitation from the beginning. On June 26, farmer unions will hold sit-ins at Raj Bhavans and in front of offices of district collectors across the country to mark the completion of seven months of the agitation. The trade unions also demanded a legal guarantee for the minimum support price for farm produce. The trade unions, including the Congress-backed Indian National Trade Union Congress, the CPM-affiliated Centre of Indian Trade Unions and the CPI-backed All India Trade Union Congress, also demanded repeal of the four labour laws brought by the Narendra Modi government. “The labour laws brought by the central government are equally dangerous like the farm laws. The labour laws do not protect the workers but serve the interest of the rich corporates,” said A.R. Sindhu, Citu general secretary. Last year, Parliament passed the labour laws on health and safety standards, social security and industrial relations. In 2019, Parliament had passed a law on wages. All these laws have some stringent provisions allowing companies engaging up to 300 workers to sack employees without approval of government. The law on social security seeks to ensure security measures but there is no clear provision for funding. In India, 90 per cent of workforce are not covered under any social security scheme. The unions also demanded a monthly assistance of Rs 7,500 to every non-income-tax-paying family in addition to 10kg of food grains till the Covid crisis gets over. “The working class today has no work and no income. They are struggling to buy food and essential commodities. The government must provide each family Rs 7,500 for a few months till the economic activities return to normal,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-57
16-06-2021||India||Congress asks NSDL and Sebi to publicize Adani investor data||The Congress on Tuesday asked National Securities Depository Ltd (NSDL) and Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) to place before the nation full facts about the Mauritius-based overseas funds that had invested in the Adani group and whose demat accounts are reported to have been frozen. Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said: “The NSDL and Sebi should come out with a complete disclosure about the nature of these funds, ultimate beneficial ownership of these funds, the findings of their inquiry (if any), what securities these funds hold and why were their accounts frozen? We also ask the government to order an investigation by the Enforcement Directorate if the Sebi’s ongoing investigation has revealed any irregularities with regard to price manipulation of Adani group stocks.” Referring to reports about the NSDL freezing the demat accounts of three overseas funds — Albula Investment Fund, Cresta Fund and APMS Investment Fund — that have invested in Adani group companies, Vallabh said: “Why has the NSDL, which is under the jurisdiction of the ministry of finance, not come out with a public statement in the middle of all the confusion, whether accounts of these funds pertaining to their investments in the Adani group companies have been frozen and which ones are active? The Sebi and NSDL should reveal the nature and background details of these three foreign funds, who are the ultimate beneficial owners of these funds that have greater than 95 per cent of their net worth due to Adani shares only, and what have the Sebi and NSDL uncovered already about these funds?” Adani Enterprises on Monday afternoon said the demat accounts through which these funds held their investments in the group’s companies had not been frozen. “Why three other Adani group companies, where these funds have an investment, have not come out with a statement?” Vallabh asked. These three funds together own over Rs 43,500 crore worth of shares in four Adani group companies, he added. Pointing out that these funds are all registered at the same address in Port Louis, Mauritius, but do not have websites, Vallabh said: “These funds derive more than 95 per cent of their net worth from their investments in the Adani group companies. As per Sebi guidelines, a foreign portfolio investor (FPI) can’t hold more than 10 per cent equity stake in any listed Indian firm. It is important to understand the ultimate beneficial ownership of these funds as they all have the same address and don’t even have websites that raises the suspicion further.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-58
16-06-2021||India||Supreme Court quashes murder case against two Italian marines||The Supreme Court on Tuesday quashed the murder case against the two Italian marines in the 2012 shooting of two Kerala fishermen after Italy deposited the entire Rs 10 crore compensation agreed at an international tribunal. The Centre and the Kerala government too assured the top court that the criminal case against the marines would be pursued in Italy, as ordered by the international tribunal. Of the Rs 10 crore, Rs 4 crore each would be paid to the families of the slain fishermen, the bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and M.R. Shah said. The owner of the boat will receive the remaining Rs 2 crore, the bench added while disposing of a joint application moved by the Centre, Kerala and Italy seeking the quashing of all the criminal charges. The apex court also took into consideration the consent of the families of the deceased. It said that after the compensation is paid to the families, “their interest is also required to be protected so that the amount of compensation paid to them is not frittered away, by investing the amount in the name of the dependents/heirs of each deceased in a fixed deposit in a nationalised bank for some time and they will be paid the periodical interest accrued thereon”. The bench requested the Kerala High Court chief justice to “ensure that the compensation is duly received by the heirs and not diverted/misappropriated”. It “directed that the Union of India, Republic of Italy and the state of Kerala shall cooperate with each other in pursuit of that (Italian) investigation”. On February 15, 2012, the two victims were fishing off the Kerala coast when they were allegedly shot dead by Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone from the passing Italian merchant ship M.V. Enrica Lexie. The two marines were guarding the ship and allegedly mistook the two fishermen for pirates. As the Kerala government got the Italian ship to dock at Kochi, arrested the two marines and registered a case of murder and other offences, India and Italy got involved in a diplomatic face-off. The two marines were eventually allowed to return to Italy on humanitarian grounds. On May 21 last year, the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea under the United Nationals Convention on the Law of the Sea ruled that India had no territorial jurisdiction to deal with the offence. But it recorded an undertaking from Italy that it would resume its criminal investigation into the killings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-58
16-06-2021||India||Lakshadweep: Aisha Sultana bail hearing on Thursday||Kerala High Court has posted the anticipatory bail plea hearing of Lakshadweep filmmaker Aisha Sultana for Thursday as requested by her counsel since she has been asked to appear before Kavaratti police on Sunday in a sedition case. Considering the plea, the court directed the Lakshadweep police to inform its view and posted the matter for Thursday for further consideration. In her plea, Sulthana submitted that she has been directed to appear at the police headquarters at Kavaratti, Lakshadweep on June 20 for interrogation. She submitted that there is a possibility of her arrest, if she reaches Kavaratti. Sulthana was booked on June 10 on sedition charges following a complaint by a BJP leader that she spread false news about the spread of Covid-19 in the union territory during a TV debate. The complaint was filed by the BJP's Lakshadweep unit president Abdul Khader. Sulthana hails from Chetiath island in Lakshadweep. According to the FIR lodged by the Kavaratti police, a case under sections 124 A (sedition) and 153 B (hate speech) of the Indian Penal code has been registered against the filmmaker.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-58
16-06-2021||India||Covid: Health ministry records India’s first vaccine-related death||The Union health ministry has recorded the country’s first vaccine-related death since the start of the Covid-19 vaccination campaign and classified seven post-vaccination deaths as “indeterminate”, meaning there is no evidence to link them to the vaccines. A 68-year-old man died following anaphylaxis, a rare but severe allergic reaction, after receiving a Covishield dose on March 8. This was part of the findings of investigations into 28 deaths, all occurring within March 31, by a national panel on the adverse effects following immunisation (AEFIs.) An anaphylactic reaction can be triggered by exposure to something one’s allergic to, among them peanuts, shellfish, bee stings, penicillin, even aspirin, milk or the latex in gloves or balloons. Every vaccination site is expected to have an emergency medicine called epinephrine to be administered immediately if a vaccine recipient shows any symptoms of anaphylaxis such as itching, low blood pressure, a swollen tongue or throat, or breathing trouble. The AEFI panel has classified 18 of the other 27 deaths as coincidental, for which there were clear causes other than vaccination, and two as unclassifiable for which there was not enough evidence for a diagnosis owing to “missing crucial information”.Health officials have asserted that the Covid-19 vaccines are safe and that the data on AEFIs, released as part of a transparent reporting process following investigation into the events, should not be used to create any doubts about the vaccines. “The vaccines fulfil the criteria of huge, huge safety,” said Vinod Paul, chair of the national advisory panel on Covid-19 vaccination policy. The information on AEFIs being “truthfully presented should not be used to create any doubts about vaccines”, he said. The ministry released data on 31 serious AEFIs, including 28 deaths and three hospitalisations that were followed by recoveries assessed by the AEFI panel. The ministry said the vaccination campaign had, since its start on January 16 till June 7, administered over 235 million doses and received reports of 488 deaths. This translates into 0.0002 per cent deaths, which is “within the death rates expected in the population”. For a comparison, the US had between December 14 last year and June 7 administered 302 million vaccine doses. During this period its vaccine adverse events reporting system received reports of 5,208 deaths, or about 0.0017 per cent.Immunisation advisers have underlined that the mere reporting of adverse events does not imply the events were caused by vaccines, and the serious events, including deaths, may be coincidental in people with diagnosed or undiagnosed health disorders. “The minuscule risk is negligible, almost non-existent,” Paul said, asserting that the one anaphylaxis-linked death should be viewed through a public health perspective where the gains of vaccines far outweigh their small risks. “It is unfortunate if such reactions occur, but this should not be a reason for creating any doubts,” he added.Two of the three AEFI patients who recovered had suffered anaphylactic reactions. The AEFI document released by the ministry did not provide details of the circumstances under which the 68-year-old died after anaphylaxis. Seven of the 28 deaths were indeterminate, implying the reactions occurred soon after vaccination but there was no definitive evidence in the medical literature or clinical trial data to link them to the vaccine. “Further observations, analysis and studies are required,” the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-58
16-06-2021||India||Covid: Odisha govt plea to Centre for higher allocation of vaccines||The Odisha government has urged the Centre to revise the ratio of vaccine allotment for government and private hospitals in view of low presence of private healthcare sector in Odisha. Odisha has sought an increase of the government’s share of Covid-19 vaccine and demanded that the ratio of vaccine allocation between the state government and private hospitals be revised to 95:5 instead of existing 75: 25. “You are aware that in Odisha the presence of private hospitals is very low and limited to only about 5 per cent of the total healthcare sector in the state. “Hence it is apprehended that as per the existing guidelines, Odisha will lose out on its proportionate share of 25 per cent allocation of vaccines to the private sector,” said additional chief secretary, family and health welfare P.K. Mohapatra in his letter to the Union secretary, ministry of health and family welfare. According to the new guidelines issued by the Centre on June 8, 25 per cent of the monthly production of vaccines by domestic manufactures can be directly procured by private hospitals. The new guidelines of the Centre will come into effect from June 21 across the country. The state government also informed the Centre that only four private hospitals in the state have so far been able to procure vaccines directly from the manufacturers. “We have asked the Centre that the share of the private sector may be handed over to the state government for subsequent mobilisation and allocation to private hospitals,” additional chief secretary Mohapatra told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-58
16-06-2021||West Bengal||TMC accuses Governor of violating constitutional norms||The ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal on Wednesday accused Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, who is on a visit to New Delhi, of violating constitutional norms and asked him not to return to the state. The BJP, on the other hand, alleged that it is the TMC which has no respect for the Constitution and asked the Mamata Banerjee-led party to respect constitutional posts. Dhankhar, who shares a strained relationship with the state government, went to the national capital on Wednesday night for a four-day trip. He had not specified any reason for the visit. However, on Wednesday, the governor said he met Union ministers Prahlad Joshi and Prahlad Singh Patel. "Had useful interaction with Union Minister of Coal, Mines and Parliamentary Affairs of India @JoshiPralhad on varied issues," he tweeted. In another Twitter post, Dhankhar said, "Had useful deliberations with Union Minister for Culture, Tourism @prahladspatel Prahlad Singh Patel @MinOfCultureGoI on issues pertaining Victoria Memorial @victoriamemkol, Indian Museum @IndianMuseumKol @ezcckolkata @asiatic_society aimed at enhancing impact of these bodies." Senior TMC leader and party spokesperson Sougata Ray lashed out at Dhankhar for allegedly violating constitutional norms and not taking the state government into confidence over various decisions and statements he has made in the recent past. "We have never seen such a governor who has no regard for the Constitution and its norms. He has been violating every constitutional norm. "According to our Constitution, the governor is supposed to act as per the instructions of the council of ministers headed by the chief minister. But he doesnt follow any such norm and acts as per his whims and fancies," Ray said. He wondered why he has gone to Delhi and is meeting union ministers. Ray's party colleague and MP, Mahua Moitra, asked Dhankar not to return to the state. "Uncleji going to Delhi on June 15th he says... Do us a favour WB Governor Sahib - don't come back," she said in a tweet. The governor went to Delhi a day after a delegation of BJP MLAs petitioned him for alleged deterioration of the law and order situation in the state. Hours before his departure to the national capital, Dhankhar wrote a letter to Chief Minister Mamata accusing her of being silent over post-poll violence in the state and not taking steps to rehabilitate the suffering people". He shared the letter on Twitter and the state Home Department criticised the move claiming that it was violative of all established norms. West Bengal BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu supported Dhankhar and charged the TMC with not respecting the constitutional post. "The governor has done nothing unconstitutional. He has been working as per norms. It is the TMC and the state government which have been doing all sorts of unconstitutional things. Before talking about norms, the TMC should first learn to respect the chair," Basu said. The TMC has shared an acrimonious relation with Dhankhar since its previous term in the government when he assumed office in July 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-22
16-06-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta Police questions Mithun Chakraborty over 'inciteful speech'||The Calcutta Police on Wednesday began virtually questioning actor-turned-BJP leader Mithun Chakraborty in connection with a complaint accusing him of inciting post-poll violence in West Bengal through his speeches. Officers of the Manicktala police station in north Calcutta began questioning the actor, who is currently in Pune, at 10.20 am. "Till the last information was received, the questioning was still underway," an officer told PTI. An FIR lodged at the police station alleged that the actor had used dialogues like 'Marbo ekhane lash porbe shoshane' (Will hit you here and the body will land in the crematorium) and 'Ek chobole chobi' (A snakebite will turn you into a photograph, meaning will kill you) at a rally here after joining the BJP on March 7. The complainant alleged that these dialogues caused post-poll violence in the state. The Calcutta High Court had directed Chakraborty to provide his email address to the state so that he can make himself available by way of video conference for questioning in connection with the complaint where he has been accused of promoting enmity between different groups, an intentional insult to provoke breach of peace, and making statements conducing to public mischief. Clashes were reported from several parts of the state following the declaration of assembly poll results on May 2, in which the Trinamool Congress returned to power for the third time. On prayers by the lawyers of the petitioner and the prosecution on Friday for taking up the matter on a later date, the court fixed the matter for hearing on June 18. Chakraborty had filed the petition before the high court seeking quashing of the case registered against him for alleged incitement to post-poll violence through his speeches, wherein he had uttered popular dialogues from his films. The actor had claimed that the utterances of such film dialogues were only recreational and that he is innocent and in no way connected with any offence as alleged by the complainant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-23
16-06-2021||West Bengal||11-year-old abducted boy rescued after three days from Murshidabad||An 11-year-old boy who was abducted from a village in South Dinajpur on June 11 was rescued from Murshidabad district on Monday. Police sources said the Class V student, son of trader who hails from Berapukur village, was kidnapped  by Mohammad Feroz and his wife. The couple had stayed as tenants at the boy’s house. Jahangir Alam, the boy’s father, said Feroz and his wife, who claimed to be residents of Kaliachak in Malda district, had for the past few years stayed as tenants at his house. “The couple used to sell garments in the rural areas in Malda and stayed at Alam’s place as tenants for five-six months in a year,” said a police officer. Police sources said on June 11, Feroz visited Alam and took his son for a trip on the latter’s bike. As they did not return, Alam filed a police complaint the next day at Gangarampur police station. On June 13, Alam received a call and was asked to pay Rs 12 lakh ransom. “The abductor asked Alam to visit Tulsipukur, a village in Murshidabad’s Farakka. The Gangarampur police contacted their counterparts in Murshidabad who tracked the cell phone of the abductor. A police team reached the spot — Gholakandi, a village in Farakka close to the Jharkhand border — on Monday evening but the abductors had fled by then, leaving the boy. On Tuesday, a sub-inspector reached Farakka from Gangarampur police station and the boy was handed over to him. “The boy has been rescued. Our officers have started an investigation and are in search of the abductors. No one has been arrested yet,” said Y. Raghuvanshi, SP, Jangipur police district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-23
16-06-2021||West Bengal||Extramarital affair: Police arrest all 12 torture accused||Police have arrested all 12 persons named by a woman who was tortured last Thursday for allegedly having an extramarital affair. All have been arrested within 48 hours of the police finding out about the incident. Though the homemaker was stripped and paraded in her village during which people even recorded her videos last Thursday after a salishi sabha was held over her alleged affair, the police found out about it only when those video clips surfaced on social media on Sunday. Bholanath Pandey, district police chief, said three were arrested on Sunday night and the rest were nabbed in multiple raids that lasted till late on Monday. All have been sent to police custody. “The inspector-in-charge concerned has been asked to expedite submitting the chargesheet. The police will also take certain steps, including social sensitisation, to prevent such incidents,” he said. Elephants Wild elephants entered at least three human habitations of Jalpaiguri from forests on Tuesday. The biggest herd, of 50 elephants, entered a tea estate in Odlabari of Malbazar block,  from Bhuttabari forest. Foresters could steer the herd into Apalchand forest. A herd of five elephants entered the Moulani village of Maynaguri block from Baikunthapur forest. A team of foresters  is steering away the herd. In Danguajhar tea estate on the outskirts of Jalpaiguri town, workers have an adult wild female elephant who is possibly from Bodaganj forest. Efforts are on to steer her to the forest. Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-23
16-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt reacts strongly to Jagdeep Dhankhar’s letter to Mamata Banerjee||The Bengal government on Tuesday reacted strongly to a letter written by governor Jagdeep Dhankhar to chief minister Mamata Banerjee asking her to take up the issue of “post-poll violence” at state cabinet meeting and initiate “steps to ensure law and order”. The governor, who reached Delhi on Tuesday on a three-day visit, sent the letter earlier in the day and also tweeted: “Constrained to conveyed @MamataOfficial that continued silence & inaction over post poll violence, violation of human rights & dignity of women, destruction of property, perpetuation of miseries on political opponents- worst since independence, ill augurs for democracy.” The government’s strong reaction came after Dhankhar made the letter public. “The communication format is violative of all established norms. The letter has been written to Hon’ble Chief Minister & released to public media through tweets simultaneously, which disrupts sanctity of such communications,” the state home department tweeted. “The unusual step of going public in this manner abruptly and unilaterally has shocked the Government of West Bengal all the more because the contents are fabricated,” the tweet went on to state. The government also said Dhankhar’s letter didn’t contain facts. The home department tweeted: “Government of West Bengal has observed with dismay and distress that the Hon’ble Governor of West Bengal has suddenly made public, a letter of his to the Hon’ble Chief Minister of West Bengal, with contents that are not consistent with real facts.” The government explained that since the chief minister took oath for the third consecutive term, the state cabinet had restored normality in the state. “While the post-poll violence in the State was somewhat unabated when the Election Commission of India was in charge of the law and order machinery, after the swearing in, the State Cabinet has reigned in the situation, restored normalcy,..” the home department tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-23
16-06-2021||West Bengal||State govt makes negative Covid report mandatory for all fishermen||The second wave of Covid-19 changed fishing rules this year. The state government on Tuesday ordered only 15 fishermen per trawler and made it mandatory for those going into the sea to have a negative Covid report or a  full-vaccination certificate. Covid risk to fishermen cooped up on trawlers was a worry for the government before allowing marine fishing this year, a fisheries official said. Around 1,500 vessels from fishing harbours in Kakdwip, Namkhana, Raidighi, and Diamond Harbour in South 24-Parganas and over 1,000 vessels from Digha, Petuaghat (Contai), Sankarpur and a few other places in East Midnapore ventured into the sea at the end of the annual ban on Tuesday only after adhering to Covid protocols laid down by the state government. “The three-month ban on fishing was a big relief as the Covid situation peaked during that period. Though the situation is better now, we are taking no chances and have put in place strict safety measures with the help of several fishermen’s organisations,” said Jayanta Pradhan, assistant director of fisheries (marine), South 24-Parganas district. State fisheries department minister Akhil Giri said: “I held a meeting last week with fishermen’s associations where it was reiterated that no person will be allowed to go for marine fishing unless he is either vaccinated and or carries a negative report.” Expressing the seriousness of the government’s intent, Giri said from Wednesday the Digha fish auction centre would resume work with strict curbs. “Anybody spotted without a face mask will pay a fine of Rs 500,” he said. Sources in both South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore said the administration was keeping a close watch on the fishermen community, particularly after the arrival of migrant labourers from adjacent districts and some southern states. Fishermen’s organisations had been told to get fishermen and allied workers tested for Covid at government centres and debar those with symptoms from going to the sea. Satinath Patra, secretary of the Sunderbans Samudrik Matsyajibi Shramik Union, told this paper they tried to ensure only physically fit people aged between 19 and 45 who were Covid negative or fully vaccinated were allowed. New shipping office Chairman of Calcutta Port, Vinit Kumar, on Tuesday inaugurated a new shipping and cargo-handling office near the Haldia dock complex’s finger jetty. Kumar took the opportunity to address recent instances of alleged theft at the port, as well as the impact of the second wave of Covid-19 on shipping and handling operations. Kumar said steps would be taken to prevent theft with optical character recognition (OCR) for number plate detection and mandatory fast tags for vehicles. He asked port officials  to speed up Covid vaccination for personnel. Additional reporting by Anshuman Phadikar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-23
16-06-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal ‘separation’ pitch irks Gorkhas||A section of BJP leaders’ demand that north Bengal be turned into a Union Territory or even a separate state has alarmed proponents of Gorkhaland who suspect such a narrative is a deliberate attempt to dilute the cry for the statehood of the Darjeeling hills. The Gorkhas of north Bengal have been demanding “a separate administrative unit”, distinct from Bengal, since 1907. Privat Giri, founding member of Darjeeling Research Scholars Forum, on Tuesday said: “I don’t support the ‘North Bengal state’. It will be no different from West Bengal for Gorkhas.” Some BJP district presidents in north Bengal had apparently said at a virtual meeting with central leaders on Sunday that if the region was declared a Union Territory, issues like infiltration from Bangladesh could be addressed. John Barla and Jayanta Roy, BJP MPs of Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri, respectively, backed the Union Territory pitch and the former even said north Bengal could be turned into a separate state. Barla said north Bengal’s separation from Bengal was needed for the development and security of the region which is located near China, Bangladesh, Bhutan and Nepal. The proponents of Gorkhaland have, however, said their demand is not for development but to secure the “distinct and separate” identity of Indian Gorkhas from citizens of Nepal. R.D. Dukpa, a research scholar in Darjeeling, is of the opinion that Barla’s announcement was “highly ambitious” and could find some traction among those who believe south Bengal is more developed than north. “But such political ambitions often end up making the powerful more powerful, and the powerless more powerless.” Like many in the hills, Dukpa also thinks the demand for Gorkhaland is beyond the agenda of “development” and is for the fulfilment of “ethnic political aspirations” “ For Gorkhas, a ‘North Bengal state’ would probably mean just a shift of power base from Calcutta to somewhere near,” said Dukpa. Taking the argument further, a young “concerned citizen of Darjeeling” pointed out that the “North Bengal state” concept was only to divert people’s attention from the BJP’s promise of a “permanent political solution” for the hills. Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista couldn’t be contacted. Neeraj Zimba, Darjeeling MLA, said if a new state was created “in national interest” considering the sensitive border, it was welcome. But he added the aspirations of Gorkhas must be looked into with a different yardstick in any new arrangement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-23
16-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Total active cases in Bengal rise for sixth consecutive day||Total active Covid-19 cases in Bengal on Tuesday rose for the sixth consecutive day by 1,125 to 20,046, as only 2,068 recoveries were logged against 3,268 new infections. The state also recorded 75 deaths, including 21 from Calcutta and 23 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst affected districts. Of the infections, Calcutta logged 370 and North 24-Parganas 465. The total of active cases had fallen to less than 20,000 on June 8, for the first time since April 9, and fallen from the all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21by around 89 per cent till June 9, when there were 14,702 active cases in all. But over these six days, the number rose again by over 36 per cent. “As this spell of renewed rise has lasted six days already, it appears it cannot be trivialised as an aberration. It needs prompt, incisive measures, which we are in the process of implementing,” said a minister. “It was a good decision to keep restrictions in place for another fortnight.” Bengal now has 2.32 per cent of the national total of active cases and is eighth on the list of states with the most active cases. Only last week, it had fallen from sixth to 13th place in a matter of days. The recovery rate, which began declining on Friday to snap a 39-day spell of rise, fell to 97.47 per cent. The national recovery rate is 95.76 now. Daily confirmation rate, which peaked in the second wave with nearly 33 per cent, fell to 5.87 per cent on Tuesday. Bengal’s overall mortality rate, with 17,049 deaths in all, is 1.16 per cent now, while the national rate is 1.28.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-23
16-06-2021||West Bengal||Yaas blow: Only 40 per cent trawlers venture out to catch hilsa||Cyclone Yaas, which lashed the coastal districts of the state on May 26, has dealt a severe blow to fishermen in East Midnapore and South 24-Parganas as only 40 per cent of trawlers could venture out to catch the prized hilsa on Tuesday, the first day of government-permitted fishing this season. Sources estimate at least 30 per cent of trawlers will not be able to set sail this year owing to the disruption of lives and livelihoods of fishermen after the recent cyclone amid the pandemic. Sources in the fisheries department said in normal times 8,000 trawlers and boats would have sailed on June 15, the formal end of the yearly three-month ban (April 15 to June 14) on fishing in the east coast to allow unhindered breeding. But on Tuesday, merely 3,500 boats and trawlers went out to catch hilsa. Fisheries department officials said more than 30 per cent of trawlers would venture out in the next two weeks as many fishermen were too busy grappling with survival basics to do their job. “Only 40 per cent of trawlers and boats could sail on the first day and the figure may increase in the days ahead, but many fisherman who have lost their homes to Yaas are still too busy trying to rebuild their lives to fish,” said a district official and added that the probable outcome would be a third consecutive year of low hilsa yield in Bengal. Akhil Giri, the state fisheries minister, held a meeting on Saturday with members of the fishermen’s association to address potential problems. “According to the survey of our department, 30 per cent of the boats will not sail this time owing to (the impact of) Yaas and other reasons. But we will try to get them back and running soon, that is important,” he said. Fisheries department officials said they feared a poor catch of hilsa this year owing to “low morale” and “infrastructure handicap”. “Many fishermen have suffered the impact of Cyclone Yaas. Many fishermen have lost their homes to inundation. If a person has three boats, he is likely to sail only one this time. As a result, we can’t expect sufficient hilsa production at the start of the season. However, we are hopeful that many more fishermen and trawlers will join the fleet as the season progresses,” said Jayanta Pradhan, an assistant director of fisheries (marine) in South 24-Parganas. Sources said the impact of Cyclone Amphan that hit the state last year was not as severe for the fishing community as Yaas. Flooding was more rampant after Yaas. Several association members also pointed out that hundreds of fishermen were currently putting up in makeshift shelters following the cyclone, which made them reluctant to leave their families. “My home has been washed away by Yaas and I am spending sleepless nights under a tarpaulin with my family. How can I think about sailing a boat for days on end, leaving my family members in such a situation?” asked Prabhat Bar, a fisherman from Shankarpur in East Midnapore. Officials in the fisheries department and the fishermen’s associations of South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore said Yaas apart, last year’s low hilsa catch also discouraged many fishing teams this year. In 2019, fishermen caught 25,000 metric tonnes of hilsa during monsoon. The figure dropped to 5,000 tonnes in the corresponding 2020 season. “Yaas has hit the coastal region badly and many fishermen don’t want to sail immediately as they are busy repairing their homes. We also faced a severe loss in hilsa catch last year as yield was very low,” said Satinath Patra, a secretary of the Sunderbans Samudrik Matsyojibi Shramik Union, suggesting morale among fishermen was low. Some trawler owners, however, chose optimism. “Odisha’s fishermen are getting hilsa in good quantities. So, we think this time we can catch more fish. True, production will be low initially as many trawlers won’t be at sea. But hilsa’s annual production will depend on the number of boats that sail in the second phase,” said Shyamsundar Das, a secretary of the Digha Fishermen and Fish Traders’ Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-23
16-06-2021||West Bengal||District police try to figure out how Chinese national entered India without visa||The police on Monday took the 36-year-old Chinese national who entered India without a visa and was caught by the BSF along the India-Bangladesh border on June 10, to the same spot to reconstruct his entry. Han Junwei, who hails from Hebei province of North China and is wanted by the Anti-Terrorist Squad in Uttar Pradesh, was taken to Milik-Sultanpur village, on Monday for a demonstration of his entry to India with luggage. Han had crossed a river that runs parallel to the border to enter India from Bangladesh, it was found. “We took him to Milik-Sultanpur under Kaliachak police station near the international border to observe how he entered India. We noted down his version. Our officers are interrogating him for more details,” said Alok Rajoria, the district police chief. Police sources said an ethical hacker may also be called to scrutinise his laptop, cell phone and other electronic gadgets found on him. “There is also a proposal to carry out his CT scan to check if he has any electronic chip inserted in his body. During interrogation, several incongruities were found in his statements. Those are being checked,” said a police officer. A few months back, one of his associates, a Chinese national named Sun Jiang, was nabbed by the ATS in Lucknow. A blue-corner notice was also issued in Han’s name. A team from the ATS in Lucknow is likely to arrive in Malda to take Han into custody when he is produced in court again on June 18. “It seems the ATS wants to take him to Uttar Pradesh on transit remand so that he can be questioned with his partner in custody there,” said a source. Because of the blue-corner notice, Han, who had been to India a number of times earlier, including Delhi, Gurgaon and Hyderabad, could not get an Indian visa. Hence, he allegedly decided to enter the country from Nepal or Bangladesh. He landed in Dhaka on June 2, sources said. He moved to Chapai-Nawabganj in Bangladesh that shares borders with Malda on June 8, and entered India on June 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-23
16-06-2021||West Bengal||Lakshmir Bhandar scheme: 1.6 crore women to get monthly dole||The Mamata Banerjee government has estimated that 1.6 crore beneficiaries will be included in the “Lakshmir Bhandar (Lakshmi’s treasure)” scheme which promises Rs 1,000 to women heads of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe families and Rs 500 to those in general categories a month. The scheme had been promised by chief minister Mamata Banerjee before recent Assembly elections. Top government officials held a meeting recently to work out the modalities of the dole. “Work to implement the scheme will start on the ground from July 1. The first thing we have to do is to register the beneficiaries of the scheme. It has been assessed that the scheme will have a total of 1.6 crore beneficiaries,” said a senior government official. The government has primarily estimated that Rs 11,000 will have to be spent from the state exchequer annually to run the scheme. “The scheme will help 1.6 crore families across the state during the Covid-19 pandemic when opportunities to earn livelihood have shrunk, particularly in rural areas. But it will certainly leave a heavy burden on the exchequer at a time when the state’s own revenue generation has suffered a hit,” said another official. The state government, sources said, was planning to fix an eligibility criterion, which is likely to be based on a person’s family income, to keep the number of beneficiaries under control. “The financial condition does not allow the state to make the scheme universal like Sabuj Sathi or old age pension. We just cannot bring all 2.5 crore families in the state under the scheme as it will push the financial burden to over Rs 20,000 crore annually,” said an official Sources also said during a recent meeting to ensure the smooth implementation of the scheme, chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi had hinted that the government was considering the insertion of an eligibility criterion for women to avail themselves of the monthly doles. The state government might be forced to cut down allotment of some departments to raise funds for the scheme, the sources said. “It is not possible to cut down departmental allocations heavily. So, the state is looking to arrange for funds for the scheme from some other sources too,” said a source. According to officials, the government already has a database of some eligible beneficiaries, which can be readily used to launch the scheme. “For example, the state has detailed data of 33 lakh women beneficiaries of the social security scheme (Samajik Suraksha Yojana). These beneficiaries can be brought under the direct benefit transfer scheme immediately. For the remaining families, the government could seek applications,” said a source. The sources said the scheme would definitely boost the rural economy as a large portion of the Rs 11,000 crore would be pumped into the beneficiaries’ respective areas every year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-23
16-06-2021||West Bengal||Trusting Suvendu Adhikari was biggest mistake: Burdwan East MP||Burdwan East MP Sunil Mandal, deemed a close aide to Suvendu Adhikari, on Tuesday was the latest addition to the rapidly growing list of Trinamul Congress turncoats in the BJP to publicly criticise their new party following the saffron camp’s defeat in the Assembly polls. Mandal — whose disqualification as a Lok Sabha member Trinamul has been demanding — also turned the knife, saying trusting Adhikari was his “biggest mistake”. “I thought the BJP was an organised party. But I later found out it isn’t. Trinamul has much better organisational strength and hence it won,” said Mandal, one of the two Trinamul MPs (the other being Adhikari’s father, Sisir), who formally defected to the BJP before the polls. “It is time for us to self-assess and analyse realistically the reasons for our loss and stop threatening a state government, which just came to power with such massive majority, with President’s rule,” he said. Mandal added that the people of Bengal couldn’t understand the language of the Hindi-speaking BJP leaders. His statements were issued a day after Trinamul’s leader in the Lok Sabha Sudip Bandyopadhyay had called Speaker Om Birla again, urging him to act against Mandal and Sisir following their defection. Asked if he regretted joining the BJP, Mandal said: “I wouldn’t think about it right now. But yes, there were some mistakes on my part in understanding the BJP…. My biggest mistake was trusting Suvendu.” BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh said there was room for dialogue within the party regarding such issues. “We had inducted many leaders into our party. They have been given their due respect…. If someone is frustrated, he can always speak to us,” said Ghosh. Trinamul promptly reacted to Mandal’s statements saying he was simply trying to save himself from the anti-defection law. Trinamul’s Serampore MP Kalyan Banerjee said people didn’t trust those like Mandal. “Speaker Birla told Sudip Bandyopadhyay that a committee had been set up to determine if the anti-defection law was to be applied against Sunil Mandal and Sisir Adhikari. This has scared him (Mandal)…. He is sub-standard for politics,” said Banerjee. Asked to react to Trinamul’s efforts to cancel the senior Adhikari’s Lok Sabha membership, Ghosh said he didn’t even know if the Contai MP had at all joined the BJP. “I don’t know if he (Sisir) joined our party or spoke from a BJP platform. If they (Trinamul) have evidence against him, let them speak to the authorities,” said the Midnapore MP. In March, Sisir was seen at a BJP rally of Union home minister Amit Shah, where he delivered a speech vowing that his clan would work “under (Narendra) Modiji and Amit Shahji”. Later, he was also seen at a rally of Prime Minister Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-24
16-06-2021||North East||Kokrajhar minor girls raped and murdered by persons 'known' to them||The two girls whose bodies were found hanging from a tree in lower Assam’s Kokrajhar on Friday evening were raped and subsequently murdered by persons “known” to them. Police have arrested seven persons in this connection, including the three who were directly involved in the crime which the accused tried to pass of as a suicide case. That it was a case of rape and murder was first shared by chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma followed by a press meet by the Kokrajhar police around 6 pm on Tuesday. “The accused were known to the victims. Three of the directly accused are from the same Salbari village. They are age 19, 20 and 22,” a police official told The Telegraph. Sarma tweeted with “extreme sense of satisfaction” that senior police officer, L.R. Bishnoi, IGP, BTR,  had called to inform him that the “rape and murder” of  the two minor tribal girls “have been solved”. Soon after, there were demand from the family members and locals to hand them death sentence just as they had taken the lives of the two victims. The breakthrough came two days after Sarma’s stock-taking visit to the residence of the victims in Abhayakuti village, about 20 km from Kokrajhar town, and directed the police to “expeditiously” unearth the truth behind the  “shocking deaths”. The victims, aged 16 and 14,  hailed from the same family and were school-dropouts. Their family members were working in a paddy field and discovered the duo missing when they returned home around 4pm on Friday. Their bodies were found hanging 10 feet above the ground from a mango tree located about 600metres away from their residence on Friday late evening. There are around 60 houses, mostly scattered in the remote village, with a population of about 260, mostly depending on agriculture. Salbari and Singimari villages are located about 1 and 2 km away respectively. Sarma also said one of the reasons for visiting the victims’ family was to send a message that his government will not tolerate “any kind of atrocity” against the poor and will continue to accord  top priority to safety of women in the state, something he had assured soon after taking charge as the chief minister on May 10. Welcoming the swift breakthrough, BTR Koch Student Union president Rasam D Koch told this newspaper that the accused should be tried in a fast-track court and those involved in the crime should be handed exemplary punishment, including the death sentence. He also said there are reports of girls from the areas being regularly harassed but this is the first time they have been murdered. “ The government should also expedite development activities in the area.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-2
16-06-2021||North East||Covid: Jabs on priority for Assam vulnerable groups||The Assam government has adopted a “targeted approach” towards vaccination where all frontline workers and persons coming in contact with the masses are accorded priority for effective Covid-19 management in the state. Government sources said chief secretary Jishnu Baruah has conveyed to the deputy commissioners during his interactions or during his weekend trips to various district headquarters to review Covid-19 and flood scenario to have a “vision plan” and “roadmap” in prioritising vaccination for those category of persons who are vulnerable and immediately vaccinate them or else “they might end up as super-spreaders”. Till Friday, over 37.7 lakh people have received at least one vaccine dose in the state. Shortage of vaccines is one reason why the government is pushing for priority vaccination along with the ongoing drive to inoculate those 18 years and above. “Things should normalise by July but we need to be ready for a possible third wave,” an official said. The vulnerable groups include the Anganwadi workers, police personnel, persons with disabilities, care-givers, prisoners and jail and hospital staff. Once this section is taken care of, the focus would be on pavement dwellers and vendors, mostly found in bigger towns. The pandemic situation in the state turned alarming in mid-April because of rampant violation of Covid protocol during campaigning for the three-phase Assembly polls, among others. Though the worst phase of the second wave seems to be over, most say lowering the guard now could prove costly. Till Saturday, Assam had 45,477 active cases with a positivity rate of 2.16 per cent. Till now, 3,873 persons have succumbed to Covid, with more than 2,800 casualties in the second wave. Baruah has so far held review meetings in West Karbi Anglong, Baksa, Udalguri, Sonitpur and Biswanath districts during his weekend trips since the second half of May. During his review meeting in Biswanath on Saturday, Baruah also asked the district health wing to ramp up vaccination in tea garden areas. Stressing on testing and vaccination as the only two ways of controlling the Covid-19 pandemic, the chief secretary also stressed on the need for strict and compulsory testing of passengers arriving by trains and ensuring social distancing at relief camps for the flood affected, if necessary, by opening more camps. Referring to the recent opening of a 300-bed Covid hospital at Sarusajai stadium in Guwahati, Baruah said the state government was preparing the required infrastructure needed to tackle a possible third wave. Meanwhile, the Assam government on Tuesday  extended the ongoing Covid-19 restriction till June 22, easing certain curbs in some districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-2
16-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Dig Deeper||It is heartening when data bear signs of progress on the ground. Such signs were evident in the findings of the All India Survey on Higher Education, which showed that the gender gap in higher education has closed further: in 2019-20, there were 100 women for every 100 male students for the Bachelor of Commerce programme in higher educational institutions. In absolute numbers, of the 41.6 lakh students who were enrolled in the course in 2019-20, 20.3 lakh were women and 21.3 lakh were men. After the Bachelor of Science and the MBBS programmes in 2017-18, this is the third major course in the last five years where the gender gap in enrolment has been closed — almost. Progress, however, must also be understood by placing it within a wider context. Even within the AISHE findings, there is evidence of a persistent imbalance: in the Bachelor of Technology programmes, there are just 42 women enrolled for every 100 men, and in undergraduate law programmes, there are only 53 women students for 100 men. It is no secret that girls and women in India have to confront numerous hurdles to achieve basic rights. Their challenges are compounded by myopic policymaking. The Union budget for education was reduced from Rs 99,311 crore in 2020-21 to Rs 93,224 crore for 2021-22. The slash in funds is expected to adversely affect women students — especially those from rural and disadvantaged backgrounds — the most. Moreover, the gains made at the undergraduate level are, unfortunately, being neutralized by newer gaps in other areas. Consider online learning. Studies have repeatedly shown that women students are being inconvenienced by the shift to the digital medium. In states such as Haryana, teachers in schools and colleges have to strive harder to ensure their female students are allowed to take online classes, as women’s access to mobile phones is believed to be detrimental to their personal reputations or a distraction from chores and income-generating work. The rise in women’s enrolment in higher education has also been accompanied by a steep fall in their participation in the labour force. Before Covid-19, 7.5 per cent of women in urban areas were employed; data from February 2021 show that the figure has fallen to 5.4 per cent. A principal factor for gender discrimination remains unaddressed, be it in employment or in education — the long history of inertia of elected dispensations. One way of addressing this would be greater and meaningful political representation of women at every tier of power.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-9
16-06-2021||Opinion||Time to turn back: Mukul Roy returns to TMC||Sir — The political culture of defection and horse trading has now become common in Bengal, indeed in all of India. The senior politician, Mukul Roy, recently switched back to his old party, the Trinamul Congress, after hobnobbing with heavyweights of the Bharatiya Janata Party as national vice-president for 1,316 days — he even won from the Krishnanagar seat as a BJP candidate (“Prodigal sons”, June 13). Roy must have sensed that the threats posed by the Central investigation teams in the Narada case have passed. After rejoining the TMC, Roy expressed his happiness at being among familiar faces. He was also given a warm hug by Abhishek Banerjee, who was considered to be his rival. Roy has also secured the future of his son, Subhranshu Roy — who lost this time to a TMC candidate — at the party. The electorate of West Bengal handed over a sweeping victory to Mamata Banerjee. She happened to be the star campaigner with an injured leg, standing up against hordes of Central ministers. What is the use of inducting these opportunists now, going against the choice of the voters? This shows that political ideology is for the ground-level workers while leaders in the higher echelons are free to change parties. People like Roy have not borne the brunt of the post-poll violence. They should take initiative to rehabilitate and compensate party workers or their families who have been rendered homeless or lost lives in the aftermath of the elections, irrespective of party colour, to restore the people’s trust in politicians and politics. Banerjee had declared a cleaning of the Augean stable when certain leaders left the party; it is unfortunate that the party seems ready to take them back. Subhankar Mukherjee,Calcutta Sir — Dealing a major blow to the BJP, Mukul Roy, hitherto the party’s national vice-president and one of the key faces in Bengal, has returned to the TMC, along with his son. In spite of the attempts of the BJP state president, Dilip Ghosh, and some other leaders to discredit Roy by claiming that losing him did not make any difference to the party’s prospects in Bengal, it is clear that the BJP is just trying to save face. Otherwise, how could they ignore the fact that Roy was instrumental in the BJP’s hopes for a political coup in Bengal in 2017. He was considered crucial in the 2019 elections too. But what changed when it came to the state elections? The answer lies in the tact of the BJP’s Central leadership. In the hope of dethroning Mamata Banerjee, the BJP leadership gave more importance to the new turncoat from the TMC, Suvendu Adhikari, since his joining at the end of 2020. It seemed to have forgotten Roy, who helped the party expand its organizational base to the grass roots of the state and build booth committees. His efforts ensured that the BJP performed well in the 2018 panchayat elections, inspiring him to strengthen the party before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. His tireless work paid rich dividends and the BJP won 18 of the 42 seats in Bengal, and increased its vote share from 10.16 per cent in the 2016 Assembly polls to 40.3 per cent. Banerjee opened the doors of her party to Roy, now isolated in the BJP, allegedly because he was ‘never a traitor like the others’. This claim is a matter of debate just like the reported remark by Roy that the BJP’s stress on communalism irked him. If that was the case, how could he stay in the party for nearly four years? Roy seems to be Banerjee’s first target among legislators she plans to bring back from the BJP, including those who switched just before the assembly elections. This appears to be part of the TMC’s planning for 2024. A few months ago, BJP leaders said that TMC will have no existence after the 2021 assembly elections. But with several turncoats reportedly in line to return, the situation seems to be the other way round. But since Roy was thus far in the BJP, he had not been arrested in spite of alleged involvement in scams. Roy should now be ready to face the music. After all, this is how Indian politics works. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Move forward Sir — In a historic victory for animal rights activists, Israel has become the first country to ban the sale of animal fur in the fashion industry. An exemption will however be made for ultra-Orthodox Jewish men whose ‘shtreimels’ are made of fur. According to some estimates, about 100 million animals are bred and killed each year to supply fur to the fashion sector. This is utterly unreasonable, given that faux fur can easily be used in place of animal fur. One also hopes that the political changes in Israel do not affect the country’s decision in this regard. Other countries should follow suit. Bidisha Pal,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-9
16-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Sombre year||Anniversaries need not be joyous occasions; they may merit sombre reflection. The first anniversary of the clash between Chinese and Indian troops at Galwan Valley in Ladakh in which 20 Indian soldiers lost their lives last year should be an occasion for the Narendra Modi government as well as conscientious citizens to take stock of the situation on the ground. Such an exercise, if conducted objectively, is unlikely to encourage New Delhi. Several rounds of talks for disengagement between military officials of both countries have not resulted in the re-establishment of status quo ante. Worryingly for India, there are reports that China has transgressed into Indian territory in Pangong as well as along points of contention in Depsang. What is particularly galling is the shocking silence of a nationalist government on a matter as crucial as national security. Ever since the prime minister set the tone with his contentious assurance that India has not ceded an inch of territory, the powers that be — the present army chief has not been an exception — have been toeing this unconvincing line. If incursions have not taken place, what exactly are India’s generals negotiating with their Chinese counterparts? This obfuscation is an old trick in the political bag. It is another matter that a supine media have been instrumental in disseminating this curated narrative. This sleight of hand is unacceptable in a democracy. It is the sacred duty of the government in power to inform Indian citizens about matters that seem threatening to the nation’s territorial sovereignty. Mischief-mongering by New Delhi’s neighbour on the western border — developments in Afghanistan are keeping Pakistan busy at the moment — could force India to contend with a double challenge. The resolution of border issues that have festered India’s diplomatic relationship with China should thus be a priority. It is plausible that Beijing is willing to keep the border hot. Such a strategy fits well with China’s increasingly adventurist positions around the globe. There is thus a case to view the Ladakh stand-off in a broader perspective. India’s international partnerships, be they the Quad or those with the United States of America, would also be instrumental in influencing the push and pull factors in Ladakh or in Arunachal Pradesh. India must make strategic choices by keeping the bigger picture in mind.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-9
16-06-2021||Opinion||Clio and the curriculum||We love to hear stories about our past. They shape our identity and define our relationships with others. And, yet, history is one of the most ignored subjects in school and very few students want to study it in college. This is one of the great paradoxes of our times. There is much to learn from history. There are also several reasons why its promise lies unfulfilled. One major problem is the way history is taught in schools. Most schools function like a vast bureaucracy in which a mechanical ticking of checklists leads to acquiring certificates. Maintaining obedience and control in the classroom is more important than searching for deeper meaning or learning to use ideas. Everything that happens in the classroom is for the examination. Hence, memorizing names and dates and writing them down during examinations become the most important thing. There are a handful of teachers and schools who emphasize meaning and emotion in history, encouraging us to use the study of the past to make sense of our own lives today. For them, the date of the Chauri Chaura incident is less important than discussing the importance of non-violence in a movement and asking whether movements should carry on even if some of their participants turn violent. There is also another problem. The affluent and the powers that be don’t want to hire many historians. What they want are workers, technicians, managers. Students who go to schools that teach them to think are discouraged from making history their future career. On occasions when history classrooms go beyond rote-learning, most take the approach of teaching about great people, great buildings, great events. The ‘Great Things’ approach to history shapes our identity and gives content and form to culture. Talking about Sher Shah Suri tells us that kings who care to plant trees and build roads are good kings. Learning about Shivaji tells us it is good to stand up for oneself, even against the power of an emperor. History teaches us important values and gives us a moral education. It gives us a sense of who we are and what we should do. It also speaks to us about who our enemies are and what is evil and what is good. However, the ‘Great Things in Our Past’ approach is not without problems. It can be easily taken over and manipulated from one point of view or another. We can talk of the wonderful things the Mughals did — their pioneering a systematic approach to revenue collection, the growth of architecture, wealth and stability in their territory, the efforts by Akbar to bring together the many kinds of people in his realm. Or we could talk of the pain they inflicted — the temples Aurangzeb destroyed, the attacks on and the destruction of numerous small kingdoms. These can create quite different identities and relationships, depending on what we want to highlight. There is another approach to teaching history, which asks us to build a deeper understanding of events, not just to celebrate their greatness or otherwise. This approach examines actions of the past in terms of specific contexts. It tries to build a comprehensive picture of the ways in which humans act and react according to the cultures and resources of their times through a careful sifting of evidence. For instance, this approach would not see Shivaji one-sidedly — as a great Maratha king who fought for freedom or, equally, as an attacker of neighbouring Karnataka. Instead, it would ask what kind of things kings did in their times to expand their power and domain. Similarly, it would ask how best to understand the confrontation between Shivaji and Aurangzeb: was it a struggle between Hinduism and Islam, or one between a regional power and an emperor? It would teach the importance of a comprehensive study, rather than the cherry-picking favoured by the ‘Great Things’ approach. Such a history, for example, would point to the large number of Muslims in Shivaji’s army and to his own family serving under the sultans of the Deccan for generations. To the thinking historian, this does not fit in with the theory of a war between Hinduism and Islam. The history that such an approach would build would give us valuable guidelines for our own times. Powerful interests have always bent the writing of history to build identities and cultures that suit them. Nowadays, more and more students are coming to school and college from groups that did not have access to education before. They are the ones who would benefit the most by thoroughly and critically examining the past. Instead of teaching history as a powerful and inspiring story, perhaps we will serve them better by teaching them to carefully weigh evidences and interpret them. By doing so, they can ask afresh what happened in the past, what is really one’s identity and what should one’s values be. They will then be better able to see through narratives and identities that keep them tied to the apron strings of the powerful. There can be several approaches to teaching history. The last one is perhaps the one that lends itself the most to empowerment and a just world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-9
16-06-2021||Opinion||Crucial difference||In the time of Covid, we all live in a state of heightened uncertainty and anguish. There are problems relating to our health that each of us must take care of. There are fears about the health of our near and dear ones. Doctors and scientists are trying their level best to bring us solutions in the form of treatment and protection from the deadly disease, though many unanswered questions remain. We are worried about the stress on our woefully inadequate health infrastructure. We are worried about our children and their education from home. We are relieved about the technology that still provides some continuity in the process of learning, though not all children have equal access to smart devices and the internet. We are more worried about whether learning can continue at all, and not about what is going to be taught. The nation is in the midst of transitioning to a new education policy with new curricula. In the middle of all these uncertainties and unanswered questions about the future, the nation is also experiencing the political rise of the majority’s religion, with its new forms of domination and subordination. Unquestioned faith seems to be the last resort for seeking answers. Lots of politico-religious gurus are ready to push the willing towards the altars of the supernatural superpower. In what is supposed to be the age of reason, we are moving more and more towards an age of blind faith. Both faith and reason give rise to beliefs. The crucial difference being that the former is based on certain unchanging scriptures and ancient texts whose veracity cannot be ascertained, while the latter is based on evidence that can be questioned with new evidence. Indeed, reason-based beliefs are by their very definition falsifiable and hence changeable. Knowledge accumulates on the basis of empirical evidence. Reason-based beliefs have shaken many old beliefs based on faith, like the world is flat or that the sun revolves around the earth, which was thought to be the centre of the universe. It took a long time but they did change. It gives us hope that the age of reason has not been eclipsed just yet, even though militant religions and faiths are on the march not only in our nation but also in many other places of the world. There are people in every religion who are willing to kill you or kill me for the cause of their faith’s highest ideal. Why is faith to be constantly interrogated and challenged? The answer lies in the fact that societies based on blind faith are bound to be violent, with centralized power and ancient laws that regulate our everyday lives. Faith-based beliefs invariably come from unchanged ancient texts which are considered holy although they were most probably written by ancient tribesmen with very little knowledge about the physical world. Today, the texts are considered holy precisely because they are old and unchanged. This cannot be anywhere near the argument of proving that age makes beliefs true and relevant. The texts in all religions guide everyday behaviour on the basis of benefits to be received in the life after death: be it in a heaven, in a superior rebirth, or free from the necessity of rebirth. Beliefs based on faith in god have different ways of explaining the presence of life on the planet and how the universe came into being. Laws of physics and biochemistry explain with enough logical evidence the being of the universe and the emergence of life and its subsequent evolution. A belief in divine creation of humans and other forms of life denies the laws of nature in their entirety. Creationism debunks all science. In fact, empirical evidence is called for by religious believers to demonstrate that apes can turn into human beings. Not having actually seen an ape transform is claimed to be the absence of evidence and hence the rejection of the theory of biological evolution. However, the same people claim they have firm knowledge about the existence of god even though an overwhelming number of human beings have not even claimed to have seen the almighty. Faith-based beliefs that cannot be falsified invariably show a tendency towards marking as enemies those who do not share that faith, be they scientists or those belonging to other faith-based beliefs like people from other religious identities. This ‘otherization’ is based on perceiving people not belonging to their beliefs as somehow inferior — sub-human beings. Hence, it is not difficult to be cruel with them. Killing them or torturing them into subservience is acceptable. No religion has a completely comfortable position with non-believers, including the modern day interpreters of Hinduism. This brings us to the other argument against faith-based beliefs. Since such beliefs have difficulty in arguing out their case with conviction, there is always a set of power brokers — the religious leaders — who interpret and guide everyday rules and regulations. Their power is absolute. They are not to be questioned since they are the representatives of god. The more people believe in them, the more their power to control and direct. They control lives: what people might eat, wear, whom they might marry, what can be done in the privacy of one’s bedroom, when and where things ought to be done. The endless list defines every moment of our lives. Finally, a strong argument is given in favour of religions in terms of human values and morality. It is claimed that science is amoral. Objective evidence, and laws inferred from them, are distinct from our senses of right and wrong, or good and bad. Moral values are ancient wisdom read from the scriptures. This is where we come to the social usefulness of science versus the social usefulness of religion. Our senses of right and wrong, good and bad are constantly honed, challenged and altered by experiences perceived by the brain, which is part of the human body. Here, scientific evidence plays an important role. Take this question, for instance: would it be good or right to put arsenic in a city’s drinking water supply? If one knew what arsenic was, one would say “no”. Science teaches us what arsenic is, and its consequences in terms of human suffering when ingested by the body. Science also explains that the suffering would be the same for all people independent of their faith. We are living in hard times. Science does not yet have all the answers for Covid. There are debates and disagreements amongst scientists. This is expected and is a good sign that every scientific endeavour is trying to gather new evidence. Debates and disagreements should not make us sceptical about the scientific method. However, we need to doubt every piece of evidence and keep getting new data and formulate new, testable hypotheses. Taking advantage of these debates, the new power brokers are nudging people to become anti-science. Some claim that all science is contained in the Ramayana and the Mahabharata. Hindus knew about the internet and plastic surgery long ago. A sadhu proclaims that allopathic medicine is stupid. A congregation in a mosque can be a super-spreader but the Kumbh Mela is not. Cancer can be cured by drinking the urine of cows. Cow dung has curative properties for almost all ailments. Such utterances are not made by lunatics on the fringe, but by political influencers and thought leaders giving speeches in gatherings of professional scientists. Can religious faith and scientific reason coexist? It is an old question. The answer depends on what we teach our children today, and what our grandchildren learn from them in the future. Anup Sinha is former professor of Economics, IIM Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-9
16-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Tenughat Dam releases water into Damodar||Bokaro: The Tenughat Dam authourities on Wednesday opened the two sluice gates to discharge water in the Damodar River, due to incessant rain in the last two days that increased the water level. Tenughat Dam is one of the largest dams in Asia with 18 gates including 10 radial and 8 sluice ones. The water of this dam is supplied to the Bokaro Steel Plant and the residential township of the entire Bokaro Steel City. About 3500 cusecs per second water is being discharged in the river. Damodar enters West Bengal after travelling through various parts of the district and Dhanbad. Executive engineer, Shyam Kishore, said the water level of Tenughat Dam has increased due to continuous rains, due to which two gates were opened while one gate was already open. The water level of Damodar River has risen as three gates were opened. Locals living on the banks of the river have been restricted from going to the river. The water holding capacity of Tenughat Dam is 852 feet whereas at present it has 844.35 feet of water. (Our correspondent) Bokaro: The district police on Tuesday lodged an FIR against three private hospitals after finding discrepancies in the usage of government allotted life-saving drug Remdesivir and violations of other guidelines issued by the health department in providing treatment to Covid-19 patients. The executive magistrate, Rohit Pravin Kujur on direction of sub-divisional officer of Chas, Shashi Prakash Singh, lodged a complaint against Devansh Hospital situated near ITI Moad with Pindrajoda police station, Wellmark Hospital at Nayamoad under City Police Station and City Care Hospital in Chas police station. “There were discrepancies found in the usage of life-saving drug Remdesivir in these three hospitals. These hospitals were asked to produce empty vails of the Remdesivir allotted to them for treatment of the Covid patients by government, but they failed,” said an administrative officer. He added that, in the inquiry it was also found that one of these hospitals has written Remdesivir repeatedly in the name of a single person. The record related to administration of Remdesivir to Covid patients was also found to not be properly maintained, etc. The inquiry was conducted on direction of the state government in May. Deputy Commissioner, Bokaro, Rajesh Singh acted on the direction ordered by Civil Surgeon Dr A.K. Pathak to take necessary legal action in this connection. DSP, Chas, Mukesh Kumar said the FIR has been lodged under various sections in Clinical Establishment, Disaster Management Act, Essential Commodities Act, Drugs and Cosmetics Act and Indian Penal Code (IPC). Sources said that in month of April and May, the allotment of Remdesivir was done by state government to private hospitals for treatment of corona patients. To stop misuse and black marketing of the drug, state government had ordered drug inspectors of each district to check all the private hospitals which were allotted Remdesivir and report whether they have genuinely utilised it or not. Drug Inspector Vikas Kumar found discrepancies in Devansh Hospital situated at ITI Moad, Chas and City Care Hospital at Checkpost, Chas. The record of Remdesivir in these hospitals was found much less than the number of allotments. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: Villagers caught and beat up three youths who were trying to commit theft at a government school on Tuesday night in Chatra district. The villagers thrashed them before handing to Mayurhund police. Sources said the incident took place in Puraini Utkramit Madhya Vidyalaya in Husiya panchayat under Mayurhund block. They said the school managing committee had orgnanised an online meeting due to which many members came here. After the meeting, all returned in the evening. But villagers saw three youths roaming around the school building. A villager said robberies have taken place in schools across many districts including Chatra during the lockdown. The trio were taken into custody and taken to Mayurhund police station. Sources said the police came to know that the trio had done the recce of this school before, to commit the theft. They thought that due to lockdown, it was easy for them to go ahead with this plan. But due to alertness of the villagers, their plan got foiled. Officer--in-charge Kaushal Kumar Singh said they were interrogating the trio to get details about their crime. Trio were identified as Shrawan Paswan, Randhir Paswan and Dileep Thakur from neighbouring villages. An FIR has been registered against them. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: Janardan Prasad, a resident of Sandh village in Barkagaon charged police for allegedly beating him mercilessly. He said he was called in the Barkagaon police station for a compromise. Prasad said he was having a dispute with a villager for which Barkagaon police station assistant sub inspector Amit Kumar Sonu and Shahzad Ansari beat him up mercilessly. “Duo asked me to sign a compromise and for that I was tortured mercilessly. My body has the marks of beating,” he added. Subdivisional police officer Mohammad Nehaluddin said probe has started with Ansari suspended and show caused sent to Sonu. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Bokaro: A Rendezvous Series was organised by The Society for the Promotion of Indian Classical Music And Culture Amongst Youth with an aim to induce the element of sensitivity, idea and spirituality among children, who are currently confined at home, for the students of Delhi Public School, Bokaro. The series covered a variety of programs such as film screenings, performances by great artists, yoga, vocal music and talks by gurus. The series of events that were organised in the virtual platform commenced from the first week of June 2021. Extensive workshops on yoga, fine arts, and vocal music with dances and mudras were conducted as part of this program. Over hundreds of DPS students attended the workshop for effective learning.  The movie 'Gandhi' directed by Sir Richard Attenborough was also screened for the students, which was followed by a discussion with Kumar Prashant Chairman, Gandhi Peace Foundation. The movie received overwhelming response from the students. Principal of DPS Bokaro, A.S. Gangwar said, “The Rendezvous Series was a great initiative by SPICMACAY. It gave the students the opportunity to be enlightened by exceptional artists. Through the talk show, classical music and dance performances, students got a chance to learn from the maestro.” (Our correspondent) Deoghar: A total of 25 people have been arrested in Deoghar district for cyber crime, loot and theft, police said on Wednesday. "Thirteen of them were held in connection with cases of cyber crime," Deoghar Superintendent of Police Ashwini Kumar Sinha said. Altogether, 14 motorcycles were impounded and 30 mobile phones and eight passbooks recovered from their possession, he added. (Agencies)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
16-06-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town vaccine camp for juvenile delinquents||The district health department, as part of a series of special camps, organised a Covid vaccination for juvenile offenders of Child Reformatory Centre of Bhuda. On June 9, a similar special vaccination camp was organised for the differently abled persons of Pehla Kadam, a Centre for special students, during which a total of 60 students and some others of the district were vaccinated. The camp began on Wednesday morning at Child Reformatory Centre at Bhuda at around 10 am under the supervision of District Social Welfare officer, Sneh Kashypap and District Reproductive and Child Health Officer, Dr Vikash Kumar Rana during which a total of 50 were vaccinated. This was followed by another vaccination held at Dhanbad divisional jail during which altogether 70 inmates including prisoners and undertrials were vaccinated. Talking to The Telegraph Online, District Reproductive and Child Health Officer, Dr Vikash Rana who is also the nodal officer for Covid vaccination in the district said, “All the persons were provided Covishield first dose at the centre and only such inmates who are above 18 years of age have been administered vaccines today.” “We will be organising a similar camp at Dhanbad Divisional Jail tomorrow during which the inmates of the jail including prisoners and undertrials would be vaccinated,” said Rana. “We have plans to organise similar special camps for other vulnerable sections including newspaper delivery persons, milk vendors, street vendors, staff working in pharmacies, auto driver, taxi drivers, bus drivers and conductors, electricity board staff, local body employees, workers in e-commerce and essential industries, construction workers and other state labourers; all government staff etc and we be holding camps and as and when we get sufficient doses for vaccination,” said Rana. When asked about the second dose for the 18 and above age category who took the first dose of Covaxin on May 14 in Dhanbad, he said, “We have written to the authorities concerned and are waiting for more doses soon and will arrange for a second dose as soon as we get the supply.” A total of 50 persons of 45 and above age group were also vaccinated on Wednesday during a vaccination camp organised at Sant Nirankari Mission of Dhanbad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
16-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Congress to conduct statewide survey on Covid spread ||Congress, which is part of the ruling alliance in Jharkhand, will undertake a month-long door-to-door outreach programme across the state to study the impact of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and ascertain the extent of infections and fatalities at a time when several national and international media reports have accused India of under reporting Covid deaths. State party spokesperson Alok Dubey said a blueprint of the exercise was ready and workers would hit the streets by the end of this week. “We are involving 5,440 party workers comprising MLAs, MPs and others for the exercise, setting a target to reach out to 10 lakh households. The survey will be for one month. In terms of population, we are aiming to reach out to 40 lakh people,” he said. In Jharkhand, 5,089 people have succumbed to Covid-19 since its outbreak in March last year, but more than 70 per cent of the fatalities occurred during the second wave that began in April this year. Of the 3.43 lakh total infections so far, more than 2 lakh cases pertain to the second wave. Even though Covid cases are on the decline since early June, prompting the Hemant Soren government to gradually allow resumption of business activities,the state machinery is on guard against the apprehended third wave. As per the state health department’s intensive public health survey (IPHS), conducted from May 25 to June 5, covering 2.63 crore rural residents, the second wave of infections did not have a major impact on Jharkhand’s hinterlands. Barely 1,000 people among those surveyed tested positive. The Congress has, therefore, decided to conduct its own independent survey across  260 blocks of all 24 districts to evaluate the impact of the virus  and submit a report to the state government. The move, sources said, was a part of a nationwide survey which the party had decided to conduct. Dubey said, “The idea is to ascertain the number of those who were infected by the virus, deaths, current status of households that have lost an earning member, financial status, etc. The report will be tabled before the government with recommendations.” Dubey said the purpose of the survey was to help the state government get a correct picture of the extent of the spread of the pandemic and plan welfare measures accordingly. State Congress president and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon had gone to Delhi on Tuesday to meet the party high command to discuss the modalities of the survey. He is expected to return by Friday after which the survey will be initiated. Oraon, who tested Covid positive last year, will also undergo a health check-up during his stay in the national capital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
16-06-2021||Jharkhand||Four arrested in shelter home abuse case||Four persons, including two women, who were absconding after being charged with molestation by Telco police on June 6, have been arrested from Singroli district of Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday. The four identified as 46-year-old Harpal Singh Thapper, his wife Pushpa Rani Turkey, 45, Geeta Kaur, 45, and Aditya Singh, 20, have been brought from Singroli to the steel city on transit remand. All the four accused are residents of Samsher Tower at Kharangajhar in Telco. Superintendent of police (City) Subhash Chandra Jat said that Thapper and his wife Pushpa were running an NGO, Mother Teresa Welfare Trust, at Kharangajhar where minor homeless girls were being given shelter. "On June 6, two of the minors, about 16-year-old each, had alleged that Thapper had been molesting them. Later during investigation, the involvement of three others had come to fore. The police had registered a case of molestation and also POCSO Act against the four on the basis of an FIR. But as soon as the case was registered, all the four accused had gone underground, "said the SP (City). As a follow-up action, a team was set up led by additional SP, Kumar Gaurav. The team succeeded in tracing the accused at a location in Singlori district where they were hiding. According to police, two victims had fled the Kharangajhar shelter home on the night of June 5, following which the conductors of the home reported the matter to the Telco police. But when the missing duo were traced the next day, they refused to return to the home and had made the allegations against Thapper and others. According to the victims, Thapper and Aditya would molest them while Pushpa and Geeta would make them do the toilsome domestic work and would often assault them. The police forwarded all the four accused to the Ghaghidih Central Jail after producing them before a judicial magistrate late in the afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
16-06-2021||Jharkhand||NCLT appoints new resolutional professional for ailing Incab Industries||The Calcutta-bench of National Company Law Tribunal ( NCLT ) appointed a new resolutional professional (RP) of Incab Industries on Wednesday setting in motion a renewed effort at reviving the ailing steel city-based cable manufacturing company. The new RP, Pankaj Kumar Tibrewal, replaces Shashi Agarwal, the erstwhile RP- cum- liquidator who was removed by an order of National Company Law Appellate Tribunal ( NCLAT), New Delhi early this month. Wednesday's virtual NCLT proceedings were attended by Kumar Anurag Singh, who  appeared on behalf of the liquidator (Shashi Agarwal) and informed NCLT judges that it shouldn't pass any orders as they had filed a special leave petition (SLP) before the Supreme Court challenging the NCLAT order. But, the NCLT bench declined to entertain their prayers. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Akash Sharma, the advocate on record who appeared on behalf of Jamshedpur workers, said NCLT passed the order appointing Tibrewal as the new RP in the absence of any stay from Supreme Court. "With this, fresh efforts will be made by the resolution professional through an impartial and fair manner to revive the company," said Sharma. Rishav Banerjee, a senior advocate representing Jayanta Banerjee, the main appellant in the case and an employee of Incab's Calcutta-based headquarters, also appeared in the virtual proceeding. Notably,  NCLAT- New Delhi , while pronouncing its verdict on June 4, had quashed the liquidation order of Incab Industries earlier passed by NCLT-Calcutta and directed the latter to appoint a new RP and verify claims of creditors, excluding Kamla Mills and Fasqua Investments and to carry on with the resolution process  under the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code (IBC) and find a new buyer for the ailing company. NCLAT had also sought action against the  erstwhile resolution professional and referred the matter to The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India ( IBBI) Incab was referred to the erstwhile Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction ( BIFR ) in 1999. It was admitted for corporate insolvency resolution on August 7, 2019. In the intervening years, attempts were made to revive Incab, which used to make cables for power transmission. A number of companies, including Tata Steel, were interested in its takeover. In the mid-1990s, Malaysian promoter Leader Universal Berhad Cables took over the company. But, the company started suffering losses and slid deeper in the red and had to be referred to the erstwhile BIFR. Since then, Incab employees have been deprived of their monthly salary and other benefits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
16-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to notify black fungus disease as epidemic ||Mucormycosis, a fungal infection which has claimed at least 25 lives in Jharkhand, is likely to get notified as an epidemic by the state cabinet which is scheduled to meet on Friday, health officials said on Wednesday. Chief minister Hemant Soren took to microblogging website Twitter on Tuesday to share that his government has started working on the process of notifying mucormycosis or black fungus as an epidemic. “The process of notifying mucormycosis as an epidemic has certainly been expedited after the CM’s directive. Usually, such decisions are made by the Cabinet, so we are expecting the notification to be out after the next cabinet meeting,” said Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer for health department Information, education and communication (IEC) wing. As per latest data with the health department, as many as 79 confirmed cases and 52 suspected cases of mucormycosis have been reported in Jharkhand so far. Of the 79 patients, 25 have died and 37 have recovered, indicating that the fatality rate among patients was quite high in the state. On May 20, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare directed all states and Union territories in India to declare mucormycosis an epidemic, stating that the infection is leading to mortalities and morbidities amongst Covid patients. Several states including Gujarat, Rajasthan, Telangana and Tamil Nadu have already notified black fungus as an epidemic. New Delhi also notified mucormycosis as an epidemic on May 27. In May, the Jharkhand government asked the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) to maintain records related to the lethal fungal infection. The civil surgeons of all the districts were asked to report fresh confirmed and suspected cases of mucormycosis to the IDSP every day. Mucormycosis is a rare infection caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables. cormycosis patients. Several thousand cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis were reported in India in the past one month and doctors claimed that use of high dosage steroids for treatment of severely-ill Covid patients was one of the reasons for the spike. In Jharkhand, all the 79 mucormycosis patients found so far were Covid survivors, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
16-06-2021||Jharkhand||Special athletes get vaccinated at steel city camp||Thirteen special athletes took vaccination for Covid-19 at a camp organised by the East Singhbhum district administration on Wednesday. Jeevika, a special school in Sonari locality, had requested the deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar to organise the camp. A team, including three nurses, completed the formalities in around two hours. “The vaccination camp was organised very peacefully and without hassles. We thank the district administration for the same. We had requested the deputy commissioner to facilitate vaccination of our students via a letter on May 31,” said Singh, a former international cyclist. According to him, they decided to get their students vaccinated from a safety point of view. “It was our responsibility to help our students. They took the first dose of Covishield vaccine. District authorities have asked us to contact them after three months for the second dose,” he added. Besides the 13 students of Jeevika, four ex-special athletes of the school also took the vaccine. “Some of the students, including Ashutosh Thakur and Tushar Gope, were very afraid of taking the vaccine. They refused to leave their place and were also not allowing us to roll up their sleeves. They co-operated only when we showed them chocolates and later gave them the same after vaccination,” said Jeevika secretary Sukhdeep Kaur. Kaur said some students who were left out on Wednesday, will get vaccinated during the second camp. Some students of Jeevika have completed painting and varnishing Diwali diyas. “The students have so far painted and varnished around 6,000 diyas. We would be ordering some 2,000 more diyas to a potter in Asanboni in East Singhbhum. The students will once again get engaged in work they love the most,” said Jeevika founder Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
16-06-2021||Jharkhand||Former coal town councilor turns drain into protest site||The former councilor of Coal town’s ward 15, Ranjit Singh, carried out a unique protest on Wednesday by sleeping in a muddy unconstructed drain to draw attention towards the problem of inundation due to drain water overflow faced by over 50 thousand residents of Shivpuri locality in Bhuli. “The drain water of several localities, including Kasiatand, Aambagan , Bhuli D block, C Block, E block enters several houses of Shivpuri locality due to overflow caused by lack of concretisation and embankment of drains,” said Singh from the protest site, accompanied by several other residents of Shivpuri. “Yesterday itself the boundary wall of the house of one Lakshman Paswan of Shivpuri collapsed due to his house being inundated due to drain water overflowing under the impact of monsoon,” charged Singh and added that not just houses but several shops in the main market of Bhuli and Shakti market also gets inundated due to drain water. “We have been demanding the construction of drains for the last five years and former Dhanbad Mayor Chandreshekhar Agarwal also visited Bhuli to inspect the site two years ago and following which an estimate for construction of 4000 meters of drain was prepared but the project is yet to start and as a result we are compelled to live in a virtual hell,” said Singh. “I don’t know that what is the problem of the Municipal Commissioner Satyendra Kumar with Bhuli that he claims that the drain construction work is the responsibility of BCCL as colony belongs to BCCL but the fact remains that all of us at Shivpuri in Bhuli regularly pay holding tax, property tax and other taxes collected by Dhanbad Municipal Corporation regularly,” said Singh. “If our day-long protest elicits no response from the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation authorities, then we will be compelled to block the bridge near A block,” said Singh. Extending support to the protest carried out by the former councillor, Ashok Singh, a local resident of Shivpuri locality of Bhuli said, “Everyone in our locality is compelled to live amidst stink, foul smell and continuous threat of outbreak of disease due to overflowing drains as no initiative has been taken by Dhanbad Municipal Corporation to solve the problem of drain water in our area.” Efforts to contact city manager of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation Md Anis in this regard failed as he didn’t respond to any calls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
16-06-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town blind school adopts Braille mobile app to reopen on July 1||The Blind School at Murlingar, operated by the Dhanbad Blind Relief Society, is all set to resume operations within a fortnight from July 1 with the help of Braille script installed on android mobile phones. All educational activities and training has been suspended for the last 19 months due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Cleanliness of the entire school campus of eight rooms, kitchen, caretaker's quarter and ground is also likely to begin within a day or two as per the instruction of Deputy Development Commissioner Dasrath Chandra Das. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Vivek Upadhayay, Joint secretary of Dhanbad Blind Relief Society said, “We had a meeting yesterday under the Chairmanship of DDC, Dasarth Chandra Das during which senior officials of district administration including , District Social Welfare Officer, Sneh Kashyap, District Child Protection Officer, Sadhna Kumari, District  Superintendent of Education, Indu Bhushan Singh and others were present during which we were asked reopen the centre from July 1 by making all necessary arrangements.” “We are happy with the decision as the school which also has residential arrangements for 17 blind students from class IV to X is very close to our heart,” said Upadhyay and added that the school established in mid 60s at Nunudih near De Nobili School Digwadih at the initiative of then principal of School, Father Hess was the example of social service mission of De Nobili School. “Each student of our school used to contribute 25paise per month from his pocket for the blind school and an evening school which were launched at the initiative of Father Hess,” said Upadhyay, an alumni of De Nobili School, Digwadih. At present, the school, with a staff of four persons including two teachers, is operating from a community centre of Bharat Coking Coal Limited at Murli Nagar. “Some of the students of the school are very good at singing and playing musical instruments and we have several musical instruments like harmonium, piano etc through which regular training in music is imparted by our teachers,” said Upadhyay. DDC Dasrath Chandra Das said that since the blind school comes under the category of Child Care Institutions and all other Child Care institutions are operational, the centre is being reopened. “For launching the education process immediately in conformity with the Covid protocols we have decided to provide Android phones to all the students and teachers so the Braille Software can be installed to launch education,” said Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
16-06-2021||Jharkhand||Bijender Goel nominated as founder president of Indian Delphic Council||Bijender Goel, former special representative to Jharkhand government, has been nominated as the Founding President of the Indian Delphic Council to head the Indian movement. Goel was also the chairman of the National Council on Disaster management, member of governing council of Bir Tikendrajit University, Manipur and known for introducing earthquake onsite early warning technology in South Asia. He is also an advisor of the South Asian Affairs of the International Delphic Council (IDC), informed a statement from IDC, which is a voluntary, not-for-profit, nonpolitical, nonreligious global organization that works to foster harmony amongst people through engagements in the various arts forms and the cultural identities that manifest them, through the Delphic Games. Goel in a statement said that he plans to take this movement to every artist, art lover, various stakeholders and government bodies in India by promoting all category of arts. “Apart from Delphic Games at the international level, the INDC will organise many festivals, events, platforms in India,” it added. The ancient history of the Delphic Games traces its roots back to Delphi in Greece 2500 years ago as the twin-sister of the Olympic Games. The Delphic Games are to Arts & Cultures what Olympic Games are to physical sports. While the Delphic Games of the Modern Era were revived in 1994, the Olympic Games were revived in 1894. Since revival, the Delphic Games have been hosted in Georgia, Russia, Malaysia, South Korea, Philippines, Germany and South Africa while Delphic Summits, Delphic Art Wall initiatives and other festivals of cultural significance have been organised elsewhere in the world. International Institutions like UNESCO, Council of Europe, ASEAN among others have endorsed the various editions of the Delphic Games in the past. World leaders including Nelson Mandela (South Africa), Mikhail Gorbachev (erstwhile USSR), Helmut Kohl (Germany), Eduard Shevardnadze (Georgia) as well as celebrated musicians, painters, academicians, historians, arts & culture revivalists and the likes have supported the Delphic Games. India has participated in three editions of the Delphic Games in various countries and even won gold and silver medals in South Korea.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
16-06-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi's active Covid caseload drops below 1k||The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped below the 1000-mark in Ranchi – the worst affected district in Jharkhand in terms of caseload – on Tuesday as at least 248 patients recovered from the infection here while only nine people were found infected by Coronavirus on the day, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. However, the capital still accounted for more than 35 per cent of the total active cases in Jharkhand. As per data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), at least 934 Ranchi residents were battling Covid-19 by the end of Tuesday. The active caseload in the state also dropped to 2646 on the day as it reported 596 Covid recoveries against 184 fresh cases of Coronavirus infection. As per NHM data, at least four more Covid patients died in Jharkhand on Tuesday, taking the Covid toll in Jharkhand to 5089. Ranchi, Lohardaga, East Singhbhum and Khunti reported one Covid casualty each on the day. At least three districts – Chatra, Deoghar and Pakur – did not report fresh Covid cases on Tuesday, while seven districts reported a double-digit-spike. At least 25 people were found infected in Hazaribag and 21 patients recovered there. Dhanbad reported 14 cases against seven recoveries, while 10 people were found infected in Bokaro and seven patients recovered there. None of the 24 districts in Jharkhand reported a spike of more than 50 cases on Tuesday. As many as 31 people were found infected in East Singhbhum, the highest among the districts. However, at least 50 patients recovered there, bringing the active caseload down to 247, NHM data highlighted. So far, over 3.43 lakh people have been infected by Coronavirus in Jharkhand and 97.75 per cent of them have recovered. However, about 1.48 per cent of the patients could not survive, highlights government data. The state on Tuesday tested swab samples of 34,684 residents and less than 0.5 per cent of them were found to be Covid positive. As per NHM data, the growth rate of Covid-19 dropped to 0.05 per cent in Jharkhand on the day against the national average of 0.19 per cent. The doubling rate in the state also reached 1268.98 days against the national doubling rate of 367.58 days. Jharkhand on Tuesday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 50,856 residents and more than 30,000 of them were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. As per government data, the second jab was administered to 14808 residents, including 3375 beneficiaries younger than 45 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
16-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand health department releases helpline for post-Covid problems  ||The Jharkhand health department released a helpline number to address problems of post-Covid complications of patients. The Nistha Swasthya Sampark post Covid helpline 07314821385 was launched by state health minister Banna Gupta on Monday. “The helpline number would provide free post-Covid care for recovered patients in four intervention districts of Jharkhand, Ranchi, East Singhbhum (Jamshedpur), Dhanbad and Bokaro and help set up teleconsultation platform with specialists and super specialists to address their problems. “It will also provide continuity of care and support for patients with chronic conditions, rural residents, elderly and those with disabilities,” Gupta said. The state health department has directed the deputy commissioners of all the 24 districts on Sunday to start a survey based on social and economic aspects of families of families who have lost earning members due to the second wave of Covid-19. The districts have to complete the survey and submit it to the health department by June 25. The survey findings will help the government plan welfare schemes for the rehabilitation and uplift of the families that have lost their members to Covid-19. Additional chief secretary (health) Arun Kumar Singh has also directed all deputy commissioners that all Covid-19 positive patients should be compulsorily brought to the Covid hospitals and no home isolation shall be granted. The letter also states that all possible contacts of positive patients must be tested within 24 hours. “In view of the steep decline in number of Covid cases across states and with easing of restrictions in other states there can be an influx of passengers from other states with higher positivity rates which might lead to an increase in the Covid infection in Jharkhand. Earlier, we had shortage of beds but now with enough beds we do not want to take risk on new cases and they would have to be hospitalised for treatment,” said state health nodal officer Siddharth Tripathy. Meanwhile, the state on Sunday witnessed only two deaths due to Covid taking the total mortality figure to 5,084. The day also witnessed 154 new cases taking the active load 3,395.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
16-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: 25% ventilators given to Jharkhand by the Centre ‘defunct’||One-fourth of the ventilators given to Jharkhand by the Centre is not functional and requires repair or replacement of missing parts. The state government has written to the manufacturers of those ventilators, bought from the PM-Cares funds, requesting them to send teams so that such ventilators could be made operational. Jharkhand received 663 ventilators and the health department distributed those among the districts for using at various heath facilities. At the time of their installation at different facilities, it was found that 164 ventilators that accounted for 24.73 per cent of the total 663 could not be used as they had either some mechanical defects or some parts missing. Ravi Shankar Shukla, mission director of National Health Mission, Jharkhand, wrote two separate letters on Saturday to the manufacturers of those ventilators,  Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) headquartered in Bangalore and AgVa Healthcare in New Delhi,  requesting them “to send additional teams for urgent installation and to replace the dysfunctional ventilators”. Of the total 663 ventilators received by the state, AgVa Healthcare made 438 and 225 by BEL while those two lots had 139 and 25 dysfunctional ventilators respectively. Meanwhile, the Jharkhand government has decided to replace home isolation of Covid patients by facility isolation with recoveries outnumbering new positive cases and the number of deaths coming down remarkably, the Covid situation seems to be under control in the state. The active caseload was further reduced to 3,062 and just one death was recorded in the state on Monday while the recovery rate went up to 97.62 per cent. Still, the Jharkhand government has decided that all Covid-19 positive patients would be compulsory sent to hospitals or Covid care centres and are not allowed to remain at home unless the authorities consider on case-to-case basis and feel otherwise. “Though the state is on the declining path of the second phase of Covid-19 pandemic…with easing of restrictions, this is the time to be extremely vigilant for any possible resurgence of Covid-19 cases,” state’s additional chief secretary (health) Arun Kumar Singh said in a letter to the deputy commissioners (DCs) of all the districts last week, advising them to send positive patients to hospitals and not grant any home isolation. “Not a bad idea,” said a government doctor on the condition of anonymity. He said the hospitals, unlike earlier, had empty beds now and can accommodate more patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
