17-06-2021||Calcutta||Sanjiv Goenka nominated Chairperson of IIT-Kharagpur board||Sanjiv Goenka, the Chairman of RP Sanjiv Goenka Group, has once again been nominated as the Chairperson of the Board of Governors of the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur by the Honourable President of India. This duration of this post will be for a period of one year from 27.06.2021 to 26.06.2022. This is the fifth time Goenka has been bestowed this honour. "It is a real honour and a privilege to be able to serve an iconic institution like the Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur,'' Goenka said after the announcement. Expressing delight at the nomination, Director of IIT Kharagpur Professor V K Tewari said, "The whole Institute is delighted to get Dr Goenka's guidance and direction for the next one year and take this Institute to higher grounds of excellence." Sanjiv Goenka's RP Group has 45,000 employees and over five hundred thousand shareholders. The Group’s businesses spans across eight sectors – Power & Natural Resources, Carbon Black, Retail & Consumer, Media, Entertainment, Sports, IT & Education, include flagship companies such as CESC Limited, Phillips Carbon Black Ltd, Firstsource Solutions Ltd., Spencer’s Retail and Saregama India Ltd. In April 2001, Dr. Sanjiv Goenka took over as the youngest-ever President of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). He is currently the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur (IIT-KGP), and the International Management Institute, Delhi, Bhubaneswar and Kolkata. Sanjiv Goenka is a former President of All India Management Association (AIMA) and was the youngest President of the Indian Chamber of Commerce.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
17-06-2021||Calcutta||Rains lash Bengal, crucial Calcutta alleys under water||Several low-lying areas and thoroughfares in the city lay inundated on Thursday as heavy rain continued to lash parts of Bengal, with the Met department predicting more downpour over the next three days under the influence of a vigorous southwest monsoon and a cyclonic circulation. According to the Met department, Calcutta recorded 144 mm rainfall in 24 hours till 8.30 am. The southern parts of the city received more rainfall than the north, leaving streets and alleys waterlogged in Ballygunge Circular Road, Loudon Street, Southern Avenue and places in Kasba, Behala and Tollygunge. With the state government easing Covid-19 curbs and offices partially opening up in the metropolis and elsewhere, people had a difficult time wading through knee-deep water to reach their destinations. Traffic came to a halt in some areas as vehicles moved slowly through the flooded thoroughfares. Canning in South 24 Parganas district registered maximum rainfall in Bengal during the 24-hour period at 178.6 mm, while Bankura received 133.2 mm rain, the Met department said. Moderate to heavy showers were also recorded in some places of north Bengal. Darjeeling experienced more than 70 mm rainfall. The weatherman further explained that moderate rain with spells of heavy showers are expected in almost all districts of Bengal in the next three days as the southwest monsoon has turned vigorous over Gangetic Bengal and a cyclonic circulation has formed in the region. It forecast an overcast sky with spells of rain or thundershowers in Calcutta till Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
17-06-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s College frames merit list criteria for admission||St Xavier’s College will give 75 per cent weightage to marks in the Class XII board results and 25 per cent to the subject in which an aspirant wants to major while drawing up the merit list for the undergraduate courses. For applicants who did not have the subject in which he or she wants to major at the plus-II level, the Park Street college has worked out alternative mechanisms. If a student of science or commerce wants to pursue an undergraduate programme in political science or sociology, for example, the marks obtained in English will be considered, an official of the college said. St Xavier’s University in New Town had announced on Monday that it will admit students to its undergraduate programmes through online tests. St Xavier’s College, till last year, used to screen undergraduate aspirants solely on the basis of aggregate marks (best four) at the plus-II level. This year, it will give 25 per cent weightage to the marks obtained in the subject the aspirant wants to pursue at the undergraduate level. This will help screen the bright aspirants from a large pool of applicants, said principal Father Dominic Savio. Till Wednesday, 30,000 candidates had applied. The sheer number of applicants, along with uncertain internet connectivity, has forced the college not to hold online entrance tests or interviews, the principal said. “The criteria for selecting students on the merit list will be determined on the basis of 75 per cent weightage to the board marks and 25 per cent weightage to a subject/subjects specific to different streams and departments,” Father Savio told The Telegraph. According to a notice posted on the college website, for those who want to pursue an honours in political science, the best four in the aggregate will include English and any three other subjects. The merit list will be drawn up after the college gives 25 per cent weightage to political science or English marks (whichever is higher). “The details about the combination that will be followed in case a prospective student does not have the subject at the plus-II level in which he or she wants to major, will be uploaded on the college website,” he said. If a student does not have statistics in Class XII, only the marks in mathematics will be considered. The calculation of the 75 per cent weightage to the board marks will vary from department to department, said another college official. For instance, for statistics, the 75 per cent will be calculated by putting together the aggregate of the best of four and the scores in statistics or mathematics (whichever is higher) from the board results. This will be added to 25 per cent from the marks obtained in mathematics or statistics (whichever is higher). For computer science, 75 per cent of marks will be calculated by putting together the aggregate of the best of four and the scores in mathematics and physics. The remaining 25 per cent will be from mathematics or computer science (whichever is higher). “This 75 per cent component, by and large, is based on a computation of the best four aggregate percentages along with subject percentage (in subject/s decided by the respective departments). The remaining 25 per cent weightage will be taken from subject/s chosen by the departments to give prominence to the subject the applicant will be pursuing in the honours course,” said an official. The selection criteria for the five-year integrated programme in bio-technology and for multimedia courses have been announced as well. Students will be selected based on weightage of 75 per cent to the marks in the Class XII board results and 25 per cent to the subject the student wants to major in or a relevant subject chosen by the department concerned. The form fill-in schedule will be uploaded on the college’s website by the end of this week, said Father Savio.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
17-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Vaccine status scan only at Rabindra Sarobar ||At 7.45am on Wednesday, there was a steady stream of visitors entering Rabindra Sarobar and all of them had to show their vaccination certificates to the guards at the gates. But this was not the scene across the city as many parks remained unguarded and visitors could go in without anyone to check if they were vaccinated. Officials managing Rabindra Sarobar tried to enforce the state government’s order that only those who are vaccinated are allowed to enter parks. A notification issued by the government on Monday mentioned that “parks may remain open for morning walks, physical exercise etc during 6AM to 9AM and only vaccinated people shall be allowed”. While making the announcement at Nabanna on Monday afternoon, chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi stressed that only those who had taken both doses of a Covid vaccine would be allowed in the parks. But the government’s notification does not mention that one has to be fully vaccinated. At the Mother Dairy gate and Buddha Mandir gates of Rabindra Sarobar that Metro visited, guards were seen asking every visitor to produce evidence that they had been vaccinated. Most people showed soft copies of their vaccination certificates downloaded on their mobile phones. A few carried hard copies of the certificate. If someone failed to download the certificate, guards insisted that they show the text message saying he or she had been inoculated against Covid. The guards, however, did not check whether the visitors being allowed in were fully or partially vaccinated. An elderly man who had arrived at the Sarobar without his mobile phone was turned away from the Mother Dairy gate on Southern Avenue. The CMDA, the custodian of Rabindra Sarobar, had kept open six of the 13 gates on Wednesday. “It would have been difficult to provide an adequate number of guards at the gates had all 13 been opened,” said a CMDA official. The CMDA manages Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar, two of Calcutta’s largest parks. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) manages about 700 other parks. At Deshbandhu Park, managed by the CMC, there was no checking at the gates. Guards were randomly asking visitors whether they had been vaccinated. Om Prakash Tiwari, from Bagbazar, was there for a walk on Wednesday morning. “I entered the park without any check. After two rounds of walking, a guard asked me whether I had been vaccinated. I told him I had received both doses and could show him the certificate,” Tiwari said. Officials of the CMC and the CMDA said there were very few visitors on Wednesday, which they felt was because of the downpour overnight and the drizzle in the morning. “More people will come once the weather improves. We will face the real challenge because queues will form if we are to check the vaccination status of each and every visitor,” said an official of CMDA. Many visitors to parks asked the guards whether their children who were below 18 could accompany them. Officials of the CMC and the CMDA said they felt there was no bar on children. “The government order doesn’t say anything about children. Since vaccination of those below 18 has not yet started, the order that only vaccinated persons can enter applies only to adults. We can at best ensure that children always wear masks,” said a CMC official. Two teams of doctors representing the Bengal chapter of The Association of Physicians of India met the state health secretary, chief medical officer of Hooghly and the police chief of the district on Wednesday demanding action against those who assaulted doctors at Pandua Rural Hospital on June 6 following the death of a patient. They also demanded more protection for doctors and healthcare workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
17-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Jobless in pandemic, dad of 2 found dead||A 38-year-old man who lost his job last year amidst the pandemic committed suicide, apparently unable to sustain his family with his income from supplying polythene bags to small shops. The former sales executive of a pharmaceutical company, his wife and two children had been living with his in-laws as he could not afford a separate dwelling, police said. The couple’s son is 7 and daughter 3. The police said Bhaskar Roy, a resident of BL Saha Road in Behala, was found hanging from the ceiling fan of a ground-floor room of his in-laws’ house, in the same neighbourhood, on Wednesday morning. Roy, one of the three siblings, was the first graduate in his family and used to earn around Rs 20,000 a month till his services were terminated after the lockdown was imposed in March last year. The pharmaceutical company had apparently promised to hire him back once the lockdown was lifted but never contacted him again, the police said. “He failed to get a job in the past year and started supplying polythene bags to grocery stores for a living,” an officer said. He earned Rs 250-300 a day, the officer said. Roy, who had purchased a Royal Enfield, rode a bicycle for the past year because he could not afford to buy fuel, his wife Rama told the police. “He and his wife would roam around supplying polythene bags to grocery shops. On a good day they would earn Rs 300,” said an officer who has spoken to the bereaved family. No suicide note was found, the police said. “It appears Roy was finding it difficult to pay his son’s school fees and other expenses,” the officer said. Like Roy, hundreds of people have lost jobs since the lockdown. On Monday night, a 52-year-old homemaker in Sarsuna had committed suicide apparently unable to bear the stress of her son’s unemployment because of the lockdown and inadequate income of her husband, which was not enough to pay the house rent or sustain the family of three.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
17-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid lockdown: Relief as diners and shoppers walk in||Malls and restaurants were back in business from Wednesday. The number of visitors was few to start with. But the resumption of business was like the resumption of life itself for many. The Telegraph spoke to some of them. Around 12.15pm on Wednesday, Umesh Kumar Singh was sorting cutlery and napkins on some of the tables at Pa Pa Ya, a Pan-Asian restaurant on the 11th floor of Magma House on Park Street. The 31-year-old waiter had walked 6km from his Sovabazar home to the restaurant. The saving grace was the overcast conditions. It took him a little over one hour. But the relief of being able to see diners overshadowed the exhaustion from the journey. “I got my salary for May but the uncertainty was killing me. Most of the salary is spent on power bills, gas and groceries. I have to take care of my children as well,” said Singh. The salary alone is not enough for people like Singh. They depend heavily on the extra income from service charge and tip, impossible without diners. Singh is not unfamiliar with the tedious journey, having undertaken it multiple times during the post-lockdown phase last year. “Last year, there was no such bar on vehicles but it was still not easy to find a bus or a shuttle taxi. This time, I am prepared to walk between home and work,” said Singh, who has been with the restaurant since it’s opening in Calcutta in 2018. Singh lives with his wife, two children and parents. His father, who works with a “small private firm”, is the other earning member of the family. The assistant manager at the same restaurant, Indranil Chatterjee, had arrived in a tee and shorts. Within 10 minutes, he changed into a crisp suit. The casual attire was meant for a bicycle ride. Chatterjee rode from Kankulia Road, between Ballygunge station and Golpark, to Park Street. Chatterjee, 35, had bought the cycle last year to cut his travel expenses. Before lockdown 2020, he used to commute by app cab. “I am lucky to get my salary even when the restaurant is shut for diners. I know many people in the industry who have lost their livelihood,” said the 35-year-old, who used to visit the restaurant even during the curbs to facilitate takeaways and online orders. Chatterjee, a hotel management graduate, has been working in the hospitality sector for 14 years. He has won multiple awards as a mixologist, one of them adorning a wall of the restaurant. He lives with his wife — who also works in the hospitality sector — in a rented apartment. He has a flat in Dankuni. The home rent and the EMI for the flat are the two major components of their expenses. “I was always anxious for the past one-and-a-half months. Now, there is something to look forward to,” he said. A woman security guard at South City Mall was doing the rounds of the second floor with a walkie-talkie. The woman, who did not want to be named, is less than a year old on the job. She started working after severe glaucoma rendered her husband almost blind. The woman, who lives near Kudghat Metro station, walked to her workplace. She left home at 8.30am and reached before 10am. She had to report for work on multiple days even during the curbs. On those days, if she was lucky, she managed to find an auto from Anwar Shah Road to South City. But the fare was often double or triple the usual. Her husband used to own a car that served as an app cab. But it has been grounded since the last lockdown in 2020. Her husband faltered on a couple of EMIs. The couple have an 11-year-old daughter and a four-year-old son. The woman received her salary even when the mall was shut for visitors. She used to work in eight-hour shifts for 26 days a month. She is now looking forward to an extension of business hours. “I worked overtime regularly because I needed the extra money. Unless the timings are extended, there is no chance of overtime,” she said. An ethnic wear store in South City Mall saw one purchase till 3pm on Wednesday — a man buying a kurta for his son-on-law on Jamai Sashti. “One buyer is nothing. But it is a start, after all,” said Naushad Alam, one of the two executives at the store. Their May income was zero since the store was shut. Ditto for half of June. “I had to prematurely close a couple of LIC policies for want of money during the lockdown last year. I don’t know what would have happened this time had the curbs got extended,” he said. Naushad lives with his wife and two children at Beckbagan. He walked from his home to Quest Mall and got a shuttle taxi from there. It took him Rs 50. “I started feeling guilty after getting down. I felt I should have saved the money and walked to work instead,” he said. Hassan Raza, a waiter at Moulin Rouge restaurant on Park Street, was standing at the door, looking expectantly at almost every passer-by. Raza, who has been working for two decades at the eatery, got half his salary for May when the place was shut. On Wednesday, he came walking from Panchannagram, a pocket off the EM Bypass around 8km from the heart of Calcutta. The journey took him close to 90 minutes. “Despite the long walk, I am upbeat, looking forward to meeting old and new guests,” he said. Minutes later, a couple walked in and Raza walked up to them. Raza used to earn around Rs 12,000 a month before Covid-19 started bleeding the sector white. His son has just cleared Class XII and wants to study hotel management. “I was able to save whatever little I could till last year. But a chunk of that savings is gone now,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
17-06-2021||Calcutta||Ramakrishna Mission Saradapitha help for Yaas-hit areas||Ramakrishna Mission Saradapitha, a branch centre of the Ramakrishna Math and Mission, Belur Math, has launched relief work in areas ravaged by Cyclone Yaas. A team of monks and representatives of a corporate house, including a former student of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, visited Kumirmari in South 24-Parganas on June 8 and distributed ration to 500 families. Two truckloads of ration that included rice, sugar, mustard oil, biscuit, pulses and other items were sent to the area. Subir Kumar Somadder, a former student of Vidyamandira and the general manager of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation, Calcutta, said they decided to fund the relief work after Swami Divyananda, the secretary of Saradapitha, approached them. “He was my teacher. We spent close to Rs 9 lakh on the mission,” said Somadder. One of the monks attached to Saradapitha said river water was still entering villages during high tide as embankments had breached under the impact of the cyclone. “It is impossible for these people to cook. The situation could further worsen during high tide. We are trying to help as much as possible,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
17-06-2021||Calcutta||Veteran actor Swatilekha Sengupta passes away||Veteran actor Swatilekha Sengupta passed away on Wednesday. She was 71. Sengupta, who had been suffering from chronic kidney disorder, was being treated at a private hospital off EM Bypass. She breathed her last at 2.45pm, said an official there. Sengupta is survived by her husband, thespian Rudraprasad Sengupta, and daughter Sohini, also a stage and film actor. “She had been a diabetic for a long time. That led to kidney failure,” said Sohini. “She was a very independent lady. I hope that is how she is remembered by all.” Sengupta was cremated at the Keoratala burning ghat. She had started her acting career on the stage in Allahabad. A gold medallist in English literature at Allahabad University, Sengupta joined Nandikar in Calcutta in 1978. She was at the helm of the troupe for three decades, acting in memorable productions and nurturing young talents. Satyajit Ray had cast her as Bimala, opposite Soumitra Chatterjee and Victor Banerjee, in the 1984 film Ghare Baire (Home and the World). Sengupta returned to the big screen with Soumitra Chatterjee after three decades for Nandita Roy and Shiboprosad Mukherjee’s film, Belaseshe. In March 2021, she was feted at The Telegraph She Awards 2021 for her contribution to theatre. Earlier, she had received the Sangeet Natak Akademi award. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted: “Saddened at the passing of actor and theatre personality Swatilekha Sengupta. She graced the stage for decades and left her mark through her works. This is a sad day for Bengali theatre. My condolences to her family, colleagues and admirers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
17-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Jab drive at two Calcutta malls, no slot-booking needed||A drive-in vaccination facility was launched at South City Mall and walk-in vaccinations started at Acropolis Mall on Wednesday. Anyone who turns 18 this year or is older can get their Covid shots at these places. The recipients only need to register on the CoWIN portal but need not book slots. Many who want to get vaccinated have been complaining that despite repeated attempts over several days, they failed to get slots at any vaccination centre. At Acropolis, 150 people received their shots, while 21 people received theirs at South City. “We offered both Covishield and Covaxin to the recipients at Acropolis. Only Covishield was offered at South City,” said an official of AMRI Hospitals, which organised both the drives with the respective mall authorities. “We are expecting a higher turnout as more people get to know about the sites in the coming days.” At Acropolis, a portion of the fourth floor of the mall has been converted into a vaccination site. At South City, the first-floor parking area is being used for the drive-in and only those coming in four-wheelers can get the shot. A separate vaccination drive for construction workers was held at Acropolis Mall on Wednesday, organised jointly by the state government and the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (Credai), Bengal chapter’s youth wing. “Credai youth wing and the state government jointly organised the free vaccination for construction workers. Merlin group provided the space at Acropolis mall,” said an official of Merlin group, the owner of Acropolis Mall.  A vaccination for construction workers will be held at South City mall on Thursday, said the official. A walk-in jab facility is being run at City Centre Salt Lake as well. Recipients can walk in without booking slots. Drive-in vaccination is underway at Quest Mall for those with slots booked through Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s WhatsApp chatbot. Vaccination at Quest Mall is free because the CMC is providing the doses. Two drive-by camps will be held in the city on Wednesday — at Ajoynagar and at Tallah’s traffic training school, said the official of AMRI, which is organising them. The Ajoynagar drive will end on Thursday and the one in Tallah on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
17-06-2021||Business||Second wave wave shaved off Rs 2 lakh crore output: RBI||The devastating second wave of the coronavirus pandemic in April-May is estimated to have cost the nation Rs 2 lakh crore in terms of output, revealed an assessment made by the Reserve Bank. The second wave's toll is mainly in terms of the hit to domestic demand on account of regional and specific containment rather than a nationwide lockdown, it said. "The impact of the second wave is hence estimated at about Rs 2 lakh crore of lost 2021-22 output," said a recent article on the 'State of Economy', written by functionaries of the central bank. Moreover, this wave has fanned into smaller cities and villages, sapping rural demand. The support from government spending may also moderate from the extraordinary expansion undertaken last year, it said. "On the brighter side, several aspects of aggregate supply conditions such as agriculture and contactless services are holding up amidst pandemic protocols. Industrial production and exports have surged on strong base effects, but there is also evidence of positive momentum," the authors said. They further said that "at the cost of reiteration, it is vaccination which will shape the recovery." The article, published in the RBI's monthly Bulletin, stressed that speed and scale of vaccination against COVID-19 will shape the path of economic recovery which has the resilience and the fundamentals to bounce back from the pandemic and unshackle itself from pre-existing cyclical and structural hindrances. Observing that vaccines by themselves will not end the pandemic, the article said "we have to learn to live with the virus, complementing vaccines with ramping up investment in healthcare, logistics and research." "The pandemic is a real shock with real consequences. Hence, there is a need to ensure that the recovery is built on a solid foundation of business investment and productivity growth," it added. The RBI said views expressed in the article are those of the authors and do not necessarily represent the views of the Reserve Bank of India. For 2021-22, the Reserve Bank has projected real GDP growth of 9.5 per cent on the assumption that the impact of the second wave will be limited to the first quarter of the fiscal in which strong base effects from last year's precipitous contraction will come into play. Last month, the National Statistical Office (NSO) revised India's real GDP for 2020-21, revealing a shallower contraction (-7.3 per cent) than earlier estimated, with brighter outcome for the fourth quarter (January-March 2021).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-16
17-06-2021||Business||Sensex drops 179 points to end above 52,300||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled 179 points on Thursday, weighed by losses in index heavyweights HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Axis Bank amid a largely negative trend in global equities. The 30-share BSE index ended 178.65 points or 0.34 per cent lower at 52,323.33. The broader NSE Nifty declined 76.15 points or 0.48 per cent to 15,691.40. IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by Dr Reddy's, NTPC, Maruti, Axis Bank, Bajaj Auto, Bharti Airtel and HDFC. On the other hand, UltraTech Cement, TCS, Asian Paints and Infosys were among the gainers. "Bulls stepped back a bit following the economic forecast by the US Federal Reserve as the street stayed cautious on the slow economic recovery in emerging markets unlike some of the developed markets," said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. The Fed's policymakers said they would raise their benchmark short-term rate, which influences many consumer and business loans, twice by late 2023. They had previously estimated that no rate hike would occur before 2024. While metal names saw profit-booking, we did witness keen buying interest in cement and IT well supported by select consumer names during the volatile afternoon session of trade, Ranganathan noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended on a positive note, while Seoul and Tokyo were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with losses in mid-session deals. International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.09 per cent higher at USD 74.46 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-16
17-06-2021||Business||Microsoft names India-born CEO Satya Nadella as company's Chairman||Microsoft's India-born CEO Satya Nadella has been named the company's Chairman, an additional role in which he will lead the work to set the agenda for the board. Microsoft Corp on Wednesday announced that the board's independent directors unanimously elected Nadella to the role of board chair, and unanimously elected John W Thompson as the lead independent director, a role he held previously from 2012 to 2014. In this role, Nadella will lead the work to set the agenda for the board, leveraging his deep understanding of the business to elevate the right strategic opportunities and identify key risks and mitigation approaches for the board's review, the company said in a statement. Nadella, 53, succeeds Thompson, who as the lead independent director, will retain significant authority including providing input on behalf of the independent directors on board agendas, calling meetings of the independent directors, setting agendas for executive sessions, and leading performance evaluations of the CEO, the technology giant said. In addition to these role changes, the board declared a quarterly dividend of USD 0.56 per share. The dividend is payable September 9, 2021, to shareholders of record on August 19, 2021. Nadella had succeeded Steve Ballmer to become Microsoft's CEO in 2014.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-16
17-06-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled over 300 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking losses in index-heavyweights HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries amid a largely negative trend in global equities.  The 30-share BSE index was trading 302.80 points or 0.58 per cent lower at 52,199.18 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty declined 93.70 points or 0.59 per cent to 15,673.85.  Tech Mahindra was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 1 per cent, followed by PowerGrid, HDFC, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank.  On the other hand, Asian Paints, Sun Pharma, UltraTech Cement and HCL Tech were among the gainers.  In the previous session, Sensex ended 271.07 points or 0.51 per cent lower at 52,501.98, and Nifty retreated from a record and declined 101.70 points or 0.64 per cent to 15,767.55.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 870.29 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data.  Domestic equities do not look to be good as of now due to weak global cues, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.  While soft bond yields and improving prospects of earnings visibility have resulted in FIIs' flow to turn favourable in the last couple of days, slight hawkish policy meeting outcome of Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) may weigh on sentiments in the near term, he noted.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were trading on a positive note, while Seoul and Tokyo were in the red in mid-session deals.  US equities finished lower after the US Federal Reserve indicated it might ease off economic stimulus earlier than previously thought.  The Fed's policymakers forecast that they would raise their benchmark short-term rate, which influences many consumer and business loans, twice by late 2023. They had previously estimated that no rate hike would occur before 2024.  In a statement after its latest policy meeting, the Fed also said it expects the pandemic to have a diminishing effect on the economy as vaccinations increase, thereby allowing for more growth.  International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.54 per cent lower at USD 73.99 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-16
17-06-2021||Business||Flipkart expands Bengal presence by adding 2.2-lakh-square-feet fulfilment centre||Walmart-owned e-commerce firm Flipkart on Wednesday said it has expanded its presence in Bengal by adding a 2.2-lakh-square-feet fulfilment centre at Dankuni in Hooghly district. With the new facility, Flipkart now has more than 10 lakh square feet of warehousing space in the state covering seven fulfilment centres, besides 152 delivery hubs. The e-commerce firm in a statement said that the new facility will offer nearly 3,500 direct jobs and will cater to the needs of both Flipkart and Myntra customers in the eastern region. It will also help sellers offer a wider selection and enable faster deliveries not just in Bengal, but also the neighbouring states, Flipkart said. Bengal has the 10th largest seller base for Flipkart with 10,000 sellers. Flipkart said it has created around 50,000 jobs in the state. Flipkart also plans to set up an integrated logistics hub at Haringhata in Nadia district. The ramping up of the supply chain infrastructure comes amid the rising demand for e-commerce amid the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdowns. More than 52 per cent of its consumers are from smaller cities which the e-commerce firm said signifies a rising adoption of online sales. “We are strengthening our supply chain presence in Bengal and this expansion will support small and medium businesses in the state while creating thousands of employment opportunities. E-commerce has helped serve citizens with a safe and sanitised supply chain and we will continue to serve the ecosystem that includes sellers, MSMEs, kirana partners and thousands of brands that we work with,” said Hemant Badri, senior vice-president, supply chain, Flipkart. The e-commerce firm also said that it has a partnership with Biswa Bangla to showcase traditional Bengali handicrafts, fabrics and artifacts on Flipkart Samarth. According to JLL, demand for warehousing space in the country is expected to increase in 2021 and reach around 350 lakh square feet of absorption.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-16
17-06-2021||Business||Jaguar Land Rover India begins deliveries of new Range Rover Velar ||Jaguar Land Rover India has begun deliveries of the new Range Rover Velar in India from Wednesday. The new Velar is available in the R-Dynamic S trim with 2-litre petrol and diesel powertrains and sports price tags of Rs 79.87 lakh and above, ex showroom, in India. Rohit Suri, president and managing director of Jaguar Land Rover India, said, “The Range Rover Velar is one the most aspirational SUVs in India because of its design, luxury and technology. In its latest avatar, it has new technology and convenience features.” The model now comes with various new features such as air suspension, 3D surround camera and cabin air ionisation with PM2.5 filter. Toyota outreach Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) has introduced a “Door Delivery” option for customers to procure genuine parts. The service is an extension of the “Toyota Parts Connect” — an outreach programme to enable customers have access to genuine parts — that was launched in 2015. Under the “Door Delivery” option, customers can opt to pick up parts from the dealerships or get it home delivered. Toyota has also increased the range of products under this programme, including car care essentials, engine oil and other categories such as tyres, and batteries. At present, the service is available across 12 cities and will be expanded to all the cities in the country by the end of this year. Naveen Soni, senior vice-president, Toyota Kirloskar Motor, said, “Genuine parts play a vital role towards the safety of customers and vehicles. Therefore, it’s our continuous endeavour to improve the accessibility and availability of genuine parts for a user-friendly experience.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-17
17-06-2021||Business||Net direct tax collections double to over Rs 1.85 lakh crore this fiscal||Net direct tax collections have doubled to over Rs 1.85 lakh crore so far this fiscal, buoyed by personal income tax and advance tax payments, the I-T department said on Wednesday. Tax experts said the Vivad se Vishwas scheme could have boosted the collections. Mop-up of net direct tax (which is arrived at after deducting refunds from gross collection) between April 1-June 15 was at Rs 1,85,871 crore, a 100.4 per cent growth over Rs 92,762 crore collected in the same period last fiscal, the Central Board of Direct Taxes said in a statement. Refunds of Rs 30,731 crore have been issued in the current fiscal. Neeru Ahuja, partner at Deloitte India, feels taxpayers have taken advantage of the Vivad se Vishwas scheme and settled their old disputes and litigations with the income tax department along with depositing their tax dues. Icra chief economist Aditi Nayar said the jump in the direct tax collections reflects healthy exports and a continuation of various industrial and construction activities, given the lower stringency of the staggered regional lockdowns in 2021 versus the nationwide lockdown in 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-17
17-06-2021||Business||Shares of three Adani group companies hit lower circuit ||Adani group stocks extended their losses on Wednesday with the shares of three companies hitting their lower circuit for the third consecutive trading session. The drubbing on the bourses came despite a clarification from the National Securities Depository Ltd (NSDL) that it has not frozen the demat accounts of the three foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) holding these shares. On Wednesday, Adani Total Gas ended with losses of 5 per cent at Rs 1,394 on the BSE; Adani Power tanked 4.97 per cent to Rs 127.25; the Adani Transmission scrip settled 5 per cent lower at Rs 1,369.35. Flagship Adani Enterprises closed in the red, shedding 5.77 per cent, or Rs 88.75, to Rs 1,449.30. Shares of Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone cracked  7.17 per cent to Rs 706.85, while Adani Green Energy fell 3.10 per cent to Rs 1,171.25. Earlier this week, the Adani group stocks came under intense selling pressure on a report that the NSDL has frozen the accounts of three Mauritius registered funds — Albula Investment Fund, Cresta Fund and APMS Investment Fund — which collectively held shares worth Rs 43,500 crore as of last Friday in these counters. On Tuesday, the Adani group submitted a clarification by NSDL that the demat accounts of the funds (which held its shares) were in “active status”, but certain other accounts have been “suspended for debit” by the depository in terms of a Sebi order issued in June 2016. On June 16, 2016, market regulator Sebi had told depositories to freeze beneficiary accounts that would have received underlying shares involved in certain GDR issues. Sebi was investigating the issuance of certain GDRs in the overseas market by Indian companies. The investigations had revealed that a Dubai-based NRI and three entities connected had perpetrated certain fraudulent scheme in connivance with the promoters or directors of the issuer companies, with the intention of defrauding Indian investors. However, this order of Sebi did not specifically name the three FPIs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-17
17-06-2021||Business||CESC board approves share split||The CESC board has considered and approved a proposal for the sub-division of the existing 1 equity share of nominal value of Rs 10 each to be sub-divided into 10 equity shares of a nominal value of Re 1 each, it said. The Alteration of Capital Clause of the Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association of the company resulting from the said sub-division was also approved, the company added. The move is  subject to the approval of the company’s shareholders. CESC on Wednesday posted an over 13 per cent jump in its consolidated net profit at Rs 429 crore in the March 2021 quarter, mainly boosted by higher revenues. The company’s consolidated net profit was Rs 378 crore in the quarter ended March 31, 2020, according to a BSE filing.  Total income during January-March 2021 rose to Rs 3,003 crore compared with Rs 2,729 crore a year ago. For the full financial year 2020-21, the consolidated net profit stood at Rs 1,363 crore compared with Rs 1,309 crore in 2019-20. Total income during the fiscal stood at Rs 11,874 crore compared with Rs 12,378 crore a year ago. The board also approved convening of its 43rd annual general meeting of the company’s members on August 18 this year through video conferencing or other audio-visual means. Spencer’s loss RP-Sanjiv Goenka Group firm Spencer’s Retail has narrowed its consolidated net loss to Rs 34.53 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 2021. The company had posted a net loss of Rs 49.26 crore in the January-March period a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-17
17-06-2021||Business||Covid: RBI says second wave 'rolling back', stokes cautious optimism of early July rebound||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Wednesday said the second Covid wave was “rolling back as fast as it rolled in” — stoking cautious optimism of the possibility of a rebound by early July. Such a recovery, however, will rest on the speed and scale of vaccination in the country, the apex bank said in its June bulletin. The document said the Indian economy has the resilience and possesses the fundamentals to bounce back from the pandemic and unshackle itself from pre-existing cyclical and structural hindrances. Earlier this month, the RBI trimmed its growth forecast for the current fiscal to 9.5 per cent from 10.5 per cent. Its latest observation comes at a time the states are reporting a lower number of daily cases though fatalities remain a matter of concern. There are also apprehensions about a third wave and the states have started their preparations to counter such a possibility. According to the RBI, the second wave of the coronavirus has largely affected domestic demand, while spreading into smaller cities and villages. Further, the support from the government spending may moderate from the extraordinary expansion undertaken last year. On the brighter side, agriculture and contactless services are holding up, while industrial production and exports have risen despite pandemic protocols, albeit on a low base. The central bank again reiterated the importance of the rollout of the vaccination programme across the country. “It is vaccination which will shape the recovery. The economy has the resilience and the fundamentals to bounce back from the pandemic and unshackle itself from pre-existing cyclical and structural hindrances,’’ the bulletin said. The report cautioned that vaccines will not end the pandemic by themselves. “We have to learn to live with the virus, complementing vaccines with ramping up investment in healthcare, logistics and research.” “The pandemic is a real shock with real consequences. Hence, there is a need to ensure that the recovery is built on a solid foundation of business investment and productivity growth,” the RBI said. Production shift Changes in lifestyle and work practices such as increased remote work and online shopping are likely to continue. Further, when patterns of demand shift, some firms may face closure and some industries may become permanently smaller.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-17
17-06-2021||Business||Govt hikes subsidies for DAP and some other non-urea fertilisers by Rs 14,775 crore||The government has hiked the subsidies for DAP and some other non-urea fertilisers by Rs 14,775 crore to keep the price of the crop nutrients for farmers low despite the rising costs. After urea, di-ammonium phosphate (DAP) is the most widely used fertiliser in the country. Last month, at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, it was decided that the subsidy on DAP fertiliser be increased by 140 per cent. Minister of state for chemicals and fertilisers Mansukh Mandaviya told reporters on Wednesday that the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) has approved the increase in subsidy amount for DAP fertilisers. “Farmers will continue to get DAP at the old rate of Rs 1,200 per bag,” he said. The move will help to ensure that farmers gets the key soil nutrient at the old rate despite the surge in global prices. According to Mandaviya, the subsidy for DAP fertilisers has been increased to Rs 1,200 per bag from Rs 500 per bag. The minister added that the additional subsidy burden on the exchequer will be Rs 14,775 crore. The government has allocated nearly Rs 79,600 crore for fertiliser subsidies in the 2021-22 Budget. Last year, the actual price of DAP was Rs 1,700 per bag, on which Centre was giving a subsidy of Rs 500. The companies were, therefore, selling the fertiliser to farmers for Rs 1,200 per bag. Drug regulator wants price cut Drug pricing regulator NPPA has asked pharmaceutical companies and medical device makers to reduce prices on products on which GST has been lowered. In a notification, the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) noted that a change in tax rates has an impact on the maximum retail prices (MRP) of various drugs and formulations. “Recalling or re-labelling or re-stickering on the label of the container or pack of the already released stocks in the market is not mandatory if manufacturers are able to ensure price compliance at the retailer level through issuance of a revised price list,” it noted. According to DPCO 2013, MRP of drugs and formulations are inclusive of taxes. Therefore, any downward change in tax or GST rates should be reflected in MRP and the benefit of the reduction should be passed on to the consumers, it noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-17
17-06-2021||Business||Bengal govt lobbies Centre to stop SAIL from dismantling Calcutta raw material division||The Mamata Banerjee-government is lobbying the Centre in a bid to stop Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL) from dismantling its raw material division in Calcutta that oversees the mining and supply of iron ore to four integrated steel plants in the eastern region. State finance minister Amit  Mitra has written a letter to Union steel minister Dharmendra Pradhan in an effort to “save” the SAIL-owned steel plants at Durgapur and Burnpur from potential ruin because of an ill-conceived strategy. The letter was sent after a section of SAIL employees approached the chief minister urging her to intercede on their behalf and stop the move to close the division that was formed in 1989 and headquartered in the city. Even though the steel public sector unit has not made its decision public, a section of the employees claims that the board of the Maharatna company has cleared plans to close down the RMD, which oversees the  operations of the company’s iron ore mines located in Jharkhand and Odisha and monitors supplies to four plants, including Rourkela in Odisha and Bokaro in Jharkhand, in addition to the two steel plants in Bengal. RMD employees also speculate that dismantling of the division could rob the two plants located in the state of direct iron ore linkage even though no such policy has been officially announced. “Apparently, 15 iron ore mines, flux mines and collieries run by RMD would now be entirely allocated to Rourkela and Bokaro steel plants, where Odisha mines will be allocated to Rourkela and Jharkhand mines to Bokaro,” Mitra wrote. The state finance minister said that such a policy would leave Durgapur and Burnpur integrated steel plants of SAIL in a lurch, precipitating a situation where they would be forced to either "procure their raw materials from the open market, or remain at the mercy of Rourkela or Bokaro.” Mitra added that such an arrangement would make the operations of the two Bengal-based plants “inefficient, unprofitable and unviable”. “I am deeply apprehensive that these massive plants in Bengal would either be asset stripped or sold off in the name of divestment, having crippled them through the current policy shift,” he wrote to Pradhan, who hails from Odisha. The two plants of Bengal consume about 4.5 million tonnes of iron ore in a year. Before the formation of RMD, each of the SAIL plants used to have dedicated mines attached to it. For instance, Durgapur was linked to Bolani, while Bokaro used to get its supplies for Megatuburu and Kiriburu. IISCO irony IISCO Steel Plant used to be a separate company, nearly defunct but endowed with one of the largest and best quality of iron ore deposits located at Chiria and Gua. After RMD was formed, four steel plants of SAIL started getting uniformly blended and quality controlled iron ore from mines instead of being yoked to a single source. This transition ensured that productivity and quality of all four plants were maintained. Incidentally, Bhilai, the most profitable of SAIL’s five units, has its own mines which are outside the purview of RMD, which handles about 19 MT iron ore a year. If Chiria and Gua, which boast of over a billion tonnes of high quality iron ore, are really stripped off from IISCO, it would be a cruel irony to the Burnpur plant, a section of the SAIL employees argued. The merger of IISCO with SAIL in 2005 was hugely beneficial to the latter who got access to the mines. Now that the mines belong to the corporate entity, the plant does not have direct linkage or ownership of the deposit which came with the unit to SAIL. Mines are crucial but not a necessity for a steel plant if it produces good quality value added steel and runs efficiently. Steel giants located in Korea, Japan or in China do not have direct ownership of iron ore mines. However, when iron ore prices zoom — as they have now — steel plants vertically integrated with mines reap the biggest benefit. They get the raw material at a cost of Rs 650 a tonne when the market rates are close to Rs 10,000 a tonne. It is little wonder that the Bengal-based plants earned a profit before tax of Rs 1,486 crore last fiscal. These two plants, like the other plants of SAIL, are not known to be most efficiently operated as their private sector counterparts like Tata Steel or JSWs Steel, and prone to losses when the market tanks. Employees fear that Durgapur and IISCO may become unprofitable if they are forced to buy iron ore at market price when the commodity cycle turns south and steel prices soften.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-17
17-06-2021||India||Google announces Rs 113 crore grant to boost rural healthcare infrastructure in India||Tech giant Google on Thursday said Google.org - its philanthropic arm - has announced a grant of Rs 113 crore (USD 15.5 million) to support procurement and installation of about 80 oxygen generation plants and upskilling of healthcare workers in rural parts of the country in partnership with various organisations. “Our hearts go out to those in India impacted by the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, and we continue to look for ways to help,” tweeted the company’s chief executive Sundar Pichai. Google.org will support procurement and installation of about 80 oxygen generation plants in healthcare facilities in high-need and rural locations with new grants of about Rs 90 crore (USD 12.5 million) to GiveIndia and about Rs 18.5 crore (USD 2.5 million) to PATH. It will also finance efforts of Apollo Medskills to help upskill 20,000 frontline health workers through specialised training in COVID-19 management and strengthen the stressed rural health workforce and rural health systems. Towards this, Google.org will make a Rs 3.6 crore (USD 500,000) grant to ARMMAN to run skilling programs for 180,000 Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) and 40,000 Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (ANMs) in 15 Indian states. ARMMAN will also use the grant to set up a call centre to provide additional help and advice for ASHAs and ANMs where required. "As India slowly emerges from the crisis of the past few months, it's been humbling and inspiring to see individuals, communities, institutions, and governments work together to manage the impact on a scale we haven't experienced before. "Our focus at Google has been on making sure people have the information and tools they need to stay informed, connected, and safe," Google India Country Head and Vice President Sanjay Gupta said. The company is broadening its COVID-19 support efforts to help strengthen India's healthcare infrastructure and workforce -- especially in rural areas, he told reporters in a virtual briefing. "With these new commitments, Google is proud to be supporting our partners as they build a bigger, better-equipped healthcare system, help India steady itself after the second wave, and lay the foundations for a sustainable and future-ready healthcare system, he said. These new commitments build on the Rs 135 crore (USD 18 million) funding that was announced by Google in April for COVID-19 response. These included two grants from Google.org, totalling Rs 20 crore (USD 2.6 million) to GiveIndia to provide cash assistance to families hit hardest by the crisis to help with their everyday expenses, and UNICEF to help get urgent medical supplies, including oxygen and testing equipment. In addition to this, Google employees worldwide have donated and helped raise USD 7 million for organisations supporting high-risk and marginalised communities. Google.org has committed grants worth USD 57 million in India over the last five years. Asked if Google would offer vaccination booking through any of its platforms, Gupta said the company is trying to enable people who want to offer services to consumers in healthcare, to use Google Play as a platform. "So as CoWIN opens API and a lot of people want to use those APIs to build better products and services, Google Play will enable all that. Our effort is to use technology that we understand where let's say languages, or how to reach out our apps to many more consumers by leveraging Google Playstore, use all those to enable people who understand health very well, to connect those dots," he added. The government had, last month, released new guidelines for the integration of CoWIN with third-party applications, easing the way for such apps to offer vaccine bookings. Following this, platforms like Paytm are now allowing people to use their platforms to not only look for slots but also book vaccination appointments through their platform. India has been ramping up vaccination to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic. India has so far administered over 26.5 crore jabs to eligible beneficiaries. Atul Satija, CEO of GiveIndia, said the organisation will work with PATH to oversee the oxygen programme, providing project management support including procurement and installation of plants. PATH will identify the target locations and provide technical assistance for the project, working with state governments and other authorities, and complete the installation of oxygen generation plants. The plants are expected to be installed and ready for use in 3-6 months and will continue to be supported for about three years, he added. Neeraj Jain, Country Director of PATH India, noted that the organisation provides support to the state governments in putting in place the right kind of oxygen-related ecosystem and health infrastructure that can serve as a foundation for more sustainable and equitable oxygen systems for now and the future. "The support from Google to Apollo Medskills to upskill 20,000 rural frontline health workers, will surely complement and strengthen the stressed rural health workforce and rural health systems, Srinivasa Rao Pulijala, CEO of Apollo Medskills, said. Apollo Medskills is the skilling arm of Apollo Hospitals group. The support from Google.org will enable us to continue augmenting and implementing our tech-based interventions, so that health workers can offer the necessary care and guidance to pregnant women, mothers and children across the country, Aparna Hegde, founder and Managing Trustee of ARMMAN, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-52
17-06-2021||India||Sputnik V to offer booster shot against Delta variant to other vaccine makers||Russia’s Sputnik V will soon offer a booster shot, adjusted to work against the Delta variant of coronavirus, first detected in India, to other vaccine manufacturers, the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) said on Thursday. Taking to Twitter, the official handle of the Russian vaccine affirmed on Tuesday that Sputnik V’s efficacy is better on the Delta variant than any other vaccine that has published results on the strain so far. “Sputnik V is more efficient against the Delta variant of coronavirus first detected in India, than any other vaccine that published results on this strain so far – the Gamaleya Centre study submitted for publication in an international peer-reviewed journal,” the makers said further. Private hospital chain Fortis Healthcare on Thursday announced that Sputnik V, the third anti-coronavirus vaccine approved for use in India, will be available at its Gurgaon and Mohali facilities as part of a limited pilot roll-out from Saturday. The vaccine stock has been procured directly from Dr. Reddy's Laboratories according to government guidelines, it said. "The two-dose vaccine will be available at Fortis Memorial Research Institute, Gurugram, and Fortis Hospital, Mohali," the private hospital chain said in a statement. In the coming days, the vaccine will be available at more Fortis hospitals across 11 cities as part of the phase-wise pilot project. Dr Ashutosh Raghuvanshi, MD and CEO, Fortis Healthcare, said, "Fortis is actively working towards ensuring that as many Indians as possible are fully vaccinated. To date, our units were only providing Covaxin and Covishield." "However, we are pleased to announce that Fortis, in collaboration with Dr. Reddy's Laboratories, is among the first to provide a third vaccine option, at Fortis Memorial Research Institute and Fortis Hospital Mohali, with the dual objective of expanding and scaling up the vaccination drive and lowering the infection risks to future mutations of the virus." Earlier, Delhi's Indraprastha Apollo Hospital and Madhukar Rainbow Children's Hospital had also said they will start administering the Russian COVID-19 vaccine by June 20. The Centre has fixed the price of the vaccine at Rs 1,145 per dose. The maximum price of Covishield for private COVID-19 Vaccination Centres (CVCs) has been fixed at Rs 780 per dose, while that of Covaxin is Rs 1,410 per dose. Russia's Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology has developed the vaccine and the Russian Direct Investment Fund is marketing it globally. Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy's Laboratories, the marketing partner for the vaccine in the country, has been importing the shots from Russia. Over a period of time, the vaccine is also going to be manufactured in India. Sputnik V uses two different viruses that cause the common cold (adenovirus) in humans. It employs a different vector for each of the two shots, given 21 days apart. According to Gamaleya and the RDIF, Sputnik V has demonstrated an efficacy rate of 92 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-52
17-06-2021||India||Party needs to put its house in order before next general elections: Congress's Jairam Ramesh||Jairam Ramesh of Congress admitted that the party needs to put its "house in order" before the next general elections roll around and also indicated that this was essential in order to come to an understanding with like-minded opposition parties for forming a common front against the BJP. In an exclusive interview with NDTV, Jairam Ramesh said, “If you are asking me .. if you are telling me ... that we need to resolve the leadership issue one way or the other ... I agree - these are issues that we should not keep hanging for too long.  We lost badly in 2014. We lost very very badly in 2019 and we have to get our house in order.  House in order means getting the organisation in order, getting the leadership in order, getting our messaging in order.  All this has to move.” He also added, "No one leader has a magic wand... this is a team effort". Since the 2019 general elections, the Congress has been floundering without a leader, when Rahul Gandhi stepped down from the party's top post. Despite promises to sort out the leadership issue following the explosive letter by 23 prominent leaders of the party, Sonia Gandhi remains as the interim chief, reports NDTV. “Youngsters who have left us are privileged by birth.  They got good positions by the party," the former Union minister admitted, days after another key GenNext leader, Jitin Prasada left for the BJP. But "for every Scindia who left, there are thousands of young Congress party workers who are fighting for the party," he said. "We are not in power at the Centre. In spite of this, there are thousands of youngsters who have committed their lives to the Congress," he added. He also questioned why the BJP is accepting those it had always scorned for being "privileged". "Why is the BJP accepting those they criticise for being privileged? When these people are in Congress, BJP criticises them but then it takes them too... there is a certain discipline to a party - people can't just go and come as they please," Ramesh said. On this note, he also praised Sachin Pilot – considered another flight risk after his rebellion last year against Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. Mr Pilot, he said, is a "great asset to the Congress... there is a great future ahead of him in the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-52
17-06-2021||India||Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita walk out of Tihar prison||Student activists Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita walked out of Tihar prison on Thursday, hours after a court here ordered their immediate release in the north-east Delhi riots "conspiracy" case. The order came two days after the Delhi High Court granted bail to Narwal, Kalita and Asif Iqbal Tanha, who were arrested in May last year under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). A senior jail official said Kalita and Narwal have been released from the Tihar prison as per court orders received. Asif Iqbal Tanha was released around 7.30 pm after the completion of formalities. "It shows the desperation of the government... We are women who are not scared of them," Kalita told reporters after coming out of the jail gates, amid a sea of supporters shouting slogans, as per a report by ndtv.com. "We survived because we received tremendous support from friends, from well-wishers. I thank them all," she said. Narwal said she doesn't want to comment on the case as it's still in court. "However, we would like to thank the Delhi High Court for upholding what we believe in. Any such protest that we have done is not terrorism. It was a democratic protest, led by women," Narwal said. "They won't be able to threaten us with jail. If they threaten to incarcerate us, that will only strengthen our resolve to carry on our fight," Narwal said. Her father, Mahavir Narwal, died of Covid in May while she was in jail. Her brother, who came to receive her, said they miss their father, who if alive would have come to greet her on walking out of jail. "We should ask ourselves, how did we reach such a point where the line between terrorism and dissent has been blurred?" Narwal told NDTV. "People are jailed with frivolous charges. When people protest, it is not terrorism," she said. The three student activists were not released from the prison on time over delays in verifying their addresses and sureties. In its order for the immediate release of the trio, the Delhi court said the delay in the verification process by the police could not be a plausible reason for the accused to be kept imprisoned. After securing bail from the high court, the activists had moved the trial court, seeking immediate release from prison. When the trial court deferred the order on their plea for Thursday, they moved the Delhi High Court, which ordered the lower court to proceed with the issue with "promptitude and expedition". The students, who have already spent over a year in jail, surviving two Covid-19 waves, were obliged to spend more time in jail. A sessions court judge held off Wednesday on ordering the immediate release of the students on bail after Delhi police demanded three days to verify the addresses of the accused and the sureties posted by them. The three student activists were arrested in May 2020 and are accused of being the "masterminds" of the February 2020 violence, which left 53 people dead and more than 200 injured. The high court, while granting them bail on June 15, had observed that "in an anxiety to suppress dissent, the state has blurred the line between right to protest and terrorist activity" and if such a mindset gains traction, it would be a "sad day for democracy". The High Court said “... that in its anxiety to suppress dissent and in the morbid fear that matters may get out of hand, the state has blurred the line between the constitutionally guaranteed ‘right to protest” and “terrorist activity.” The two-man bench went on to add that: “If such blurring gains traction, democracy would be in peril.” Delhi police on Wednesday petitioned the Supreme Court to cancel Tuesday’s bail to three student anti-CAA protesters, and appeared to be relying on certain technicalities in the trial court to try and delay their release from prison. Delhi police, who are under the control of the Centre, have in the plea to the apex court argued that the accused, charged under the anti-terror law UAPA, could tamper with evidence and intimidate witnesses unless their bail was quashed. The apex court is expected to hear on Friday the police’s challenge to Delhi High Court’s bail order, with solicitor-general Tushar Mehta likely to appear for the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-52
17-06-2021||India||Kerala HC grants interim bail to Lakshadweep filmmaker||The Kerala High Court on Thursday reserved orders in the anticipatory bail application filed by Ayesha Sulthana who was booked on sedition charges in Lakshadweep, but granted relief to the filmmaker by directing police to grant interim bail in the event of her arrest after interrogation. The court also directed her to appear before the Kavaratti police for interrogation on June 20. In the event of arrest after interrogation, she should be granted interim bail, Justice Ashok Menon said. The allegation is that the filmmaker, while participating in a debate telecast by a Malayalam news channel on June 7, made an assertion that the Central Government has used a biological weapon against the people of Lakshadweep. When the matter was taken up, Sulthana tendered an apology for making such a statement. The filmmaker submitted that she never realised that usage of the word bio-weapon is an offence and the remark was made not intending to create hatred in the minds of the people. She said she was ready to appear before the police for interrogation but sought protection from arrest. Opposing her anticipatory bail plea, the Lakshadweep administration submitted that Sulthana promoted separatism and communalism even in the minds of school children by making such a statement. Counsel for Lakshadweep administration said the police never intended to arrest her and she should cooperate with the investigation. Only thereafter decision regarding arrest will be taken, counsel said. The crime was registered on June 9 for offences under section 124-A (sedition) and 153 B (hate speech) of IPC on the basis of a petition lodged by a political leader residing at Kavaratti. In a statement filed in the court on Wednesday, the administration had submitted that Sulthana made a specific baseless assertion having serious consequences against the Central Government established by law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-53
17-06-2021||India||A mellifluous tribute to the martyrs of Galwan||To mark the first anniversary of India’s clash with Chinese forces in the Galwan Valley, the Indian Army has unveiled a song called “Galwan ke Veer” as a tribute to the soldiers who lost their lives during the clashes last year. A total of 20 Indian soldiers were killed during the Galwan clash, while 43 casualties were reported on the Chinese side. Featuring a portrayal of Indian troops toiling away on the challenging terrains of Galwan, the song manages to capture the resilience, the valour, and the sacrifice involved in defending the nation. Padma Shri recipient Hariharan, who lent his voice to the song, said it “has been the happiest moment for me to sing this song for the Army, for the bravehearts of Galwan. The song has been arranged beautifully and it was my privilege to have sung it in honour of desh bhakti.” The visuals serve as a poignant accompaniment to Hariharan’s voice, depicting how the Army undergoes rigorous preparations to be ready for combat in extremely hazardous conditions. Valiant soldiers are shown undertaking meticulous measures to remain one step ahead of the enemy, be it through the use of military arsenal or conflict strategy. Reflecting on the visual qualities of the song, Girish Malik, in charge of video direction and compilation for “Galwan ke Veer”, observed, “We wanted to show what it really takes for the soldiers to defend our borders, what they really go through. The idea was to project India’s strength to the world, to display the bravery of our armed forces. The Army cooperated in every way possible, presenting multiple perspectives and angles from the Galwan clash.” The music, which moves from lilting to sombre to uplifting, has been composed by Bickram Ghosh, who explained his thought process behind the composition: “Whenever we think of the country and think of our matribhumi, it has nothing to do with politics. It has to do with our mitti and the sensations it brings. I always believe that patriotic songs need to have a strong melody. They should start slowly before rising to a crescendo, and that is precisely what I tried to do here. Hari ji was extremely forthcoming in singing it and, as usual, Girish has been fantastic with the visuals. When I saw the entire song coming together, it gave me goosebumps.” A whole year later, tensions on the border between India and China are yet to be resolved completely, with forces from both countries deeply entrenched along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-53
17-06-2021||India||Pashupati Kumar Paras is LJP’s new president: Sources||Lok Janshakti Party MP Pashupati Kumar Paras, who recently staged a political coup and deposed nephew Chirag Paswan as the party chief, was on Thursday declared elected, unopposed, the new national president of the outfit. Party sources said no other contender filed nomination papers till 3 pm and a formal announcement with regard to the election of the Hajipur MP will be made in the evening. The sources added that the former state minister was also scheduled to make a courtesy call on Chief Minister Nitish Kumar whom supporters of Chirag have been accusing of having engineered the split, which has left the son of LJP founding president late Ram Vilas Paswan cornered. It was not known whether any decision was taken about Chirag, whom Paras, late Paswan's youngest brother, had replaced as the party's leader in Lok Sabha earlier this week, armed with the support of four remaining LJP MPs. A couple of days ago, a national executive meeting of the party was held in Delhi where former MP Suraj Bhan Singh was made the working president and Chirag was removed from the post, though the latter has indicated he was bracing for a legal battle over the move. Incidentally, party MP Prince Raj, whose late father Ram Chandra Paswan was a prominent LJP leader and the founding president's younger brother, was conspicuous by his absence at the meeting held at Suraj Bhan Singh's residence here. The 31-year-old first-term MP is in the soup over allegations of sexual harassment by a former party functionary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-53
17-06-2021||India||Ghaziabad: Editors Guild demands withdrawal of FIR against journalists||The Editors Guild of India (EGI) on Thursday demanded that the FIR lodged by the Uttar Pradesh Police against a news portal and some journalists for circulating a video clip of an elderly Muslim man on social media be withdrawn immediately. It said this wanton use of the law to criminalise reporting and dissent to harass independent media was condemnable. “The EGI condemns the filing of the FIRs by the Uttar Pradesh government against The Wire and several journalists, for their tweets on an assault on an elderly Muslim man in Ghaziabad on June 5,” the Guild said in a statement. It demanded that the FIRs be withdrawn immediately. The Uttar Pradesh Police on Tuesday had filed a first information report (FIR) against Twitter Inc, Twitter Communications India, news portal The Wire, scribes Mohammad Zubair and Rana Ayyub and senior journalist and author Saba Naqvi as well as Congress leaders Salman Nizami, Masqoor Usmani and Sama Mohammad for sharing on social media a video clip in which an elderly Muslim says he was thrashed by some people and forced to chant Jai Sri Ram Several media organisations and journalists, besides the ones charged by the police, posted this video on their social media feeds, the Guild said. “Subsequently, there was an alternative version offered by the Uttar Pradesh Police claiming that the assault was borne out of a dispute regarding a ‘talisman' that the elderly man had sold to some people, which was also reported by these media organisations and journalists,” it added. “The Guild is deeply concerned by the UP police's track record of filing FIRs against journalists to deter them from reporting serious incidents without fear of reprisals,” the EGI said. The Guild said it is the duty of the journalists to report on the basis of the sources and in case the facts become contested, later on, to report the emerging versions and facets. “For the police to wade into such professional calls by the journalists and attribute criminality to their actions is destructive of freedom of speech, which is constitutionally protected and is an entrenched feature of the rule of law,” the EGI said. “Further it is quite evident that the police have been discriminatory in targeting those media organisations and the journalists when thousands had tweeted the video that has been critical of the government and its policies,” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-53
17-06-2021||India||Centre makes pollution certificate for vehicles uniform across India||The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has issued a notification to make the PUC (Pollution Under Control) certificate for all vehicles uniform across the country and also to link the PUC database with the National Register. After the changes in the Central Motor Vehicles Rules 1989 by the road ministry, the QR code shall be printed on the PUC form and will have details of the vehicle, owner and the status of the emission. "The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has issued a notification dated 14th June, 2021, for a common format of the PUC Certificate to be issued across the country, under Central Motor Vehicle Rules 1989," an official statement said. According to the statement, the new PUC will have the vehicle owner's mobile number, name and address, engine number and chassis number. "The owner's mobile number has been made mandatory, on which an SMS alert will be sent for validation and fee," it said. The statement said the concept of rejection slip is being introduced for the first time. "A common format of rejection slip is to be given to the vehicle owner in case the test result value is more than the maximum permissible value, as mandated in the concerned emission norms," the statement said. It added that this document can be shown at the service centre for getting the vehicle serviced or can be used, in case the PUCC centre device is not working properly when tested at another centre. As per the statement, if the enforcement officer has reason to believe that a motor vehicle is not complying with provisions of emission standards, he may communicate in writing or through electronic mode to direct the driver or any person in-charge of the vehicle to submit the vehicle for conducting the test in any one of the authorised PUC testing stations. "If the driver or person in-charge of the vehicle fails to submit the vehicle for compliance or the vehicle fails to comply, the owner of the vehicle shall be liable for payment of penalty," it said. The statement said that enforcement would be IT-enabled and would help in better control over polluting vehicles. "If the owner fails to comply with this, the registering authority shall, for reasons to be recorded in writing, suspend the certificate of registration of the vehicle and any permit granted, until such time a valid PUC certificate is generated," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-53
17-06-2021||India||NIA arrests ex-Mumbai cop in Ambani security scare case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday arrested former "encounter specialist" police officer Pradeep Sharma in Mumbai for his alleged involvement in the Antilia' bomb scare case and the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran, an official said. An NIA team had picked up Sharma from Lonavla near Mumbai late on Wednesday night, after which he was brought to the central agency's office in south Mumbai for questioning, he said. "The NIA also conducted a raid at his residence located in J B Nagar in Mumbai's Andheri (west) around 6 am, and the operation continued for several hours. The officials recovered some incriminating documents from his house," the official said. After questioning him for a few hours, the NIA placed him under arrest on Thursday, he said, adding that Sharma will be produced before a local court once a medical examination is conducted on him. Around two months ago, the NIA had questioned Sharma at its office for two days after his name cropped up in the case. Sharma is the fifth person from the police department to be arrested in the case by the NIA. This is the eighth over arrest in the case. Earlier, the agency had arrested police officers Sachin Waze, Riyazuddin Kazi, Sunil Mane. After their arrest, they were dismissed from service. The agency had also arrested former police constable Vinayak Shinde in this connection along with cricket bookie Naresh Gor. On June 11, the NIA held Santosh Shelar and Anand Jadhav from suburban Malad, saying that both of them were involved in the conspiracy to plant the explosives-laden SUV near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence. The SUV was found abandoned near Ambani's south Mumbai residence Antilia' on February 25 this year. Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran, who had claimed that he was in possession of the vehicle, was found dead at a Mumbra creek on March 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-53
17-06-2021||India||Police files supplementary charge sheet in R-Day violence case||Delhi Police on Thursday filed a supplementary charge sheet against actor-activist Deep Sidhu and others in the Republic Day violence case. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gajendra Singh Nagar will pass the order on the point of cognisance of the fresh charge sheet on June 19 at 2 pm. The investigating officer of the case pointed out the names of the witnesses who were severely injured or from whom the weapon was snatched, the court noted. On January 26, protesting farmers clashed with the police during the tractor rally against three farm laws and stormed into the Red Fort injuring scores of policemen. The Crime Branch is tasked with investigating the case. On May 17, it filed a 3,224-page charge sheet and sought prosecution of 16 accused including Sidhu. Sidhu, who was accused of being the key conspirator of the violence, was arrested on February 9. The police had also accused him of fuelling the chaos at the Red fort.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-53
17-06-2021||India||Centre extends validity of motor vehicle documents till September 30||The government on Thursday extended the validity of motor vehicle documents like driving licence (DL), registration certificate (RC) and permits till September 30, 2021, in view of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) said it has advised the enforcement authorities that the validity of fitness, permit (all types), licence, registration or any other concerned document(s) may be treated to be valid till September 30, 2021. "This covers all documents whose validity has expired since Feb 1, 2020, or would expire by September 30, 2021. This will help out citizens in availing transport related services, while maintaining social distancing," it said. The ministry's advisory said all the states and union territories are requested to implement this advisory in letter and spirit so that citizens, transporters and various other organisation, which are operating under this difficult time, may not get harassed and face difficulties. It had earlier issued advisories dated March 30, 2020, June 9, 2020, August 24, 2020, December 27, 2020 and March 26, 2021 in connection with extension of validity of documents related to the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, and Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989. From a daily case count of over 4 lakh, the number of new COVID-19 cases has been hovering around 70,000 in the last few days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-53
17-06-2021||India||Delhi riots: Court orders release of students||Student activists Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and Asif Iqbal Tanha were granted a release order by a Delhi court on Thursday, two days after the high court had granted them bail in a case related to the riots that broke out last year. The order comes hours after the Delhi High court asked a trial court to decide with "promptitude" and "expedition" the issue of their release from jail. "The continuing custody despite clear mandate of law, beyond 24 hours since direction to verify sureties, is illegal. Direct the authorities to release us forthwith," the students had said in their plea, according to a report by ndtv.com. The three student activists were not released from the jail on time citing lack of verification details of their addresses and sureties. The trio is accused of being the ''masterminds'' of the February 2020 violence, which had left 53 people dead and and more than 200 injured. The students, who have already spent over a year in jail, surviving two Covid-19 waves, were obliged to spend more time in jail. A sessions court judge held off Wednesday on ordering the immediate release of the students on bail after Delhi police demanded three days to verify the addresses of the accused and the sureties posted by them. The Delhi High Court ordered on Tuesday in separate rulings taking up the allegations against each of the accused that the three should be immediately released on bail and made stinging remarks about their arrest under UAPA. The High Court said “... that in its anxiety to suppress dissent and in the morbid fear that matters may get out of hand, the state has blurred the line between the constitutionally guaranteed ‘right to protest” and “terrorist activity.” The two-man bench went on to add that: “If such blurring gains traction, democracy would be in peril.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-53
17-06-2021||India||Cops had questioned Twitter India head over Cong toolkit, say officials||Twitter India MD Manish Maheshwari was questioned by the Delhi Police last month in connection with its probe into the 'Covid toolkit' case, officials said Thursday. They did not divulge further details, but said he was also questioned about the company's policy behind flagging tweets by users as "manipulated media". This came after Twitter labelled as "manipulated media" a tweet by BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra on a ‘Covid toolkit', attributed to the Congress, on how to target the Modi government over its handling of the coronavirus crisis. A senior police officer said Thursday that a Delhi Police's Special Cell team, which is probing the matter, was sent to Bengaluru on May 31 where Maheshwari was questioned. The row over the purported toolkit' escalated after the Delhi Police's Special Cell 'visited" two Twitter India offices on May 24 and served a notice, asking it to share information based on which it had classified Patra's tweet as "manipulated media". The police action drew sharp criticism from the opposition Congress and Left which had accused the government of trying to stifle free speech and indulge in intimidation. Protesting the Delhi Police "visit" to its offices, Twitter had said it was concerned about its employees and the potential threat to freedom of expression. In response, the Delhi Police had issued a release terming Twitter's statements "mendacious", and designed to impede a lawful enquiry and seek "dubious sympathy". The strongly-worded Delhi Police statement had also termed Twitter's conduct "obfuscatory, diversionary and tendentious". The government had asked Twitter to remove the ''manipulated media'' tag as the matter was pending before the law enforcement agency, and made it clear that the social media platform cannot pass judgment while the issue is under investigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-53
17-06-2021||India||CBSE, CISCE announce Class 12 marking plan, results out by July 31||There will be no rollback of the decision to cancel class 12 board exams, the Supreme Court said on Thursday and approved the CBSE and CISCE assessment schemes of a 30:30:40 formula for evaluation of marks for students based on results of class 10, 11 and 12 respectively. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) said however that it would consider the performance of students for the last six classes, unlike CBSE which is taking note of performance in class 10, 11 and 12 exams, in finalising the final board results. Senior advocate JK Das appearing for CISCE said the board would assess students based on performance in Class 10, 11 and 12 by taking the best marks awarded in these years. However, to rationalise the marks, the historical performance of the past six years will be taken into consideration. Both the boards said they would declare the results on or before July 31. The Central Board of Secondary Examination (CBSE), in its assessment scheme, referred to components to be evaluated and the weightage in percentage to arrive at final results. CBSE said it will evaluate class 12 students for theory based on 30 per cent marks from class 10 board, 30 per cent from class 11 and 40 per cent from marks based on the performance in unit, mid term and pre-board tests. It said the marks obtained by class 12 students in practical and internal assessment on actual basis as uploaded by schools on CBSE Portal will be also considered in deciding final results. A special vacation bench of justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari rejected the plea of senior advocate Vikas Singh that there should be a relook of the decisions of CBSE and CISCE to cancel class 12 board exams in view of the fact that tests like Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) would be conducted in physical manner. "We have no manner of doubt that this cannot be taken forward. We have already accepted in principle the decision taken by the Boards and placed before us. "In any case, the students who want to appear can do so for improvisation of marks and that takes care of the students who want to appear. In other words, no prejudice will be caused to students who want to appear," the bench said. In the hearing conducted through video conferencing, the top court said prima facie, it has no reservation to accept the assessment schemes and the boards can proceed on the same. However, the (assessment) scheme must incorporate the provisions for dispute resolution in case students want correction of final result declared and the second is for declaration of results and when the timeline for optional exams would be declared, the bench told Attorney General K K Venugopal, appearing for the CBSE and senior advocate J K Das, representing CISCE. Both the boards agreed to the suggestions of the bench which has now posted the matter for hearing on Monday when senior lawyer Vikas Singh would advance arguments on assessment schemes. "We will have it on Monday. You (CBSE and CISCE) are free to finalise your scheme and notify it. If further suggestions are given, then we can consider it," the bench ordered, adding that the suggestions of Singh may be incorporated later. The bench was hearing pleas seeking directions to cancel the class 12 exams of the CBSE and CISCE amid the pandemic situation. While dealing with some interim pleas relating to cancellation of class 12 board exams by various state boards, the bench said the copies of the applications be given to the counsel for state governments. At the outset, Venugopal said, CBSE has been in existence since 1929 and this has never happened before in the history of CBSE . He said the assessment criteria has been devised by a committee of experts and for this purpose, the CBSE has decided to consider the performance of students in class 10, 11 and 12. For class 10, the marks based on the average theory component of the best three performing subjects of the main five subjects would be considered and their weightage would be 30 per cent, the law officer said. Elaborating further, he said the marks obtained in theory paper in class 11 will be considered and given 30 per cent weightage. The marks obtained in unit test, mid-term and the pre-board exams of class 12 would be given 40 per cent weightage in deciding the final results, he said. Marks of practical/internal assessment etc of class 12 will be considered on actual basis as uploaded by the schools on CBSE portal, he said, adding that the "total marks awarded should be in consonance with the past performance of the schools in class 12 board exams . During the hearing, the bench said there should be a forum for disputes redressal mechanism in the scheme itself and timelines be given as to when the results would be declared and the optional exams would be conducted. "There has to be some outer date. Optional examination will also be specified. Subject to conducive situations and logistical issues, the bench said, adding that if one lakh students decide to appear in optional exams then it can be managed, keeping in mind the COVID protocols. "We will certainly do so. This is the totality of it. We will note down the suggestions and consider them seriously," Venugopal said. On June 3, the bench had said it was happy to note that the government had cancelled the class 12 board exams, and had directed the CBSE and CISCE to place on record well-defined objective criteria for assessment of students in two weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-54
17-06-2021||India||Ghaziabad: Delhi police claim fresh complaints have been filed  ||The Delhi Police has received a complaint against actress Swara Bhaskar, Twitter India MD Manish Maheshwari and others in connection with social media posts about an attack on an elderly Muslim man in Ghaziabad on June 5, officials said Thursday. Police said the complaint was received at Tilak Marg police station. "We have received a complaint against Swara Bhaskar, Manish Maheshwari, MD Twitter, and others at Tilak Marg police station. It is under inquiry," a senior police officer said. Further details about the complaint were not immediately available. In a video uploaded on social media, the elderly Muslim man had accused four people of beating him up, chopping his beard and asking him to chant "Jai Shri Ram" in the Loni area of Ghaziabad. The Ghaziabad police had said it has already registered an FIR in connection with this alleged incident which took place on June 5, but was reported to police two days later. Ghaziabad Senior Superintendent of Police Amit Pathak had said the victim, Abdul Samad, a Bulandshahr resident, had not made any allegation of being forced to chant Jai Shri Ram or the chopping up of his beard in his FIR lodged on June 7. The Uttar Pradesh Police has filed the FIR against Twitter Inc, Twitter Communications India, news portal The Wire, scribes Mohammed Zubair and Rana Ayyub, and senior journalist and author Saba Naqvi, besides Congress leaders Salman Nizami, Masqoor Usmani and Sama Mohammad for sharing the video clip on the social media. The police action came on a day the Narendra Modi government at the Centre persisted with its sabre-rattling strategy in an effort to cow Twitter into submission on the new information technology intermediary guidelines. If the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh pursues the FIR with vigour, it is expected to become a test case, especially since there is no official word yet that the micro-blogging platform has lost its protective cover under the revised IT rules from pesky lawsuits. Some cyber law analysts suggested that no specific government action was required and Twitter could be deemed to have automatically lost the shield as soon as the compliance deadline ended on May 25. Twitter has said it “continues to make every effort to comply with the new guidelines”. The police have accused them of tweeting the video without verifying facts and “giving a communal colour” to the incident. Although hundreds of social media users had tweeted the video, it is not clear why the journalists and politicians have been picked out for the police action. The police have ruled out any communal element, claiming that a dispute over amulets (tabeez) sold by Samad had led to the assault on him by six men who included Hindus and Muslims. Three suspects have been arrested. The FIR said that despite a clarification put out by Ghaziabad police ruling out any communal link, the users did not delete the posts and Twitter took no action to remove them. An official in the Union government asked: “Why did Twitter not flag the particular video linked to the case as ‘manipulated media’ even though thousands of people re-tweeted it?” However, Samad’s family has contested the police version. “My father never sold tabeez in his life. We are carpenters. We do not know why the police have come up with such a baseless story. We want a fair probe into the case,” Babloo Saifi, Samad’s son, told NDTV. The family had filed an FIR with Ghaziabad police on June 6. The police FIR against Twitter and others have been registered under Sections 153 (provocation to cause riot), 153A (promoting enmity between religious groups), 295A (acts intended to insult religious beliefs), 505 (mischief) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. The Press Club of India on Wednesday expressed concern over the police FIR against The Wire and the journalists and appealed to the Uttar Pradesh government to intervene and ensure that journalists are not made easy targets of “police highhandedness” through the filing of FIRs against them. Govt heat On Wednesday, information technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad piled pressure on Twitter — ironically through a series of tweets. “There are numerous queries arising as to whether Twitter is entitled to safe harbour provision. However, the simple fact of the matter is that Twitter has failed to comply with the Intermediary Guidelines that came into effect from the 26th of May,” he tweeted. The safe harbour provision in the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, provides a shield against lawsuits. Since February this year, this protection has become contingent on social media players putting in place a grievance redress system and on the appointment of key personnel who will become responsible for compliance with Indian laws. “It is astounding that Twitter, which portrays itself as the flag-bearer of free speech, chooses the path of deliberate defiance when it comes to the Intermediary Guidelines,” Prasad tweeted. The pressure on Twitter to comply has coincided with its refusal to take down tweets that were critical of Prime Minister Modi and its decision to tag a tweet of at least one BJP leader as “manipulated media”. Prasad said: “If any foreign entity believes that they can portray itself as the flag bearer of free speech in India to excuse itself from complying with the law of the land, such attempts are misplaced.” Twitter officials said that till Wednesday evening, they had not received any communication from the information technology minister on the status of its safe harbour provision. Safe harbour N.S. Nappinai, founder of Cyber Saathi, said: “It is incorrect to assume Twitter has lost its tag as intermediary. What it has lost is the protection under Section 79 of the IT Act due to non-compliance. This again has nothing to do with government whim or action. “Any intermediary which enjoys protection under Section 79 has to comply with the conditions set out therein. One of the conditions is compliance with the rules framed by the central government. Failure to do so automatically takes away the protection. No specific government action is needed for such loss of protection.” Cyber law expert Pavan Duggal said: “Twitter, by not complying with the rules, lost its statutory immunity after the expiry of 90 days from February 25. “Effectively, it now means that the honeymoon period of Twitter as a service provider under the Indian cyber law is over. They no longer have the suraksha kawach or statutory exemption from legal liability. This effectively means that they are liable to be sued in civil and criminal courts across the country and they are liable to defend each one of them for third party data or information made available by them.” The Internet Freedom Foundation, which is fighting for digital freedom rights, said in a series of tweets: “The present concerns arise from Rule 7 of the IT rules, but Rule 7 only says that the provisions of Section 79 of the IT Act won’t apply to intermediaries that fail to observe the IT Rules. As per Section 79, intermediaries are immune from liability/ penalty if they comply with legal takedown requests of user posts from courts & public authorities.” The foundation added: “The new IT rules, as per several digital rights organisations, are unconstitutional. In fact, they have been challenged in several high courts. Even if we presume that the IT rules are legal and constitutional, where alleged non-compliance is for appointment of officers, etc, when companies like Twitter are prosecuted, courts will decide if it is an intermediary and not the government.” The parliamentary standing committee on information technology, headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, has asked the representatives of Twitter and the IT ministry to present themselves before the panel on Friday. They have been asked to submit their views on the subject, “safeguarding citizens’ rights and prevention of misuse of social/ online news media platforms including special emphasis on women’s security in the digital space”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-54
17-06-2021||India||India adds 67,208 fresh Covid cases, 2,330 casualties in a day||A single day rise of 67,208 new coronavirus infections were recorded taking India's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 2,97,00,313, while the active cases declined to 8,26,740, the lowest after 71 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The COVID-19 death toll climbed to 3,81,903 with 2,330 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases declined to 8,26,740 comprising 2.78 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 95.93 per cent. A net decline of 38,692 cases has been recorded in the COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 19,31,249 tests were conducted on Wednesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 38,52,38,220. The daily positivity rate was recorded 3.48 per cent . It has been less than 5 per cent for the 10th consecutive day, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 3.99 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 35th consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,84,91,670, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.29 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 26,55,19,251 COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 2,330 new fatalities include 1,236 from Maharashtra, 270 from Tamil Nadu, 148 from Karnataka and 147 from Kerala. A total of 3,81,903 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,15,390 from Maharashtra, 33,296 from Karnataka, 30,338 from Tamil Nadu, 24,876 from Delhi, 21,963 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,118 from West Bengal, 15,698 from Punjab and 13,354 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-54
17-06-2021||India||Delhi police move SC challenge of bail order for three students arrested on anti-terror charges||The Delhi Police has moved at high speed to challenge in the Supreme Court a Delhi High Court order granting bail to three students –Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and Asif Iqbal Tanha -- who were arrested after the Delhi riots in early 2020 under the tough anti-terror law. Calling the High Court’s judgement “perverse,” the Delhi Police said that: “We are proceeding with the filing of a special leave petition (to appeal) before the honourable Supreme Court.” Lawyer B. V. Balram Das, acting for the police, added the fact that “the High Court has commented on facts outside the jurisdiction of the bail plea... will impact every National Investigation Agency (NIA) investigation under the UAPA (Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act).” according to ANI news agency quoting what it said were police officials familiar with the case. Meanwhile, the students, who have already spent over a year in jail, surviving two Covid-19 waves, were obliged to spend more time in jail. A sessions court judge held off Wednesday on ordering the immediate release of the students on bail after Delhi police demanded three days to verify the addresses of the accused and the sureties posted by them. The Delhi High Court ordered on Tuesday in separate rulings taking up the allegations against each of the accused that the three should be immediately released on bail and made stinging remarks about their arrest under UAPA. The High Court said “... that in its anxiety to suppress dissent and in the morbid fear that matters may get out of hand, the state has blurred the line between the constitutionally guaranteed ‘right to protest” and “terrorist activity.” The two-man bench went on to add that: “If such blurring gains traction, democracy would be in peril.” In response to the High Court ruling, Das said in commenting that the case against the accused was “not borne from the evidence or charge sheet,” the High Court had gone beyond “its limited jurisdiction of dealing with the bail applications of the accused.” Justices Siddarth Mridul and Anup Jairam Bhambhani noted in their ruling that the allegations against the three did not “prima facie” constitution violations of the UAPA. As a result, the sections of the UAPA against granting the accused bail did not apply to their cases, the judges said. The three were thus entitled to be granted bail under the usual provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. “... we are of the view that no offence under sections 15, 17 or 18 UAPA is made out against the appellant on a prima facie appreciation of the subject charge-sheet, the High Court said Tuesday. “Restrictions for grant of bail under section 43D(5) UAPA do not apply; and the court may therefore fall back upon the usual and ordinary considerations for bail” under the criminal code, the bench said. Former Supreme Court judge Deepak Gupta hailed Tuesday’s High Court ruling, telling Bar & Bench that it stood as “a beacon of hope for people who believe in liberties, especially civil liberties of the citizens,” “This judgement lays out the law which is crystal clear,” says senior advocate Dushyant Dave, a former president of the Supreme Court Bar Association. The high court judges had said that “frivolously” laying charges under the UAPA “would undermine the intent and purpose of the Parliament in enacting a law that is meant to address threats to the very existence of our Nation.” Former Supreme Court justice Gupta said that the high court ruling was important in another context also. “These are cases in which the UAPA is invoked where there is a presumption that bail cannot be granted unless the court comes to the conclusion that a prima facie case is made out that bail has to be granted.” For Narwal, the judgement came too late to see her father who died of Covid-19. She had been unable to speak to him before his death but was granted interim bail for three weeks after he died. “The news of the bail order hit me both with relief and sorrow. In normal circumstances, it would have been a celebration, but I couldn't help but think every other minute how happy our father would have been to see his daughter," Narwal’s brother Aakash told PTI. “I am very sure that his last thoughts would have been of Natasha.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-54
17-06-2021||India||PM Modi announces Rs 2 lakh ex-gratia for kin of deceased||Prime minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday condoled the loss of lives in a road accident in Gujarat's Anand district and announced that an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each would be provided to the next of kin of the deceased.  Two children and seven adults were killed in the road accident after the car in which they were travelling collided with a truck near Indranaj village in Anand district on Wednesday morning, police said.  Apart from the two children, who were in the age group of three to five years, two women also died in the accident, they said.  "Saddened by the loss of lives due to a road accident in Anand district in Gujarat. Condolences to those who lost their near and dear ones," Prime Minister Modi was quoted as saying in a tweet by his office.  An ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund would be provided to the next of kin of those deceased, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-54
17-06-2021||India||Congress asks why RSS remains an unregistered body||The Congress on Wednesday cited two controversial financial deals to ask why the RSS remains an unregistered body, out of the accountability framework, despite being an important player in India’s power politics. “We want to know why the RSS has not been registered so far. Why does it not keep a register of its members? Why does it not pay income tax? Do they own this country?” Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera asked. One of the controversies involves two Sangh parivar members buying for Rs 18.5 crore a plot in Ayodhya that had sold for Rs 2 crore minutes earlier. VHP leader Champat Rai and RSS functionary Anil Mishra — members of the trust set up to monitor the construction of the Ram temple — have denied any corruption in the land deal. The other scandal involves a video and an audio that have been cited to accuse RSS leaders of negotiating commissions for releasing government payments in Jaipur to a private company. While the Ayodhya controversy has attracted nationwide spotlight, Khera underlined that the other had been widely covered by the local media in Rajasthan. “The video shows the zonal pracharak (the top RSS official in Rajasthan) Nimba Ram participating in a conversation about commissions with one Rajaram, a BJP leader and husband of the mayor of the Greater Jaipur Municipal Corporation, for releasing dues of Rs 276 crore to a Nagpur-based company, BVG. There is an audiotape also about the deal-making,” Khera said. He played the video and the audio at the news conference. BJP leaders have dismissed the video as an edited one and alleged a Congress conspiracy. The Rajasthan government’s anti-corruption bureau has started a preliminary investigation and promised an FIR if the video turns out genuine. BVG had been awarded a contract for garbage collection in Jaipur by the previous Vasundhara Raje government in 2016. Of the pending Rs 305 crore, Rs 276 crore was to be released after levying a penalty for unsatisfactory work. In one of the tapes, a man — alleged to be the mayor’s husband — is heard telling someone, purportedly from the BVG, not to make senior BJP leaders Nitin Gadkari and Devendra Fadnavis call his wife for the release of payments. “It’s a shame that the top RSS official of the region is participating in a commission-seeking deal. Rajaram, husband of mayor Somya Gurjar who is in suspension because of a scuffle with the municipality commissioner, is telling the company official that the payment has to be made in cash, not by cheque,” Khera said. “Some BJP leaders have said the negotiation was about a donation for the Ram temple. Commission money for the temple? Some said it was CSR (corporate social responsibility). Why not (pay by) cheque if it is CSR? And why is the RSS zonal head discussing it?” Khera continued: “Why does the BJP bring in Lord Ram whenever they (leaders) are caught? Is Lord Ram a shield for corruption? The RSS has fooled three generations of Hindus.... The two scandals exposed their reality. “We have seen the true culture of the RSS — its senior leaders are arm-twisting, blackmailing companies for commission. They can’t enjoy power without responsibility. They can’t escape accountability. The RSS people are also collecting donations for the Ram temple since 1999. Why has no audit taken place so far? Have they kept records; did they take all the donations by cheque?” The Congress has demanded a Supreme Court-monitored investigation into the Ayodhya land deal and an audit of all the plots bought recently in connection with the proposed Ram temple.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-54
17-06-2021||India||P. Chidambaram questions Nirmala Sitharaman's GST claim ||Congress veteran P. Chidambaram on Wednesday accused finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman of making a false statement that GST (goods and services tax) dues of all states had been cleared. Chidambaram, a former finance minister, said: “Yesterday (Tuesday), in an interview to a television channel, the finance minister (Sitharaman) angrily rebuffed the interviewer and snapped: ‘What dues, I have cleared the GST dues of all states’. The finance minister was wrong. The anger was unjustified. I have gathered data about GST dues from three states. Punjab has dues of Rs 7,393 crore as on June 1, 2021, Rajasthan’s dues are Rs 7,142 crore as on May 21, 2021, and Chhattisgarh has dues of Rs 3,069 crore as on June 1, 2021.” Chidambaram later added: “Tamil Nadu’s dues are Rs 6,415 crore. Yet the finance minister said that she has cleared the GST dues of all states. Who is right? Who will answer?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-54
17-06-2021||India||BJP reluctant to back PM Modi’s 'Hanuman' Chirag Paswan||The BJP’s apparent reluctance to back Narendra Modi’s “Hanuman” Chirag Paswan has led sections to fear that its leadership has buckled under pressure from partner Nitish Kumar at a time the party’s new-found vice grip on Bihar politics seems to have loosened in the aftermath of the Bengal misadventure. Chirag, felled by a coup in the Lok Janshakti Party led by his uncle, too is feeling let down by Modi after he worked assiduously to weaken Bihar chief minister Nitish in the elections. The BJP leaders feel the leadership is wary of annoying allies, especially those like Nitish with whom relations have been uncomfortable of late, at a time the party’s seeming electoral invincibility has cracked in Bengal and Modi’s image has taken a battering due to the mishandling of the pandemic. “It’s quite clear that Nitish Kumar is behind the split in the LJP and our party appears to be quietly accepting everything,” a Bihar BJP leader said. The leader felt the central leadership could be reluctant to irritate Nitish by backing Chirag also because several long-time allies have severed ties with the BJP. “Maybe the central leaders don’t want any wrong signal to go out ahead of the Uttar Pradesh polls next year,” a Bihar MP said. After the exit of the Shiv Sena and the Shiromani Akali Dal, the JDU with 16 MPs is currently the only significant ally left in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) at the Centre. Realising the need for partners in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh elections, the BJP leadership has begun wooing disgruntled smaller allies who had felt slighted by the Big Brother. Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP chief J.P. Nadda have been hosting leaders of parties with pockets of strength in Uttar Pradesh, such as the Apna Dal and the Nishad Party. Efforts are also apparently afoot to woo back another estranged ally, Om Prakash Rajbhar of the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party. The BJP feels the party needs to weave a coalition of different castes and communities to win the heartland state decisively. The perception that the BJP may be aiding, or at least playing along with Nitish’s determined attempt to split the LJP has been strengthened by the swiftness with which Chirag’s uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras was recognised as the leader of the LJP in the Lok Sabha within 24 hours on Tuesday. Paras and the other rebel LJP MPs met and petitioned Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Sunday evening for the designation, and late on Monday night the name of the new leader was notified by the Lower House secretariat. Caught unawares by the coup, Chirag on Tuesday rushed a letter to the Speaker urging him to withdraw the notification. He claimed that according to the constitution of the LJP, the central parliamentary board (of which Chirag is the chairman) of the party is empowered to decide on the Lok Sabha leader.“We are already facing problems in states we rule and it would not be prudent to open another front with Nitish,” a BJP leader said. The BJP has been rushing party managers to Karnataka, Gujarat, Goa and Madhya Pradesh in addition to Uttar Pradesh, with murmurs of discontent and rebellion rising against the chief ministers in these states. “Had we won Bengal, things would have been different. The rebellion in the LJP would also not have taken place,” another BJP leader said. Many in the BJP believe Nitish has taken advantage of the post-Bengal political atmosphere to strike at the LJP and assert himself before the BJP. Nitish had been feeling increasingly hemmed in by the BJP after the party became the dominant partner in the alliance for the first time after the 2020 Bihar elections. In Bihar’s political circles a buzz had been growing that the BJP could move to claim the chief minister’s post in the state had it wrested Bengal. Nitish’s JDU had managed to win only 43 seats while the BJP’s tally had jumped to 74. The JDU had blamed the LJP and it’s then chief Chirag for its emaciated tally of 43. Chirag had opposed Nitish’s leadership, broken out of the NDA and fielded candidates mostly against the JDU while claiming he was with the BJP. The JDU felt that Chirag’s candidates cut into the NDA’s votes and defeated their nominees. Chirag had during the campaign cast himself as Modi’s “Hanuman” and it was widely believed that the BJP was using him to undercut Nitish. On Tuesday, Chirag indicated that his “Ram” had dumped him.Asked why he hasn’t sought help from his “Ram”, Modi, Chirag said on Tuesday: “If Hanuman has to seek help from Ram then what is the point of Ram or Hanuman?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-54
17-06-2021||India||Kashmir: Activist jailed for airing misgivings on outsiders released||A Kashmiri man arrested for declaring he had no expectations from non-local officers has been released and has vowed to be cautious the next time he approaches officials on issues of public importance. Ganderbal activist Sajad Rashid Sofi said he hadn’t said “anything offensive”. He suggested the reaction by non-local IAS officer Krittika Jyotsna, who sent him to jail, had been prompted by a comment from the adviser to lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha. The police released Sofi on Tuesday night after he had spent five days in jail, the administration apparently yielding to the outcry over his arrest. Such reprieves are rare in Kashmir.“I will not stop visiting officers to seek redress to public grievances. But the next time I shall write a qasida (eulogy) or rubai (poem) and humbly request, ‘Please rectify the matter... be kind enough’,” Sofi told The Telegraph. “Whatever I say, I shall try to be cool. It’s because of some pressure (that I was released). Otherwise the possibility was — particularly if I had any small (adverse comment) in the police records — they would have booked me under the (anti-terror) Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.” Sofi is alleged to have offended Ganderbal deputy commissioner Jyotsna during a Janata Darbar outreach programme on June 10 when he made a comment about non-Kashmiri officials to Baseer Khan, adviser to the lieutenant governor and a local man. “I can grab you by the collar and seek answers. But what expectations can I have from officers who are not from the state?” Sofi said. Sofi told this newspaper that it was Khan’s reply that seemed to touch a raw nerve with Jyotsna, who was raised in Hyderabad.He told this paper: “Baseer Sahab said, ‘Why did you utter the word Kashmiri’ and that ‘We are all Indians here’. Initially she (Jyotsna) did not mind. (Following Khan’s remarks), she stood up (and objected to my comment). Baseer Sahab later tried to placate her and asked her to sit down.” “I think that was one of the reasons (she objected). The fact is I had got a little emotional because it was the fourth time we were meeting the adviser to the lieutenant governor for redress of our grievances.” Sofi, a former sarpanch and son of a retired police officer, was arrested on June 10 on the charge of prompting enmity between different groups. Two days later he was granted bail by a court but the police added two more charges (abetment and joining assembly likely to cause disturbance in peace) and refused to release him. An activist and associate of Sofi who requested anonymity told this newspaper the police had on Tuesday said they would release him in two or three days. “But later in the evening, because of pressure from different quarters, we received a call and were told to apply afresh for bail before a tehsildar. We did and he was released at night,” he said. Khan, contacted for his reaction, said he had “no idea” about the arrest and the controversy. Sofi said he and his civil society team had been seeking the establishment of a degree college, upgrade of the local health centre, land for a playground and a solid waste management department for the development of the Manasbal lake. “I told him (Khan) that your officers — I was not referring to the DC (Jyotsna) who had joined only recently — had done nothing. I repeated the word thrice,” he said. “I told him (Khan) that you are a Kashmiri and I too am a Kashmiri. It is as though somebody is from Ganderbal and I tell him, ‘You are from Ganderbal and if you can’t solve it, who else will?’… I think I did not say anything offensive.” Khan was divisional commissioner for Kashmir when Article 370 was diluted in 2019. He is believed to have been rewarded for his role during the crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-54
17-06-2021||India||Supreme Court ‘shock’ at year’s delay in  bail hearing||The Supreme Court has expressed shock at Punjab and Haryana High Court not even listing the bail application of an accused for over a year, let alone decide on the plea, making a rare intervention on the ground of violation of the fundamental right to life and liberty. The top court also said that despite the pandemic, at least half the judges must sit on alternate days to hear matters relating to people’s distress. A Supreme Court bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and V. Ramasubramanian said it was “shocked” that the bail application of Chunni Lal Gaba was pending for more than a year and asked the high court to hear it at an early date. Gaba is facing criminal prosecution by the Enforcement Directorate for alleged financial irregularities. The accused had moved the special leave petition in the apex court pleading that despite a year having passed since he applied for bail, the high court had not listed the matter for a formal hearing. Agreeing with Gaba, the Supreme Court passed the following order: “The present special leave petition is directed against an order whereby the request for hearing of an application for bail under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, pending since 28.0 2.2020, was declined. Normally, we do not interfere with an interim order passed by the high court but we are constrained to pass the present order as we are shocked to see that the bail application under Section 439 CrPC is not being listed for hearing for more than one year. “The accused has a right to hearing of his application for bail. In fact, the denial of hearing is an infringement of right to life and liberty assured to an accused. Even during the pandemic, when all courts are making attempts to hear and decide all matters, non-listing of such an application for bail defeats the administration of justice. “Under the prevailing pandemic, at least half of the judges should sit on alternate days so that hearing is accorded to the person in distress. Non-listing of application for regular bail, irrespective of seriousness or lack thereof, of the offences attributed to the accused, impinges upon the liberty of the person in custody. Therefore, we hope that the high court will be able to take up the application for bail at an early date so that the right of the accused of hearing of application for bail is not taken away by not entertaining such application on the mentioning memo. “Let the registrar-general of the high court bring this order to the notice of the competent authority to take remedial steps at the earliest….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-54
17-06-2021||India||Covishield: Experts term Centre's 16-week gap decision 'arbitrary'||The Narendra Modi government’s decision to set 16 weeks as the outer limit for the gap between the two doses of Covishield was “arbitrary” and “lacked scientific basis”, multiple medical experts have said. The Centre, which is insisting that the decision to increase the gap was based on scientific evidence, has not cited any study that specifically mentions 16 weeks. Instead, the government has been relying on studies that have researched the impact up to 12 weeks, not 16 weeks. While the prevailing minimum gap — 12 weeks — is indeed based on scientific studies, it is the outer limit of 16 weeks that has landed the government on what appears to be thin ice. The government on Wednesday indicated that the 16-week limit is not cast in stone and did not rule out revisiting the decision. There is no evidence for gains in the vaccine’s efficacy if the gap between the first and second dose is delayed to 16 weeks instead of 12 weeks, according to the experts, including a senior vaccination policy adviser with the WHO. Here, a little-noticed suggestion attributed to the World Health Organisation (WHO) comes into play. The WHO had in March this year asked countries facing limited Covishield supplies to consider vaccinating “a maximum number of persons... with a first dose and preferentially planning for the second dose to be provided 12 weeks later or as soon as possible thereafter”. Translated into plain language, this means: widen the gap if you are running short of vaccine supplies. The operative part is supply constraints, not the science of vaccines. “India took a decision it had to, but the logic and explanation it has given for that is not entirely correct. It might have been simpler to just say we want to prioritise first doses and explain why,” an expert familiar with Indian and global Covid-19 vaccination campaigns told The Telegraph on Wednesday. On May 13, the Union health ministry said it had accepted a recommendation from two advisory panels to expand the dosing interval to 12-16 weeks from the earlier 6-8 weeks. The ministry said the panels — the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) and the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) — decided to expand the gap after new “real-world evidence” had emerged from the UK. “These are pure science-based decisions,” NEGVAC’s chair Vinod Paul, a senior paediatrician and member of Niti Aayog, India’s apex government think tank, had asserted, saying the NTAGI had relied on the “real-life experience” of millions of vaccinated individuals in the UK. With the official health establishment so far unwilling to produce any “science-based” study that refers to the 16-week limit, the Modi government could have taken the nation into confidence in May and announced that vaccines were in short supply and the gap for Covishield was therefore being widened to 16 weeks. But the Centre gave the impression that the new window of 12-16 weeks was based on science, which has been established only partially so far. Politics, not science, appeared to have led the Centre to leave a haze around the 16-week ceiling. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan has been denying that there was any shortage of vaccines in the country. The availability of vaccines had become a political flashpoint with Prime Minister Modi boasting about India being the “pharmacy of the world” and the Opposition alleging that he did not show the foresight to reserve more vaccines from manufacturers abroad or halt exports in the initial stages. The Centre’s decision in April to open vaccination to everyone 18 years or older had overnight more than doubled the eligible population to more than 950 million without provisions for extra doses. At the time, India had access to roughly 85 million doses a month. For the Union government, after having insisted there was no shortage, it would have been politically unwise to admit that the opposite was the case. With the Centre stoutly defending the decision to double the gap to 12-16 weeks, few academics were willing to speak to this newspaper on record. They did not want to be seen as questioning the government in public. However, a clue came from the government side itself on Wednesday. Narendra Arora, chair of the Covid-19 working group of the NTAGI that made the recommendation for the new interval, said the 12-16 weeks gap also “gives flexibility” to people because “everyone cannot come at precisely 12 weeks”. PTI quoted Arora as adding: “Covid-19 and the vaccination are very dynamic. Tomorrow, if the vaccine platform tells us that a narrower interval is better for our people, even if the benefit is 5-10 per cent, the committee will take the decision on the basis of merit and its wisdom. On the other hand, if it turns out that the current decision is fine, we will continue with it.” A query sent by this newspaper to the health ministry and to Arora seeking references to studies or evidence that support the 16-week outer limit have not evoked a response. “The decision to widen the gap was appropriate given vaccine supply constraints and the need to prioritise first doses, but there is no scientific evidence for the outer limit of 16 weeks,” said a public health expert. Delaying the second dose allows more people to get the first dose and, experts say, such decisions take into account the potential gains of expanding the number of people with first doses and the potential risks of delaying second doses. “Under vaccine supply constraints, it might be better to give a first dose to more people than to give two doses to half that population,” said a senior vaccination specialist who requested anonymity. “And this is particularly so if the efficacy gain with two doses is not double.” “The latest available evidence also suggests that India should for now continue to prioritise the first dose over the second dose,” said Gagandeep Kang, professor of clinical microbiology and member of NTAGI. Kang cited data released by the UK’s Public Health England on Monday showing that the AstraZeneca vaccine (Covishield in India) is 71 per cent effective after a first dose and 92 per cent effective after a second dose against hospitalisation from Covid-19 caused by the Delta variant, first detected in India. “Protection from hospitalisation is more important than protection from the infection,” Kang said. An independent academic modelling study by Gautam Menon at Ashoka University and his colleagues has also indicated that prioritising the first dose for those at most risk (the elderly and people above 45 with underlying chronic disorders) is the best option for now. The second dose grants additional protection, but appears to be less important than ensuring that as many people as possible receive the first dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-55
17-06-2021||India||Delhi riots: Police moves SC to cancel bail order of three activists||Delhi police on Wednesday petitioned the Supreme Court to cancel Tuesday’s bail to three student anti-CAA protesters, and appeared to be relying on certain technicalities in the trial court to try and delay their release from prison. JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita and Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha were still in custody late on Wednesday night, with the trial court listing for Thursday the police’s unusual plea for more time to verify their addresses and various details of those who have stood surety for them. The apex court is expected to hear on Friday the police’s challenge to Delhi High Court’s bail order, with solicitor-general Tushar Mehta likely to appear for the government. If the trial court grants the police’s request or the hearing stretches further, the accused are unlikely to be released before the apex court delivers its verdict. CPM politburo member Brinda Karat, one of the two people who stood surety for Natasha, termed the delay in release an attempt by the police to “sabotage and subvert” the high court order. She told The Telegraph the police had visited the homes of those standing surety, including hers, twice — on Tuesday night and Wednesday morning — and verified identity cards and bank documents. “Yet at 1pm today (Wednesday), they said (before the trial court of Shahdara district’s additional sessions judge Ravinder Bedi) they were not ready. The hearing was online but the six of us standing surety were in court, as required for verification,” she said. “Around 3.15pm, the police told the court that only one surety for each of the students had been verified, and the second had not. This is not true as they had visited the others standing for surety — two JNU professors, renowned activist Gautam Bhan, and two other residents of Delhi — and verified whatever they needed.” She added: “What’s most bizarre is the police saying they need to verify the permanent addresses (of the students), take a Rajdhani train to Assam to verify Devangana’s address, which would take time. All these students are residing in Delhi, and were arrested in Delhi…. When special public prosecutor Amit Prasad arrived, he was unaware that the police had filed such an affidavit.” Natasha is from Rohtak in Haryana, Devangana is from Assam, while Tanha is from Jharkhand. Legal sources said Delhi police were free to call up their counterparts in these states to have the addresses verified instead of despatching teams. A former Delhi High Court judge, Justice Jaspal Singh, told this newspaper: “In my long years as a judicial officer since 1964 and as a high court judge for eight years, I have never seen a magistrate ask the police to verify a bail bond or a surety being verified. Courts see if the surety has proper control of the accused… so he does not abscond. This is entirely in the domain of the court.” Delhi police, who are under the control of the Centre, have in the plea to the apex court argued that the accused, charged under the anti-terror law UAPA, could tamper with evidence and intimidate witnesses unless their bail was quashed. The police have also protested Delhi High Court’s observation on Tuesday that the State was blurring the line between the right to protest and terrorist activity in its “anxiety to suppress dissent”. Their petition called the observation “an insinuation, albeit unfounded and perverse, that the present case was registered by the government to suppress dissent”, and that it “was a false case”. While granting bail, the high court had said the accused would be released after the trial court had satisfied itself that all the bail conditions and requirements could be met. One requirement being that the police should be able to trace the accused at any time, the cops sought time to verify their addresses. Tanha’s lawyer Siddharth Aggarwal said: “Not only did the police seek more time, they also sent a notice to the Unique Identification Authority of India to verify the Aadhaar numbers of the students. This is unprecedented. The law of the land is that those in custody have to be released within 24 hours of getting bail.” Karat said: “When the police visited this morning, they said they would take statements from my neighbours as well.” The Delhi police did not respond to queries from this newspaper. The lawyers for Devangana and Natasha had moved an application before Bedi on Wednesday for their immediate release. In the day’s order, Bedi said the order on bail could not be passed because of “heavy board of bail applications listed before the undersigned”. On Tuesday, the high court had questioned the police’s purported evidence against the three students, arrested in April last year and charged with inciting the February 2020 communal riots in Delhi after they participated in protests against the new citizenship matrix. “We are constrained to express, that it seems, that in its anxiety to suppress dissent, in the mind of the State, the line between constitutionally guaranteed right to protest and terrorist activity seems to be getting somewhat blurred. If this mindset gains traction, it would be a sad day for democracy,” the bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup Jairam Bhambhani had observed. Natasha, 32, Devangana, 31, and Tanha, 25, were all implicated in several cases. The trial courts had withheld regular bail only in the UAPA case. Devangana and Natasha are in Tihar jail. Tanha, a BA (Persian) student, is on interim custody bail at a south Delhi hotel so he can write his final semester exams. Devangana’s husband Andre Ling said: “It’s been an exhausting and painful year of separation, and when we were on the cusp of justice finally being served, we’re again thrown into this heart-wrenching uncertainty.” Normally, the top court cancels bail only in extraordinary circumstances, having repeatedly reaffirmed the maxim laid down decades ago that bail is the norm and jail the exception. Earlier this month, the Supreme Court had upheld citizens’ “right to criticise or comment upon the measures undertaken by the government and its functionaries” while quashing the sedition case against veteran journalist Vinod Dua. In their appeal, the Delhi police have argued that the high court’s reasoning that UAPA provisions apply only to matters that have a profound impact on the “defence of India” is “an irrelevant consideration to grant bail”. According to the police, the high court order, “through an erroneous interpretation has watered down the provisions of UAPA which will have wide ramifications and will affect all the cases registered by the National Investigating Agency under the provisions of UAPA”. The Delhi government’s standing counsel at Delhi High Court, Rahul Mehra, tweeted: “Unfortunate that the court below chose to seek verification of the accused by the police when both of them ought to have been released fm judicial custody yesterday itself….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-55
17-06-2021||India||UP: FIRs against Twitter, journos and Congress leaders||Uttar Pradesh police have registered an FIR against Twitter, several journalists and Congress leaders over a video showing a Muslim from Ghaziabad alleging that he was assaulted and his beard was cut off. The police action came on a day the Narendra Modi government at the Centre persisted with its sabre-rattling strategy in an effort to cow Twitter into submission on the new information technology intermediary guidelines. If the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh pursues the FIR with vigour, it is expected to become a test case, especially since there is no official word yet that the micro-blogging platform has lost its protective cover under the revised IT rules from pesky lawsuits. Some cyber law analysts suggested that no specific government action was required and Twitter could be deemed to have automatically lost the shield as soon as the compliance deadline ended on May 25. Twitter has said it “continues to make every effort to comply with the new guidelines”. The FIR has been filed at Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh against journalists Saba Naqvi, Rana Ayyub, Alt News co-founder Mohammed Zubair, online news portal The Wire and Congress leaders Shama Mohamed, Salman Nizami and Maskoor Usmani for tweeting the video. The police have accused them of tweeting the video without verifying facts and “giving a communal colour” to the incident. Although hundreds of social media users had tweeted the video, it is not clear why the journalists and politicians have been picked out for the police action. On Sunday, the video clip did the rounds on Twitter accounts and showed the elderly man, identified as Abdul Samad, saying he was assaulted on June 5, his beard was chopped off and he was forced to chant “Jai Shri Ram” by some attackers. The police ruled out any communal element, claiming that a dispute over amulets (tabeez) sold by Samad had led to the assault on him by six men who included Hindus and Muslims. Three suspects have been arrested. The FIR said that despite a clarification put out by Ghaziabad police ruling out any communal link, the users did not delete the posts and Twitter took no action to remove them. An official in the Union government asked: “Why did Twitter not flag the particular video linked to the case as ‘manipulated media’ even though thousands of people re-tweeted it?” However, Samad’s family has contested the police version. “My father never sold tabeez in his life. We are carpenters. We do not know why the police have come up with such a baseless story. We want a fair probe into the case,” Babloo Saifi, Samad’s son, told NDTV. The family had filed an FIR with Ghaziabad police on June 6. The police FIR against Twitter and others have been registered under Sections 153 (provocation to cause riot), 153A (promoting enmity between religious groups), 295A (acts intended to insult religious beliefs), 505 (mischief) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. The Press Club of India on Wednesday expressed concern over the police FIR against The Wire and the journalists and appealed to the Uttar Pradesh government to intervene and ensure that journalists are not made easy targets of “police highhandedness” through the filing of FIRs against them. On Wednesday, information technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad piled pressure on Twitter — ironically through a series of tweets. “There are numerous queries arising as to whether Twitter is entitled to safe harbour provision. However, the simple fact of the matter is that Twitter has failed to comply with the Intermediary Guidelines that came into effect from the 26th of May,” he tweeted. The safe harbour provision in the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, provides a shield against lawsuits. Since February this year, this protection has become contingent on social media players putting in place a grievance redress system and on the appointment of key personnel who will become responsible for compliance with Indian laws. “It is astounding that Twitter, which portrays itself as the flag-bearer of free speech, chooses the path of deliberate defiance when it comes to the Intermediary Guidelines,” Prasad tweeted. The pressure on Twitter to comply has coincided with its refusal to take down tweets that were critical of Prime Minister Modi and its decision to tag a tweet of at least one BJP leader as “manipulated media”. Prasad said: “If any foreign entity believes that they can portray itself as the flag bearer of free speech in India to excuse itself from complying with the law of the land, such attempts are misplaced.” Twitter officials said that till Wednesday evening, they had not received any communication from the information technology minister on the status of its safe harbour provision. N.S. Nappinai, founder of Cyber Saathi, said: “It is incorrect to assume Twitter has lost its tag as intermediary. What it has lost is the protection under Section 79 of the IT Act due to non-compliance. This again has nothing to do with government whim or action. “Any intermediary which enjoys protection under Section 79 has to comply with the conditions set out therein. One of the conditions is compliance with the rules framed by the central government. Failure to do so automatically takes away the protection. No specific government action is needed for such loss of protection.” Cyber law expert Pavan Duggal said: “Twitter, by not complying with the rules, lost its statutory immunity after the expiry of 90 days from February 25. “Effectively, it now means that the honeymoon period of Twitter as a service provider under the Indian cyber law is over. They no longer have the suraksha kawach or statutory exemption from legal liability. This effectively means that they are liable to be sued in civil and criminal courts across the country and they are liable to defend each one of them for third party data or information made available by them.” The Internet Freedom Foundation, which is fighting for digital freedom rights, said in a series of tweets: “The present concerns arise from Rule 7 of the IT rules, but Rule 7 only says that the provisions of Section 79 of the IT Act won’t apply to intermediaries that fail to observe the IT Rules. As per Section 79, intermediaries are immune from liability/ penalty if they comply with legal takedown requests of user posts from courts & public authorities.” The foundation added: “The new IT rules, as per several digital rights organisations, are unconstitutional. In fact, they have been challenged in several high courts. Even if we presume that the IT rules are legal and constitutional, where alleged non-compliance is for appointment of officers, etc, when companies like Twitter are prosecuted, courts will decide if it is an intermediary and not the government.” The parliamentary standing committee on information technology, headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, has asked the representatives of Twitter and the IT ministry to present themselves before the panel on Friday. They have been asked to submit their views on the subject, “safeguarding citizens’ rights and prevention of misuse of social/ online news media platforms including special emphasis on women’s security in the digital space”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-55
17-06-2021||India||Rajnath Singh calls for navigation freedom in the Indo-Pacific region||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday called for an open and inclusive order in the Indo-Pacific region and underlined the need for ensuring freedom of navigation and unimpeded commerce in the international waterways including the South China Sea. During his virtual address at the Asean Defence Ministers’ Meeting-Plus (ADMM-Plus), Singh, in an obliquereference to China’s military behaviour in the South China Sea and Indo-Pacific, said the sea lanes of communication were critical for peace, stability, prosperity and development of the region. Singh said developments in the South China Sea have attracted attention in the region and beyond. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army has been taking an assertive stance in the South China Sea and is challenging India’s domination in the region. “Maritime security challenges are a concern to India. The sea lanes of communication are critical for peace, stability, prosperity and development of the Indo-Pacific region,” Singh said. “India calls for a free, open and inclusive order in the Indo-Pacific, based upon respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity of nations, peaceful resolution of disputes through dialogue and adherence to international rules and laws.” India, Singh said, has strengthened its cooperative engagements in the Indo-Pacific based on converging visions and values for promotion of peace, stability and prosperity in the region. “Premised upon the centrality of Asean, India supports utilisation of Asean-led mechanisms as important platforms for implementation of our shared vision for the Indo-Pacific,” Singh said. The defence minister said terrorism and radicalisation were the “gravest threats” to peace and security in the world and a collective approach was required to combat the challenges. He called for strong action against those encouraging, supporting and financing terrorism and providing shelters to terrorists. The ADMM-Plus is a platform comprising the 10-nation Asean (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) and its eight dialogue partners — India, China, Australia, Japan, New Zealand, South Korea, Russia and the US.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-55
17-06-2021||India||Covid: Cong to gather nationwide data||The Congress has drawn up an elaborate plan to start a nationwide campaign to gather data on Covid-affected families, patients and the deceased, ostensibly to challenge the allegedly manipulated official counts. The Congress has designed the campaign as an outreach programme to help frontline health workers and patients, with the planned data collection of the infected and the dead billed as a “subsidiary aim”. The drive aims to cover three crore households in 30 days, reaching out to approximately 12 crore people. The party general secretary in charge of organisation, K.C. Venugopal, said: “Congress president Sonia Gandhi and the respective PCC presidents will also be writing condolence letters to the next of kin of those who have passed away due to the pandemic.” All Pradesh Congress Committees have been asked to set up control rooms and appoint at least one person in every block or ward to monitor the campaign. The block and town area presidents will each identify 10 workers — those who have been active in helping people during the pandemic — and designate them “Covid warriors” to collect data from the ground. Each “Covid warrior” is expected to visit a minimum of 10 to 15 households per day, Venugopal said. They will carry a questionnaire with questions like: “Was anyone from your family infected by Covid-19; Has any family member died due to Covid-19, their name and age; Was he/she the breadwinner of the family; Has anyone in your family lost his/her job due to the Covid-19 lockdown; Any support that they may be needing (ration, job, education, financial support) etc.”, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-55
17-06-2021||India||Modi govt delays survey to estimate poverty, shelves previous reports||India has no official data showing how many people got out of or slipped into poverty over the last 10 years, with the Narendra Modi government delaying exercises to estimate poverty and shelving the reports of surveys that had already done so. The standard way of estimating poverty has two steps. One, the National Statistical Office or NSO (formerly National Sample Survey Organisation or NSSO) carries out a sample Consumer Expenditure Survey every five years to see how much families are spending on necessities. Two, a previously set poverty line — a set of minimum expenditure criteria — is applied to the survey findings to determine what percentage of families qualifies as poor. This poverty line is expected to be revised every 10 to 15 years. However, the Centre has refused to release the report of the 75th Consumer Expenditure Survey, done in 2017-18, claiming a divergence between its findings and “administrative data”. According to a report in the Business Standard newspaper, the survey had found a fall in consumer spending for the first time in more than four decades. So, the latest poverty data the country has come from the previous such survey from 2011-12, which put 21.9 per cent of the population below the poverty line. Nor has the Centre revised the old poverty line, fixed in 2005, after having rejected the recommendations of an expert committee the UPA had formed in 2012 to work out a new poverty line. N.C. Saxena, a retired bureaucrat who was a member of the UPA-era National Advisory Council, said poverty data was crucial to determining how effectively government welfare schemes were helping people improve their living standards. Such data is also key to estimating where India stands in relation to other countries in the matter of poverty alleviation, and whether it can achieve the UN’s Sustainable Development Goal target of eradicating poverty by 2030, to which New Delhi is a signatory. “There’s no data on the progress towards poverty eradication. Had the NSO report been released, the poverty estimate would have come in 2019,” Saxena said. “But the government did not release that report as it found it uncomfortable. Now we have to wait for the next NSO report.” The NSO’s sample household survey captures how much money a family has been spending on food, shelter, clothing, health, education, transport, entertainment and other needs. The current poverty line was fixed in 2005 by the Suresh Tendulkar committee set up by the UPA government. The committee suggested that a person should be considered poor if they spend less than Rs 447 a month in rural areas and Rs 578 a month in urban areas (in keeping with the 2004-05 price index). Based on this, 37 per cent people — 26 per cent in urban areas and 42 per cent in rural India — were found to be poor in 2004-05. This improved to 21.9 per cent by 2011-12. In 2012, the UPA government set up a committee under C. Rangarajan to revise the poverty line. In June 2014, the committee submitted its report to the Modi government, which rejected it. In 2015, the government set up a task force under the then Niti Aayog deputy chairman, Arvind Panagariya, to recommend a fresh poverty line. On February 4 this year, the minister of state for planning, Rao Inderjit Singh, told the Rajya Sabha in a written reply that the task force had not recommended any definition of poverty or a methodology to estimate poverty (poverty line) but suggested that another expert panel be set up. No such panel has been set up yet. Retired economic services officer K.L. Datta, who has authored the book Growth and Development Planning in India, regretted the delay in revising the poverty line and in estimating the proportion of people living below it. “There’s been no official poverty estimation data for the past 10 years. The government only says that India will be able to achieve the (UN-mandated) goal on poverty; but there’s no data,” Datta said. “The Tendulkar methodology can still be used. But the government is neither coming out with any new methodology nor using the existing methodology.” Saxena agreed that Tendulkar’s poverty line can still be used if no new methodology is worked out. Separate emails sent to Niti Aayog vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar and minister Inderjit Singh seeking the perspectives of the Aayog and the government had remained unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-55
17-06-2021||India||Covid: Bihar relaxes restrictions, night curfew reduced by an hour||Bihar provided further relaxation on Tuesday in the curbs imposed in the wake of the ongoing second wave of the coronavirus or Covid-19 pandemic, but decided to keep educational and religious institutions closed till further orders. The night curfew has been curtailed by an hour. The decisions were taken at the meeting of the crisis management group chaired by chief minister Nitish Kumar to discuss the curbs and relaxations needed at the present stage of the pandemic. “We reviewed the situation of coronavirus infection in the state. We are providing relaxation in the restrictions for the next one week from June 16-22 to allow government and private offices to function till 5pm. Shops and business establishments can remain open till 6pm. The night curfew will remain in force from 8pm to 5am,” Nitish said. Nitish’s announcements will be implemented in the second week of the ‘unlock’ or easing of restrictions after a 35-day lockdown from May 5 to June 8 during which the state was reeling under the second wave of Covid-19. The poor health infrastructure and management of the pandemic aggravated the situation. The offices were allowed to function till 4pm and the shops could stay open till 5pm during the unlock-I from June 9 to 15. Later on Tuesday, chief secretary Tripurari Sharan issued a detailed notification for the unlock-II guidelines. He said that the offices could function with 50 per cent attendance. Shops and business establishments will open on alternate days, which will be decided by the concerned district magistrates. Shops will have to keep sanitisers at their counters and ensure that everybody wears a mask, as well as, maintain social distancing. Legal action will be taken against their owners on any digression from the rules. Cinema halls, clubs, swimming pools, parks and stadiums will remain shut during this week-long period and no socio-cultural-public functions will be held. Only 20 people will be allowed to attend marriage functions, funeral processions and last rites. Under the new restrictions, restaurants and eateries could provide only home delivery service from 9am to 9pm daily. Bihar has witnessed 7.18 lakh coronavirus cases, including 9,505 deaths till Monday. Altogether 324 new cases of infections were detected and the number of active cases in the state has come down to 4,771.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-55
17-06-2021||India||Heavy rainfall unleashes flood fury in Bihar||Heavy rainfall in Bihar and neighbouring Nepal for the last two days has made rivers swell and unleashed flood fury in northwestern parts of the state on Wednesday. Discharge of a high volume of water into the Gandak river from Valmikinagar barrage along the Indo-Nepal border in Bihar’s West Champaran district since Tuesday has worsened the situation. The Gandak (called the Narayani in Nepal) originates from the north of Dhaulagiri mountains in Tibet, flows through Nepal and enters Bihar at Valmikinagar. It falls into the Ganga opposite Patna. Currently over four lakh cusecs of water is being discharged from the Valmikinagar barrage. One cusec (cubic feet per second) is equivalent to 28.32 litres of water passing at any particular point per second. This has led to the Gandak and its tributaries like the Sikarahana, Pandarai, Masan, Harbora, Oraiya and others in Bihar flooding several parts of West Champaran, Gopalganj and Saran districts. On the other hand, the Budhi Gandak river is also threatening flood in West Champaran, East Champaran, Muzaffarpur, Samastipur and Khagaria districts. Floodwater was flowing over the roads at several places in West Champaran and Gopalganj districts, disrupting connectivity and movement of people. Parts of Bagaha town and several villages in Ramnagar, Chautarva and Thakarha blocks in West Champaran district have been submerged. People have started leaving their houses for safer places to escape flooding. Water has also entered the Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR). As the situation turned grim, Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) jawans had to leave their border outpost at Jhandutola in West Champaran district and move to safer places. “Much water has entered West Champaran so we had to pull back our jawans from one of our border outposts. We may shift them from other outposts also if needed. The rain and floodwaters have disrupted the connectivity in the area where we operate. Moreover, we are not allowed to build permanent structures there because they are located in forest areas,” SSB Patna frontier inspector-general Pankaj Kumar Darad told The Telegraph. Meanwhile, the Central Water Commission (CWC) has issued an “orange bulletin” warning about severe flood situation in Bihar. It said the Gandak was flowing at a level of 62.4 metres at Dumariaghat in Gopalganj district, 18 centimetres above the danger level, with a rising trend. “The Budhi Gandak river at Chanpatia in West Champaran was also in a severe situation, flowing at a level of 74.48 metres, which was 80 centimetres above the danger mark,” the CWC bulletin said. West Champaran district magistrate Kundan Kumar said that apart from very heavy rainfall in the catchment area of the Gandak in Nepal, the intensity of rain in the northwestern area of Bihar has also been high. “At present around 4.12 lakh cusecs is being released from the Valmikinagar barrage into the Gandak due to heavy rain in Nepal. West Champaran has also received around 160 millimetres rainfall from Monday to Tuesday,” he told this newspaper. “The situation is under control as the rainfall has eased now. All our flood-fighting teams are in place. Personnel of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have been deployed. We are making announcements on the public address system to alert people about the situation. Around 80 people have been evacuated from Lakshmipur Rampurva,” he added. Around 1,500 people are being evacuated in East Champaran district as a precautionary measure, while Gopalganj has also sounded a flood alert and is planning to shift people before the heavy discharge of water in the Gandak spills over into the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-55
17-06-2021||India||Covid: Partial unlock in Odisha, restrictions lifted in 17 districts  ||The Odisha government on Wednesday announced a partial unlock plan by lifting major restrictions in 17 districts with Covid positivity rate of 5 per cent or less while sanctioning minor relaxations in the rest 13 districts which have a higher positivity rate. While the districts with less positivity rate, most of them from western and southern Odisha, have been put in the “A” category others have been placed in the “B” category. However, the partial lockdown will continue till July 1 and the weekend shutdown will continue in all districts. The partial unlock process will begin from Thursday morning. Addressing a press conference here chief secretary Suresh Chandra Mohapatra said: “The Covid-19 infection rate has drastically declined and the test positivity rate (TPR) has come down to 6 percent this week. I thank the people of Odisha for abiding by the lockdown measures strictly.” Stating that the peak period of the epidemic was over he sought the cooperation of people till the situation was fully under control. Under the new unlocking measures, restrictions will be eased in 17 “A” category districts from Thursday with shops allowed to remain open in these areas between 6 am and 5 pm. The districts under this category include Sundargarh, Jharsuguda, Bargarh, Sambalpur, Deogarh, Kalahandi, Bolangir, Nuapada, Sonepur, Ganjam, Gajapati, Kandhamal, Boudh, Koraput, Nabarangpur, Malkangiri and Rayagada. The test positivity rate (TPR) in these districts is 5 per cent or less. However, in rest 13 districts placed in category B shops will remain open between 6 am and 1 pm. Most of the coastal districts with a high positivity rate have been placed under this category. These districts include Khordha, Puri, Nayagarh, Cuttack, Kendrapara, Jagatsinghpur, Jajpur, Angul, Dhenkanal, Balasore, Bhadrak, Mayurbhanj and Keonjhar. The Covid-19 lockdown was initially imposed in the state from May 5 to May 17. It was first extended to June 1 and subsequently again to June 17 following rise in the number of infections. Among others the state government has decided to open sweet shops in the partial unlock period keeping in view the livelihood of milk producers. But sweet shop owners will be allowed to sell items only in parcels. Cycle (sale) and automobile repair shops will be opened as per the unlock plans. Morning walk, cycling and jogging activities have been allowed from 6 am to 9 am but parks and gyms will remain shut in all the districts. Shopping malls, saloons, cinema halls, swimming pools will also remain closed. Weekly shutdowns will continue in all the districts and night curfew will also remain in force as before. Jatra (mobile theatre performances) and outdoor shooting will not be allowed. All the restrictions with regard to marriage, cremation, meetings, social gatherings and opening of temples will continue as before during the partial unlock process. All essential services, transport of goods, industrial activities and construction activities will be allowed but public bus services have been restricted. Government and private offices across the state will operate with 50 per cent staff. Meanwhile, Odisha reported 3,535 new corona positive cases during the last 24 hours but 44 persons succumbed to the virus during this period. The death toll has remained above 40 in the state for last several days, which continues to be a cause for concern.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-55
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata moves high court, challenging Suvendu's win in Nandigram||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has filed a petition in the Calcutta High Court against BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari, challenging the result of the Nandigram Assembly constituency where she lost to him by a margin of mere 1,956 votes. The case will come up for hearing before the single bench of Justice Kausik Chanda on Friday morning. Nandigram was one of the most closely contested seats in this May’s Assembly election, with an acrimonious campaign. Despite the loss in Nandigram, the Trinamul, led by Mamata, had scored an emphatic win, with the BJP remaining the only Opposition in Bengal's electoral space. Soon after the results were declared Mamata had made it clear that she suspected foul play in the counting process in Nandigram and would move court. The one reason behind the rise of Adhikari in the BJP is that he has defeated Mamata. Though Mamata took oath as chief minister, she would have to seek re-election within six months. So far, there is no indication of the Election Commission of India announcing by-polls in the state. Trinamul leaders are worried that the central poll panel might not hold the elections now citing the Covid pandemic. The EC had drawn flak for holding a prolonged eight-phase elections while Covid raged in the state. Mamata’s colleague in the cabinet, Manas Bhunia, had succeeded in overturning an election result 21 years ago. During the Bengal Assembly polls of 1996, Bhunia had lost by a mere 825 votes to Makhanlal Bangal of the Biplabi Bangla Congress, a Left Front constituent. Bhunia had moved  high court and four years later was declared winner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-20
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Jagdeep Dhankhar meets Amit Shah||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Thursday met Union Home Minister Amit Shah and is believed to have briefed him about the law and order situation in the state, where several incidents of violence were reported after the recent assembly elections. This is the first meeting between Dhankhar and Shah after Mamata Banerjee retained power in Bengal following the Trinamul Congress' victory in the in the stateAssembly polls. "The Governor of West Bengal, Shri @jdhankhar1 met Union Home Minister Shri @AmitShah," tweeted the home minister's office along with a picture of both Dhankhar and Shah. Sources said the governor briefed the home minister about the prevailing law and order situation in West Bengal. Dhankhar arrived in the national capital on Tuesday. A day before his departure from Calcutta, a delegation of BJP MLAs petitioned him on the alleged deterioration of law and order in the state. Dhankhar also wrote a letter to the chief minister accusing her of being silent over post-poll violence in the state and not taking steps to rehabilitate the suffering people. He shared the letter on Twitter but the state home department criticised the move claiming that it was violative of all established norms. Dhankhar, who has shared a strained relationship with the TMC government since taking charge as the governor of the state in 2019, is in the national capital on a four-day trip. He has not specified any reason for the visit. The governor met Union ministers Prahlad Joshi and Prahlad Singh Patel on Wednesday. He also held a meeting with President Ram Nath Kovind at Rashtrapati Bhavan earlier in the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-21
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Have asked Modi thrice to remove Dhankhar from post, says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday took a dig at Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar's New Delhi visit as she said a "child can be cajoled into silence" but not an elderly man, noting that she has thrice written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to withdraw him from the state. Calling the governor a "Centre's man", Banerjee refrained from commenting much on his meeting with President Ram Nath Kovind and several other union ministers in Delhi. "What can I say? A child can be cajoled into silence. In this case, speech is silver; silence is golden," she said. Asked about media reports suggesting that the governor might be removed, Banerjee said she is not aware of any such development. "How do I know? When a governor is appointed, the state government is consulted. That, however, was not done in this case... I have written twice or thrice to the Prime Minister seeking his withdrawal from the state," she said. Dhankhar, who has shared a strained relationship with the TMC government since taking charge as the governor of the state in 2019, is in the national capital on a four-day trip. He has not specified any reason for the visit. The governor met Union ministers Prahlad Joshi and Prahlad Singh Patel on Wednesday. He also held a meeting with President Ram Nath Kovind at Rashtrapati Bhavan earlier in the day. Dhankhar is scheduled to meet Home Minister Amit Shah later in the day. The chief minister, when enquired if Raj Bhavan appointing several 'officers on special duty' has mounted pressure on the state exchequer, maintained that she wouldn't have the details offhand. The ruling TMC in Bengal on Wednesday accused Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar of violating constitutional norms and requested him not to return to the state. Left Front chairman in the state and CPI(M) leader, Biman Bose, slammed the governor for allegedly acting like a BJP mouthpiece and condemned his "partisan" role. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh, however, stated that the TMC has "no respect for the Constitution". "The governor is doing the right thing, and that is why the TMC dispensation does not like it. The Centre appoints him, and it is obvious that he has to report various developments to the Union government," Ghosh asserted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-21
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata condemns Centre's efforts to 'control' Twitter||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday slammed the BJP-led union government over its "efforts to control" Twitter and claimed that the Centre, having failed to influence the microblogging platform, is now trying to bulldoze it. Drawing a parallel, Banerjee said her government, too, was being meted out the same treatment by the Centre. "I condemn it; they can't control Twitter, so they are trying to bulldoze it. They (Centre) are trying to do so with everyone they are unable to manage. They can't control me, and that is why they are trying to bulldoze my government, too," Banerjee said while talking to reporters here. The networking platform has lost its 'safe harbour' shield in India over non-compliance to IT rules and failure to appoint key personnel mandated under new guidelines. It will now be liable for action under the Indian Penal Code for third party unlawful content. Making light of BJP's allegations of continued political violence in the state, the chief minister said it was a saffron party "gimmick" and the claims made were completely "baseless". "There is no political violence going on in the state right now. There may have been one or two sporadic incidents, but those can't be labelled as incidents of political violence," she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-21
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata increases allowance for Krishak Bandhu scheme ||Keeping a promise made during the Assembly elections, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday increased the allowance for the Krishak Bandhu scheme for farmers from Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000. Farmers of the state will get this amount in their accounts every six months, Mamata said. The work of handing over the money to the farmers in the districts will start from Thursday, the chief minister told a press conference. Not only that, farm labourers who used to get a minimum of Rs 2,000 per year as allowance will now get a minimum of Rs. 4,000. "The farmers’ movement on the Delhi borders has been going on for more than six months, but the Center has no qualms about it. Farmers across India do not get money for the Centre’s schemes. Bengali is an exception. Here the income of the farmers has tripled. At least 60 lakh farmers in the state will benefit from the increase in allowances under the Krishak Budhu project. Not only farmers but at least 82 lakh farm laborers and sharecroppers will benefit from this project. Earlier, farmers had to show land documents to come under the state's farmer scheme. "There is no need to show land documents now," Mamata said on Thursday. You just have to submit an affidavit."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-21
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Centre withdraws VIP security cover of Mukul Roy||Days after Mukul Roy's 'ghar wapsi' to the Trinamool Congress, the former BJP leader asked the Centre to withdraw his VIP security cover, which has been complied with by the Union Home Ministry, officials said Thursday. They said Roy's Z-category security has been withdrawn and the Union Home Ministry has directed the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) to recall its detachment deployed with him. Roy, who was suspended from the TMC in 2017 for alleged anti-party activities, had joined the BJP, and was appointed the party's national vice president ahead of the West Bengal elections. However, he and his son Subhrangshu returned to the TMC, led by West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, last week after a drubbing to the BJP in the polls, even though the senior Roy won his Krishnanagar Uttar constituency as a saffron party candidate. The Home Ministry sources said that Roy had written to the Centre to withdraw the security cover, which has now been given effect to. After he had joined the BJP, he was accorded a low category Y+ central security cover of the central paramilitary CRPF which was upgraded to the second top level of Z just before the state assembly polls in March-April this year. He had a contingent of about 22-24 armed CRPF commandos who used to move with him every time he travelled in West Bengal. The security of his son, which was provided by a small contingent of the CISF, has also been withdrawn. The father-son duo are now being provided security by the state police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-21
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Binay Tamang tightens grip on Morcha faction||Binay Tamang on Wednesday announced sweeping changes in his faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha by announcing that henceforth, only he would speak to the media on party affairs, recasting local committees and asserting that he would prefer leaders with mass support to those with negligible popular backing. He said the changes were avowedly being brought about to streamline and strengthen the Morcha to prepare for coming elections. Many in the hills, who are keenly following the activities and performance of the Tamang faction, believe he is probably making a last ditch attempt to change the party in the hope that his group emerges as a formidable force before elections to municipalities, panchayats and even the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration. “The party received a drubbing in the Darjeeling Lok Sabha election and Assembly bypoll in 2019 and managed to win only one of the three hill seats in the recent Assembly elections,” said an observer. “The Tamang camp has not grown in terms of popular support despite being in power by virtue of being in control of the GTA in the past four years.” Tamang on Wednesday said the “party’s support base” had increased if one were to go by the Assembly election results as it had won the Kalimpong seat and come second in Darjeeling and Kurseong constituencies. “We did analyse our election results. We need to be fully prepared to face future elections and that is why are bringing in changes in the party,” said Tamang. In a clear indication that he was unhappy with the functioning of party leaders, Tamang said: “Leaders who cannot bring in supporters will have to remain as ordinary members in the party. We will give positions to those leaders who bring in supporters.” Issuing a media gag on all party leaders, Tamang, said henceforth, there would be no party spokesman and the president would personally issue all statements. “From today, no one will give media interviews. There will be no party spokesman. I will issue all press statements and if I am preoccupied, I will designate a senior leader to issue press statements on that particular day,” said Tamang. At a time when social media wings of every political party play a major role in disseminating information, many hill residents wondered if Tamang’s decision could put the party at a disadvantage. Tamang also dissolved the sub divisional committees of Darjeeling, Kurseong and Kalimpong and constituency committees of Mirik and Soureni. He decided to personally monitor the central and district committees of the women and youth wings, too. “None — even the general secretary — will be allowed to take any decision without consulting me,” said Tamang. Anit Thapa, the second in command of the faction, is the general secretary. Tamang directed Thapa to submit “a report on the party’s organisation” by July 10 but “after duly consulting” respective leaders of Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong. Tamang has decided to run the Darjeeling and Kurseong subcommittees through handpicked leaders until the report is placed by the general secretary. Two leaders were handpicked to look after party activities in the Mirik and Soureni constituencies. Tamang and Thapa have also decided to hold “a high level meeting” in Kalimpong soon to rejig the district committee there. The party is thinking of forming a committee to monitor the party’s central committee and reorganising its 23 frontal organisations. “I do not need an army of Kauravas but that of Pandavas,” Tamang said in a clear message that he was preferring performing leaders in the party. Many believe Tamang is under pressure to show his mandate and hence, there are sweeping changes. “He probably thinks a major leadership rejig is needed for the party to survive,” said an observer. A poor performance by Tamang’s party in the coming elections would put a question mark on its future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-21
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Pritikana Biswas, former CPM councillor of Siliguri Municipal Corporation  joins Trinamul||Pritikana Biswas, a former CPM councillor of Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC), joined Trinamul on Wednesday, with erosion in Left Front in Darjeeling district Left Front after senior CPM leader Asok Bhattacharya, the former MLA of Siliguri, decided not to participate in electoral politics after he lost in the Assembly elections. Biswas, the former councillor of ward 44, is the third such former councillor of the SMC where the Left was in power till last year, to join Trinamul in less than a month. Last month, Left leaders Rambhajan Mahato, the former deputy mayor and an RSP councillor, and Kamal Agarwal, a former mayor in council of the civic body from the CPM, switched to Trinamul. “Our primary objective is to stop communal politics of the BJP and expedite development of Siliguri. We think Trinamul is the right place where all these purposes will be served and that’s why I joined Trinamul,” Biswas told journalists after taking the party flag from party’s senior leader Gautam Deb at Darjeeling district party office here on Wednesday. Ujjwal Das, a former local committee leader of Darjeeling district CPM, also accompanied her at Trinamul office and took the party flag. Trinamul sources said a number of councillors and leaders from the Opposition are in queue and will soon shift base to Trinamul. “People want to join hands with Trinamul and be a part of the development work of the state government under the leadership of chief minister Mamata Banerjee. It is a continuous process in politics and more will join in future,” Deb told the media after the event. Left Front leaders were quick to react. “It is very surprising that Trinamul, after winning the elections with a huge mandate, has now shifted its focus from Covid management and is hunting Opposition leaders. They will get a fitting reply in the upcoming civic polls. There won’t be any more defections,” said Jibesh Sarkar, Darjeeling district secretary of CPM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-21
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Krishnagar: Elderly man and son  electrocuted to death||An elderly man and his son were fatally electrocuted during a short circuit at their home early on Wednesday at Krishnagar's Bhaluka area. Police and family sources said Sanjib Santra, 23, a resident of Nadia’s Charkatala Joania village, was electrocuted when he tried to turn a table fan manually. His father Durjoy, 62, was electrocuted while trying to save his son. Neighbours responded to an alarm raised by Sanjib’s wife and disconnected the supply line, but it was too late. Rushed to Nadia district hospital in Krishnagar, the youth and his father were declared brought dead. Family sources said Sanjib, who got married barely three months ago, was to visit his in-laws' house for Jamai Sasthi in Santipur on Wednesday. A relative of the family said it was not clear how the short circuit occurred. “We came to know from Sanjib’s wife that he was trying to fix some snags in the fan.” Hospital authorities have handed over the bodies to the police for autopsy. The body of a Class VII student from Bishnupur area of Mandirbazar in South 24Parganas, who had gone missing on Sunday, was found near the railway tracks on Wednesday afternoon. The police said prima facie, Suraj Laskar, 14, was strangulated first and hit with blunt objects. Family sources said the boy had a fight over a mobile gaming app with a few acquaintances from a neighbouring village. The police on the basis of a complaint lodged by his father have detained three of Suraj’s friends for interrogation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-21
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Malls reopen, fear of virus evokes timid response from citizens ||Fear of contracting Covid-19, coupled with incessant rain and lack of public transport, evoked timid response from citizens at shopping malls, restaurants and bars on Wednesday, marking a muted resumption to limited services as the state government relaxed certain curbs in place since May 16. On Monday, the Bengal government extended ongoing Covid-induced restrictions till June 30, while offering relaxations in view of the drop in the number of infections and deaths from last month. But Covid prudence won in Calcutta as well as all major south Bengal towns such as Barrackpore, Kanchrapara, Chakdah, Krishnagar, Behrampore, Bolpur, Asansol, Kharagpur, Durgapur, and Chandannagore. Though the government allowed the running of government and private offices with 25 per cent employees, and shopping malls to operate from 11am to 6pm with open restaurants and bars during limited hours at half capacity, most of these venues wore a deserted look on Wednesday. “It is a complicated situation. There is no public transport on the road, so getting to a mall or restaurant is difficult. Moreover, one needs an e-pass to move without hassles. Catching Covid, however, is the biggest fear,” said Sukanya Sen, a homemaker in Barrackpore, on why she did not venture out. “On top of all that, it is raining.” Arindam Garai, owner of a multicuisine restaurant run by women in Nadia’s Krishnagar, said: “The preference for home delivery continues to be high. We have put around 30 vehicles to cater to home deliveries throughout the day. Of the day’s total sale, around 25 per cent was from those who ate food at the restaurant.” An official of a major departmental store in Krishnagar added that they were hopeful that the situation would improve during the next couple of days. “However, the absence of public transport is a drawback,” he admitted. Anil Jha, general manager of Bengal Shristi, which runs two shopping malls in Asansol and Durgapur, said: “We are fully prepared to serve people but there is poor turnout. It’s raining and it appears many people are still not aware of the relaxations announced by the government. We expect footfall to increase over the next few days.” “We will like to assure our customers that we have ensured all sorts of Covid protection norms to make the mall safe for shopping,” added Arijit Chatterjee, the COO of Junction Mall in Durgapur. Footfall at bars was also quite low. The owner of a bar in Bolpur rued the timing: “Service hours of bars (noon-8pm), announced by the government, is not ideal. People hardly visit bars during the afternoon or in the early hours of the evening” Additional reporting by Abhijeet Chatterjee and Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-21
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Electrocution whiff in jumbo death in Alipurduar||A wild adult elephant died due to suspected electrocution at a tea estate in Alipurduar district on Tuesday night. Sources in the state forest department said the “makna” — male without tusks — was found dead in the Dalmore tea garden located close to the Dalgaon forest near Birpara. On Wednesday morning, some inhabitants of the garden spotted the carcass near an electric pole and informed foresters. “Preliminary probe revealed that the elephant died of electrocution. The carcass of the jumbo was lying close to an electric pole that is part of an 11KV power transmission line of the garden. We are still waiting for the autopsy report to confirm the cause of the death,” said Mridul Jaiswal, the divisional forest officer of Jalpaiguri forest division. Another forest official said: “It seems like the animal either touched the pole or got electrocuted while stepping on the ground that is suspected to have got electrified.” The incident has made wildlife conservationists react. Animesh Bose, the coordinator of Siliguribased Himalayan Nature & Adventure Foundation, said eight elephants had died of electrocution in north Bengal last year. “After the incidents, six cells, including foresters, policemen, representatives of panchayats and NGOs and officers of WBSEDCL were formed to check such incidents. These cells should be activated immediately,” Bose added. A resident of Kilkott tea estate in Matialli block of Jalpaiguri district has been arrested for allegedly killing his younger brother on Wednesday, following an altercation over sharing meat. Sources said Sunil Oraon hacked Anil Oraon, 38, with a sharp weapon during a scuffle over sharing meat and fled the area. Anil died on the spot. Police said Sunil was arrested from an adjoining locality and a probe was on. Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-21
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Mithun Chakraborty questioned by cops over poll speech||Actor-turned-BJP leader Mithun Chakraborty was questioned by police through video-conferencing on Wednesday in connection with a complaint that his speech had triggered violence in the state after the results of the Assembly elections had been declared on May 2. The elderly actor, who was among the BJP’s star campaigners in the elections, was questioned virtually for over 45 minutes by senior officers of the Manicktala police station and the eastern suburban division. The complaint was lodged at the Manicktala police station. A senior cop said: “According to the complaint registered with us, his speech after joining the BJP had caused widespread instigation in encouraging violence based on electoral divides.” The police case involves a line from his 2006 film MLA Fatakeshto: “Marbo ekhaney...lash porbay shoshaney (I will beat you here. Your body will be found at the crematorium.)” In the speech that was wildly cheered, he had also uttered the lines: “Ami joldhorao noi, bele borao noi... ami ekta cobra, ek chobol-ei chhobi (I am not any harmless snake, I am a cobra, one strike and you become a picture.” Mithun had moved Calcutta High Court to get the FIR quashed. The court, however, directed an investigation officer to question the actor virtually. The actor has pleaded that he had only recited film dialogues in his speech and those were not meant to be literal. Chakraborty has been booked under laws which deal with instigation and criminal conspiracy. The police said, if needed, he would be questioned again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-22
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta police detective dept take up probe against Rakhal Bera||Calcutta police detective department has taken up the probe against Rakhal Bera, arrested earlier for his alleged links in a job racket where a complainant said he was falsely “sold” a job in the state irrigation department in 2019. BJP MLA and leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari was the irrigation minister then. Bera, claimed to be Suvendu’s aide, was arrested on June 5 following a complaint by Sujit Dey of Ashokenagar in North 24-Parganas. Police said Dey alleged that between July and September 2019, Bera and one Chanchal Nandi of Contai held a purported government job camp inside a flat in Block B of the Saha Institute of Nuclear Physics Cooperative Housing Society on Manicktala Road. Dey alleged the duo took Rs 2 lakh from him, but didn’t give him a job. So far, officers of Manicktala police station were probing the case. The detective department at Lalbazar will now investigate the case,  drawn up under the sections of cheating, forgery, fraud and criminal conspiracy in February 2021. Police officers said Bera’s interrogation and the probe so far revealed many persons were involved and the racket’s tentacles were spread in various south Bengal districts. The BJP and Bera’s defence lawyer have called the case politically motivated. Senior BJP leaders said this was an attempt to frame Suvendu on charges of corruption and that the party would fight it out legally and politically.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-22
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Kamtapur Liberation Organisation leader releases video with statehood demand||Jeevan Singha, the self-styled chief of the proscribed Kamtapur Liberation Organisation, has released a video, asserting that the outfit will continue to fight for a separate state comprising several north Bengal districts. The video of six minutes and 40 seconds was shot at an undisclosed location. The video has been made public after a section of BJP leaders, including MPs, rooted for a separate north Bengal state or a Union territory status for the region. Speaking in Rajbanshi language, Singha said: “We have faced atrocities in the past 74 years and want to reiterate that our struggle will continue. All of us should stand together and those who are against it (separate Kamtapur state) should move to the other bank of the Ganga.” The Ganga that has Malda on the left bank and Murshidabad on the other side marks the geographic division of north and south Bengal. Singha also spoke about Ananta Maharaj, leader of a faction of the Greater Cooch Behar Peoples’ Party (GCPA) and another proponent of the Kamtapur state. He stays in neighbouring Assam now. “Ananta Maharaj has immense popularity among Kamtapuri (Rajbanshi) people. His arguments for the greater Cooch Behar state cannot be denied. That is why the Bengal government has forced him to stay away,” said Singha. This is the first time in recent years that the KLO has openly backed a GCPA leader. The KLO and the GCPA generally refrain from commenting on the other leaders or programmes. The KLO chief said Ananta Maharaj had always backed the BJP and Union home minister Amit Shah had met him in Assam in February this year, before reaching Cooch Behar to attend a public rally. Trinamul Congress leader Gautam Deb said on Wednesday that the party would soon launch political activities to thwart the BJP’s attempts to “divide Bengal”. Additional reporting by Anirban Choudhury in Alipurduar and Bireswar Banerjee in Siliguri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-22
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 3,187 new Covid-19 cases, 69 more deaths||Bengal on Wednesday reported a rise for the seventh consecutive day in its total of active Covid-19 cases. Active coronavirus cases in the state rose by 1,106 to 21,152 in all, as only 2,012 recoveries were logged on Wednesday, against the 3,187 new infections detected. The state also recorded 69 deaths. Bengal now has 2.55 per cent of the national total of active cases, having doubled the number in the span of a week. It is also eighth on the list of states with the most active cases in India. Bengal had fallen from sixth place to 13th place among states with the most active cases, in a matter of days, last week. “Over the next five-seven days, we expect another boom in recoveries, which will end this renewed spell of spike,” said a minister. “The daily count of new cases will also go further down, as the state government’s restrictions stay in place till the end of the month. We expect the total of active cases to fall to below 10,000 fairly soon,” the minister added. The total of Bengal’s active cases had declined till June 9 by around 89 per cent, from the all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21. Total active cases were 14,702 on June 9 in Bengal. But over these past seven days, the figure has risen again by 44 per cent to  21,152 at present. Bengal’s recovery rate, which began dropping on Friday by snapping a 39-day spell of rise, fell to 97.4 per cent on Wednesday. The national recovery rate is 95.88 now. The daily confirmation rate, which had peaked in the second wave with nearly 33 per cent, however, fell to 5.14 per cent on Wednesday. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. Bengal’s overall mortality rate, with 17,118 deaths in all since the onset of the pandemic, is currently 1.16 per cent, while the national rate is 1.28. Of the 69 deaths reported on Wednesday, 13 were from Calcutta and 17 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst affected districts. Among the day’s new Covid-19 infections, Calcutta logged 377 while North 24-Parganas reported 435.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-22
17-06-2021||West Bengal||BJP leaders demand Kailash, Arvind ouster||A section of state BJP leaders has demanded the removal of the party’s central minder for Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya and his deputy Arvind Menon after Mukul Roy, who was perceived to be close to the duo, recently rejoined the Trinamul Congress ending his 44-month association with the saffron camp. Vijayvargiya, one of the general secretaries of the BJP, was at the helm of affairs in the state unit and was seen as the primary architect of defections from Trinamul ahead of the Assembly polls. Several senior BJP leaders, including some old-timers, had expressed reservations about the strategy of engineering defections from other parties, but Vijayvargiya, along with Menon, bulldozed their way through and got several Trinamul legislators to sign up for the party. “We lost because of this trio, Kailash-Mukul-Menon. They are the ones responsible for the BJP’s such dismal performance in the election... Good riddance that Mukulda has quit. I wrote a letter to Amit Shah-ji (on Tuesday), requesting him to replace both Kailashji and Menonji,” Subrata Mishra, a vice-president of the BJP’s Asansol organisational district, told The Telegraph. So far, former state BJP chief and former governor Tathagata Roy was the only person who had publicly criticised Vijayvargiya and his deputy. He had recently submitted a report to BJP national president J.P. Nadda on the probable reasons behind the party’s defeat and he had named the duo, too. Sources said the demand for the removal of Vijayvargiya and Menon would grow further in coming days as leaders allegiant to Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh always had differences with the duo. “Kailash-ji was under the influence of Mukul-da and that was why he had pushed Trinamul turncoats in several seats, which caused heart-burn among the party’s old-timers. Many of these dissidents had contested as Independents and we suffered,” said a state BJP leader. After the rout the BJP faced in the election, most internal assessments have pointed to selection of wrong candidates as one of the major reasons for the poor show. “Kailashji was the man behind these wrong decisions. Even if someone would try to speak sense to him, he would discard their opinion. The only person he listened to was Mukulda. The question is why he did have so much trust in Mukulda?” a state BJP office bearer said before demanding an inquiry into the minder’s dealings with Roy. A BJP source in West Midnapore’s Garhbeta Assembly segment alleged that Roy and Vijayvargiya had planned to field candidates with negligible public acceptance in the seats which fall under the Midnapore Lok Sabha constituency represented by Ghosh. “The choice of candidates thinned our chances to win the seats in Midnapore. This way, they wanted to show that Dilipda was not capable of ensuring victory in his own constituency. It was a ploy to embarrass him,” this person said. MLA letter to Speaker Trinamul turncoat and BJP’s Cooch Behar South MLA Mihir Goswami has written to Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee, requesting him to give a copy of his order in which he had barred the entry of central security personnel on the premises of the House. Banerjee had earlier barred the entry of central forces into the Assembly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-22
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Rivers overflow, several bridges submerged in south Bengal districts ||Incessant rain in several south Bengal districts and adjoining parts of Jharkhand over the past few days has disrupted normal life in several pockets of Bengal as water level of seasonal rivers began to rise since late Tuesday. At least 50 villages of Bankura were disconnected from the main town after four fair-weather bridges over the Gandheshwari and Dwarakeshwar rivers were submerged early on Wednesday morning. Two fair-weather bridges in Bhadul and Minapur over the Dwarakeshwar went underwater and disrupted communication with district headquarters Bankura. Fair-weather bridges are causeways built over rivers or water bodies that remain dry during most part of the year other than the rainy season. Red alert has been issued in the two blocks of Bankura — Katulpur and Joypur — after the water level of the Dwarakeshwar threatened to touch danger level. Four wards under Bankura civic body became waterlogged following continuous rainfall. “We have alerted officials in those two blocks and directed them to evacuate people from low-lying areas adjacent to the river embankments as soon as the water level touches danger mark,” said K. Radhika Aiyar, the Bankura district magistrate. Around two dozen villages at Jambuni in Jhargram snapped from the mainland after a bridge on river Dulung went under water following heavy rainfall in Jharkhand. “The water level in Dulung increased after heavy rainfall in Jharkhand and it disconnected several villages from the district town. We are keeping an eye on the situation there,” said an official in Jhargram district. On Wednesday afternoon, a motorcycle was swept away in the current of river Ajay in Birbhum’s Joydeb after a person from Illambazar tried to cross the fair-weather bridge despite the river water flowing over the bridge. “The person and his son were fortunately saved from being swept away, but their motorcycle disappeared in the swift-flowing river water. We have also stopped people and vehicles from plying over the fair-weather bridge that connects Birbhum district to West Burdwan,” said an official in Bolpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-22
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Left Front chairman Biman Bose slams central government and Jagdeep Dhankhar ||Left Front chairman Biman Bose said on Wednesday that the way the Centre was intervening in the affairs of the state wasn’t right and governor Jagdeep Dhankhar was identifying himself as a man of the BJP. “The Centre-state relationship has become important for us. The way the Centre is intervening in affairs of the state and the state government isn’t right. This includes the role of the governor…What he is doing isn’t right either…,” Bose said at a news conference. He added 16 Left parties would meet and decide how to protest against the actions by the Centre and the governor. Asked to elaborate on what the Front found objectionable in the governor’s actions, Bose referred to Dhankhar meeting 50 BJP MLAs on Monday. He said a governor had never held a meeting with the representatives of a particular political party on the portico of the Raj Bhavan. “The governor is identifying himself as a BJP man,” Bose added. The Left Front leader also sided with Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra and slammed the Centre for allegedly muzzling his voice at a crucial meeting of the GST council, which discussed the contentious issue of slashing tax on Covid-19 related products. Referring to the meeting, Bose said the Front would raise the issue of waiving GST on Covid-19 related products. “We also want to add that the GST imposed on drugs and essential items related to Covid victims’ treatment must be waived off. The state finance minister had correctly placed the matter at the GST council meeting,” said Bose. Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha member and spokesperson Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said his party and the Left had already been fighting together on certain issues inside Parliament. “The Union government, the BJP and the governor have been trying to create an extraordinary situation in Bengal. At such a point, if the Left is looking to correct its course and support us on issues outside Parliament as well, it will be a welcome move,” Roy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-22
17-06-2021||West Bengal||State government issues order to reintroduce containment zones in districts||The success of restrictions in bringing down Covid cases across Bengal in the second wave of the pandemic has prompted the state government to issue a directive to districts, including Calcutta, to bring back measures such as containment zones, identification of hotspots, strict surveillance and early testing. Senior officials said the order to reintroduce containment zones in districts was part of the government’s effort to ensure that the infection did not spread in rural areas that lack the health infrastructure needed to deal with a surge. “Districts have been asked to amplify monitoring to stop the spread of the virus in rural pockets that have reported Covid-19 cases. It is important to take care of rural Bengal three months before the pandemic’s likely third wave in September,” said a senior state government official. An order issued by Bengal chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi on Tuesday evening directed all district magistrates and local bodies, including Calcutta Municipal Corporation, to ascertain containment zones at the micro-level after analysing the daily data of infection provided by the health department. The order directed authorities to ensure strong surveillance measures in pockets with multiple cases. It said the spread should be stopped through early testing, tracking and tracing of symptomatic people. Infections have dropped since the peak of the second wave in April-May, with government officials claiming it had much to do with stricter measures since May 16. An official in Birbhum said rural areas were in focus as health infrastructure in districts was inadequate to treat Covid patients on a large scale. During the second wave, the government initially faced hurdles when the infection spread to rural Bengal. “The day's new infections stood at 3,187 on Wednesday. To further reduce infections, it is the time to start containment zones in areas with multiple cases,” a health official said. Officials said they were focusing on rural pockets more this time as they had inputs that many villagers were hiding Covid-19 symptoms for fear of social stigma. “We have earmarked 15 containment zones in our district and the process will be ongoing based on health data,” said Sumit Gupta, district magistrate of North 24-Parganas, one of the worst-hit Covid districts in Bengal,  which even on Wednesday reported 435 fresh cases. In Bankura, where only 103 Covid cases were reported on Wednesday, half a dozen pockets were marked containment zones. “We earmarked a few pockets in Bankura and Bishnupur municipalities from where multiple cases have been reported as containment zones. Barricades have been set up and police are keeping vigil. Similar steps will be adopted if cases spike in rural pockets,” said K. Radhika Aiyar, the district magistrate. However, some officials in districts said implementing stricter curbs in rural areas or small towns with few cases was tough. “As stricter curbs have been relaxed on many counts, people try to leave home for enjoyment. In Purulia and Birbhum, cases are minimal and we can’t contain a hundred families for one or two cases,” said an official. Officials said another challenge in villages was keeping vigil over large areas. “Containment zones are easier to implement in towns than villages. A village has low population density and larger area,” said an official in Burdwan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-22
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Indoor stadium of Siliguri Municipal Corporation to get facelift||The indoor stadium of Siliguri Municipal Corporation is all set to get a facelift. The state sports and youth affairs department has asked the board of administrators (BoA) of Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) to prepare a detailed project report on overall revamp of the indoor stadium and will provide funds, said Gautam Deb, chairman of the BoA of SMC here on Wednesday. Sources said  on Monday, a meeting was held between Arup Biswas, the state minister for sports and youth affairs and Deb over refurbishing of the indoor stadium and the city’s Kanchenjunga Stadium. After the meeting, Biswas told Deb to submit a DPR for complete renovation of the indoor stadium. “We have decided to give a complete facelift to the indoor stadium here. It is dilapidated. The newly renovated stadium will have proper facilities for indoor games like table tennis, basketball. We will also try to facilitate badminton here. There will be a multi-gym and a sports hostel for players in the annexe building of the indoor sports arena. The decision was taken at a meeting with state sports minister and we are sending a DPR. The entire stadium will be air-conditioned and funds will be provided by the sports department,” Deb elaborated. “Renovation work for Kanchenjunga Stadium will also start shortly,” he added. Back in the 1990s, the indoor stadium was built in Deshbandhupara to accommodate 5,000 spectators, and has since hosted many prestigious events such as the senior national table-tennis championship and invitation tennis tournament. In the past few years, it is mostly used for political programmes or cultural events. “Its repair is imminent. Also, it is necessary to have the stadium air-conditioned with more facilities. A proper facelift will help it host major indoor sports events,” said a sports lover of the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-22
17-06-2021||North East||India peace-loving’ country, but capable of replying to aggression: Rajnath||In a statement seen as an implicit message to Beijing, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said that though India is a peace loving country, it has the capability to reply to aggression. Dedicating 12 strategic roads constructed by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) to the nation in Kimin, Singh described India as a priest of world peace but added any serious disturbance to peace and tranquility in border areas would have adverse implications. "We seek world peace (but) if someone shows us an aggressive attitude, we will respond," Singh said, adding that "new roads will help secure international borders." Singhs statement comes in the backdrop of China continuing to hold on to positions in Hot Springs and Gogra Post on the border, after clashes between the armies of the two Asian giants in the bleak Galwan valley in Ladakh a year ago. The defence minister said, "Last year in Galwan Valley, our soldiers displayed exemplary courage and valour in line of duty. I salute all brave soldiers who laid down their lives fighting for the nation." China also claims most of Arunachal Pradesh as its territory and has dubbed it ‘South Tibet' in internal maps. The northern neighbour which fought a bloody border war with India in 1962 when it invaded parts of Arunachal pradesh including Tawang, often sends border patrols into areas controlled by India. In September last year, five young Arunachali hunters were allegedly kidnaped by Chinese troops from Sera-7, in Upper Subansiri district of Arunachal Pradesh. The youth were later released in Anjaw district, around 800 km from the state capital, after several days in Chinese custody. With no let up in India-China border tension, the Modi government is now looking to expedite work on border infrastructure, especially on roads leading to forward areas in the frontier state. Singh said, the 12 strategic roads including 10 in Arunachal Pradesh and one each in Ladakh and Jammu & Kashmir, inaugurated during the day, would not only give a boost in connectivity but would facilitate faster movement of troops along the international border. "The capability of BRO in constructing world class roads despite challenges, in tough and hilly terrain, (underlines) the mantra of Atma Nirbhar Bharat," Singh said while lauding the road construction unit for its dedicated work. He said the road projects are part of the Act East Policy, envisioned by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "The budget for BRO has increased manifold since 2013 and today stands at Rs 11,000 crore. The BRO since 2014 had developed a record 4,800 kilometers of border roads in the country," the Defence Minister said. He added that the country's defence sector in the last few years had witnessed major changes including appointment of a Chief of Defence Staff for the first time. "Our vision is to produce our own weapons and if necessary export them to other countries," he said. The defence minister also claimed that development work in Northeast India had picked up pace under the Narendra Modi Government.The development of the region remained stagnant after independence. However, after the NDA came to power in 2014, the region witnessed accelerated development. There are many challenges due to its close proximity with foreign countries, Singh said. “NE is the right hand of the country and its development will make India strong. Our government is committed to its development,” he added. According to BRO officials, out of the 12 roads inaugurated on the occasion, ten road projects of total 285.32 kilometers, are in Arunachal Pradesh being constructed by the BRO at an estimated cost of Rs 1,228.34 crore. Of the ten road projects, three each are under Project Arunank, Vartak and Udayak while one is being executed by Project Brahmank, officials added. Union Minister of State (Independent) for Sports and Youth Affairs Kiren Rijiju, who was also present on the occasion, lauded the BRO for completing work in rough terrain within timeline constraints. Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma speaking on the occasion added that though the roads were constructed in Arunachal Pradesh, they would benefit the entire northeast and the country. Arunachal Chief Minister Pema Khandu termed the occasion as a proud moment for the state as world class roads have been constructed up to the border. Khandu exuded confidence that in the coming days, the north east region would witness more development with the blessings of the Centre. Chief of Defence Staff Gen Vipin Rawat, Director General of Border Roads Lt General Rajeev Chaudhry, state Chief Secretary Naresh Kumar were among others who were present on the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-2
17-06-2021||North East||Covid: Assam to take final call on board examinations on June 18||Assam will take the final call on holding the board examinations for Classes X and XII on June 18, eight days after the state government had asserted it will hold the exams. The government on Wednesday left the final decision to the education department after the state cabinet recommended it was not permissible to conduct the High School Leaving Certificate (matric), Assam High Madrassa and Higher Secondary examinations due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the state. Active Covid cases and deaths have been falling in Assam since June but the state government, while revising the standard operating procedures on Tuesday, extended the curfew-like restrictions till June 22 because the overall situation remained “precarious”. Assam had 39,837 active cases with a positivity rate of 2.57 per cent till Tuesday. After the weekly meeting on Wednesday, education minister Ranoj Pegu said the cabinet recommendation was based on a presentation by the health department on the Covid-19 situation. The presentation revealed about 25,000 girls and boys aged between 11 and 18 years contracted Covid-19 since May, 10 per cent of the total people infected during this period. The final decision would be taken on June 18 at a meeting of the education department and various other stakeholders, Pegu said. Health minister Keshab Mahanta said over seven lakh candidates were to appear for the exams scheduled for May but they got put off because of the alarming rise in Covid cases. “Over and above the candidates, we will have an equal number of parents/guardians or more accompanying their wards to the exam centres, the requirement of teachers and other staff, transport and security personnel. Given the rate of infection and the gathering expected on exam days, it is not permissible to hold the examinations,” Mahanta said. On June 8, Pegu’s categorical assertion to hold the final examinations came amid a call to cancel them as was done by the CBSE and several states owing to the Covid situation. An intervention application (WP (C) 620 of 2021) has also been filed in the Supreme Court on behalf of the students of Assam, seeking cancellation of Classes X and XII board examinations in the state. The application stated that it will be just, reasonable and equitable that the examinations are cancelled to ensure the mental health of students as well as equality among students of various boards. According to health minister Mahanta, five districts — Cachar, Tinsukia, Dibrugarh, Sonitpur and Nagaon — are under close watch as they are reporting a high number of positive cases. “The district administrations have been told to take all possible steps to bring the number (of cases) down. If not, we will have to go for complete lockdown,” Mahanta said. Till now, the government has managed with a partial lockdown. Night curfew was relaxed in nine of the 34 districts, between one hour (in Kamrup metro) and four hours from Wednesday. However, all inter-district transport and movement of people remained suspended.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-2
17-06-2021||Opinion||Act now||Sir — In an unprecedented development, about 150 academics at Oxford University have refused to teach at Oriel College after it decided to keep the statue of the imperialist benefactor, Cecil Rhodes. The governing body announced last month that it has decided to retain the statue by citing practical reasons. For years, campaigners have petitioned for the removal of the statue of Rhodes in light of his racist past. It is unfortunate that the academics at Oxford have been compelled to take this step. It is time that the administration understood the hurt the statue continues to inflict and remedies the situation.  Ananya Chakraborty, Calcutta Sir — Novak Djokovic must be congratulated for winning his second French Open singles title by defeating the Greek athlete, Stefanos Tsitsipas, in a five-setter, hard-fought duel (“Novak’s Grecian epic”, June 14). The final result tilted in favour of the Serbian at 6-7, 2-6, 6-3, 6-2, 6-4. After losing the first two sets, Djokovic came back strong to clinch the other three sets and finally won the title. With his 19th overall Grand Slam win, Djokovic is only one Grand Slam short of Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal’s 20 titles. It is quite astonishing that the Serbian player has won the majority of Grand Slam tournaments in the last couple of years. Moreover, Djokovic also holds the record for being the longest top seeded player at 325 weeks. The trio of Federer, Nadal and Djokovic have collectively won 59 Grand Slam titles which is a clear indication of their dominance in the sport. While Federer and Nadal might be past their prime, Djokovic, given his stupendous form, is expected to win a few more Grand Slam tournaments before he slows down. All tennis fans are now looking forward to the upcoming matches at Wimbledon. Indranil Sanyal, Calcutta Sir — Playing in the final game of a major championship is not only about matching the skills and temperament of the opponent, but is also a test of fortitude and determination. That is exactly what was witnessed at the French Open men’s singles final where, after being down by two sets, Novak Djokovic fought back to win his 19th Grand Slam title. This proves that it is perseverance that separates a champion from others who might be just as skilled. C.K. Subramaniam,  Mumbai  Sir — By winning his second French Open tournament on Sunday, Novak Djokovic has become only the third man in the history of the game — after Roy Emerson and Rod Laver — to win all four Grand Slams at least twice in his career. He may be one Grand Slam short in comparison to Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal, but he has already cemented his place in history. He defeated Nadal in the semi-final in a long match and played a five-setter against Stefanos Tsitsipas to win the title. Since he is the youngest of all three greats, it is hoped that by the time he hangs his racquet he would have won more than 20 Grand Slams. It is a great delight to be able to watch these three players at the same time. Bal Govind, Noida Sir — It was really touching to see how Novak Djokovic gifted his racquet to a young fan who was present at the stadium after his win at Roland Garros on Sunday. Such gestures are rare to come by and the young fan will remember this moment for the rest of his life. This wonderful act of Djokovic proves that he is not only a great sportsman but also a kind human being. Sourish Misra, Calcutta Sir — June 15 marked a year since the clash between Indian and Chinese soldiers at Galwan Valley in which 20 Indian armed forces personnel lost their lives (“Sombre year”, June 16). The developments following this incident have made it amply clear that no matter what the rhetoric in public is, New Delhi does not want to engage in warfare with China. The Indian administration is acutely conscious of the power asymmetry that exists between the two countries. So far, India has attempted a mix of measures — economic restrictions on Chinese companies; international opinion-building and diplomatic mobilization about China’s actions, including giving momentum to Quad; constant bilateral negotiations with Beijing across the military and diplomatic domain — to drive home the message that restoring status quo ante is essential. This strategy is yet to succeed. The incident at Galwan is a reminder that India cannot let its guard down at its northern borders.  N. Sadhasiva Reddy, Bangalore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-8
17-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Opening up||Openness is refreshing in a government often unenthusiastic about facts. That the Union defence minister, Rajnath Singh, has approved a policy of declassifying and archiving documents relating to defence and compiling war and operations histories is therefore welcome. The policy is not new: the Public Records Act, 1993 and the Public Records Rules, 1997 had established a process for declassification of documents and their transfer to the National Archives after 25 years or more. The defence ministry’s directions refer to two distinct activities: declassification and archiving of documents, thus allowing people to access them, and writing official histories. But the rules for declassification of documents from the armed forces and intelligence sources need to be revised meticulously because communications and warfare have changed since 1997. Discrimination and expertise would be paramount for the process. Even then, the fundamental question would be whether defence documents — reports, war diaries, letters and other material — even after 25 years, would be made public by an establishment that has not yet published the Henderson Brooks-Bhagat report on the Sino-Indian war of 1962. The Kargil Review Committee recommended writing histories to learn from mistakes: would the government be willing to reveal its errors to the public? Although the ministry’s history division earlier produced official histories by experts, it is noticeable that this time the ‘compiling’ is to be done by a committee composed mainly of bureaucrats together with military historians. History writing is not compilation but analysis, a job for the specialist. The dominant presence of bureaucrats may not bode well for any history. Besides, the official histories of the 1962, 1965 and 1971 wars were never approved for publication by the government; only leaked versions exist ‘out there’. The policy approved by Mr Singh perhaps aims to set the record straight by regular declassification and transfers to archives, possibly after histories have been ‘compiled’. The notion of such frankness about defence matters is somewhat startling in a regime that has made a point of blunting the force of the Right to Information Act by amending the law as well as by other means, such as delaying crucial appointments. It is a remarkable paradox that a government that downgrades a transparency law meant to serve citizens seems willing to downgrade classified defence documents for the sake of public knowledge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-8
17-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Visionary||The wise and uplifting judgment by the Delhi High Court, granting bail to three incarcerated students facing charges of serious transgression, including that which led to the slapping of the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act against them, needs to be understood in a broader context. An immediate concern is the point that the court raised about the ‘evidence’ furnished by the investigators: it stated, tersely and clearly, that it remained unconvinced with the ‘proof’ presented to it. This has worrying implications in a nation where undertrial prisoners are said to constitute 70 per cent of the total prisoner population. Many among them are denied, or are even aware of their right to, legal counsel against motivated allegations. The court’s wisdom must be read as an unambiguous upholding of the principle of bail — rather than jail — being a prerogative. This should be a precedent that the judicial edifice — every tier of it — must contemplate. There is also a case for examining the tendency of the agencies of the State to use disproportionately powerful legal instruments — the UAPA is only one example — that ought to be applied only after careful deliberation. Incidentally, data provided by the Union home ministry revealed that only 2.2 per cent of the cases registered under the UAPA merited conviction in the courts. Equally crucial — if not of greater importance — was the court’s observations on the root of the problem. There seems to be a fundamental anomaly in the contract between the Indian State — in its current form — and the people. Dissent and public protests, core elements that should ideally constitute the architecture of a democratic set-up, are increasingly being repackaged by a vindictive State as instances of terrorist activity. This equation cannot be benign. It is a prejudicial rhetoric that seeks to suppress criticism in the garb of a dubious morality. Here too, there is indisputable evidence to support the court’s contention. The majority of sedition cases have been filed after the political ascendancy of the Bharatiya Janata Party; the perceptible decline in India’s freedom charter in objective assessments has — is this not revealing? — also corresponded with the tightening political grip of the Narendra Modi government. All this perhaps can only lead to a natural conclusion. The emergence of the strong State, manifest in an unbending executive, appears to be inimical to the health of pluralism and democracy. With the fourth estate aligned with the powers that be, the hope of retrieving the democratic ethic lies with India’s learned courts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-8
17-06-2021||Opinion||A false veneration||Aaji, 69 years old, leaned over my doctor’s desk to elaborate on why she visits the clinic alone. She had four sons, two daughters, and one goat. The sons would rotate her amongst themselves, irritated and unwilling to keep her. The daughters’ houses were forbidden territory. Therefore, she turned to the goat, sold it for Rs 6,000, paid Rs 5,000 as bribe at the tehsil office, and got a monthly pension of Rs 600 started. She now stays where her husband used to work as a labourer. Aaji is not alone in her plight. Evidence from India’s first aging survey says 5 out of every 100 older adults face abuse. With more than 100 million people above the age of 60, that is a staggering five million people. Elder abuse can be physical, psychological, emotional, sexual and financial or neglect. The statistics stand in sharp contrast to the great Indian tradition of respecting elders. In the pre-modern times, we had Ashrama dharma. Children cared for their parents when they were alive, observed shraadh in their memory when they passed away, got blessings, and escaped the cycle of birth-rebirth. The veneration of the elderly, however, stands in the same tradition as of Stree dharma, which is broadly anti-feminist and the dharma you adhere to by caste, which is anti-equality. The cultural failing of women and vulnerable groups has been a focus of the social policy of independent India. On a closer look, India’s culture may be failing its elderly too. Our culture presumes that the welfare of the elderly follows virtuous individual children and their spouses. The unit of the practice of virtue is the family. The head of the family is the male earning member. In our patriarchal society, my neighbouring uncle’s constant cursing of his old mother can make me feel bad for her; but it is ill-mannered of me to interfere in ‘family matters’ and hold the head of the family accountable. There is no Adult Protection Service either. Women live longer than men. They enjoy lesser rights than men. Depending solely on the ‘virtuous child’ to fulfil their needs — food, clothing, shelter, medical, emotional — based on a cultural expectation overlooks the cumulative disadvantage women accrue until they reach old age. The dharma narrative also limits the discourse to the Hindu family. It fails to look at Hindu society, a problem B.R. Ambedkar had highlighted with the early social reform movements in India. It ignores that women, historically marginalized in India, carry the burden of culture. It borders on blaming women joining the workforce for elder abuse. In doing so, it creates a homogenized, incomplete, and false narrative that fails to ensure the rights of the elderly. The prominence to duty is also problematic as it is vague. How many of the needs of elderly parents is the child to fulfil as his duty? When a 65 year old needs an inhaler worth Rs 250 every month, is the 50 rupees the son gives enough proof of filial piety? Is staying in the side room and not being asked for food enough? What if I get fed intermittently? And if I receive my plate with taunts? Each of the above is an experience of abuse that has been shared by old patients over years of my medical practice. The practise of the duty of venerating the elderly is not free from the hierarchy of power, gender, class, and caste that have co-existed but rarely find a mention in elder abuse discourse in India. The Indian State upholds the moral obligation of filial piety in law. The Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act’s premise, like the National Policy for Older Persons, is that modernization is failing our elders. Courts have noted the apparent cultural dichotomy in multiple judgments under the Act. The same Indian culture poses a barrier to filing a complaint against your blood. If an older adult musters the courage to defy society, police stations that will not interfere in ‘family matters’ might turn them away. The cases reaching our esteemed courts are the tip of the iceberg. The legalization of the moral obligation to care by the MWPSC Act in 2007 and the refusal of universal pension for the elderly during the debate on the national food security bill in 2011 stand in sharp contrast. The MWPSC Act may well be an instance of the State’s abdication of the Directive Principles of State Policy. Social welfare, worldwide, stems from the State upholding the rights of citizens. The developed world has universal pensions for older adults. The Indian State hardly spends Rs 200 per person per year on pension. It covers less than 8 per cent of the elderly population in need of assistance. More of us are living longer; more of us are vulnerable to elder abuse. Indian culture, although glorified, is a likely constraint to addressing the growing menace of elder abuse. Framing the existence of elder abuse as a cultural problem deflects us from the need of looking deeper and connecting the dots to casteism, patriarchy, neoliberalization, and the absence of welfare policies. Instead of being helpful to older adults, it seems to be hampering their autonomy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-8
17-06-2021||Opinion||Hectic summer||Supreme Courts the world over have ebbs and then moments when redemption begins and usually those also converge with wider changes in the political and social environment. The Supreme Court of the United States of America had, in the final decades of the 19th century and the early decades of the 20th, constitutionally enforced segregation and contributed to the rolling back of the social and political progress that had followed the civil war and the abolition of slavery. A redemptive process began only in the 1950s when its rulings on civil rights and against discrimination corrected earlier pronouncements and, by establishing new baselines, reinforced a wider social and economic change that was underway in the US with the civil rights movement. In India we have our own experience of the judiciary during the Emergency, but thereafter the higher judiciary has emerged as the ultimate safeguard of human and constitutional rights. The judiciary in Pakistan has always had a greater burden of credibility than elsewhere. In large part this is for reasons that stretch back to the country’s early years. Required to pronounce on the legality of bureaucratic erosion of representative bodies and military coups in the 1950s, the Supreme Court of Pakistan resorted to dubious legalities and validated the usurpation of constitutional authority. Another milestone was the execution of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto in 1979 which many in Pakistan today would readily accept was no more than a judicial murder. Some three decades later, the picture appeared to have changed with a protest led by lawyers and judges over the dismissal of a sitting Chief Justice in 2007. The dust finally settled with a military dictator forced out. It was felt that Pakistan’s judiciary may have turned the corner and this was also part of a larger change of civilian institutions and political parties asserting themselves and ring fencing the future role of the military. But a decade later, these hopes were belied. Over 2017, a series of controversial interventions and pronouncements by the Supreme Court of Pakistan put an end to the tenure of the prime minister, Nawaz Sharif. Whatever may have been his errors of omission and commission, the fact is that his ouster flowed from the friction in the interface his government had with Pakistan’s army. The Supreme Court’s interventions were a setback for Pakistan’s political process in different ways. Two in particular are worth recalling. First, a premature termination of Nawaz Sharif’s tenure as prime minister meant that Pakistan’s historical record of not having a single prime minister who completed a full tenure continued without a break. Second, the perception that the higher judiciary had acted in concert with the army to change the prime minister gained credence. This summary, treading over past issues, is on account of their surfacing again by way of the prominent case relating to a judge of the Supreme Court, Qazi Faez Isa. He is about as close as one will get to the original blue blood of Pakistan. His father, one of the first barristers of Balochistan, was a close associate of M.A. Jinnah and helped establish the Muslim League in Balochistan. Justice Isa was appointed as a judge of the Supreme Court in 2014 and, as things stand, will become Chief Justice of Pakistan in September 2023 and will remain so for a little over a year. 2023 is incidentally an election year in Pakistan as the tenure of the government of the incumbent prime minister, Imran Khan, will come to an end. In 2018, Justice Isa in the Supreme Court heard a suo motu case relating to what was called the “Faizabad sit-in” — a protest in November 2017 led by a religious front, the Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan, against the government that demanded the resignation of the law minister. The Supreme Court took up the case as the 20-day-long protest severely disrupted the capital’s functioning. Politically, the disruption was another nail in the then government’s coffin — Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif had been forced out just a few months earlier — and the protests left it further beleaguered and bleeding. Many speculated, perhaps with some merit, that this was a replay of what had happened earlier in Pakistan with the military moving to re-engineer the political architecture. The case was heard over 2018 and the judgment pronounced by a two-judge bench in February 2019. This was long after the protests and with a new government led by Imran Khan in power. It was in that sense an ‘academic’ judgment. Nevertheless, the verdict — and it was authored by Justice Isa — made critical remarks about the role of the intelligence agencies — in particular the Inter-Services Intelligence — in the Faizabad ‘sit-in’. That in itself endowed Justice Isa with a certain notoriety on the perennial and vexed question of the role of Pakistan’s army in the larger polity. The judgment, after going into various issues of the right to protest, reasonable limitations to it, the coverage of the protesters in the media and the handling of these protests by the government, went on to state: “The perception that ISI may be involved in or interferes with matters with which an intelligence agency should not be concerned with, including politics, therefore was not put to rest.” It made other references, including that perceptions of the involvement of the ISI “gained traction” when the sit-in participants received cash handouts from men in uniform. Amongst the conclusions of the judgment was that intelligence agencies “must not exceed their respective mandates”. The judgment obviously made headlines and not just in Pakistan. The ISI protested and so did a whole phalanx of army fronts. A number of review petitions were filed including petitions by the ministry of defence and the ISI. What was of more significance was that reports started circulating soon after the judgment about possible moves against corrupt judges, and soon thereafter, confirmation came that the government had, in fact, moved against Justice Isa and two other judges for not disclosing the fact that they (or, in the case of Justice Isa, their family members) owned foreign properties. Meanwhile, Justice Isa also approached the Supreme Court challenging the reference against him. This case went through various phases but a full bench decision of the Supreme Court in late April this year ended all the proceedings against the judge. Thereafter the government’s efforts to have the decision reviewed have been turned down. For many in Pakistan, this appeared as a redemptive moment for its higher judiciary. Legalities apart, the final decision even evoked parallels with 2007 when a full bench of the Supreme Court had reinstated the deposed Chief Justice. Whether the Justice Isa matter is finally closed now remains to be seen. This summer has, however, been a hectic one in Pakistan when Opposition parties, media professionals and judges have challenged prevailing totalizing narratives that the establishment or the army controls all in Pakistan. The wider context is a pandemic and a faltering economy, but a ceasefire on the line of control with India that has held for over 100 days adds some positive content. These contradictory trends may well suggest that some structural change is again underway in Pakistan, but then a single swallow also does not make a summer. T.C.A. Raghavan is a former high commissioner to Pakistan and is currently Director General, Indian Council of World Affairs||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-8
17-06-2021||Jharkhand||Hazaribagh court encounter shooter in police net||Hazaribagh police on Thursday arrested the prime accused in the 2015 court killing of gangster Sushil Srivastava and his two aides. The shooter was identified as Avtar Singh, a resident of Jammu and Kashmir’s Udhampur district. He was hired by a rival Bhola Pandey to carry out the killing. Police officials confirmed bringing Avtar to Hazaribagh and said he received Rs.40lakh for eliminating Srivastava. Sources said a four member team of three assistant sub-inspectors and inspector brought him to Hazaribagh where he will now have to face a murder trial. Avtar was caught on June 8 by Jammu police. He admitted using an AK-47 for the work and was given Rs.40 lakh by Vikas Tiwary, leader of the Bhola Pandey gang. He said after the shooting, he took voluntary retirement from the army. Hazaribagh police officials said Avtar was nabbed from R S Pura area on the outskirts of Jammu on June 8. After seeing a bullet mark on one of his legs, Jammu police interrogated him following which he admitted to his involvement in the 2015 shootout at Hazaribagh court. He said he was the main shooter and killed Srivastava while he was being brought to the Hazaribagh civil court. He said policemen on duty also opened fire and he was hit by one on his leg while fleeing. Officials said Avtar was brought to Hazaribagh on transit remand. “We are interrogating him to get details of this conspiracy and about his own involvement as a shooter,” they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
17-06-2021||Jharkhand||Placement boom for NIT-Adityapur ||Amid lockdowns and Covid-19 pandemic, the Adityapur-based National Institute of Technology in Jamshedpur cradle is heading for another impressive placement year with 461 of 506 students getting jobs in ongoing campus recruitments. Software firm DE Shaw's Rs 37.5 lakh annual package stood out as the best offer so far for the batch of 2017-21. According to officials of the training and placement cell, the tech cradle has so far achieved 91.11 per cent placement, with one month left for the completion of the placement season. So far about 150 companies took part in the placement process which kicked off in July last year. Another 20 companies are expected to turn up in the next one month for head hunting the rest students of the placement batch. The online recruitment process for the current batch which began in July 2020 gained momentum in October. Professor-in-charge of NIT's Training and Placement cell, Prahlad Prasad said the computer science engineering stream recorded 100 percent placement. "All the 88 students of the stream who were eligible for the placement process bagged plum jobs. Piyush Rai, a student of that stream bagged the highest salary of Rs 37.50 lakh offered by DE Shaw. The IT companies offered an average salary package of Rs 15.50 lakh per annum, "he said adding that e-commerce major Amazon offered the second best salary of Rs 30 lakh per annum. The electronics and communication engineering stream recorded 96.15 per cent placement so far. The mechanical engineering stream so far achieved 93.98 per cent placement while electrical engineering stream recorded 92.60 placement. According to the data, the civil engineering stream recorded 75.76 per cent placements while the production and industrial engineering stream achieved 86.11 per cent placements. The metallurgical and materials engineering stream recorded 84.21 per cent placements. "All credits to the training and placement cell team who have worked selflessly and made it a great success . At present we are looking forward to hosting the other companies who would recruit the  rest students of the current placement batch, " said Prasad, the professor-in-charge of Training and Placement Cell. Some of the other recruiters included Meesho, Goldman Sachs, Nokia, Deloitte, Tata Power, Flipcart, Infosys, Comviva, TCS Innovator, Paytm, Genpact, Lowe's India, One Plus, Cargil, Tekion, Tata Steel, Mentor Graphics, Publicis Sapient, Info Edge, Samsung (R&D), Bajaj, DMI Finance, Axeela, ZS Associates, Amdocs , One Plus and Capgemini.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
17-06-2021||Jharkhand||State apex body to celebrate Olympic Day||The Jharkhand Olympic Association will be celebrating Olympic Day with a theme to support Indian athletes for next month’s sporting extravaganza in Tokyo, Japan. Physical sports events are not possible during the pandemic and the JOA wants to celebrate the occasion by adopting other means. Olympic Day was first celebrated in 1948 to commemorate the birth of the modern Olympic Games on June 23 at the Sorbonne in Paris. The goal was to promote participation in sports across the globe regardless of age, gender or athletic ability. The state’s apex sports body has lined up three programmes to mark the Olympic Day on June 23. From quiz competitions, selfie points to essays, the citizens of Jharkhand will have ample opportunity to support Indian athletes in the run-up to the Olympic Games. The quiz and essay competition is open for all age groups. “We want everyone to celebrate Olympic Day and rejoice the occasion,” said JOA secretary Madhukant Pathak. According to Pathak, the quiz competition from June 20 to 23 on Radio Dhoom will have questions on the Tokyo Olympic Games. Five questions will be asked every day. Winners will be declared once JOA receives the answers forwarded by Radio Dhoom. The JOA secretary added that selfie points will be set up in all the 24 districts. “We are working on a design to be put up on flex. The message on the flex will carry the message `We Support Team India in the Olympics’. The design should be ready in a day or two. The district Olympic associations will be earmarking selfie points in their respective cities, which, among others, will include Jamshedpur, Dhanbad and Ranchi,” Pathak said. “We are also organising an essay competition `Olympic movement in India’ which will stretch till July 10. “We have requested two lecturers of Ranchi College to go through the essays and choose the top three,” Pathak, who is also treasurer of Athletics Federation of India, informed. Essays can be sent to on jharkhandolympic@gmail.com and Whatsapp 9431105669) till July 10 and the results will be announced and prizes distributed before the start of Olympic Games on July 23. “The participants can send essays (in Hindi and English) not exceeding 100 lines,” Pathak said. Moreover, a signature campaign will also be one of the events to mark Olympic Day.  “Signatures supporting the Indian team in the Olympics will be on a 5 m canvas which will be put in all the districts. The district Olympic outfits will be arranging the canvas once we send them the design,” a JOA functionary said. The signatures will be sent to Indian Olympic Association (IOA) before the departure of Indian team to Tokyo starting July 17. Barring the selfie point, winners of quiz and essay competition will receive prizes in the form of T-shirts. “We have ordered 500 T-shirts with'' We support Team India written on the front,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
17-06-2021||Jharkhand||Two hockey stars from Jharkhand in India's Olympic squad ||Jharkhand’s sports fraternity was ecstatic after Hockey India announced on Thursday that two players from the state, Nikki Pradhan and Salima Tete, were part of the India women's squad for the Tokyo Olympics scheduled to begin next month. The news is a great morale booster for the state’s hockey fraternity amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. While Nikki becomes the first woman hockey player of Jharkhand to represent India in the Olympics twice, it is also the first time in the history of Jharkhand that two players from the state will be in the same Olympic team (hockey). Twenty-six year old Nikki is from Khunti and had represented the country in the Rio Olympics in 2016. For 22-year-old Salima from Simdega, it will be her first mega outing. Both are defenders in the squad. And bBoth are currently at the Sports Authority of India (SAI) centre in Bangalore undergoing training. “I am happy to have made it to the squad,  but equally elated that two of us from Jharkhand will be playing alongside in the same team for India in the Olympic games,” Nikki told The Telegraph Online over phone from Bangalore. While big-ticket tournaments and sporting activities have gradually resumed in other countries in the recent months, it is yet to do so in India, which is passing through a brutal second wave of Covid-19. Although, cases of new infection across the country is currently on a downward trend, full-fledged sporting activities are yet to be allowed with several states continuing with restrictions to cut transmission of the virus. In Jharkhand too, stadiums are still to be thrown open and sporting events have largely remained restricted since March. “For players, the pandemic posed lots of unforeseen challenges. But I tried to stay focussed on my goal. In terms of safety, I maintain high standards of hygiene and follow Covid appropriate behavior,” Nikki said, adding that she has been lucky to have been unaffected by the virus so far. Nikki and her team mates have already received both doses of the vaccine. India probables have been training at the Sports Authority of India campus in Bangalore for a year now. “We rarely stepped out of the campus in the last one year, except when we were allowed to go to our hometowns. On campus, we have a gym, play grounds and other facilities which helped us practise and maintain our fitness,” she said. The only challenge for most of the team members will be the lack of enough match practice in foreign conditions. “Due to the pandemic, we couldn’t play enough matches both in India and outside in the run up to the Olympics. Although we did practise within ourselves but experience of matches is different,” she said. Hockey Jharkhand president Bholanath Singh was in a celebratory mood. “Our girls have made us proud. We hope they make the country proud too,” he said. Hockey Simdega president Manoj Konbegi said  Nikki and Salima have created history. “Two players from our state in the same team is a first," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
17-06-2021||Jharkhand||Vigorous monsoon triggers heavy rain across Jharkhand||The monsoon, currently in a vigorous state in Jharkhand, triggered heavy rain across the state in the last 24 hours, and the weather office predicts similar weather in the next two to three days. IMD officials said the vigorous state of monsoon, coupled with two cyclonic circulations and a trough, led to incessant rains across several districts. While Ranchi and Hazaribagh recorded over 30mm rainfall, Jamshedpur logged 10mm rain. A cyclonic circulation was existing over eastern Uttar Pradesh extending upto 3.1km above mean sea level. Another cyclonic circulation was persisting over Gangetic West Bengal  and extending upto 7.6 km above mean sea level. The trough  was running from western Rajasthan to northeast Bay of Bengal across Bihar, Jharkhand and Gangetic West Bengal and extending upto 0.9km above mean sea level. Met data suggested that heavy to very heavy rain was experienced by several districts since past 24 hours. The highest amount of rainfall -- 141.6mm -- was recorded by the IMD station at  Koderma. That was followed by Giridih, which recorded 134mm of rain. Several places in north eastern Jharkhand - Barkisuraiya, Sargaon and Sikatia -- recorded over 100 mm of rain. Several places in Hazaribagh, Pakur, Dhanbad, Bokaro, Jamtara, Ramgarh and Ranchi districts recorded rainfall between 30 and 40 mm. Jamshedpur recorded 10 mm of rain during the past 24 hours. The intensity of rain in Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas increased from Thursday afternoon. The rain resulted in water logging in several thoroughfares. The water level of two rivers- Subernarekha and Kharkai- witnessed a sudden rise due to the incessant rains and the opening of  two sluice gates of Bankabal dam  in Mayurbhanj district of neighbouring Odisha. There was a fear of flash floods in several low-lying areas of Kolhan due to the rising water levels of both the rivers. The  East Dinghbhum district administration has issued an alert . Announcements were made through public address systems on Thursday morning, asking people residing in low-lying areas to shift to higher grounds. In its forecast, IMD's Ranchi Met Centre predicted light thunderstorms, accompanied by lightning, at isolated places over Jharkhand during the next 48 hours. Heavy rainfall was also expected  at a few  isolated places over south-west, central and northern Jharkhand during the next two days. “The monsoon is in vigorous condition over Jharkhand and will continue to result  in widespread rain in the next two to three days, ” said a duty officer at IMD's Patna Met Centre. The widespread and heavy rain after the onset of monsoon took Jharkand's rain surplus figure to 93 per cent. So far in June, Jharkhand has recorded 149.8mm of rain against a normal of 77.8 mm, a surplus of 93 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
17-06-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city residents flout Covid norms with impunity ||The fear factor seems to have disappeared from most of the people's minds about Covid-19 after more shops were opened following Unlock - 3 in the steel city. During the first half of Thursday, after more shops like clothes, cosmetics, jewellery and shoes were opened, marketplaces started bustling with shoppers. A common sight at the markets in Sakchi and Bistupur was a large number of people either without masks or wearing them just below their nose and even chin. At most shops, the customers were seen evading social distancing norms, especially by the women at the jewellery and cosmetics stores. "About two months have passed since the lockdown was imposed. I was looking forward eagerly when the cosmetic shops will be opened again. As the shops are permitted to remain open till 4 pm only, I came out for the shopping in the morning, "said Anita Shrivastav, a resident of South Park in Bistupur, to The Telegraph Online. Like Anita, several women and girls were found to be on a buying spree at ladies garment shops, jewellery shops and cosmetic shops at Bistupur market despite drizzling continued in the city throughout the day. Significantly, till Wednesday when limited shops, including medical stores, grocery shops besides motor garage as well as hardware stores were operating, the marketplaces were much less crowded and people were also wearing masks. Additional district magistrate (law and order), Nand Kishore Lal said if the people evade wearing masks at the marketplace and on the streets after Unlock - 3, then, it is a very dangerous thing to happen. "Let the administration take stock of the situation. We will start carrying out surprise inspections at the markets from tomorrow and slap penalty on those who will be found flouting the Covid norms, "said Lal to The Telegraph Online. The additional district magistrate said allowing some more shops to reopen does not mean that the pandemic has disappeared from the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
17-06-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city boy becomes a chess sensation in state||Steel city youngster Adhiraj Mitra loves to beat rivals of higher age groups across the chess board, after starting the game two-and-a-half-years back. The 9-year-old belies his age with intelligent moves and looks set to take big strides in future. "I feel happy and satisfied defeating players of higher age groups. And I have done so, mostly recently in the state under-18 chess festival," Adhiraj, a class IV student of Loyola School said. Besides claiming the under-18 title, Adhiraj also topped the competition for under-12 and under-10 section of the chess festival, besides finishing runner-up in the under-14 age category. The young player, who works 10-12 hours on the chess board under his maternal uncles Dushyant and Abhishek Das, both international players, had also emerged champion in the district under-18 online chess event conducted earlier this year. "I dream of someday becoming a world champion. I will do everything to realise this dream," said Adhiraj, who also loves roller skates and is fond of watching cartoons. Adhiraj, who idolises Norwegian Grandmaster Magnus Carlsen and is a big fan of Viswanathan Anand, did not compete in the recently concluded online national under-18 meet as he wanted to participate and win the under-14, 12 and 10 age groups at the chess festival organised earlier this month by All Jharkhand Chess Association. Adhiraj is a trainee of Tata Chess Centre and is currently getting online lessons from chief coach Jayant Kumar Bhuyan. He is getting the required support from his parents Uttam and Runa Mitra of Sonari. "We are aware of our son's talent. He is making impressive progress in chess and we support him to the hilt. We want him to someday become the world's youngest Grandmaster," said Uttam, a businessman. Homemaker Runa added Adhiraj is addicted to chess and spends 10-12 hours on the board. "We want him (Adhiraj) to pursue the game. We know he is going to make steady progress in the game. We want him to someday make it big in chess," she said. Adhiraj had met Viswanathan Anand when the Grandmaster was in Jamshedpur to promote his book Mind Master in February last year. He had always wanted to play with the five-time world champion. The dream came true when Adhiraj went up to Anand at the JRD Tata Sports Complex where Vishy was meeting 200 chess enthusiasts and requested the Grandmaster for a game. To the boy’s utter delight, Anand said yes. “I cannot forget that moment. Though I played for just five minutes with the great Viswanathan Anand, it was an unforgettable experience,” Adhiraj recalled. “Adhiraj is extremely talented and a quick learner. He is the boy to look out for in future,” said Tata chess cradle chief coach Bhuyan. State chess association secretary Neeraj Kumar Mishra, an International Master, also heaped praise on the skills of the kid. “Adhiraj is set to make more improvements in his game. He is an intelligent player,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
17-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand launches maiden pneumococcal immunisation drive||State Health Minister Banna Gupta launched Jharkhand’s maiden pneumococcal vaccination drive on Thursday and said the immunisation programme for infants will work as a protective shield against Covid-19, a third wave of whihc scientists do not rule out. “The vaccination drive against pneumonia will prove to be a milestone in Jharkhand’s fight against Covid-19. By administering PCV (Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine) to our infants, we will not only protect them from pneumonia but also provide them a safety net against Covid-19,” Gupta said while launching the immunisation programme online. The health minister claimed that patients of pneumonia and Covid-19 showed similar symptoms, and in some cases, Covid patients developed pneumonia, which proved fatal. The vaccination, he added, would boost immunity of children and protect them from several bacteria-borne diseases as well. Gupta also urged Jharkhand residents not to panic if their infants had mild fever or body pain after immunisation. “Mild fever or body ache are common side effects of any vaccine. Please do not panic if your child has mild fever after the dose. Remember that the vaccine will protect them from many severe diseases,” he said. The government will provide PCV doses to children free of cost under its Universal Immunisation Programme in Jharkhand. So far, beneficiaries had to pay Rs 1,600 for each dose of the Pfizer-made vaccine available in the market, which mounted financial pressure on the people from rural Jharkhand. “At least 8 lakh people die of pneumonia every year globally and the toll is 1.27 lakh in India. This immunisation programme will certainly prove to be a major step towards protecting our children and ensuring a healthy life for them,” said state health secretary Arun Kumar Singh. Singh said that pneumonia was transmitted from one person to another through coughing and sneezing. Breathing trouble, coughing, fever and body ache were some of the common symptoms of pneumonia, which were also common in Covid patients, he added. At least 77,200 doses of PCV have been distributed among the 24 districts to run the immunisation programme, health officials said. The three doses of the vaccine will be administered to infants at the age of six weeks, 14 weeks and nine months. The vaccine doses will be administered at all government hospitals, Primary Health Centres (PHCs), Community Health Centres (CHCs) and other vaccination camps set up by the government. Parents of the beneficiaries will have to carry their Mother Child Protection (MCP) cards to the vaccination centres and get the jabs free of cost. Jharkhand will be the seventh Indian state to launch this immunisation programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
17-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Active caseload drops below 2,300 in the state||Jharkhand on Wednesday reported 190 Covid-19 cases against 587 recoveries, which brought the active caseload in the state down to 2246, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. While the active caseload continued to drop, at least three more Covid patients died during treatment on Wednesday, keeping the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand higher than the national average. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 1.48 per cent against the national average of 1.30 per cent, a bulletin released by the NHM stated Ranchi, Godda and Deoghar reported one Covid casualty each on the day, taking the Covid toll in the state to 5092. However, none of the 24 districts in the state reported a spike of more than 50 cases on Wednesday. With 35 fresh cases of infection, East Singhbhum reported the highest spike among the districts. However, at least 39 Covid patients recovered there, bringing the active caseload in the district down to 242. Ranchi accounted for almost half of the Covid recoveries on Wednesday. As per NHM data, the district reported 20 cases and 245 Covid recoveries, which brought the active caseload here down to 708. The one casualty on the day took the toll in the district to 1582, the highest among Jharkhand districts. As per the NHM bulletin, Hazaribag reported 18 cases against 23 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported 16 cases against 15 recoveries. At least two districts – Khunti and Dumka – did not report fresh cases of Coronavirus infection on the day. At least 10 people were found infected in Gumla and 12 in Chatra. So far, over 3.43 lakh people have been infected by Coronavirus in Jharkhand and 97.86 per cent of them have recovered, highlights government data. The national recovery rate, as per government data, was 95.80 per cent. The state on Wednesday tested swab samples of 41,065 residents on the day and the positivity rate was less than 0.5 per cent. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 was 0.05 per cent in Jharkhand against the national average of 0.17 per cent. The doubling rate in Jharkhand was 1378.06 days against the national average of 398.87 days. Jharkhand on Wednesday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 60,017 residents and more than half of them were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. The second jab, as per NHM records, was administered to 13,799 residents on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
17-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Incentives allay vaccine doubt in rural Jharkhand ||The district administrations in Jharkhand are offering lucrative incentives to the rural populace to overcome their vaccine hesitancy as more and more villages are inching towards 100 per cent vaccination coverage. “Incentives are helping us increase the rate of vaccination as people are now turning up at (vaccination centres) at a faster rate. This is further dispelling their fear of vaccination and bridge the gap created by misinformation spread by some elements,” said West Singhbhum deputy commissioner Ananya Mittal. West Singhbhum has some of the most remote villages located in dense forest terrain bordering Sundergarh and Keonjhar (both in Odisha). In one initiative in West Singhbhum, a petrol pump in Chakradharpur sub-division has started giving one litre petrol/diesel free to customers on producing the vaccination certificate. “We have also managed to motivate traders through chambers of commerce to give a five to 10 per cent discount to people above 45 years for a specified period if they get vaccinated,” said Mittal. The authorities are also trying to disburse seeds to farmers and distribute tricycles to the physically challenged at a few vaccination centres to attract more people. “We also train two teachers per block who in turn train three teachers per panchayat regarding the importance of vaccination. Now they are conducting village meetings to make people aware about the facts,” added Mittal. The efforts are bearing fruit with West Singhbhum placed in third position in terms of total number of eligible people vaccinated (4,170) on June 15 behind East Singhbhum (7,108) and Ranchi (5,401). Banmara under Kullukera panchayat in Simdega district, one of the farthest villages located along the Jharkhand-Chhattisgarh border, got all its eligible beneficiaries vaccinated on June 11. Even residents of Jinsjarakani village in Kurdeg block of Simdega district, along the Jharkhand-Odisha border, have shown the same resolve to attain 100 per cent vaccination against Covid-19. “These villages, some of which are the remotest and farthest, have become a role model for others. The people of these villages actively participated in the inoculation drive and achieved 100 per cent vaccination coverage. “After a few awareness drives by the administration, people of these villages realised the importance of vaccination for their safety. Ranga panchayat of Masaliya block in Dumka is also heading towards 100 per cent vaccination. Panchayats like Shikaripara and Gandrakpur, which are situated at the farthest point of the districts have also achieved more than 80 per cent vaccination,” said health department nodal officer (information, education and communication), Siddharth Tripathy. Several other villages are moving towards 100 per cent vaccination. Garu block of Latehar district is a Maoist-affected area with a population of nearly 36,000. Almost 50 per cent of the 18-plus population of this block have received the vaccine. The district administration is running intensive awareness campaigns across the block. Every day, a rise in vaccination coverage is being recorded. Awareness campaigns run by the government in native and regional languages are helping people understand the benefits of the vaccine. Myths and fallacies related to the Covid-19 vaccine are being brought to light among the rural population of the state. The Dumka district administration in Santhal Pargana region, having multiple panchayats with more than 75 per cent to 80 per cent vaccination coverage, is running an intensive awareness drive. In addition to weekend vaccination mass drives being organised across the state, the Dumka administration is also organising awareness camps. Officials and local people are taking part in the awareness camps and encouraging more beneficiaries to come to vaccination centres to get their shots.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
17-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Ratri Pathshala for children in villages ||The children of over three dozen villages of Chotanagpur, unlike most of their counterparts elsewhere, attended ‘special’ classes regularly during the pandemic. That was possible because the Akhil Bharatiya Adivasi Vikash Parishad, a social organisation founded a few decades ago by popular tribal leader and former Union minister Kartik Oraon, held such classes regularly, that too in a Covid-appropriate manner. “Classes were held regularly, barring those days when everything came to a standstill during the peak period of the lockdown last year,” informed Arun Oraon, a former senior IPS officer who tried to rejuvenate the organisation by spreading education among rural children. They have been organising Ratri Pathshala or special evening classes, for such children of 39 villages spread in Ranchi, Lohardaga and Gumla districts since 2014. These children are all enrolled as students of Classes I to X in government schools in their respective areas and attend these special classes in the evening. “We found these children were very weak in Mathematics, Science and English and their continuing higher studies would be really difficult unless they improve in those subjects,” Oraon informed when asked why they had to organise those classes for school going children. Most of the primary or middle schools have only two teachers one of whom is always busy supervising mid-day meals for the children while the other is often drafted by government for such non-teaching duty such as revising voter list or conducting census, he added to explain the reason behind the sorry state of government-run schools. “There are about 200 volunteers, mostly college and university students, who conduct these evening classes without expecting any remuneration,” Oraon further informed, adding they could give only an emergency light, a blackboard and two durees (mats) to each of those pathshalas. “Those classes are organised at anganwadi centres or panchayat bhavans with consent from the controlling authorities at normal time,” he said, adding the lockdown changed everything. The classes had to be suspended during the peak period of the lockdown but they were also worried that prolonged disconnection with books would be harmful for children. “So, depending on weather condition, our volunteers shifted Ratri Pathshala to day time and held classes in an open field or a mango grove where children would study while maintaining social distancing,” Oraon said. They also divided the children in groups according to the classes they studied and taught them in a deferred manner so that a child had to attend classes only twice a week, he added. “To assess the progress made by those children, we also conducted a test for them that continued for 5 days, beginning June 6, at open spaces,” Oraon informed. “Those taking classes are good students who care for their community and try to give their best,” he further said, adding they were hopeful that children would be benefitted by attending those classes. They also had plans to extend the pathshala to other districts of the state and many have already expressed their desire get involved for carrying it on, Oraon further informed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
