18-06-2021||Calcutta||Desun hospital saves life of patient with critical heart condition||Doctors at Desun Hospital, Calcutta, saved a critical patient by performing an angiography on him on May 12, the hospital said in a statement.. Sixty-two-year-old Amal Kumar Ghosh, who has a history of hypertension and diabetes, had come to the hospital in the wee hours of May 3 with chest pain, palpitation and breathlessness. On admission he had uncontrolled blood sugar, low oxygen saturation and features of heart failure. On Echocardiography the EF (Pumping Capacity of Heart) was only 20% with Non-ST Elevation Myocardial Infarction in ECG. “After three days of optimisation (BiPAP support) and management of this critical condition (Acute Coronary Syndrome ACS) he was prepared for Coronary angiography. It was found he had Left main with Severe triple vessel coronary artery disease” the hospital said. After observation, the doctors decided to perform coronary artery bypass surgery onMay 12. “It was an extremely risky case with so many comorbid diseases and extremely bad cardiac function. Uncontrolled diabetes mellitus, Hypertension, Lower respiratory tract infections were other risk factors,” the statement from the hospital read. “Following surgery, the patient started behaving well. His cardiac function improved. The patient came out of ventilation the next day (May 13) early in the morning. No features of low Cardiac output were there. Gradually in the coming three days all cardiac support was taken off and the patient was mobilised. Diabetes and hypertension were strictly controlled,” the hospital said. Ghosh was discharged on May 18 with improved cardiac function.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
18-06-2021||Calcutta||Class of 2021||The last day of school marks the end of an era. Farewells are hosted, shirts are signed, tears are shed, best wishes are exchanged. But let alone any of the above, the batch of 2021 didn’t even sit for the examination. Last year’s batch had written most of their exams before the lockdown was imposed but this time CBSE, ISC and West Bengal boards cancelled all exams for Classes X and XII. Yes, some pupils are happy that they did not have to take the test and relieved that they need not expose themselves to the virus, but many are feeling cheated at having slogged for months and not got a report card to show for it. The academic achievement aside, they also feel as if their best years got stolen from them. That fateful day Teesta Ray broke into tears when she heard the CBSE exams had been cancelled. “I’m in Loreto House, that follows ICSE, but I knew then that our board could follow suit,” recalls the BC Block resident who is now in Class XI. “Exams getting cancelled should be good news for students but I had slogged eight to nine hours a day for months. I’m not saying the studying went waste but I spent the entire March with science, when I’ve opted for humanities in Class XI. Is it fair?” Swechcha Dhara Dasgupta makes wall charts out of information she finds difficult to memorise. “I was making two such charts for sociology when I heard the announcement,” recalls the Sraboni Abasan resident. And just like that, Swechcha had cleared Class XII. “The charts are still lying folded in my room, half-baked, and I don’t know whether to complete or abandon them.” Those like Snehasish Bar of St Francis Xavier spent that evening discussing the pros and cons with classmates over phone and those like Mehuli Das of AD Block were so upset they simply shut out the world and retired to bed early. Mulling over options The students are full of suggestions on how the situation could have been handled. “Most Class XII students are 18 or 17. Couldn’t they have made special arrangements to get us vaccinated before the exams?” asks Swechcha. “Timing was also key. Kerala managed to hold its Board exams at a time when the Covid count was low but we were busy holding elections then.” Mehuli feels the exams could have been delayed or even held online. Amrita suggests online exams with special apps to prevent cheating. Teesta doesn’t see why physical exams were out of contention. “Our school held pre-boards with utmost care. The batch was divided into three rooms for distancing, we had to sanitise our hands after taking extra sheets, no discussions were allowed after submitting the paper... but the Board exam authorities didn’t even try to work something out,” she says sadly. Her father Jayanta Ray is positively livid at the decision, calling it a callous one made by people who have no interest in the matter. “There was no national debate on the issue. Students, parents and teachers were given no forum to voice their opinions and decision-makers simply walked away from responsibility,” he says. Evaluation anguish It isn’t clear how final marks will be calculated now and students are worried the score will no longer in their hands. "Internal assessment by the school can lead to biased marking. What if any of the teachers never liked me? It is likely to reflect in the way she marks my script,” reasons Sanskrity Sarkar of Sraboni Abasan. “And if they consider marks of the last three years, tell me who is equally consistent with the Boards so far away?” Swechcha too, feels it won’t be level playing ground to take an average of the last three years. “Our Class X total includes marks for subjects like physics and math, that are irrelevant to students who opted for humanities in the Plus Two. Our average will dip if those marks are included now,” she points out. Sakshi Agarwal says the outlook, concentration and dedication of students has changed since Class X. “And traditionally, we only give it our all in the final months,” pleads the Baguiati resident. There are also rumours of this year’s pre-Board marks being counted into the average. “Some schools took these tests online and some offline. Students who took online tests could have easily cheated and scored higher. How can their marks be compared to others?” demands Tiasa Mallik, a Class XII passout from BD Block. But Chinmoy Sahoo, is not worried about any evaluation process the Board might come up with. “Our school had warned us about other possibilities so we did not slacken off the rest of the term,” says the resident of Uniworld City. College confusion The next hurdle is getting into college without a credible marksheet in hand. “I shall be sitting for the Joint Entrance Exams as and when they are held but the Boards would have been solid practice for that,” sighs Snehasish. Ria Roy will be taking her medical entrance exams so Board exam marks won’t mean much to her either. “But what about classmates going for physics or chemistry honours? Such colleges traditionally pick students based on these results,” wonders the AC Block resident. Those like Swechcha feel the cooked-up marksheets may end up inflating everyone’s scores, leading to a rush in colleges. “I had want to study history or sociology in Calcutta itself but if the rush is madding, might have to look at other cities now,” she says. “Some colleges take entrance exams but what if Covid cases rise again and they too are called off?” Tiasa is convinced all colleges would take entrance exams this year and fears they may be extremely tough to clear. Sreejana Sharma, an alumnus of Sri Aurobindo Institute of Education, has shifted to Delhi with her family and wants to enroll for a psychology course under Delhi University. “But I’ve heard the Board has decided not to hold entrance exams at all. How will selection be fair then?” Sanskrity says a saving grace is that at least all three Boards have got cancelled. “As it is, ISC is more lenient than CBSE in marking. Imagine how we would have suffered if they went on to host some form of examination and thus scored more than us!” says the student who plans to pursue economics. School switch tales Prima facie, Class X students had it smoother since they got promoted to Class XI in the same school with or without a marksheet. Trouble arose when some of them switched schools. “I switched from Salt Lake Point to Salt Lake School this year. Luckily, they took me on the basis of my Class IX marks and those of my pre-Boards,” says Amrita Nandi of BD Block. Her new class in the new school started a month back but she’s yet to meet her classmates in person. Teesta talks of a friend who had switched from her ICSE school to a CBSE one after Class XI. “It was an agonising few weeks when CBSE had called off their exams but not ICSE. So this friend was studying the CBSE Class XI syllabus in her new school as well the ISCE Class X syllabus for her old school!” Happy with cancellation Make no mistake – there are also students who are happy with the situation. The topmost reason, of course, is safety. “It was a nightmare going to school in January to take the pre-Boards,” says Ria. “The buses were jam-packed and I was scared of catching the virus at every step.” Sakshi says exams would have been pointless after the apology of an academic year they had. “Online classes were terrible and we lost all motivation to study. When we couldn’t even follow the lessons why be quizzed on them as a formality?” she asks. Sreejana says she had lost touch with academics ever since online classes began. “We were waiting for the exam dates to get serious about studying but when the dates started getting shuffled about, we realised the exams may not happen at all,” she says. Rajib Roy, father of a Higher Secondary Class XII passout, is also relieved exams are off. His daughter Ria says they had online classes for a few subjects and that their teachers sent other lessons over WhatsApp. “If this was the standard of teaching, how can students be tested? Besides, safety is more important than anything else,” says the man who was fighting for life in the Covid ward last year. The AC Block parent says the HS Board, through their school, had sought the opinion of parents on the issue earlier this month. “I suggested they give marks on basis of Madhyamik result plus 10 per cent, to compete with other boards. If a student is unhappy with this system let her sit for an exam after the Covid situation improves,” he says. Many, like Chinmoy, who are going abroad for higher studies, are relieved the exams are cancelled. “Better cancelled than get further pushed back,” says the boy who has enrolled in computer science engineering in the University of Alberta in Canada. “My session starts in September and a later date might have delayed the marksheet beyond my travel date.” Adrija Debnath of Hariyana Vidya Mandir feels any more delay would have resulted in year loss. “The entrance exams too would have had to be pushed back. So may be cancellation was the right decision,” she opines. Aanya Mehra is an exception in the way she has taken the cancellation in her stride. “I do not think our efforts were wasted. The results, however they are calculated, would be based on what we did,” says the commerce pass-out from DPS Newtown. She cleared the online admission test and interview at Ashoka University and is waiting for her economics classes to start. “Their only condition was that I pass the Boards,” she smiles. The first semester might happen online. “But if things improve I will go to Delhi,” she says. Students are now spending time painting, watching movies, doing social work. “I watched The Vampire Diaries together with friends when one shared her screen on Google Meet. We chatted as we watched. It was fun,” says Adrija, a BE Block girl. Sakshi is pursing a course in digital marketing and Aanya, a resident of Siddha Pines in Action Area III, has enrolled in an online course on data analytics. She had received a mobile phone from her parents after her Class X Boards and a prize from school for getting full marks in computer application. But it is not so much the prizes but the appreciation that she misses by being unable to take the Class XII finals. Branded corona batch The tag “Corona batch” is an albatross these students fear they will have to wear around their necks lifelong. Mehuli remembers how the 2020’s batch had to hear taunts the whole of last year as they got away without sitting for one or two exams. “What will happen to us,” she wonders. If Chinmoy is upset about taunts on social media, Sanskrity is irritated at taunts from her elder sister. “‘Tui toh Matric pass', she tells me in jest,” Sanskrity says. Adrija has to hear seniors in the neighbourhood say ‘Era emni emni pass korlo’. “Online exams too would not have impressed them as they say anyone would have got full marks if they gave the tests from home online,” she says. Aanya does not mind the memes. “People are looking for entertainment,” she says, laughing them all off. Jokes apart, Amrita is worried about the long-term impact. “We can rejoice now that we don’t have to study. But what if we are discriminated against later at job interviews? What if our qualifications are undermined as we are the ‘corona batch’ who passed without sitting for exams?” worries Amrita. This is a concern for parents too. No goodbyes It’s been weeks since the exams were called off but many students still can’t decide whether they are happy or sad about it. Sanskrity misses closure for her 13 years of schooling. “Relationships with classmates go through ups and downs. I was looking forward to resolving those tiffs through face-to-face meets on the last day. Those will remain unresolved,” she reflects. Teesta had always dreamt of Class XI and XII. “It was supposed to be the most exciting time of our lives, full of events and activities, but neither are we getting any nor did Class X receive a befitting finish. By postponing the exams, our physical health was protected but has anyone thought of our mental health?” she asks sadly. If the school farewell didn’t happen even online, Adrija feels it was due to the lack of bonding with the next batch which organises the event. “Had we attended school, they would have come to know us the way we bonded with our seniors when we were in Class XI. We don’t even know the juniors, barring one or two,” she says. They had hoped to click a group photo with their class teacher on the day of their practical examination which effectively turned out to be their last day in school. “A lot of us were there as geography is a compulsory subject in the humanities. But the external examiner stayed back and the class teacher was busy attending to him. So we left on our own as and when our tests ended,” Adrija lamented. There were no other physical events either. Chinmoy has had to make do with the YouTube video teachers put out on Teachers' Day and their own Children's Day video later last year. “I gave a speech on how we will miss our teachers as a representative of the batch passing out,” he says. DPS Newtown had asked for passport photos of the students and prepared a collage adding those of teachers and shared the group photo with the students. “But of course, it is not the same as posing for one together,” said Chinmoy. Ria is upset they could not say goodbye to one another one last time. “My sister Rima is in Class XII now and I just hope their batch doesn’t suffer like we did,” says the AC Block resident. What are your views on the Board examinations not taking place? Write to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
18-06-2021||Calcutta||Purbachal man runs to raise Covid relief funds||Thirty kilometres daily for 30 days. That’s how much Purbachal resident Nilendu Mukherjee ran to raise funds for Covid relief. He completed his challenge on Monday and now has a corpus of Rs 15.5 lakh to show for it. For reference, the shortest route from City Centre 1 to City Centre 2 is about 10km. Mukherjee ran triple that distance for a month from 4am to 8am. “The routes would be different every day — sometimes in and around the stadium, Central Park, the bheris behind Sector V or even up till ITC Sonar hotel on the EM Bypass on good days,” says the banker based in Mumbai who is now working from his Purbachal 4RA home. To track the distance travelled, Mukherjee wore a Garmin Fenix 5 sport watch that uses GPS to measure details like distance, speed etc. But he would try to hover around Purbachal as, given the heat and humidity, he would need to return home twice to change out of his sweat-soaked clothes. “The best day of the run, ironically, was when cyclone Yaas made landfall! The wind and rain felt great.” The 51-year-old has been running for the last 10 years, the last three under a Utah-based trainer Hayden Hawks. He specialises in trails like jungles and usually runs 100km a week. “I divide it into four days of running, two days of strength training and one day of rest,” says the man who has also turned vegan. For the 30 day challenge, Mukherjee would start running on an empty stomach and have a banana, four dates and supplementary drinks on the way. The idea of the challenge originated from a feeling of helplessness at watching near and dear ones succumbing to Covid. “I wanted to help but neither am I a doctor nor does frontline volunteering come to me naturally. The only thing I could do was run. So I spoke to other runners and my office — Rabobank — that encouraged me. As the days passed by, colleagues started donating from across the world and in some countries, the offices decided to match them dollar for dollar,” says Mukherjee, who is touched by the gesture. Those wishing to donate were asked to do so directly to Tata Memorial Center, that has a Covid wing. “I guess my greatest achievement is that complete strangers have contributed,” he smiles. “And come to think of it, the charity will also go to strangers I will never meet.” The run proved gruelling in the first few days, as Mukherjee’s body wasn’t used to the sudden demanding regime. “Even I began doubting if I could do it. But over time I came to enjoy the run. After the first few kilometres, it was like meditation. Thoughts would come to me but bounce off without my judging them,” he said, admitting that he would miss the runs now that the challenge had been completed. “I would have to taper down the runs to my previous routine gradually.” For the last 15 days, many runners wanted to join him for a few kilometres as a show of solidarity. “So many wanted to come that I was asking them to do it in batches. All throughout I had been opting for roads that were deserted and I wanted to ensure distancing even with other runners,” he says. His wife Nabonita Bose Mukherjee has been supporting him from backstage. “She’s a runner too but without domestic helps in the lockdown, she has been managing the home front by herself. I would need to eat dinner by 6.30pm, for instance, and be in bed by 8. It wouldn’t have been possible without her.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
18-06-2021||Calcutta||Free meals for the underprivileged in New Town||A canteen to provide free lunch to the underprivileged was inaugurated in New Town on Sunday. This was the New Town branch of the CPM-run Sromojibi Canteen which is delivering at several spots in Salt Lake — outside CA Market, at route 206 bus terminus, outside CK Market, under Karunamoyee Metro station and opposite Big Bazaar. The New Town canteen is being run in an under-construction building at the corner of Street 142 of BA Block. “We visited the slum that has come up by the Bagjola Canal which flows by our block. Those who have lost jobs or livelihood in this pandemic were asked to collect meal coupons for their family. A total of 200 coupons have been given out for a month’s meal of egg curry, a vegetable side dish and steamed rice,” said Deepak Majumdar, an organiser from BC Block. “We got more than 30 per cent votes in this block, coming just behind the BJP which topped,” said Saptarshi Deb, who contested and lost the Assembly election on a Left Front ticket from Rajarhat New Town.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
18-06-2021||Calcutta||Park lined with neem trees for Action Area IIB||An urban recreational park, built over 3.44 acres in Action Area IIB of New Town, was inaugurated on Wednesday. The park, near Tank 14, is named Neem Banani after the scores of neem trees planted here. “Years ago, the chief minister had planted neem saplings in Jhargram and announced the start of a Neem plantation movement across the state. Around 2016, we planted 4,000 neem saplings in Eco Park. The next year, we planted neem trees at a corner of this plot which was then overrun with weeds and parthenium. The name Neem Banani was given then. Later, we got the project sanctioned under the New Town Kolkata Green Smart City Corporation and started work on the park,” said chairman Debashis Sen. More neem trees have recently been planted, taking the current total to 113 in the park. “Local residents can avail of the facilities at the picturesque park as well as enjoy the benefits of being in proximity of neem trees,” said urban development and municipal affairs minister Chandrima Bhattacharya. Vaccinated visitors can enter the park from 6am to 9am and avail of a 4m wide jogging track and reflexology tracks while children can play in a sand park where gym equipment have also been fitted. Covid ambulance An air-conditioned ambulance was flagged off by the minister for carrying  Covid-positive patients. “It can be availed free of cost by contacting the police or the NKDA helpline,” said Sen. Pictures by Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
18-06-2021||Calcutta||New Town teenager starts free online summer courses for peers||While most Class X passouts are busy getting the hang of their Class XI syllabus as schools resume classes, Aishik Biswas is putting the final touches to the online summer workshop he is co-ordinating called Brooks Brainery that kicks off on Friday. “Brooks Brainery is a student-led global edtech organisation we founded that aims to provide free educational opportunities to high-schoolers. Such programmes are hosted every summer by all Ivy League and other universities across the globe. Due to Covid, they have been happening online since last summer. Participation in such four-week non-credit programmes range from Rs 4-6 lakh, with an average virtual class size of 100-200 students,” says Aishik, a resident of Sunrise Point in Action Area IIC. Last year in summer, Aishik wanted to attend a summer school programme in the United States on his preferred fields of higher studies, neuroscience and psychology, while getting ready for college. “But most of them were very expensive and the fully-funded ones were too selective. So I had to miss out.” He did eventually attend a winter camp, organised by a group of Stanford University students called South Asian Winter Camp, taking two courses on behavioural economics and on evolution. “They were twice-a-week classes lasting three weeks. Thankfully they were free. My two instructors were students of Ashoka University and University of California, Los Angeles.” The experience taught him the benefits of attending such camps and gave him the confidence to organise one himself. “I wanted to pass on the benefits to other high schoolers. The camp I attended had students from only our neighbouring countries. But I wanted a more global feel.” Initially he was worried whether college students would agree to volunteer. The ball was set rolling when he mooted the proposal to a student of Northeastern University, Boston, whom he had befriended at a virtual fair. The third year collegian put up an Instagram post which gained traction among his peers. Now the camp has 25 course instructors who are current students or recent graduates from top schools, including Stanford, Yale, UC Berkeley, Carnegie Mellon, Johns Hopkins, University of Toronto, UW-Madison and Georgia Tech. Students have registered from 18 countries. “We can accommodate 1,000 students. One can sign up for a maximum of two courses.” The four-week programme would run from June 18 till mid-July over the weekends. The themes for the 25 courses range from the sciences to business to liberal arts. “Class sizes would not exceed 20 to ensure that students can properly interact with their instructors,” promises Aishik. The most popular course so far has been Introduction to Business, with 60-plus registrations. All the courses have been designed by the instructors offering them, who have mostly worked as teaching assistants in their respective colleges. He agrees that not much bonding among participants would be possible in virtual classes but they have plans for occasions over the weekdays, like moderated ice-breaker sessions in Zoom breakout rooms with topics like Hollywood movies, music etc. “The participants might end up exchanging Whatsapp numbers, form groups and do projects together,” he says. Brooks Brainery has a team of 15-20 active members spread over India, US and Singapore. “Our graphic designer is from Ukraine.” Aishik, who has just started Class XI at Salt Lake School, is not joining any course himself but says he has learnt a lot by being involved in devising the two courses in his area of interest — Introduction to Psychology and Famous Experiments in Psychology. The second course is being offered by another Calcuttan, Yashodhara Kundra, a recent graduate of Beloit College, Wisconsin. The Brooks Brainery team can be reached at www.brooksbrainery.com A sample of the 25 courses offered by Brooks Brainery: • Cryptography: Then and Now • Introduction to Machine Learning with Python • Programming the Right Way with Dr Racket • Gene Interactions • Crash Safety in Self-Driving Cars • Introduction to Android Development •The Politics behind Crisis Management •Famous Experiments in Psychology and What They Taught Us||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
18-06-2021||Calcutta||How Srijeeta’s pet gave a new lease of life to her||It had been a long day of online MBA classes and Srijeeta Bose was dog-tired. “So for the last class, I turned my video off, put my head down and well…dozed off,” she says. But her Pomeranian Mishti was just getting warmed up. “Mishti decided to take a walk on my laptop! The video got turned on and my entire batch got to see me snoozing away to glory.” She sounds dushtu, but Srijeeta swears her Pomeraian is nothing but mishti. “She’s been a new lease of life for me, actually. We got her nine days after our previous dog passed away. I was deeply affected by her death but Mishti gave me a purpose again.” The family initially lived in Baguiati but Mishti had no qualms moving to New Town in 2018, even becoming best friends with a nine-year-old neighbour here, Abhranil Dash (Jishnu). “Jishnu comes over to play with Mishti all the time. Sometimes when I would get late returning from college, he would feed her. The boy has also trained Mishti to walk on the road without a leash,” Srijeeta says. Mishti loves dressing up and her pictures garner many a like on Facebook. She poses in frocks, hoodies and in the last wedding season, even as a Bengali bride! “I had draped a red dupatta around her like a sari, given her a red bindi and a mukut. She looked so cute,” Srijeeta laughs. In fact, Srijeeta and Jishnu often wear clothes to match those of Mishti so they bond even more together. Mishti has become a darling of everyone in their building. She joins them during festivals and they come over on her birthday, showering her with presents. The Pomeranian isn’t just a fair weather friend. “Mishti is very sensitive. Once before my exams I was fretting and, in fact, crying in my room. Mishti left all else, climbed over to my lap and licked off my tears. It made me feel so much better,” Srijeeta smiles. Srijeeta began an MBA course last year but thanks to the pandemic has been studying from home instead of relocating to Gurgaon. “Every time I get an email from the college my heart skips a beat. If they call me to campus I don’t know how Mishti and I will live without each other,” she says, drawing the little dog into an embrace. If you have a pet you have brought up at home as a family member and which has its eyes only for you, write to us with your contact number at The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6, Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
18-06-2021||Calcutta||ISC: Class XI, XII  school exams and Class X board performances to matter||Students’ performances in the school exams in Classes XI and XII and in the Class X boards will help determine their Class XII marks in 2021 under a formula the board that conducts the Indian School Certificate (ISC) exam proposed to the Supreme Court on Thursday. Projects and practical work make up another “component” in the formula, as does the school’s best performance in the ISC in the past six years, the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) said in its affidavit. The apex court has given in-principle approval but will take the final decision on Monday. Students’ performances in any subject in Classes XI and XII will be “measured through their best marks” obtained in the two years. A “scaled score” based on these marks will make up a 60 per cent component of the marks awarded in the subject for ISC 2021. Projects and practical work in the subject will account for 30 per cent, and the Class X boards will make up 10 per cent. While the project and practical work and the best marks in Classes XI and XII would measure the “subject proficiency of the candidates”, the council said, the Class X board marks would measure their “general proficiency”. “To arrive at the weights, detailed analyses were performed on the data from the past board examinations from the years 2015 to 2020,” the affidavit says. It says the factors computed include a raw standard deviation (common for all subjects) for a school, which it explains as “the standard deviation of the percentage based on the raw totals (out of 400) obtained by all candidates of the school appearing for English and at least three other subjects in 2021”. Another computed factor is the “subject raw average percentage for a school” which the affidavit says is “the school average percentage in the theory paper for the subject in 2021”. The affidavit also gives a formula for awarding marks to the council’s Class X (ICSE) students. Project and practical work in the various subjects; the students’ performance in the school exams in Classes IX and X measured through their best marks; and the school’s best performance over the past six years are the components used to arrive at the formula, the affidavit says. The affidavit says the best year for a school between 2015 and 2020 is the year in which its students achieved the best average percentage in the ICSE in terms of the aggregate scores out of 500. For Class X students, the subject marks will reflect 70 per cent of a scaled score and 30 per cent of the subject project and practical work. The affidavit says the council constituted “an expert panel” that analysed data for approximately 100,000 students from about 1,200 schools for the ISC, and 220,000 students from 2,500 schools for the ICSE, to help arrive at the formulas. In Calcutta, school heads and teachers said that giving weightage to the Class X board exams while awarding the ISC marks was fair because the former was “a uniform examination” conducted by the council. But many teachers contested the logic of giving additional weightage to the school’s best performance over six years. “It is likely to put the smaller schools with fewer top scorers at a disadvantage,” a school principal said. Another principal echoed this person: “Why should a student in 2021 be judged by how students in other years performed? It is unfair on good students.” Most schools are still awaiting a formal communication from the council on the formula.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
18-06-2021||Calcutta||Time to show off your pets||The Dum Dum Youth Canine Association held a pet show earlier this year that gave dogs a chance to come out, play and show off the skills they had been honing all through the pandemic year. The show drew 164 participants, including some from different states. Don, a Rottweiler, and Simba, a German Shepherd Dog, had come from Jharkhand. “Please don’t come too close! It’s Don’s first show and he’s very protective of us. He might get aggressive,” said Amrita Deep, who had driven seven hours to get to the show. Then there was Rambo, another Rottweiler, who “didn’t know how to bite”. “People are scared of him seeing his size but he’s gentle and loving,” said Subrata Sarkar, who had brought his dog from Howrah. “I have another Labrador at home and they are thick as thieves. If I don’t serve a meal to one of them, the other refuses to eat.” Pragya Paul, a student of Class VII, couldn’t stop talking about her Lhasa Apso Disney and Pomeranian Gublu. “Gublu is the naughty one and teaches Disney the ropes. He loves climbing up things and when I sit for my online classes he climbs up the table and sits on the laptop,” she smiled. Disney, on the other hand, was timid. “I play the violin and whenever I hit the high notes he runs and hides in his cage! Even when guests come and he goes missing, we know he’s retreated into his cage,” Pragya smiled, drawing the dog into an embrace. Souryasree Chakraborty, who had come with her Cane Corso Zoe, knew all about naughty dogs. “We choose this breed after some research. The internet had praised this breed to the skies, calling them loyal, strong and great guard dogs. The only point it forgot to mention is how naughty they can get!” laughed Class VI student. “Zoe has ripped off all wires and pipes at home.” Lockdown days There was also a Saluki, curiously named Chile. “Well, actually his tail is shaped like the map of the South American country Chile so that’s what we named him,” reasoned Prasenjit Dey. Chile has been enjoying the lockdown to the hilt, what with everyone home with him all day. “We have a huge terrace for him to run in so he’s not cooped up either,” said Dey. Vivo, the Great Dane of Kankurgachhi, has been enjoying the lockdown with both Vijayendra Singh and their Grey Parrot Angel. “Truth be told, he’s scared of Angel,” laughed the businessman. The bird had obviously not come to the dog show but Vijayendra was full of stories about her too. “Would you believe she chants Om namah Shivay?” he said proudly, as Vivo turned his massive head to him so as to not feel left out. “I’ve been with Vivo all through the pandemic and might have spoilt him in fact,” he smiled. Ten-year-old Debapriya Bhadra got the best gift possible during the pandemic — a St Bernard puppy. “Happy is barely six months old but is already 42kg. He’ll be 100kg by the time he turns two,” said the girl who said Happy was naughty but not more than herself. “We have another dog at home — a Rottweiler named Lucky — but didn’t get him as it would get too much to handle. All my boredom flies out the window with these dogs around.” Official word The Best in Show awards in the two rings went to Sudip Kundu’s Beagle and Goutam Giri’s Golden Retriever. “One of the reasons our show got a huge number of entrants was the prize money. Besides trophies and titles, we gave away a total of Rs 65,000 in cash prizes,” said one of the organisers, Subhajit Chakraborty. The other reason, he felt, was because no pointed shows were being held at all. “Not only are dogs missing the action, but trainers and handlers are missing out on their income too. Pet shows like this try to get the wheels spinning,” Chakraborty said. Best of the rest The show also had a round for dogs who do not qualify in pointed shows. But here such dogs were given a red carpet, with the top prize going to Duke, an FD Block Beagle. “Duke has a bite problem but he’s a wonderful dog. All other dogs in this round were given consolation prizes and I hope other pet shows introduce this round as well,” owner Sanghamitra Hazra. Pictures by Basudeb Behera||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
18-06-2021||Calcutta||Torrential rain and high tide lead to widespread flooding across city||Torrential rain and high tide, which prevented water from being drained out into rivers, led to widespread flooding across the city on Thursday, engineers of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation said. Ten drainage pumping stations in the city recorded over 100mm of rain from 10pm on Wednesday till 6am on Thursday. Five of them recorded over 150mm of rain during the period. Data shared by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) showed that the Mominpore drainage pumping station recorded 179mm of rain, Kalighat drainage pumping station 168.2mm, Behala Flying Club station 163.6mm, Topsia station 153mm and the Chetla Lockgate station 150mm. Almost the entire Calcutta was inundated when dawn broke on Thursday because of intense rain overnight. Central Avenue, Colootolla, Park Street, JL Nehru Road, Camac Street, Queens Park, Lake Gardens, Southern Avenue and Kasba were among the worst-hit. Some of the city pockets that usually do not see waterlogging, such as Loudon Street and Rawdon Street, were flooded on Thursday. An engineer blamed the widespread waterlogging to high volume of rain at night and high tide the next morning, which did not let water flow into the Hooghly and Bidyadhari rivers. “The city got maximum rain from 10pm on Wednesday to 4am on Thursday. We were able to drain out a lot of water as the Hooghly gates remained open till 4am. It was closed at 4am and again opened at 8am. The gates were again close between 4.30pm and 8.30pm,” said Tarak Singh, a member of the CMC’s board of administrators who heads the drainage department. But the volume of rainfall far surpassed the capacity to drain out water. Calcutta’s underground drainage network is designed to prevent any waterlogging only if it rains up to 6mm in an hour, said an engineer. The capacity is increased by installing more pumps. “Water could not be drained out after 4am. Also, more rain added to the volume of accumulated water. Water was drained out from most of the roads by the afternoon,” Singh said. Accumulated rainwater in the city flows out naturally to the west into the Hooghly and to the east into the Bidyadhari after passing through drainage pumping stations. The sluice gates through which water passes into the rivers had to be closed for several hours on Thursday as the water levels in the rivers were too high because of the rain and high tide. “Whenever there is heavy rain, the Hooghly sluice gates are opened so that some of the rainwater is drained out into the river. This helps reduce the burden on the drainage pumping stations. It becomes a problem when heavy rain coincides with high tide,” the engineer said. “During high tide, the level of the water in the Hooghly is higher than the level of the drainage lines. If the sluice gates are kept open, water from the Hooghly will flow back into the drainage network and only worsen the waterlogging. That is why the sluice gates have to be kept closed when there is high tide in the Hooghly.” A similar system is followed in operating the Bidhyadhari river sluice gates. Singh said that if it did not rain at night, the remaining water would be drained out by the morning. “Most of the water receded by the afternoon. Some of the places were waterlogged till the evening probably because of other issues like blocked drains,” he said. Some gully pits were blocked with plastic and polythene bags, further slowing down draining out of water. In Behala, waterlogging was blamed on the civic body’s inability to run the drainage pumping station at Behala Flying Club. Singh said people living along a canal in which the pumping station discharges water protested, saying water from the canal was entering their houses. “We hope we will be able to operate the pumps at the station soon,” Singh said on Thursday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
18-06-2021||Calcutta||Weather report, forecast: Three systems team up to trigger overnight torrential rain in city||Two weather systems teamed up with strong southwest monsoon currents to trigger overnight torrential rain in the city. Between Wednesday morning and Thursday morning, the Met office recorded close to 150mm of rain in Alipore, around two-third of which poured through the night. The city is tipped to be overcast and rainy at least for the next couple of days. “On Friday and Saturday, expect multiple spells of rain. Another spell of heavy rain is not ruled out,” said a Met official. A cyclonic circulation over Gangetic Bengal and a trough of low pressure extending from Punjab to northeast Bay of Bengal led to the formation of cumulonimbus clouds that triggered the downpour. “The trough passes through Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Bengal, extending up to 0.9km above the mean sea level. It almost passes directly over Calcutta,” said G.K. Das, director, India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. “These two strong systems were aided by significant moisture incursion from the Bay of Bengal to lead to the formation of heavy rain-bearing clouds that triggered the downpour,” he added. The sky has been overcast since Wednesday morning. The city witnessed more than one spell of light rain throughout the day. But the intensity of the showers picked up towards the night. “It was raining incessantly after midnight. While being dropped home, I got off the pool car on the main road, some 50m from my home, located in a narrow lane. I had an umbrella but the rain was so intense that I got drenched by the time I reached home,” said Madhuparna Chakraborty, who works in the administrative department of a private hospital and lives near Behala police station. Sk Sufiyan, an app cab driver, is usually on duty through the night. “Yesterday, driving through the rain was extremely difficult, mainly because the showers blocked visibility. I went home around 1am,” said the 29-year-old, who lives in Maheshtala. “The active monsoon conditions will persist. The two systems are also likely to remain active till at least June 19,” said a Met official. The weather will start improving once the cyclonic circulation starts moving towards the interiors of Bihar, said the official. Now, it is reasonably static, he said. The overcast conditions dragged the temperature down on Thursday. The maximum temperature was 27.8 degrees, six notches below normal, on Thursday. The minimum fell to 23.7 degrees, three notches below normal. On June 26, 2018, the city saw over 150mm of rain. In Met parlance, 60-120mm of rain in 24 hours qualifies as heavy and above 120mm very heavy rain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
18-06-2021||Calcutta||Jamai draw on first day of longer hours||With fear of Covid looming, Jamai Sashthi wasn’t celebrated with as much pomp as in other years. Restaurants were allowed to start the dine-in service from the same day — from noon to 8pm — but very few witnessed significant footfall. “We get quite a few home delivery orders on a regular basis and those remained level on Jamai Sashthi. It was the dine-in numbers that exceeded expectations,” said manager at Abcos Food Plaza, Samiran Mitra. “We had started getting enquiries from before and thought the festival would be a good day to open. We got about 50 people coming in — families with kids, grandparents and a large group of doctors.” But 6 Ballygunge Place neither expected nor got much footfall. “We knew this would be the case, just as in last year’s ‘unlock’ phase. People get confidence to come only after about a week. Today we had 25 or 30 diners,” said manager Basudev Sarkar. But their home deliveries rose by about 30 per cent and many ordered the elaborate Rs 1,103 Jamai Sashti thali. Discount for the vaccinated The Cafe Ekante outlets at Eco Island, Biswa Bangla Gate, Dhaba Ekante (under the Eiffel Tower replica) and Dhamsa (at Banglar Gram in Eco Park) offered 10 per cent discount to a table if the son-in-law was vaccinated. The discount doubled if he had received both his jabs. “Eco Island did the best business, with seven tables occupied. The other outlets got one or two,” said Snehasish Sinha, additional general manager (tourism), Hidco. The discount offer will continue for all diners henceforth. Home deliveries With travel being both difficult and risky, most families went for home deliveries. The kitchen run by the state Comprehensive Area Development Corporation (CADC), at DD Block’s Mrittika Bhawan, is hosting a week-long Jamai Sashthi festival and getting more than 100 orders a day. The Rs 500 platters have two variants — one with hilsa and chicken and the other with mutton and golda chingri. “We are also getting cases of sons-in-law treating their in-laws instead of the other way round,” says Soumyajit Das, administrative secretary of the CADC. “In families where parents have passed away, siblings are treating one another. While half our deliveries are in Salt Lake and New Town, we are also getting orders from Garia, Howrah and Behala.” Other popular restaurants like Bhojohori Manna, Koshe Kosha and Galawat recorded average sales. Cuisine no bar The festival may have been Bengali, but the cuisines were from the world over. “We closed down our Bengali section during the pandemic but diners had no complaints,” said Mitra of Abcos. “In fact, our most popular dish on Wednesday was Elaichi Raan.” Oudh 1590 got about 50 diners on the day, enjoying biryanis and kebabs. “Cuisine doesn’t matter any more. People love biryani and this was an excuse to get out of their houses,” says Prodyut Das, a member of staff. Timing trouble The restaurants are unhappy about the timings they have been allowed them to operate in. “If we are to wrap up by 8pm, diners have to start eating by 6.30! Who eats that early? Even most of our home deliveries are called in at 10pm,” says Indrani Mukherjee of Curry Nation in IB Block . “While no one came to dine on Jamai Sashthi, we are hoping people celebrate the festival belatedly over the weekend.” Then there were sons-in-law like Arnab Kumar Bhattacharya, who preferred to celebrate with home-cooked food. “This was my first Jamai Sashthi and my in-laws were very keen to host me,” says the AA Block resident who took three autos to reach his in-law’s place in Dum Dum. “Restaurant food can be ordered any day. It’s home-cooked recipes that are disappearing.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
18-06-2021||Calcutta||Bengal education department to announce Madhyamik, HS evaluation details on Friday||The Bengal education department will announce on Friday how state board students of Classes X and XII will be evaluated this year. Madhyamik as well as the state higher secondary exams have been scrapped this year because of a surge in Covid-19 cases. “The education department will announce tomorrow how Madhyamik (secondary) and higher secondary students will be evaluated. The results will be published in July,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said in response to a question during a media briefing on Thursday. An official of the state education department said details of the evaluation would be announced by the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education and the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education. While announcing on June 7 that the secondary and the higher secondary exams would not be held this year because of Covid, the chief minister had asked the presidents of the two exam-conducting bodies to get details of the evaluations vetted by her. “She had also instructed them to keep an eye on the CBSE’s decision regarding the evaluation methodology,” the official said. A six-member committee had been constituted to suggest possible methods of assessment. “Factoring in the developments in court on Thursday, the recommendation of the experts and the exam-conducting bodies’ reports, an announcement will be made on Friday,” said an official. The focus is on publishing results at the earliest so undergraduate admissions are not affected. Several institutions have announced how they are going to admit students to undergraduate programmes. “The earlier the results are out the better. This can happen only after the evaluation methodology is announced. The CBSE and the ICSE council are going to publish their results soon. If our results are delayed, students of the Bengal board will lag behind others in the race for college berths,” another official of the state education department said. Mamata had underscored that point herself. “It has to be ensured that our students do not lose out to students from other boards.... Therefore, the evaluation has to be completed at the earliest,’’ she had said on June 7.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
18-06-2021||Calcutta||Summer Camp in Covid times||CRAFT Floral tiaras are pretty easy to make. It is one of the most beautiful DIY (do it yourself ) crafts I learnt to make in this summer holiday. You may try making one too and craft your stress away. Materials required • 1mm craft wire • Knitting needle • Green coloured floral tape • Scrapbook paper or crepe paper • Scissors • Hot glue gun • Glue stick • Pencil • Ribbons Procedure First of all, we need to get the roses ready for the tiara. We need to carve and cut out petals from the crepe paper. We will need one tear drop-shaped petal for the centre and then about five rounded heart-shaped petals.  And then take a small knitting needle and roll the tear drop-shaped petal to make the centre of our rose. Now we need to take the heart-shaped petals and pinch the base around a large knitting needle. Then with a small knitting needle, we need to curl the top of our petals backwards. We have to curl all of the petals in this manner. Finally, to assemble our rose we have to start by gluing the tear drop shaped petals into the centre of one of our petals. Then continue to create our rose in this way by adding petals diagonally opposite. We need to make at least six or seven roses. Now, we need to cut a piece of wire and then bend it into a horseshoe shape. Take the wire and wrap it around your head to find your best fit. Leave about a ½ inch of extra space and cut off the excess wire. Make sure to secure the ends with green floral tape. Then slip the two ends of the horseshoe-shaped wire down through the centre of the flowers and cut the tape and press the edge down to seal it. Continue placing and taping the flowers. We may as well fold several long pieces of ribbon in half and place them just behind the spot where the wires overlap and wrap the ribbon ends over the wire and down through the loop. Our floral tiara is all ready! Now wear your tiara, shine like a princess, keep your head held high and leave a little sparkle wherever you go! Srijita Talukdar, 17 years, Renaissance Co-operative Housing Society, AB Block, Action Area 1A, New Town During the lockdown, I have been studying at home. I wake up at 8.45am. Next I do my PE lessons. After that I have breakfast. Then there are online classes. First I do mathematics. Then I do English. After English, I focus on my science lessons. I watch the videos provided with all lessons during the day. I answer questions and send in all my work, which get checked by the teachers, marked and returned with comments. If we get stuck, the teachers are always there to help us. I read books online in the afternoon at Bug Club. I also go to the garden for exercise. Still sometimes I get bored because I can’t talk to my friends for long or see them, leave alone going to school and playing with them. Our class teacher hosts online class meetings so we can see our friends and chat with them. During my spare time, I play online multi-player games, chat with my friends, play board games, sing and take part in online programmes and competitions. I also do gardening and have grown some vegetables and flowers. I hope this pandemic will end soon, so I can go back to school and play with my friends. I can’t wait to see them again! Priyom Datta Purokayastha, 7 years, AJ Block||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
18-06-2021||Calcutta||How city coped with waterlogging after overnight rainfall||Large parts of the city went under water on Thursday. The Telegraph travelled the city and witnessed the harrowing experiences residents were going through. Here are some - Slippery tram line at Thanthania Kalibari: Several incidents of motorcyclists and scooterists falling on slippery tramlines were reported from near the spot. Police said there were no major injuries. Cops and residents of the neighbourhood were alerting scooterists and motorcyclists to rather walk the stretch with their two-wheelers, instead of riding them. Cave-in at Behala: A part of Behala’s Biren Roy Road West caved in after the night-long downpour and had to be cordoned off. “It is a two-way stretch. As one flank of the stretch was closed, there was a little more traffic pressure on the road compared with other days,” said an officer of the traffic police. Congestion on Central Avenue: One flank of the arterial road was waterlogged, resulting in traffic snarls. Since stricter Covid curbs came into force on May 16, vehicles have been reaching the Shyambazar five-point crossing from Esplanade in around 20 minutes. On Thursday, it took more than an hour to cover the stretch. Pumping station woes: A tiff was reported from outside the pumping station at the Behala flying club over an allegation that water was being drained out from one area to another. Residents of a slum protested outside the pumping station alleging that water was being drained from in front of high-rise buildings into a canal that flows past their shanties. Pumping work had to be stalled because of the protest. Cave-in at Uluberia: A stretch of a road in Uluberia’s Kalinagar, in Howrah, caved in, resulting in a 4ft-deep crater. Five shops along the road got tilted in a dangerous way. There were no reports of anyone being injured. Waterlogged Sector V: Cars headed for the tech township from EM Bypass and the Chingrihata flyover had to negotiate several waterlogged stretches of the Sector V-bound flank of the Salt Lake Bypass. If reaching Sector V was a challenge, commuters inside the township had to wade through knee-deep water to reach their offices. Key crossings such as Wipro, College More and Godrej Waterside were under water. Drowning at Jagannath Ghat (North Port): Rajesh Shaw, 26, a resident of Strand Bank Road, was drowned in the Hooghly at Jagannath Ghat around 1.30pm. The police said a team from the disaster management group and the river traffic police launched a search but he could not be found till Thursday evening. His clothes and slippers were recovered from the ghat. Rickshaws to cross VIP Road: Samir Jain, a resident of Poddar Vihar on VIP Road, stepped out with wife Akriti to visit a bank in Lake Town. The family had to hire a rickshaw just to cross the road. “Waterlogging is common here and the residents’ association of our building has complained several times to the authorities but no action has been taken. The road in front of our building turns into a huge water body every monsoon. Rickshaw-pullers made a killing today. I had to shell out Rs 30 to one of them just to cross the road,” Jain said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
18-06-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta Municipal Corporation offers govt space for private units to organise jab drives||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has sought the help of private hospitals to ramp up vaccination in the city and offered properties belonging to it or the government for the private units to organise off-site jab drives. The issues were discussed during a meeting with senior officials of private hospitals at the civic headquarters on Thursday. The hospitals were asked to place more orders for vaccines than what they are doing now so more people can be brought under the vaccination net. The state government will help source vaccines for private hospitals so that they do not have to slow down their vaccination pace because of supply issues. Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the board of administrators of the CMC, was present in the meeting along with officials of the civic body and the state health department. “CMC and health department officials said private hospitals should place more demands for vaccines,” said Pradip Tondon, chief executive officer, Belle Vue Clinic. “The state government will place a bulk order with the manufacturers for all private hospitals. If the manufacturers get a bulk order, it will be easier for them to supply. The individual hospitals will pay for the number of doses they sought.” Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive officer of Peerless Hospital, said the civic body offered to arrange places if the hospitals were not finding space for off-site camps. “They said the CMC and the state government would offer their nearest property if that is possible. They wanted private hospitals to be involved in outreach programmes and try every possible means to increase vaccination,” said Mitra. Peerless is vaccinating about 300 people daily, he said. Officials of private hospitals said that to vaccinate more people they might have to open more off-site vaccination facilities. “We are vaccinating between 1,500 and 2,000 people every day, counting both off-site and hospital vaccination. But my observation is that the number of people taking the jabs at the hospital does not go beyond a level. So, we will try to increase off-site vaccination sites,” said R. Venkatesh, the regional director of Narayana Health, the owner of Rabindranath Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS). “People usually feel comfortable taking the vaccine in known spaces like their office or housing complex,” he said. AMRI Hospitals is vaccinating between 7,000 and 8,000 people a day at its three hospitals. “We had targeted vaccinating about 10,000 people a day but shortage of doses held us back. The state government’s offer to source the vaccines in bulk will help us,” said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. Bengal had touched the mark of vaccinating 4 lakh people each day in March but the numbers have since dropped to between 1.5 and 2.5 lakh. A health department official said the drop was primarily because of the shortage of doses. Public health specialists and other doctors have repeatedly said one way to go back to the pre-Covid way of life is vaccinating the entire population. The faster people are vaccinated, the less the chance of the infection spreading. The CMC’s Covid vaccination centres are inoculation close to 10,000 people a day. A senior CMC official said they had the capacity to vaccinate up to 50,000 people a day. The Centre had announced that from May 21 it would buy 75 per cent of doses manufactured and distribute them among the states. The remaining 25 per cent must be purchased by private hospitals. But many smaller private hospitals have found it difficult to purchase vaccines directly from the manufacturers. It may help them if the state procures the doses for them, said officials of private hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
18-06-2021||Calcutta||One arrested for posing as government official||A resident of Bangur Avenue has been arrested for allegedly posing as a government official and travelling in a beacon-fitted SUV. Mohit Sharma was intercepted on Bangur Avenue by a team from Lake Town police station late on Wednesday. According to an officer, the Mahindra XUV 500 had a beacon on top and also a board on the windscreen that had the words “C.R.P.C, Director, Govt. Of India” written on it. The bonnet of the car had a flag with “NCIB” printed on it in bold and a sticker that read “Govt. Of India. On Duty”. “The stickers and the letters on the flag made our men suspicious,” said the officer. The car had 32-year-old Mohit Sharma at the wheel. He flashed an identity card bearing his name and photograph and had “Govt. of India” printed on it. “The card did not specify any department. During questioning Sharma told us that the car belonged to his brother Nishant. Neither he nor his brother is a government official,” said the officer. The police have apparently come to know that the Sharmas are traders. “We are trying to find out why the stickers were pasted on the car,” the officer said. “Mohit said he would introduce himself as a government servant and would offer help in income tax-related issues,” another officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
18-06-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s University law course entrance tests to be held on July 18||St Xavier’s University, New Town, which had postponed the Xavier Law Admission Test (XLAT) in April because of the pandemic, has scheduled the tests for July 18. Aspirants can write the tests online from home. The computer-based test that would have required visiting examination centres was to be held in nine cities, including Calcutta, on April 25. Now, the test will be internet-based. If an aspirant has poor connectivity at home, he or she can go to the campus and use the university’s facilities to write the tests. “The aspirants are free to come to the campus in New Town and use our computer labs to write the online tests. They can stay at our hostels on the campus and write the tests from our labs. As many as 400 candidates can use the labs to write the tests, following the safety protocols,” vice-chancellor Father Felix Raj told The Telegraph. The Xavier Law School, a unit of St Xavier’s University, offers five-year integrated BA LLB (honours) and BCom LLB (honours) courses. Students with the required plus-II qualifications — uploaded on the university’s website — and who are not more than 20 years old on July 1, 2021, are eligible to apply for the admission tests. Father Felix Raj said at a meeting on Wednesday that the university had decided to let aspirants write the online tests from home to prevent exposure to the coronavirus at a time a large number of people are testing positive for Covid across the country daily. “The rate of infection may have come down from what it was in late April or May, but the threat persists. So, we don’t want the aspirants to step out of their home to write the tests. If there is any connectivity problem at home, they are free to come to the campus and write the tests,” he said. The law school classes will start in the online mode on August 9. A university official said because of the delayed start to the academic year, the duration of the Puja and Christmas vacations would be reduced so that the first-semester syllabus can be completed on time. Since most aspirants will write the tests from home, the university will introduce measures for “remote proctoring” to ensure no unfair means are adopted, the official said. “The aspirants will be asked to keep their desktop or laptop cameras on so that there can be remote invigilation. In case they decide to write the tests from our computer labs, there will be in-person invigilation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
18-06-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end flat after choppy trade||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended on a flat note after a volatile session on Friday amid a largely negative trend in global equities.  The 30-share BSE Sensex ended 21.12 points or 0.04 per cent higher at 52,344.45, while the broader NSE Nifty inched 8.05 points or 0.05 per cent lower to 15,683.35.  ONGC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 4 per cent, followed by NTPC, PowerGrid, M&M, Nestle India, SBI and HCL Tech.  On the other hand, HUL, Bajaj Auto, Bharti Airtel, Bajaj Finserv were among the gainers.  It was an extremely volatile trading day for domestic equities with benchmark Nifty recovering sharply from day's low, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.  Barring FMCG and pharma, all key sectoral indices traded in the red. Metals, PSU banks, and realty indices witnessed steeper contraction.  Further, heavy profit-booking was seen in midcap and smallcap stocks after sharp rally in recent weeks, Modi noted.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Seoul ended on a positive note, while Shanghai and Tokyo closed lower.  Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading with losses in mid-session deals.  International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.73 per cent lower at USD 72.55 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-15
18-06-2021||Business||Radwan Elhag Hamoud's Biggest Strength That Helped Him Build Elalami Media||Some people have natural talents that translate into career opportunities. This includes people like writers, chefs, mechanics, and computer programmers. Hobbyists in these areas can become entrepreneurs and might need some help in building their brands. Enter Radwan Elhag Hamoud, whose talent for strategic marketing and creating an online presence helps companies reach their target consumers. Radwan Elhag Hamoud has a fresh perspective on advertising as he realizes the future of marketing has gone digital. He has a unique ability to help businesses utilize social media marketing to their fullest potential. While he might seem like a wizard, there are no magic tricks involved. Radwan Elhag Hamoud simply understands the concepts of public relations and how to maximize a company’s persona. Whether it is through traditional on online avenues, the goal is to engage, influence, and sway the public’s opinion for the benefit of the organization. Not only has Radwan Elhag Hamoud mastered this, he has a reputation of creating success for a company when all other digital marketers have failed. He achieves this with unconventional thinking and an uncanny ability to find even the most elusive opportunity for a client to home in on. Radwan Elhag Hamoud considers the process behind this to be his biggest strength: monitor media, measure web traffic, and research metrics. To be a successful digital branding guru, you need technical skills and the ability to interpret internet use data. As Radwan Elhag Hamoud has mastered these abilities, he has established himself as an authority in his field. Radwan Elhag Hamoud also understands the administrative element of marketing and brand building. Running a business takes time, commitment, and organization. So does marketing one’s company as social media accounts must be updated, emails need to be reviewed, there are events to manage, and finances need to be in order. By walking clients through both of these areas, Radwan Elhag Hamoud provides a comprehensive solution that is custom-tailored to each client. This attention to detail has certainly contributed to Radwan Elhag Hamoud’s success as a leading digital marketer and online public relations consultant. With his knowledge of user data, building reputations, and uncovering hidden opportunities, Radwan Elhag Hamoud has built a formidable online empire based on getting results when no one else could.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-15
18-06-2021||Business||Can Life Insurance Serve as a Steady Source of Post-Retirement Income?||The life expectancy figures in India have risen over the last decade. As per Statista, life expectancy in India has increased from 67-68 years in 2015 to 69-70 years in 2020. This implies that the post-retirement life span has also increased. This has a direct influence on the financial preparedness for retirement. While many of you might rely on your accumulated savings to get you through the non-working years of your life, the truth is, the annual rise in inflation (nearly 5-6%) combined with the longer life span and mounting medical expenses can all be an expensive outcome. To ensure a financially secure retirement, your basic need is to have a regular source of income in your post-retirement life. You should plan and invest in wise investment options like life insurance that offer you dual advantages of a life cover, along with guaranteed post-retirement income. With a regular source of post-retirement income, you will be better equipped to maintain your standard of living, combat the impact of inflation, and meet your and your family’s medical expenses in the future. How does life insurance help? Specific life insurance plans known as retirement plans are designed to provide you with financial stability during the non-working years of your life. These plans offer the double benefit of life insurance and investment. You pay regular premiums when you are working and enjoy tax exemptions on the premiums paid. The money is invested in the market, and it accrues over the policy tenure. At the vesting age, when you decide to receive the payouts, you can choose to take regular income withdrawals as per your preference. You also get life insurance cover throughout the policy term like a term insurance. Some benefits of the Retirement Insurance Plans With effective retirement planning and the right income options, you can easily secure the most important phase of your life, spanning decades. There is no margin for error here, so make the right choice and at the right time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-15
18-06-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points in early trade on Friday, tracking gains in index-heavyweights Infosys, HDFC twins and ICICI Bank amid a largely positive trend in global equities. The 30-share BSE index was trading 220.53 points or 0.42 per cent higher at 52,543.86 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 53.70 points or 0.34 per cent to 15,745.10. ONGC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by PowerGrid, M&M, Maruti, L&T, NTPC and Titan. On the other hand, Bajaj Finserv, Sun Pharma, HCL Tech, Infosys and Dr Reddy's were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 178.65 points or 0.34 per cent lower at 52,323.33. The broader NSE Nifty declined 76.15 points or 0.48 per cent to 15,691.40. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 879.73 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities look to be modestly good as of now. Weak global cues led Indian equities to see profit booking in last couple of days, he said, adding that more than 100 per cent improvement in advance tax/direct tax collections in 1QFY22 so far indicates sustainable corporate earnings in coming quarters along with strong financial resources for the government to maintain budgeted fiscal deficit. Further, easing of business curbs by states led by sharp decline in COVID-19 positivity rates and reduction in daily caseload continues to offer comfort to investors, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading on a positive note, while Shanghai was in the red in mid-session deals. US equities ended on a mixed note in the overnight session, as S&P 500 and Dow Jones ended on a negative note, while technology stocks made a comeback and pushed Nasdaq to near a record close. International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.92 per cent lower at USD 72.41 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-15
18-06-2021||Business||Coal bed methane to be available for extraction from Jharia by 2026: Coal India||Coal India on Thursday said coal bed methane (CBM) would be available for extraction from Jharia by 2026. The PSU has also floated global tenders to develop two more CBM blocks — Raniganj in Bengal and  Sohagpur in Madhya Pradesh. Spread over an area of around 27 square kilometres, the Jharia CBM Block-1 will have an average production capacity of 1.3 million metric cubic metres per day . The life span of the project is 25 years. The public sector miner said a developer has been selected for the Rs 1,880-crore project. Jharkhand-based Coal India subsidiary — Bharat Coking Coal Limited — will invest 20 per cent in the project. The other two blocks in the pipeline — one with Eastern Coalfields and the other with South Eastern Coalfields — have a combined resource of 2.7 billion cubic metres. Methane from these two projects would be available after gas offtake begins from Jharia. Commercial prospects Methane has energy potential and the natural gas found in coal seams can be put to commercial use by supplying to city gas distributors or to consumers through pipelines . The commissioning of the gas pipeline in eastern India under the Urja Ganga project of GAIL is in progress and could help in the distribution of gas to the consumers. “This is for the first time that the company has taken up coal bed methane extraction on its own in its leasehold area. CBM extraction is part of diversifying the portfolio under clean coal initiatives,” said a Coal India executive. The useful exploitation of the gas would not only lead to its use as an energy fuel but would also prevent its release into the atmosphere during coal mining, the executive added. Central Mine Planning and Design Institute, the consultancy arm of Coal India, will be the principal implementing agency for the miner’s CBM development in its leasehold areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-15
18-06-2021||Business||Dominica magistrate court sends Mehul Choksi to state prison||A magistrate court in Dominica on Thursday sent businessman Mehul Choksi to a state prison, his lawyer in India said, but added that he would continue to remain in hospital as his medical condition had “deteriorated”. The diamond trader was earlier in police custody. “Yes, police custody has been changed to prison custody but he shall remain in hospital as his medical condition has deteriorated,” lawyer Vijay Aggarwal said. The development is being seen as a ray of hope for India, which has approached the Dominica High Court seeking to be impleaded as a party in the case filed by lawyers of Choksi whose bail plea was earlier rejected. India’s multi-agency team, which had gone to Dominica to bring back Mehul Choksi, returned empty-handed on June 4 after the island nation’s high court had adjourned the hearing on the fugitive diamantaire’s habeas corpus petition. Choksi is wanted in India in a case of loan fraud worth about Rs 13,500 crore in the state-run Punjab National Bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-16
18-06-2021||Business|| Kotak Life Insurance expects to incur loss of Rs 225-275 crore in first quarter||Kotak Life Insurance expects to incur a loss of Rs 225-275 crore in the first quarter ending June 2021 because of higher Covid-related claims and an increase in mortality related provisioning on account of the second wave. Kotak Life is a subsidiary of Kotak Mahindra Bank. The private sector bank on Thursday shared an update by the life insurer on its business. It said that the second wave of the pandemic has led to an unprecedented increase in fatalities because of which there has been a rise in death claims since May. Its impact was discussed by the board of Kotak Life at its meeting on Wednesday. “We estimate that claims net of reinsurance for the quarter ending June 2021 will be significantly higher than expected. Due to increased claims and higher mortality related provisioning on account of the second wave, the company expects to incur a loss for the quarter ending June 2021 in the range of Rs 225-275 crore,” Kotak Life said. During the fourth quarter ended March  2021, the company had posted a net profit of Rs 193 crore against Rs 165 crore a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-16
18-06-2021||Business|| Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella appointed as new company chairman||Microsoft’s India-born CEO Satya Nadella has been appointed as the technology giant’s new chairman, an additional role in which he will “lead the work to set the agenda for the board”. Microsoft Corp on Wednesday announced that the board’s independent directors unanimously elected Nadella to the role of board chair, and unanimously elected John W Thompson as the lead independent director, a role he held previously from 2012 to 2014. “In this role, Nadella will lead the work to set the agenda for the board, leveraging his deep understanding of the business to elevate the right strategic opportunities and identify key risks and mitigation approaches for the board’s review,” the company said in a statement. Nadella, 53, succeeds Thompson, who as the lead independent director, will retain significant authority, including providing input on behalf of the independent directors on board agendas, calling meetings of the independent directors, setting agendas for executive sessions, and leading performance evaluations of the CEO, the technology giant said. Nadella, who has served as chief executive since 2014, has helped transform the company into a leader in cloud computing in recent years, resulting in blockbuster earnings and a market cap of close to $2 trillion, CNN reported. The company’s shares have soared more than sevenfold as Microsoft has been restored to the ranks of the top technology companies. Under Nadella’s leadership, Microsoft recovered from failures in the mobile phone and internet search market, as well as a waning of the importance of its flagship Windows operating system. Nadella has refocused the company around cloud computing, mobile applications and artificial intelligence while breathing new life into the Office software franchise by shifting it more to the cloud and to other operating systems. Nadella, the company’s third CEO, will also be the third chairman in Microsoft’s history, following Gates and Thompson. Steve Ballmer, the CEO before Nadella, never held the chairmanship as Gates kept that title for Ballmer’s entire tenure. In addition to these role changes, the board declared a quarterly dividend of $0.56 per share. The dividend is payable September 9, 2021, to shareholders of record on August 19, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-16
18-06-2021||Business||RBI buys Rs 26,779 crore of the benchmark 10-year bond at 5.99 per cent ||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday bought Rs 26,779 crore of the benchmark 10-year bond at 5.99 per cent as part of the third tranche of the G-Sec Acquisition Programme (G-SAP 1.0), under which it bought Rs 40,000 crore on Thursday. The decision to buy the paper at 5.99 per cent — the cut-off yield for the 10-year paper, which was trading above 6 per cent earlier in the day — is yet another instance of how the central bank wants to keep a lid on long-term interest rates and ensure the yields on the benchmark paper move in a tight range, preferably below 6 per cent. The cut-off rate flies in the face of RBI governor Shaktikanta Das’s assertion there was nothing “sacrosanct” about the 6 per cent level. Before the auction, the 10-year security had hit a high of 6.07 per cent,though later it settled at 6.01 per cent. With this purchase, the RBI is estimated to hold more than Rs 81,000 crore of the 10-year bonds in the market, or around 77 per cent of the paper in the market, which could help the yields to stay range-bound. At the auction, the central bank purchased Rs 1,914 crore of the 7.17 per cent 2028 bond and Rs 5,882 crore of the 6.64 per cent 2035 bond. The RBI also bought state development loans of Rs 5,425 crore. Bond yields had inched up after the finance minister announced a huge Rs 12 lakh crore borrowing programme in the current fiscal. However, they have cooled down from the higher levels because of the various steps taken by the RBI. Stocks, rupee fall Domestic equity benchmarks retreated for the second straight session on Thursday, mirroring weakness in global markets after the US Federal Reserve surprised investors by signalling faster-than-expected rate hikes. A sharp drop in the rupee — which plunged 76 paise against the dollar — also sapped risk appetite, traders said. The 30-share BSE Sensex ended 178.65 points, or 0.34 per cent, lower at 52323.33. The broader NSE Nifty declined 76.15 points, or 0.48 per cent, to 15691.40. At the interbank forex market, the rupee opened weak at 73.65 against the US currency, then lost further ground and finally closed at 74.08, showing a fall of 76 paise over its previous close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-16
18-06-2021||Business||Centre should come out with Rs 3 lakh crore fiscal stimulus, says Confederation of Indian Industry||The government should come out with a fiscal stimulus of Rs 3 lakh crore, including cash transfer to households through Jan Dhan accounts, to perk up demand and spur economic growth, industry chamber CII said on Thursday. The industry association also sought an expansion in the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) balance sheet to meet the demand exigencies of the Covid-19 pandemic. Newly elected CII president T.V. Narendran told a virtual media conference that the chamber expects GDP to grow at 9.5 per cent in 2021-22 as the growth in the second half of the financial year will be supported by robust external demand and large-scale vaccination, allowing the resumption of economic activity. “CII estimates that there is fiscal headroom of up to Rs 3 lakh crore and this amount can be channelised towards direct cash transfers to the vulnerable people, higher allocation to the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act scheme, short-term Goods and Services Tax (GST) rate cuts and lower excise duty on fuel,” Narendran said. The most important thing is to support demand so that we have jobs and livelihoods, Narendran said. He said private sector investment is usually driven by two factors — demand and profitability. Demand, which was a bit soft prior to the pandemic, started recovering after the first wave but got impacted by the second. “I hope we will start recovering again, which is what we are forecasting, particularly in the second half of the year,” he said. “I think we have seen both (demand and profitability) coming back and I can say that from the steel sector point of view, for example, all companies have significant expansion plans.” If you add up all their expansion plans, it alone is Rs 50,000-60,000 crore of investments over the next three years, he said. Demand can also be revitalised through a time-bound tax concession of interest rate subvention for home buyers, he said. Narendran called for an increase in the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme to Rs 5 lakh crore along with the extension of the scheme till March 31, 2022 and the inclusion of more distressed sectors such as retail. He said the government should consider long-pending structural tax reforms such as the inclusion of aviation turbine fuel and other products under GST . A CII survey has showed that a significant majority of respondents reported infections among staff or their family and as a result, more than half of them expected adverse impact on production or sales in the June quarter. “With a majority of the population vaccinated by the end of this year, implementation of big-ticket reforms and a large fiscal stimulus, we will be able to reach the critical $5 trillion mark by 2025-26. This is the best-case scenario that CII has estimated,” Narendran said. On vaccination, he said there should be a minimum 71.2 lakh average daily vaccination doses from now till December 2021 to cover the entire adult population. “The Vaccine Czar (or minister) should be empowered to undertake actions like in the UK on a daily campaign to track domestic vaccine production and import supplies; equitable distribution of vaccines among states; track progress on vaccine deployment and administration; and use a dashboard approach and share progress reports daily,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-16
18-06-2021||India||Centre likely to hold talks with all regional J&K parties before month-end: Officials||The central government is likely to hold discussions with all regional parties in Jammu and Kashmir before the end of this month as part of its initiatives to bolster political processes, including holding assembly elections, in the union territory, officials said here on Friday. The central leadership may even invite National Conference (NC) chief Farooq Abdullah, PDP chairperson Mehbooba Mufti, Altaf Bukhari of the Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP), People's Conference head Sajjad Lone for discussion, the officials said. Both Abdullah and Mehbooba had served as chief minister of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. The meeting is likely to be chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and attended by Union Home Minister Amit Shah and other central leaders. Asked about the prospect of talks with the Centre, CPI(M) leader and spokesperson of the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) M Y Tarigami said there has been no word from New Delhi, but added that if it happens, it would be welcomed. "We have never closed our doors for meaningful engagement with the Centre. Though I have no information about any dialogue, if it happens, it will be welcomed," Tarigami told PTI from Srinagar. PAGD is an alliance of some parties in Jammu and Kashmir, including the NC and the PDP, that was formed in the aftermath of the abrogation of its special status and its bifurcation into union territories. JKAP president Bukhari said, "I welcome, if and when, the talks take place. This vindicates our position of March 2020 when we had made it clear that dialogue is the only mechanism to restore democracy and statehood for Jammu and Kashmir." "Better late than never as the solution to all our problems lies with New Delhi and nowhere else," he added. The Jammu and Kashmir units of the BJP and the Congress are also likely to be part of these discussions, which are being seen as part of efforts to strengthen normal political processes in the union territory. The officials said the delimitation commission under the leadership of Justice (retd) Ranjana Desai, which was set up immediately after the passage of the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Bill in Parliament, is likely to expedite its work and submit its report. The commission was set up in February 2020 and has been given an extension of one year in March this year. Barring Bukhari, other leaders have served a spell of detention following the August 2019 decision of the Centre to abrogate special status of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcating the erstwhile state into union territories -- Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. In the District development Council election last year, the PAGD surged way ahead of the BJP and its allies, including the JKAP, by bagging 110 seats out of 280 with the National Conference emerging stronger with 67 seats within the alliance. The BJP was the single largest party with 75 seats. The political mainstream of the union territory, especially those having a strong base in Kashmir Valley, have been critical of successive administrations of the union territory for neglecting the demands of the people and raising questions on the development slogan raised post August 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-49
18-06-2021||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra records 9,798 cases, 198 deaths||Maharashtra on Friday recorded 9,798 new Covid-19 cases, taking its case tally to 59,54,508, while 198 fatalities raised the death toll to 1,16,674, the health department said. Of 198 deaths, 133 occurred in the last 48 hours while 65 took place in the last week. Another 450 deaths which had taken place earlier were added after reconciliation of records. The death toll, overall, went up by 648. Discharged patients outnumbered new infections. With 14,347 patients getting discharged during the day, the total of recoveries reached 56,99,983. There are 1,34,747 active cases in the state. The recovery rate of Maharashtra is now 95.73 per cent, while fatality rate is 1.96 per cent. With 2,20,897 tests conducted during the day, the number of samples tested for coronavirus so far rose to 3,90,78,541. There are 8,54,461 people in home quarantine while 4,831 are in institutional quarantine. Mumbai city added 758 cases which increased its caseload to 7,18,590, while 19 deaths took the fatality count to 15,266. The larger Mumbai division including neighbouring satellite towns reported 2,051 Covid-19 cases and 52 deaths, taking the region's caseload to 15,71,515, and death toll to 31,129. Palghar district in the division reported 18 deaths on Friday. The Nashik division reported 941 cases and 23 deaths of which 13 deaths were reported in rural parts of Ahmednagar district. Pune division reported 2,665 cases and 25 deaths, of which 16 deaths were reported in Satara district alone. The Kolhapur division's caseload increased by 3,106, while out of 71 new deaths, rural parts of Kolhapur accounted for 32 followed by 17 deaths in rural parts of Sangli district. Aurangabad division reported 371 cases and 12 deaths, while 253 cases and eight deaths were reported in Akola division. The Nagpur division's Covid-19 caseload increased by 169 while it reported only four fatalities. Maharashtra's coronavirus figures: Positive cases 59,54,508, New cases 9,798, Death toll 1,16,674, Recoveries 56,99,983, Active cases 1,34,747, Total tests 3,90,78,541.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-50
18-06-2021||India||Siddque Kappan, jailed under UAPA, loses mother||Journalist Siddique Kappan, who is in jail since last year after being arrested while on his way to Uttar Pradesh's Hathras to report on the alleged gang-rape of a Dalit woman, has lost his mother, resports said on Friday. According to a report by ndtv.com, Kappan’s mother was over 90 years old and had been ill for a long time. Her funeral will be held on Friday, which means he will not be able to perform her last rites or say goodbye to her. A trial court in UP’s Mathura district will take up Kappan’s bail plea for hearing on June 22. He had last met his mother in February, when the Supreme Court had granted him bail for five days. The court had said Kappan could only speak to relatives and doctors treating his mother. He was escorted by cops at all times; UP Police was ordered to arrange for his travel and return, the report by ndtv.com says. Sources, as quoted by ndtv.com, said Kappan had then told his relatives to arrange an immediate funeral for his mother when she died. Kappan had been admitted to the Mathura hospital after he fell unconscious in jail and tested positive for the coronavirus. Kappan's wife Raihanth Kappan had written to CJI NV Ramana seeking his immediate release from the hospital, alleging he is "chained like an animal in a cot" there. The FIR against Kappan and three others has been filed under various provisions of the IPC and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for having alleged links with the PFI. The police had said it arrested four people having links with the PFI in Mathura -- Siddique from Malappuram, Atiq-ur Rehman from Muzaffarnagar, Masood Ahmed from Bahraich and Alam from Rampur. Kappan was arrested on way to Hathras, which has been in the news following the death of a 19-year-old Dalit woman who was allegedly gang-raped on September 14, 2020, in a village in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-50
18-06-2021||India||Indian law Supreme, not your policy, Parliamentary Panel tells Twitter||Amid a tussle between the Union government and Twitter over the new IT rules, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on IT on Friday told the US-based social media giant that the rule of the land was supreme and the company must abide by the Indian laws.  During a 90-minute deposition before the panel, chaired by Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, the Twitter India officials were asked "tough and searching questions", including why the company should not be fined as it has been found "violating" rules of the country, sources said.  Twitter India's public policy manager Shagufta Kamran and legal counsel Ayushi Kapoor deposed before the parliamentary panel.  Later in a statement, a Twitter Spokesperson said the company "stands prepared to work with the Committee on the important work of safeguarding citizens' rights online in line with our principles of transparency, freedom of expression, and privacy."  "We will also continue working alongside the Indian Government as part of our shared commitment to serve and protect the public conversation", the spokesperson said while appreciating the opportunity to share views of Twitter before the Standing Committee on Information Technology.  BJP MPs --Nishikant Dubey, Rajyawardan Rathore, Tejasvi Surya, Sanjay Seth, Zafar Islam, Subhash Chandra-- were among those present during the meeting while from the opposition there were TMC MP Mahua Moitra and TDP MP Jaidev Galla apart from Tharoor.  During the meeting, panel members mostly from ruling BJP asked Twitter officials whether their policy is more important or rule of land, to which officials responded that they respect the Indian laws but they have to follow their policy as well for larger interest, sources said.  The panel members took strong objection to Twitter stance and categorically told them that the rule of land is supreme not the company policy, sources said.  As per sources, there was unanimity in the panel that Twitter should abide by IT rules and appoint chief compliance officer.  "The answers (by Twitter officials) lacked clarity and were ambiguous", a source said.  It was also raised by the MPs in the meeting that instead of appointing a full-time compliance officer, Twitter has appointed an interim officer, who is a lawyer, sources said.  According to sources, Dubey also raised question over neutrality of fact-checks on Twitter and claimed that many of them are not "politically neutral".  The parliamentary panel had last week summoned Twitter over issues related to misuse of the platform and protection of citizens' rights.  According to sources, the opposition members opined that another round of meeting should be held with Twitter officials, but the panel has sought written reply from Twitter on various questions.  The panel members also held a meeting with Information and Technology Ministry officials after the deposition.  Earlier this month, the Central government issued a notice to Twitter, giving it one last chance to "immediately" comply with the new IT rules and warned that failure to adhere to the norms will lead to the platform losing exemption from liability under the IT Act.  Sources said the panel will also summon top officials of Google, Facebook, YouTube and other tech giants.  Twitter and the Centre have been at loggerheads over several issues for the last few months.  The microblogging site had also faced backlash when it briefly removed the 'blue tick' verification badge from the personal account of Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu and of several senior RSS functionaries, including its chief Mohan Bhagwat.  Earlier, Delhi Police had sent a notice to Twitter, seeking an explanation of how it described an alleged "Congress toolkit" against the Central government as "manipulated media".  The police reportedly had also questioned Twitter India MD Manish Maheshwari on May 31 and visited the Twitter India offices in Delhi and Gurgaon on May 24 over the toolkit issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-50
18-06-2021||India||Lok Sabha speaker calls Central Vista a necessity||Not a single MP in either Lok Sabha or Rajya Sabha had objected to the construction of a new parliament building when a request for it was made by both the Houses to the Centre, Speaker of the lower house Om Birla said on Friday. Describing the new Parliament building as a "necessity", he said though the construction is running 16 days behind schedule, it will be completed by October 2022. "We were (initially) 27 days ahead of schedule. But after the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic (second wave), the construction is now 16 days behind schedule," Birla said. To questions on construction of a new parliament house at a press conference here, the Lok Sabha speaker said the existing building cannot be expanded and does not cater to the needs of changing times. "The existing building is a historical one. Many historic decisions were taken in this building. But it cannot be expanded further and therefore a new building is a necessity," he said. About MPs from opposition parties opposing the project, Birla said it was both the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha who had requested the Central government for a new parliament building. "When the request for a new parliament building was made by both the houses, no MP had objected to it. No one has approached me opposing it," Birla said. Opposition parties and the BJP are engaged in a political slugfest over the construction of the new building. The opposition parties say the project should be stopped to save funds for the management of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-50
18-06-2021||India||An Economy Overview of The Kerala State Government||Since December 2019. The world has been dealing with the Coronavirus pandemic, and to limit the pandemic, the majority of the countries have established quarantines and social distancing practices and lockdowns. The 69-day countrywide lockdown has wreaked havoc on all sectors of the national and state economy. As a result, the IMF forecasts a 1.9 percent GDP growth rate for the country in 2020, the slowest pace since the balance of payment crisis 1991. Throughout the Thirteen five-year plan, the Government of Kerala had to deal with several challenges. First, significant weather events occurred in the country, with Cyclone Ockhi in 2017 and extreme precipitation events followed by floods and mudslides in 2018 and 2019. In 2018, the state also had to deal with Nipah. In addition to natural calamities, the Central government’s stringent policy measures, such as demonetization and introduction of Goods and Services tax, impacted the state economy, particularly the financial resources available to the state for development activities. Impacts of Lockdown The 69-days lockdown can be divided into three stages, based on the limits imposed and relaxations granted. In the first stage of 27 days, from March 24 to April 19, a lockdown similar to a curfew was enacted in the country. All Federal and government offices, as well as the commercial and private businesses and commute services, were shut down. In addition, all kinds of functions, places of worship, and educational institutions were closed except for a few essential services. A few relaxations were allowed during the second stage of lockdown, from  April 20 to May 3, and more time-outs were permitted during the third stage of 28 days, from May 4 to May 31. As a result, the rate of loss in the production of goods and services or GSDP differs for each of the three stages. The lockdown has resulted in massive job losses in all sectors. More than 50 percent loss of employment was observed in most of the tertiary sector’s subsectors. It ranged from 50 to 80 percent in sectors like industry and construction. Kerala’s GSDP Loss The COVID pandemic has thrown the economy into disarray and put a strain on state finances, with Kerala’s economy expected to lose ₹1,56,041 in 2020-21, according to the Budget Estimate of 2020-21. The GSDP reduction could have been worse, but a ₹20,000 economic boost was revealed earlier in the pandemic. This stimulus package assisted the most vulnerable members of society and significantly reduced the impact of COVID-19 on GSDP. Over the Budget Estimate 2020-21, the state’s revenue is expected to grow at a rate of 6.5 percent, and GST collection is a sign of a more rapid economic recovery. Some lotteries curb unemployment in the country, one of which is Win-Win Lottery. One of the lotteries run by the state of Kerala is Kerala State Lottery, and it comes with many benefits. For example, the GST collected from the sales of lottery tickets has been used to fund numerous welfare schemes in Kerala. Kerala’s Economic Response to Pandemic While anticipating the adverse impacts of COVID-19, the government of Kerala took some initiatives to protect the state’s economy and the lives of people. These include bringing money into the economy via direct and indirect aid, ensuring food and shelter for the poor, creating job opportunities, and increasing agricultural and industrial production. To ensure a V-shaped recovery and ensure jobs, the government plans to immediately start the sectors such as tourism, MSME, and agriculture. Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) and externally aided projects would increase capital expenditure. Measures to improve development and well-being shall continue, health protection will take precedence, and improving the quality of higher education will be given priority. Notably, the Kerala state government unveiled an economic assistance package worth ₹ 20,000 crores on March 20, 2020, which was a significant amount.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-50
18-06-2021||India||Twitter officials appear before Parliamentary panel ||Amid a tussle between the Union government and Twitter over the new IT rules, officials of the microblogging site on Friday deposed before a parliamentary panel chaired by Congress' Shashi Tharoor over preventing misuse of social media. Earlier this month, the Centre issued a notice to Twitter giving it one last chance to "immediately" comply with the new IT rules and warned that failure to adhere to the norms will lead to the platform losing exemption from liability under the IT Act. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information and Technology, chaired by Tharoor, had last week summoned Twitter over issues related to misuse of the platform and protection of citizens' rights. Twitter India's public policy manager Shagufta Kamran and legal counsel Ayushi Kapoor deposed before the panel on Friday. Twitter and the Centre have been at loggerheads over several issues for the last few months. The microblogging site had faced backlash when it briefly removed the 'blue tick' verification badge from the personal account of Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu and of several senior RSS functionaries, including its chief Mohan Bhagwat. Earlier, Delhi Police had sent a notice to Twitter, seeking an explanation of how it described an alleged "Congress toolkit" against the Central government as manipulated media. The police reportedly had also questioned Twitter India MD Manish Maheshwari on May 31 and visited the Twitter India offices in Delhi and Gurgaon on May 24 over the toolkit issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-50
18-06-2021||India||Students' bail fine, but HC views on terror law needs scrutiny, says Supreme Court ||The issue of reading down of anti-terror law UAPA is important and can have pan-India ramifications, the Supreme Court said on Friday making it clear that the Delhi High Court verdicts granting bail to three student activists in north-east Delhi riots case will not be used as precedent by courts in the country. A vacation bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian termed as troubling that the high court has written 100 pages discussing the entire anti-terror law UAPA while deciding the bail applications in the case and said it will require interpretation by the apex court. The apex court agreed to hear the appeals filed by Delhi Police challenging the verdicts of the high court and issued notices to JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita and Jamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha seeking their responses. While refusing to stay the high court verdicts granting bail to the three accused, the bench said that these judgements will not be treated as precedent by any party before any court. “It is clarified that release of the respondents (Narwal, Kalita and Tanha) on bail is not interfered with at this stage,” the bench said. Taking note of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta's submission that the entire Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) has been turned upside down by the high court in granting bail in the case, the bench said, The issue is important and can have pan-India ramifications . “We would like to issue notice and hear the other side,” it added. Mehta urged the apex court to stay the high court verdicts saying the findings arrived at in these judgements virtually record acquittal for these accused and other co-accused would also seek bail relying on them. “The way the Act has been interpreted, probably it will require interpretation by the Supreme Court. That is why we are issuing notice,” the bench said. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the student activists, said there is no doubt that the apex court should consider the ramifications and interpretation of the UAPA so that there is a judgement on the issue from the top court. “We are dealing with bail applications,” Sibal said. “That is what is troubling us. It is surprising that in a bail application, there is 100-page judgement discussing the entire law,” the bench said. “There are many questions which arise as legality of the UAPA was not challenged before the high court. These were bail applications,” the bench observed. The top court issued notices to these student activists and said that the matter would be heard in the week commencing July 19. At the outset, Mehta referred to the judgements of the high court and said, the entire UAPA has been turned upside down on its head . He argued that after these verdicts, technically the trial court is required to place these findings in its order and discharge the accused in the case. Mehta said that 53 persons died and over 700 were injured during the riots which took place at a time when the then US President and other dignitaries were here. “The high court has made wide ranging observations,” he said, adding, “They are out on bail, let them remain out but please stay the judgements.” “Stay by the Supreme Court has its own meaning,” he said. While reading down some paragraphs from the high court verdicts regarding right to protest, Mehta said, “If we go by this judgement, even the lady who assassinated the former Prime Minister was also protesting.” “Kindly stay these orders,” he told the bench. Sibal said the student activists also have a lot to argue in the matter. The bench, while issuing notice on the appeals, said the counter, if any, be filed within four weeks. The high court had on June 15 granted bail to these three student activists saying in an anxiety to suppress dissent the State has blurred the line between right to protest and terrorist activity and if such a mindset gains traction, it would be a "sad day for democracy". The high court, in three separate judgments, set aside the trial court's orders denying bail to these student activists and allowed their appeals by admitting them to regular bail on furnishing a personal bond of Rs 50,000 each along with two sureties of the like amount. These three student activists were released from jail on June 17. The case relates to last year's communal violence in north-east Delhi during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). In its three separate appeals filed in the apex court, Delhi Police has said that the high court's findings are perverse and contrary to record and appeared to be based more on the social media narrative than the evidence gathered and elaborated in the charge sheet". In the appeals, the police has dubbed the verdicts as "mini trial" and said such observations were unfounded and perverse insinuation. Delhi Police contended that bail was granted to the accused on an irrelevant consideration which will have far reaching consequences for cases investigated by NIA and other probe agencies. “The high court not only conducted a mini-trial but has also recorded perverse findings which are contrary to record and almost decided the case while adjudicating bail pleas," said the police while seeking to set aside three bail verdicts. Kalita, Narwal and Tanha are accused in four, three and two cases respectively relating to communal riots that broke out on February 24 last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-50
18-06-2021||India||SC refuses to cancel, postpone PG final year medical exams||The Supreme Court Friday refused to direct the medical universities to cancel or postpone the final year Post Graduate exams on the ground that the examinee-doctors have been engaged in COVID-19 duty. A vacation bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and M R Shah said it cannot pass any general order to all the universities to not conduct or postpone the final year post graduate medical examination. The top court noted that the National Medical Council (NMC) has already issued an advisory in April asking the universities in the country to take the COVID situation into consideration while announcing the dates for final year examination. "We have interfered where it was possible like postponing by one month the INI CET examination conducted by AIIMS, New Delhi, where we have found that there was no justification in fixing the date for the examination without giving appropriate time to students to prepare," the bench said. It rejected the submission of senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, appearing for 29 doctors, who have filed the writ petition that NMC be directed to issue directions to all the universities to give reasonable time to students to prepare for the examination. "We don't know what could be the reasonable time for preparing for the examination. How can the court decide the reasonable time? Everyone may have their reasonable time. Let the university decide on the basis of the advisory of NMC as per the pandemic situation prevailing in their area," the bench said. The top court said, In a vast country like India, the pandemic situation cannot be the same. In April-May the situation in Delhi was very bad but now it is hardly 200 cases per day. In Karnataka, however, the situation is not that good even now. Therefore, we cannot pass any general order without hearing the universities . Advocate Gaurav Sharma, appearing for NMC said that not all doctors were engaged in COVID duty and the council had issued an advisory in April to all the universities to hold the examination after taking into consideration the COVID situation in their respective areas. Hegde said that since the doctors were engaged in COVID duty, they were not able to prepare for the examination, which will enable them to become senior resident doctors. At the outset, the bench clarified that it is not allowing the doctors to be promoted without appearing for the examination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-50
18-06-2021||India||Delhi riots: Supreme Court issues notice to students released on bail||Reading down of anti-terror law is an important issue and may have pan-India ramifications, the Supreme Court said on Friday and sought responses from three student activists granted bail by the Delhi High Court in north-east Delhi riots case. The high court judgements will "not to be treated as precedent by any Court" to give similar reliefs, the apex court said while hearing Delhi Police appeal against the bail. A vacation bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian made it clear however that the bails granted to these student activists will not be affected for the time-being. Taking note of Solicitor Generak Tushar Mehta's submission that the entire anti-terror law, UAPA, has been turned upside down by the Delhi High Court while granting bail to these activists, the bench said what is troubling it was that 100 pages of the verdict have been rendered while granting bail and judgement discussed the entire law. The Supreme Court was hearing three separate appeals filed by the police who have said the high court’s findings were “perverse and contrary to record” and appeared to be based “more on the social media narrative”. The Delhi Police had said that: “We are proceeding with the filing of a special leave petition (to appeal) before the honourable Supreme Court.” Lawyer B. V. Balram Das, acting for the police, added the fact that “the High Court has commented on facts outside the jurisdiction of the bail plea... will impact every National Investigation Agency (NIA) investigation under the UAPA (Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act).” according to ANI news agency quoting what it said were police officials familiar with the case. Three student anti-CAA protesters whose release on bail had been stalled over technicalities were set free on Thursday evening after a court, on the prodding of Delhi High Court, said that address verification could not be a plausible reason for continued imprisonment. Natasha, Devangana and Asif — in jail since April last year and booked under a host of charges, including the anti-terror law UAPA — walked free around 7.30 pm. The Delhi High Court had on June 15 granted bail to JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita and Jamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha saying that in an anxiety to suppress dissent the State has blurred the line between right to protest and terrorist activity and if such a mindset gains traction, it would be a "sad day for democracy". It had said, "... that in its anxiety to suppress dissent and in the morbid fear that matters may get out of hand, the state has blurred the line between the constitutionally guaranteed ‘right to protest” and “terrorist activity.” The two-man bench went on to add that: “If such blurring gains traction, democracy would be in peril.” The high court, in three separate judgments, set aside the trial court's orders denying bail to student activists and allowed their appeals by admitting them to regular bail on furnishing a personal bond of Rs 50,000 each along with two sureties of the like amount.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-50
18-06-2021||India||Modi launches crash course programme for Covid warriors||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched a customised crash course programme that aims to skill and upskill over one lakh "Covid warriors" across the country. Speaking on the occasion, Modi urged the people to remain cautious, stressing that the virus is "still amongst us" and the possibility of it mutating is also there. He also said the central government is committed to provide Covid vaccination free to everyone, starting June 21. "In the second wave of coronavirus, we saw what kind of challenges the ever-changing form of this virus can bring before us," Modi said. "We have to further enhance the preparedness of the country to meet the challenges ahead," Modi asserted. With this goal in mind, a massive campaign to prepare about 1 lakh frontline "Corona warriors" is being started in the country, he said. Modi also said work is underway on war footing to ready over 1,500 oxygen plants and efforts are on to reach every district. The 'Customised Crash Course programme for Covid-19 Frontline workers' aims to skill and upskill over one lakh "Covid warriors" across the country, according to the PMO. The training will be imparted to them in six customised job roles namely home care support, basic care support, advanced care support, emergency care support, sample collection support, and medical equipment support. The course has been designed as a special programme under the central component of the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana 3.0, with total financial outlay of Rs 276 crore, the PMO said. The programme will create skilled non-medical healthcare workers to fill the present and future needs of manpower in the health sector, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-50
18-06-2021||India||Delhi HC takes cognisance of Covid norm violation in markets||The Delhi High Court on Friday took cognisance of the violation of Covid-19 protocols in various markets in the national capital and observed that such breaches will only hasten the third wave which cannot be permitted at all. The high court asked the Centre and Delhi government to take strict measures, sensitise shopkeepers and hold meetings with markets and vendors associations in this regard. A vacation bench of Justices Navin Chawla and Asha Menon took note of certain photographs sent to one of the judges of the high court by an AIIMS doctor showing scant regard for Covid-19 protocols by street vendors in markets. "We have paid a huge price in the second wave. We don't know if there is any household which has not suffered in the second wave, closely or remotely," the bench observed. Huge crowds were witnessed at the popular shopping markets in the city, breaking Covid protocols such as social distancing and wearing of masks, just a little over a month after Delhi faced its worth public health crisis when the second wave of coronavirus peaked. According to reports, Thousands crowded into metro stations and shopping, prompting some doctors to warn it could lead to an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases. According to ndtv.com, doctors and disease experts are worried about Delhi's near-complete re-opening and have cautioned that a race towards resuming business as usual would compromise vaccination efforts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-51
18-06-2021||India||India's daily Covid deaths the lowest in 61 days||With 62,480 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 2,97,62,793, while the death toll climbed to 3,83,490 with 1,587 fresh fatalities, the lowest in 61 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The active cases have fallen below 8 lakh after 73 days and the national COVID-19 recovery rate has crossed 96 per cent. The active cases have declined to 7,98,656 comprising 2.68 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.03 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A net decline of 28,084 cases has been recorded in the COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. A total of 19,29,476 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 38,71,67,696. The daily positivity rate was recorded 3.24 per cent. It has been less than 5 per cent for 11 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 3.80 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 36th consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,85,80,647, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.29 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 26,89,60,399 COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far under Nationwide Vaccination Drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 1,587 new fatalities include 636 from Maharashtra, 210 from Tamil Nadu and 138 from Karnataka. A total of 3, 83,490 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,16,026 from Maharashtra, 33,434 from Karnataka, 30,548 from Tamil Nadu, 24,886 from Delhi, 22,030 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,182 from West Bengal, 15,738 from Punjab and 13,361 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-51
18-06-2021||India||UP Police send notice to Twitter India head over assault video||The Ghaziabad Police has sent a notice to Twitter India Managing Director Manish Maheshwari, asking him to join a probe in connection with the case involving an assault on a Muslim man here earlier this month, officials said Friday. He has been asked to appear at the Loni Border police station here within seven days to get his statement recorded in the case in which an FIR was lodged against the social media giant also, a senior police official said. "Manish Maheshwari is the MD of Twitter India and was sent a notice yesterday under CrPC section 166 seeking his cooperation in the probe. Some other details have been sought from him and he has been given seven days' time to appear at the local police station," Superintendent of Police (Ghaziabad Rural) Iraj Raja told reporters Friday. The Ghaziabad Police had on June 15 booked Twitter Inc, Twitter Communications India, news website The Wire, journalists Mohammed Zubair and Rana Ayyub, besides Congress leaders Salman Nizami, Maskoor Usmani, Shama Mohamed and writer Saba Naqvi. They were booked over the circulation of a video in which the elderly man, Abdul Shamad Saifi, claims he was allegedly thrashed by some young men who also asked him to chant 'Jai Shri Ram' on June 5. The police claim the video was shared to cause communal unrest. The police have maintained the assault took place because the accused were unhappy about the 'tabeez' (amulets) sold to them by Saifi, a resident of adjoining Bulandshahr district, and ruled out any communal angle in the case. In the video that triggered a nation-wide reaction, Saifi purportedly says he was attacked by some young men and forced to chant 'Jai Shri Ram'. But, according to the district police, he has not made any such allegations in his FIR lodged on June 7, two days after the incident. The June 15 FIR states that the Ghaziabad Police had issued a statement with facts of the incident but despite that the accused did not remove the video from their Twitter handles. The police had also clarified that those who attacked Saifi included Hindu as well as Muslim men and the incident was a result of personal issues between them and not a communal one, it said. "Besides this, Twitter Inc and Twitter Communications India did not take any measures to remove their tweets," it added. The FIR has been lodged under sections 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 153A (promoting enmity between groups on ground of religion, class etc), 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious belief) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The Ghaziabad Police has so far arrested nine people, including key accused Parvesh Gujjar, in the case, according to officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-51
18-06-2021||India||SC accepts in principle formulas suggested by CBSE and ISC boards||The Supreme Court on Thursday accepted in principle the formulas suggested by the CBSE and the ISC board to award marks to this year’s outgoing Class XII students, but decided to delay final approval till it had heard the students’ views on Monday. Largely, the marks would be awarded on the basis of the students’ performances in their Class X boards and their school Class XI and XII exams, normalised on the basis of their school’s performance in Class XII boards over the past three (CBSE) or six (ISC) years. Attorney-general K.K. Venugopal placed the methodology for the CBSE, and advocate J.K. Das did so for the CISCE — the board that conducts the ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) exams — before the bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari. The matter was posted to Monday for final approval after senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for some students, sought permission to place the student community’s views on the criteria adopted by the boards. The CBSE said it would declare the final results by July 31, while the CISCE said it would declare the results by July 20. Both the boards’ Class XII exams have been cancelled because of the pandemic. Any student who fails to meet the qualifying criterion (to pass) will be placed in the “essential repeat” or “compartment category” and can appear in a physical exam, to be held whenever the situation is conducive. The court said there should be a dispute resolution mechanism if some aggrieved students seek rectification of their declared results. Students who are still dissatisfied with the marks awarded to them will be allowed to take the physical exam, whenever held, to improve their scores. The court was dealing with a public interest plea that Mamta Sharma, an advocate, had moved seeking cancellation of this year’s Class XII exams by the two all-India boards in the light of the pandemic. The bench said a plea for the cancellation of state boards’ Class XII exams in Assam, Punjab, Tripura, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh would be taken up on Monday. Kerala has conducted a part of the Class XII board exams but not completed it. The rest of the states have either cancelled their Class XII board exams or already conducted them, the court was told.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-51
18-06-2021||India||CBSE weightage plan for evaluating outgoing Class XII students ||The Central Board of Secondary Education on Thursday suggested the following formula — provisionally approved by the Supreme Court — for awarding marks to its outgoing Class XII students after this year’s exams were cancelled because of the pandemic. Different subjects will have different weightages for the theory and practical-internal assessment (IA) portions. The weightage for the theory portion will vary from 80 per cent (for example, languages) to 70, 60, 50 or 30 per cent (for example, painting), with the practical-IA portion accordingly accounting for 20 to 70 per cent. ⚪ Scores obtained in the Class XII exams will be accorded 40 per cent weightage while calculating the theory marks in each subject. In Class XII, the schools conduct unit tests, a mid-term (half-yearly) test and a pre-board exam. It’s for the individual school result committee to decide whether to consider a student’s scores in all these exams and work out an average for each subject, or consider only one of the exams (pre-board), or some but not all. ⚪ The score obtained in the theory component of the Class XI final exam will get 30 per cent weightage. ⚪ The average theory component score from the student’s best three performing subjects out of the main five subjects in the Class X board exams will get the remaining 30 per cent weightage. “This average will be uniformly awarded to all the Class XII subjects based on theory weightage,” the gist of the formula provided by the apex court says. ⚪ All this means that in a subject where the theory component is accorded 80 per cent weightage, the Class XII marks will get an overall 32 per cent weightage and the Class XI and X marks, 24 per cent each. In a subject where the theory component accounts for 30 per cent weightage, the Class XII-XI-X weightage will be 12-9-9 per cent. The practical/internal assessment component will consist entirely of the actual practical/IA marks awarded in Class XII and uploaded by the school on the CBSE portal. Practical/IA marks are awarded just once in Class XII, and not with every exam. Each school will form a result committee of five members — the school principal (as chairperson), two senior-most teachers of the school who conduct Class XII classes, and two Class XII teachers from neighbouring senior secondary schools. As the marks obtained in the Class XI and Class XII exams will have been awarded by the schools themselves, they may not be strictly comparable across schools because of “variations in the quality of question papers, the evaluation standard and processes, the mode of conduct of exams, etc”, says the gist. “To ensure standardisation, each school will have to internally moderate the marks by using a reliable reference standard.” ⚪ The particular year out of the previous three years in which the school performed the best in the Class XII board exams will be the reference year. ⚪ The average marks awarded by the school in any subject for 2020-2021 should be within a range of plus 5 or minus 5 from the average score obtained by its students in that subject in the reference year. ⚪ The average marks the school awards its students in 2020-2021 across all the subjects should not exceed the overall average marks obtained by its students in the reference year by 2 marks. ⚪ The school result committee must ensure that the students’ marks “are aligned with the broad distribution of marks provided by the board” — that is, the proportion of the schools’ students obtaining, say, an aggregate score above 90 per cent should be roughly the same as the proportion of students scoring 90 per cent across CBSE schools. A physical Class XII board examination will be held “when the conditions become conducive” for “private, patrachar (correspondence) and 2nd-chance compartment candidates, etc” and students dissatisfied with the marks awarded to them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-51
18-06-2021||India||Centre moves to establish oversight over TV content through aggrieved consumer route||The Centre on Thursday moved to establish oversight over television content through the aggrieved consumer route by creating a statutory three-tier complaint redress mechanism in line with the one introduced in the new information technology rules. The government was always equipped with the power to take action against programmes that did not conform to the Programme Code and the Advertising Code. But the new rules notified by the information and broadcasting ministry opens up a window for taking action against a network or programme on the basis of a consumer’s complaint. A significant addition appeared to be an oversight mechanism of the central government. According to the changes notified in the Cable Television Network Rules, 1994, on Thursday, every broadcaster will need to have its own complaint redress mechanism. If not satisfied with the action taken at this level, a complainant can approach the self-regulating mechanism of broadcasters like the News Broadcasters Standards Authority (NBSA), which has been functioning for a decade now. In the eventuality of the complainant remaining dissatisfied with the action taken at this level also, there will be the oversight mechanism of the central government. This will be an inter-departmental committee headed by the additional secretary in the I&B ministry with representatives from the ministries of women and child development, home, electronics and information technology, external affairs and defence, besides experts. Acknowledging the existence of an institutional mechanism by way of an inter-ministerial committee to address grievances and self-regulatory mechanisms of broadcasters/associations, the ministry said that still a need was felt to lay down a statutory mechanism for strengthening the grievance redress structure. “Some broadcasters had also requested for giving legal recognition to their associations/bodies,” the ministry said. It added that in 2000, the Supreme Court, while expressing satisfaction over the existing mechanism of grievance redress set up by the central government, had “advised to frame appropriate rules to formalise the complaint redressal mechanism”. While some channels already have their own redress mechanisms, many are also members of one of the three main self-regulatory structures that both news and non-news networks have created after resisting efforts by successive governments in the past, including the Atal Bihari Vajpayee dispensation, to install a broadcast regulatory set-up for the industry. Besides the NBSA, there is the Broadcasting Content Complaints Council for non-news channels and the National Broadcasters Federation, which is the second such collective for news channels. There was no immediate response from the broadcasters on the new rules that were announced on Thursday evening by I&B minister Prakash Javadekar via Twitter, a social media platform the government is currently at loggerheads with over compliance with the new information technology guidelines. “The @MIB_India has by amending the Cable Television Network Rules, 1994, developed a statutory mechanism to redress citizens’ grievances & complaints against programmes of TV Channels. The @MIB_India has also decided to recognise Statutory Bodies of TV channels under CTN Rules,” Javadekar tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-51
18-06-2021||India||Delhi High Court prod frees three anti-CAA protesters||Three student anti-CAA protesters whose release on bail had been stalled over technicalities were set free on Thursday evening after a court, on the prodding of Delhi High Court, said that address verification could not be a plausible reason for continued imprisonment. Jawaharlal Nehru University students Natasha Narwal, 32, and Devangana Kalita, who turns 32 on Friday, and Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, 25 — in jail since April last year and booked under a host of charges, including the anti-terror law UAPA — walked free around 7.30pm. Natasha and Devangana were released from Tihar jail. Asif, who had been on interim custody bail at a south Delhi hotel, was taken back to Tihar and released with the others. He had been at the hotel for over a week after the court permitted him to write his BA Persian final semester exams. Natasha’s brother Aakash said in a statement: “I wish our father was here to share this moment with us today. We owe it to him; as Natasha, myself and all justice-loving people had a strong moral backing from him all these months.” Their father Mahavir Narwal had passed away on May 11 while Natasha was in jail. The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Friday appeals from Delhi police challenging the Delhi High Court order granting bail to the three student activists. The Supreme Court vacation bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and V. Ramasubramanian will hear the three separate appeals filed by the police who have said the high court’s findings were “perverse and contrary to record” and appeared to be based “more on the social media narrative”. The high court had said it seemed the State was blurring the line between the right to protest and terrorist activity in its “anxiety to suppress dissent”. On Thursday, Delhi High Court had advised the trial court of Shahdara district additional sessions judge Ravinder Bedi to deal with the bail applications before it with “promptitude” and “expedition”. “Trial court cannot be lax about it once the order is passed by this court,” the high court added. The three students had moved the high court, which granted them bail on June 15 after the trial court had withheld their bail. The trial court, which was supposed to satisfy itself that the bail conditions were implementable, had asked the police on Wednesday to verify the bail bonds and the details of the people standing surety for the accused. The police had then told the court that they needed time till June 22 to complete the verification of the permanent addresses of the students. CPM leader Brinda Karat had told this newspaper earlier: “This is a most shameful effort by the Delhi police special cell, which comes directly under the home ministry, to sabotage and subvert the significant judgment of the high court….” Natasha is from Rohtak in Haryana, Devangana is from Dibrugarh in Assam while Asif is from Hazaribagh, Jharkhand. The police had also sought to verify their Aadhaar numbers from the Unique Identity Authority of India. The trial court had granted the police time till June 23 to verify the outstation addresses. On Thursday morning, the Delhi High Court division bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup Bhambhani, while hearing the pleas of the three students against the trial court, refused to intervene but said: “The learned special court is expected to proceed with the pending issues with promptitude and expedition; and pronounce orders on the issues pending determination before it forthwith.” The high court said that its earlier directive mandated forthwith release of the accused. Minutes later, trial court judge Bedi told the defence during a hearing that she had already passed the orders at 11am. Her order asked the police to finish verifying the current Delhi addresses of the three students by 5pm on Thursday, after the defence gave an undertaking that they would not leave Delhi. The court said: “Apropos the reason forwarded by the IO (investigating officer) that verification qua accused’s permanent address would need time. I would say that this by itself cannot be a plausible reason for the accused to be kept imprisoned till the time such reports are filed.” A legal source said: “The court staff verified the bail bonds, sureties, spellings of names and so on. The release warrant was finally sent to Tihar prison after 5pm.” Another source said Karat remained in court till the evening to ensure there was no last-minute hitch. Karat has stood surety for Natasha, whose father was a CPM member. When Delhi High Court was informed that the trial court had ordered the “immediate release” of the students, it said, “That’s wonderful.” The high court bench of Justices Mridul and Bhambhani said: “Once the trial court has issued release orders to the jail superintendent, that is the end of the matter. Nothing more needs to be done. The first step we need to cross today is your release.” The high court had on June 15 granted bail to Pinjra Tod activists Natasha, Devangana and Asif, who had been arrested in connection with the alleged larger conspiracy behind the Delhi riots in February last year that followed the protests against the Centre’s new citizenship regime. Natasha and Devangana were on Thursday evening greeted by several students outside Tihar jail. The students carried placards demanding the release of all undertrials in cases related to the protests against the CAA. Charges have been framed against 15 people, including six students, in the UAPA case. Besides the trio released on Thursday, only Jamia’s Safoora Zargar is out on regular bail, granted on medical grounds of pregnancy. Asif said in a statement: “At this time, I would specifically like to appeal to the government to address the Covid condition in prison. Prisoners with shorter sentences need to be released to end overcrowding and all prisoners must immediately be vaccinated. “I want to reiterate that our fight is against the discriminatory CAA and not against people of any faith. I’m glad that the honourable court has asserted that our peaceful and democratic protests had nothing to do with the riots. I hope that this judgement will serve as an important precedent.” Devangana told reporters: “It is really important the court has come out and could say this (that organising protests is not a terrorist act) because people like us are languishing in jail just for protesting against this government or raising their voice against this government — which is the basic essence of democracy.” Natasha thanked those who had supported her in prison. On Wednesday, UN special rapporteur on human rights defenders Mary Lawlor had tweeted: “I’m hearing disturbing reports that… Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita have not been released after @DelhiPolice challenged yesterday’s Delhi High Court decision to grant them bail. I find their incarceration following #antiCAA protests in #India deeply concerning.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-51
18-06-2021||India||‘Assaulted’ Sufi Abdul Samad sticks to his version ||Sufi Abdul Samad, whose video statement is at the centre of an FIR by Uttar Pradesh police against Twitter, several journalists and Opposition politicians, has stood by his account detailing an assault on him, according to a fresh video clip recorded by reporters at his ancestral home in Bulandshahar on Wednesday night. “Those who had attacked me had forced me to chant Jai Shri Ram. They were beating me and had put a pistol on my head,” said the elderly Samad after reaching, along with his family members, Meera Mohalla of Anupshahar in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahar. The assault took place at Loni in Ghaziabad in the first week of this month. But Uttar Pradesh police claimed there was no communal element in the attack and linked it to a dispute over the alleged sale of amulets. On Wednesday night, Samad said he was never involved in exorcism or in the sale of amulets. “They offered me urine when I told them that I was thirsty.... They started cutting my beard,” said Samad, breathing heavily. He was unable to move on his own and his two sons were seen helping him walk. “I didn’t know the attackers before and none of them was a Muslim as they wouldn’t have asked me to chant Jai Shri Ram. I never did exorcism or sell amulets; I am a traditional carpenter-blacksmith,” Samad said. Umed Pahalwan, a Samajwadi Party leader, accompanied Samad and his family to the village. Bulandshahar police on Thursday registered a case against Pahalwan and two others for collecting a large number of people at the door of Samad on Wednesday night. Sections linked to the pandemic have been slapped on Pahalwan. Pahalwan has been booked for a negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life (Section 269), malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life (Section 270), disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant (Section 188). The Epidemic Disease Act was also slapped on them.  Samad said he and his family had gone to Ghaziabad to meet one of his relatives. The police said Samad had filed a police report on June 7 against two people at Loni police station, accusing them of manhandling and insulting him in Hajipur village on June 5. Four suspects have been picked up so far. However, after two videos of the incident started circulating on social media, the police booked Twitter and some journalists and politicians who tweeted the clips. Ramsen Singh, station house officer of Anupshahar, said: “Loni police are looking after the case. They are here but we don’t have to do anything with it.” Harendra Singh, additional superintendent of police of Bulandshahar, said: “We are aware of the case and helping Loni police.” The Centre is not in favour of banning any social media platform like Twitter and WhatsApp but they must follow the law of the land, Union information technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad was quoted as saying on Thursday. “The government is not in favour of banning any social media platform. If half of the government is on Twitter, including the Prime Minister and President, it shows how fair the government is, but social media intermediaries, a status that Twitter has lost, have to follow local rules,” the minister told ANI. Cyber law analysts have said Twitter has not lost the intermediary tag but the protection under Section 79 the IT Act because of non-compliance with the new rules.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-51
18-06-2021||India||Covid: Study detects nearly similar widespread infections in children and adults ||A four-city study during the second Covid-19 wave in India has detected nearly similar widespread infections in children and in adults and suggested that any future surges caused by the current coronavirus variants are unlikely to disproportionately impact children. The study has found 56 per cent of children between two and 17 years and 64 per cent of adults sampled from 2,000 randomly selected urban and rural households in Agartala, Bhubaneswar, Delhi and Gorakhpur showing antibodies against the coronavirus. The findings from antibody surveys between April and June have also indicated that seropositivity levels — a sign of previous infection — have increased over six-fold to 60 per cent in children between 10 and 17 years, compared with nine per cent during August-September last year. Doctors at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, who led the study, said the “high and comparable” infection rates in children and adults make it “unlikely that any third wave by the prevailing variants would disproportionately affect children”. The findings come at a time health officials and medical experts have been trying to douse speculative notions among sections of the public that a possible third Covid-19 wave might hit children harder as adult infections dominated the first and second waves. The comparable and high infection prevalence rates in children and adults are not surprising given independent studies indicated that the second wave was driven by a variant much more transmissible than variants during the first wave, experts said. The seropositivity levels detected in the four-city survey, one expert said, suggest that the population may be approaching the herd immunity threshold, a point at which the virus has already infected so many people that it finds it hard to continue to spread fast in those populations. “If we also see similar seropositivity levels across the country, a third wave is extremely unlikely with the current variants,” said T. Jacob John, a former professor of clinical virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. “We’ll know how close we are to that threshold after a fresh nationwide survey.” The Indian Council of Medical Research is conducting an antibody survey at the same 70 sites across the country where it had measured seropositivity levels earlier in April-May 2020, September-August 2020 and January 2020. The findings of the third sero-survey released in January 2020 had indicated that 21.6 per cent of the population had antibodies against the virus. Health researchers involved in the current survey expect to find the proportion of population infected much higher now. “Anecdotal accounts suggest that the within-household spread of the coronavirus during the second wave was very high, in some cases near 100 per cent, much higher than during the first wave,” John said. “This would explain the comparable and high prevalence rates we see among children.” Paediatricians have said they have observed no differences in patterns of Covid-19 infections among children between the first and second waves. The vast majority of children have shown no symptoms and only a small proportion of them required hospital care.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-51
18-06-2021||India||Complaint against Twitter India chief, Swara Bhasker and others||A complaint has been lodged in Delhi against Twitter India managing director Manish Maheshwari, actress Swara Bhasker and others in connection with a social media video on the assault of an elderly Muslim man in Ghaziabad on June 5. “We have received a complaint against Swara Bhasker, Twitter India MD Manish Maheshwari and others at Tilak Marg police station. The matter is under inquiry,” a police officer said. Sources said the complainant, advocate Amit Acharya, had urged the police to register an FIR against Maheshwari, Bhasker and the others under Sections 153 (provocation to cause riot), 153A (promoting enmity between religious groups), 295A (acts intended to insult religious beliefs), 505 (mischief) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. On Thursday evening, Bhasker retweeted some message in her support. In his complaint, the police said, Acharya has alleged that Bhasker had tweeted the video on social media without verifying its authenticity and Maheshwari did not remove the “false” tweet or tag it as “manipulated media”. On Tuesday, Uttar Pradesh police had registered an FIR against Twitter, several journalists and Congress leaders for posting on Twitter the video in which the elderly Muslim man alleged that four people had assaulted him, chopped off his beard and forced him to chant “Jai Shri Ram” in the Loni area of Ghaziabad. Ghaziabad police have in their FIR accused the journalists and the Congress leaders of tweeting the video without verifying facts and “giving a communal colour” to the incident. If the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh pursues the FIR with vigour, it is expected to become a test case, especially since there is no official word yet that Twitter has lost its protective cover under the revised IT rules from pesky lawsuits after its failure to comply with the new guidelines. The clip showed the elderly man, identified as Abdul Samad, alleging that the attackers had offered him an auto ride, taken him to an isolated place, thrashed him and forced him to chant Jai Shri Ram. The police have denied any communal element. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted on Thursday on the Twitter controversy: “Very unfortunate. This is very unfortunate. They cannot control Twitter. That’s why they want to bulldoze Twitter. They cannot control me, so they want to bulldoze my government. They want to bulldoze my party. They cannot control some journalists, so they want to kill them. So that is their phenomenon.” “One day, there will be an end. There will be an end of everything. I condemn this,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-51
18-06-2021||India||Interim relief for Lakshadweep filmmaker Aisha Sultana||Kerala High Court on Thursday granted a week’s interim anticipatory bail to Lakshadweep filmmaker Aisha Sultana, who is facing a sedition case for referring to a “bioweapon” while speaking about the Covid outbreak in the archipelago. Justice Ashok Menon ordered her to appear before Kavaratti police for interrogation on Sunday but granted protection from being taken into custody. “The court ordered that she should be released on bail against two sureties of Rs 50,000 each in the event of an arrest. She has been ordered to cooperate with the investigation and subject herself to interrogation,” senior lawyer P. Vijayabhanu, who appeared for Aisha, told The Telegraph. The court reserved its order on the anticipatory bail plea of the filmmaker, who was booked under IPC Section 124A (sedition) and 153B (assertions against national integration). Participating in a TV debate, Aisha had said a “bioweapon” had been unleashed on the islanders, referring to the Covid outbreak in Lakshadweep after restrictions were eased by administrator Praful Khoda Patel. The complainant, Lakshadweep BJP president C. Abdul Khader Haji, has claimed that Aisha had referred to the central government while mentioning the “bioweapon”. Aisha has said she had meant Patel and his decision to lift the standard operating procedures that had helped Lakshadweep keep the coronavirus at bay for a year. In his arguments in court, Vijayabhanu pointed out that the “bioweapon” remark had been “made in the heat of the moment”. “I had argued that it was much ado about nothing and the comment was made in the heat of the moment since she was not aware of the implications. She had also apologised for the remark,” Vijayabhanu said. Senior counsel S. Manu, the standing counsel of Lakshadweep, had opposed the anticipatory bail plea on the ground that the remarks could create disaffection among the islanders against the central government. But Vijayabhanu pointed out that there was no incitement to violence, and referred to Supreme Court cases including the quashing of sedition charges against senior journalist Vinod Dua.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-52
18-06-2021||India||CBSE: Stakeholders query weightage to Class X, XI scores||Several students, parents and educationists on Thursday criticised the formula announced by the Central Board of Secondary Education for awarding marks to its outgoing Class XII students, especially the weightage given to their Class X and XI scores. The critics said there was no correlation between the subjects taught in Classes XII and X, making such weightage irrelevant, and that students generally did not take the Class XI exam seriously and underperformed in it. The Supreme Court is expected to take a final decision on the formula on Monday. C.B. Sharma, former chairman of the National Institute of Open Schooling, a national board for non-formal students, underlined that the Class X syllabus contained a “generic” paper like “science” while the Class XII curriculum had separate physics, chemistry and biology papers. Under the CBSE formula, 30 per cent weightage will accrue (in the theory component) to the average score from the student’s best three performing subjects out of the main five subjects in the Class X board exams. “In Class X, students have the option of taking two language papers and a few other subjects. If a student did well in the language papers and another humanities subject and then chose the science stream in Class XII, their aptitude in the (Class XII) science subjects will be judged partly by their performance in humanities subjects,” Sharma said. He said commerce students would suffer the worst. “Commerce students study subjects like accountancy and business studies, but the Class X syllabus offers no such subject. So commerce students’ Class X scores have little relevance to their Class XII performance,” Sharma said. He also criticised the 30 per cent weightage given to the students’ scores from their Class XI annual exam, saying the students don’t normally take that exam seriously. “As a long-term policy measure, this would have been good because it would have forced the students to study seriously in every class,” Sharma said. “But you can’t catch them unawares (by suddenly) enforcing this policy with retrospective effect.” Shreya Sasmal, a Class XII student from Delhi Public School, Udhampur (Jammu), said the credibility of any assessment without a board exam being held would remain questionable. “I would have been happier had the exams not been cancelled. The Class XII certificate carries a lot of importance throughout a student’s career. Now they have worked out a formula, but the credibility of the certificate may be affected,” she said. Sasmal, a science student, is preparing for a career in medicine, where an all-India entrance test is the norm. But for many of her peers who will seek admission to general science, arts or commerce courses, the Class XII marks will be key. Janvi Raj, who studies at a CBSE school in Sharjah, was unhappy with the weightage given to the Class XI exam. She said students tend to take it easy in Class XI, which falls between the two “stressful” years of preparing for the Class X and XII board exams. “Therefore, it’s natural that the Class XI results don’t reflect the full capability of an average student. Class XII is quite different, so it’s obvious that students would score better in Class XII,” Janvi said. “My suggestion is that the Class XI marks be kept out of the assessment.” Alpana Mishra, a parent and a biology teacher from Vadodara, said that giving weightage to the Class X boards was unfair because the students’ attitudes and performance change in the subsequent two years. “Some students transform into mature and focused pupils while some get distracted. Some students do better in Class XII when they can study subjects of their choice. On the other hand, many students take Class XI as a fun year,” Mishra said. Some principals and students, however, supported the formula. “The CBSE took the past three years’ performance into consideration (as a tool for moderation) to ensure there was no spiking of marks by schools,” Priyadarshi Nayak, principal of Doon Public School in Hathras, Uttar Pradesh, said. “I have a sense that giving weightage to the Class X marks will not make much of a difference. However, a section of students and teachers will have concerns about any formula.” Shakti Sharma, a Class XII student from Jaipuriar School, Mumbai, said the formula rewarded “academic consistency”. But he found the idea of using a reference year to check artificial inflation of marks an “arbitrary” practice. Under the formula, the year out of the previous three in which a school’s students did the best in the Class XII boards is to be taken as the reference, and the marks for 2020-21 are not to diverge beyond a prescribed range from that year’s. “Students’ scores being limited by the past performance of the school will have undesirable consequences,” Sharma said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-52
18-06-2021||India||Flood situation grim in Bihar as rain continues||The flood situation in northwestern parts of Bihar remained grim on Thursday as rains continued in the area and neighbouring Nepal, but a ray of hope came out of the clouds as the discharge into the Gandak river from Valmikinagar barrage located on the Indo-Nepal border dipped. “We are hoping the situation in West Champaran, East Champaran and Gopalganj districts to improve because the discharge from Valmikinagar barrage has come down to 2.6 lakh cusec. “A day ago it had touched 4.12 lakh cusec but is now showing a declining trend. The level of the river will go down now,” disaster management department officer on special duty (OSD) Avinash Kumar told The Telegraph. One cusec or ‘cubic feet per second’ is equivalent to 28.32 litres of water passing any particular point per second. The OSD asserted that the flood situation was under control as the spread of water from the spilling of Gandak, its tributaries, other small rivers and rivulets was limited to low-lying areas, agricultural fields and villages located in the space between rivers and embankments along them. “National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have been deployed in West Champaran, Gopalganj and East Champaran districts. Two NDRF teams are positioned in West Champaran and one each in Gopalganj and East Champaran districts,” Kumar added. Meanwhile, heavy rainfall in different parts of Bihar and Nepal also posed a threat to northern and northeastern parts of the state. Over 1 lakh cusec water was being discharged from the Birpur barrage on the Indo-Nepal border into the Kosi river, which is called ‘the sorrow of Bihar’ due to its disastrous floods. A sustained release of high volume of water into the river could bring floods in several districts of north Bihar. The Budhi Gandak, Kamla Balan, Bhuthi Balan and other rivers are also brimming with water and further heavy rains could lead to extensive floods in the state. Meanwhile, apart from the Gandak, smaller rivers and rivulets entering Bihar from Nepal also spilled over at many places to submerge villages and agriculture fields in West Champaran and East Champaran districts. The high level of water in Gandak moved towards Gopalganj and Saran districts. Several villages in the low-lying areas in the two districts are facing floods and erosion. The Central Water Commission (CWC) maintained the forecast of severe flood condition in Gopalganj, East Champaran and Saran districts over the next few days. Its director Sharad Chandra asserted that the flood situation in Gandak and Budhi Gandak rivers was mainly due to extreme rainfall in the catchment areas in Nepal. It is expected to abate slowly. People in flooded villages and Bagaha town in West Champaran have started shifting to safer areas. The district administration has also launched evacuation, but on a very small sale. Flood protection work is also going on to ensure that no embankment breaches under the pressure of floodwaters. The Bihar government has banned the use, production and trade of single-use plastic and thermocol in the state. A decision in this regard was taken by a cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Nitish Kumar. The government will issue detailed notification later. The state has already banned polythene bags.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-52
18-06-2021||India||Rajnath opens 10 ‘strategic’ roads in Arunachal Pradesh||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday inaugurated 12 roads, of which 10 are in frontier Arunachal Pradesh, that have “strategic and socio-economic” importance, two days after the first anniversary of the Galwan Valley clash with Chinese troops in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed in eastern Ladakh. The remaining two roads are in Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir, which like Arunachal Pradesh share border with China that has been engaged in long-drawn territorial disputes with India. China considers Arunachal Pradesh to be an extension of south Tibet. Addressing the inaugural programme at Kimin in Papum Pare district, Rajnath said the strategic roads built by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) would be helpful in fulfilling the “needs of our armed forces and transporting necessities like medicines and ration to remote areas”, adding that these projects were part of the Centre’s “Act East Policy” under which special emphasis is being laid on the overall development of the border areas. Rajnath paid tribute to the soldiers who showed exemplary courage during the Galwan Valley clash and made the “supreme sacrifice in the service of the nation” but also warned of befitting reply in response to aggression. “We want peace but will give a befitting reply to aggression. There has been no aggression from our side. Aggression against anyone has never been our objective. But if somebody shows aggression, we will give a befitting reply,” the defence minister said without naming any country. Rajnath described India as a “priest” of world peace but added that any serious disturbance to tranquillity in the border areas would have adverse implications. Amid ongoing efforts with China for the disengagement of troops in the Ladakh sector, India has been trying to spruce up its infrastructure along the border for better movement of troops and weapons during exigencies. Last October, Rajnath had inaugurated 44 bridges along the border in Ladakh, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir, with China responding by asserting it does not recognise Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh as part of India. The roads inaugurated on Thursday have been constructed under the Arunank, Vartak, Brahmank, Udayak, Himank and Sampark projects of the BRO, which has been lauded for its efforts to build infrastructure on very challenging terrain. The roads, Rajnath said, hold strategic and socio-economic importance, as they will play an important role in strengthening national security as well as promoting development of the Northeast. The inauguration of the 20km Kimin-Potin Road, about 60km from Arunachal capital Itanagar, was also attended by Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu, Union minister of state for youth affairs and sports Kiren Rijiju, chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and DG Border Roads Lt Gen. Rajeev Chaudhry. Junior Northeast development minister Dr Jitendra Singh joined the programme virtually. Rajnath reiterated the resolve of the Narendra Modi government for the development of the Northeast, describing the region as the gateway to not only the overall development of the country but also to the nation’s relations with East Asian countries. The defence minister also touched upon some of the major reforms undertaken by the Centre, including appointment of the chief of defence staff, measures to boost self-reliance in defence manufacturing and the corporatisation of the Ordnance Factory Board. “These reforms are proving to be a game changer in the military’s preparedness in the rapidly changing times.… We are actively working towards making India a defence manufacturing hub. Self-reliance in defence production will reduce our dependence on imports, increase exports and strengthen our economy,” Rajnath said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-52
18-06-2021||India||Fresh poll bribery FIR on Kerala BJP chief K Surendran ||Kerala BJP president K. Surendran was named as the first accused in a poll bribery case registered by Sultan Bathery police station in Wayanad district on Thursday. Former state president of the Janadhipathya Rashtriya Party, C.K. Janu, is the second accused in the FIR registered under IPC Sections 171e (punishment for bribery) and 171f (punishment for undue influence in an election). The FIR came a day after a court in Wayanad ordered the police to register a case over the allegation that Surendran had bribed Janu who later returned to the NDA. The order was passed on a plea filed by P.K. Navas, state president of the Muslim Students’ Federation, the student arm of the Indian Union Muslim League. Janu was the losing NDA candidate from Sultan Bathery in the recent state polls. The case was booked in connection with a purported telephone conversation between JRP treasurer Praseetha Azhikode and Surendran in which the state BJP chief was heard confirming the deal to pay Rs 10 lakh to Janu to return to the NDA with her party. She had apparently asked for Rs 10 crore but settled for Rs 10 lakh. Surendran was recently named in a similar case registered in Kasaragod for allegedly bribing K. Sundara, the Bahujan Samaj Party candidate from Manjeshwar, to withdraw his nomination papers and work for him. The FIR was registered after losing CPM candidate V.V. Rameshan secured a court sanction. Surendran was booked under IPC Sections 171b (bribery related to election) and 171e (punishment for bribery). Sundara, who was later sacked by the BSP, had alleged that he was forced to pull out of the race by Surendran in exchange for Rs 2.5 lakh, a mobile phone and a wine shop.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-52
18-06-2021||India||Bar Council of India to make surprise visits to law colleges||The Bar Council of India has announced that it will undertake surprise visits to law colleges and other centres of legal education in view of complaints of deteriorating standards of education as institutions “mushroom”. The BCI, which regulates legal education and the conduct of lawyers, said the inspections would begin after the pandemic situation stabilises. It has requested the state governments “to be very diligent before granting no-objection certificates” and take into consideration the population ratio and the need for a centre for legal education at a particular place. In a statement issued through BCI secretary Srimanto Sen, the regulator also requested the universities to carry out inspections and meticulous scrutiny of the proposed institutions before granting affiliation, warning that it would seriously consider derecognising degrees if due diligence was not followed. “The Bar Council of India is not going to compromise with the standard of legal education and the universities are advised to affiliate law colleges only with better infrastructure to compete with international standards. Mushrooming of law colleges has to be stopped at any costs,” the statement said. According to the BCI, new law teachers would be required to undertake proper training before being allowed to teach. The council has requested the state governments and state-owned universities to fill up all vacant teachers’ posts within three months. In 80 per cent of government institutions, more than 50 per cent teaching seats are vacant. The state governments are not showing any interest in filling up the vacancies, which is a matter of serious concern, the BCI said. The council recalled that a three-year moratorium had been imposed on opening law colleges and other centres of legal education through a resolution dated August 11, 2019. The BCI had imposed the moratorium to curtail the mushrooming of law colleges and improve the standards of legal education. There had been numerous requests to lift the moratorium, but the BCI had not agreed. However, on December 4, 2020, Punjab and Haryana High Court set aside the moratorium as being violative of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution (fundamental right to carry out any profession). The BCI noted that state governments often issue no-objection certificates in a casual manner without considering the demands of a particular area or population. Quite often, the universities grant affiliation to law colleges recklessly without undertaking careful inspection, the BCI said. It noted that the regulatory body is handicapped by the fact that it comes into the picture only in the third stage of opening a law college. The state government concerned issues the first NOC, followed by the university from which the college seeks affiliation. Affiliation is to be granted after a full-fledged inspection by the university, during which it is expected to examine the infrastructure and the quality of the faculty. In the third stage, the BCI considers whether to grant or decline approval of the affiliation already granted by the university.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-52
18-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal announces Madhyamik, HS evaluation details||A day after the CBSE and CISCE boards announced their marking schemes for Class 12 examinations, the West Bengal Council of Secondary Education on Friday said it will evaluate the marks of examinees on the basis of the results of Classes 9 and 10 for Madhyamik students. The results will be evaluated on a 50:50 basis, with importance being given to Class 9 marksheets and Class 10 internal examinations. Students unsatisfied with the result will be allowed to take a test after the pandemic situation gets better, the board announced. In case of Class 12 board exams, the students will be assessed on the basis of their marks in Class 10 boards and Class 11 annual tests. In this case, a 40:60 formula will be adopted, with 40 per cent marks being taken from the best of four subjects during the Class 10 boards and the rest 60 per cent being taken from the theory papers of Class 11 annual tests. The marks of a student, who has sat for the boards after the pandemic, will be considered ultimate and there would be no changes in that, the board said on Friday. Madhyamik as well as the state higher secondary exams have been scrapped this year because of a surge in Covid-19 cases. While announcing on June 7 that the secondary and the higher secondary exams would not be held this year because of Covid, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had asked the presidents of the two exam-conducting bodies to get details of the evaluations vetted by her. “She had also instructed them to keep an eye on the CBSE’s decision regarding the evaluation methodology,” an official said. A six-member committee had been constituted to suggest possible methods of assessment. “Factoring in the developments in court on Thursday, the recommendation of the experts and the exam-conducting bodies’ reports, an announcement will be made on Friday,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-19
18-06-2021||West Bengal||Nandigram: Trinamul objects to judge hearing Didi's case on counting||The ruling Trinamul has objected to Mamata Banerjee’s case alleging malpractices in the counting of votes for the Nandigram Assembly seat coming up before the single bench of Justice Kaushik Chanda. “Justice Kaushik Chanda is seen sharing a stage with BJP’s Dilip Ghosh. Unsurprisingly, he’s also the judge who has been assigned to hear the Nandigram case. As the India Judiciary system gets murkier day by day, will there be any justice in this case? Only time will tell,” a tweet on the Trinamul’s official handle said. Along with the tweet, the Trinamul released photographs of Justice Chanda at events organised by the legal cell of the BJP. On Thursday, Mamata had filed a case challenging the result of the Nandigram Assembly constituency, where  Trinamul turncoat and BJP nominee Suvendu Adhikari defeated her by 1,965 votes. She accused the latter of engaging in corrupt practices, including bribery and undue influence. She also alleged discrepancies in the counting process and said that demands for a recount were rejected by the returning officer. The case came up for hearing before the single judge bench on Friday but was deferred till next Thursday as Mamata had not appeared before the court. Justice Chanda said the petitioner has to be present in court. The hearing was postponed to June 24. Lawyers affiliated with the Trinamul staged a demonstration against the case coming up before Justice Chanda’s bench. As an advocate in the Calcutta high court, Justice Chanda had appeared in several cases filed by the BJP, like the legal challenge to Mamata’s decision on granting allowances to Imams in the state. “As a lawyer he fought some cases for the party and won some. He was close to the former party state unit president, Rahul Sinha, but was never an active member of the BJP,” said a BJP leader. Lawyers belonging to any political party appearing on behalf of politicians of rival parties is fairly common. Congress leaders Kapil Sibal and Abhishek Manu Singhvi have often been engaged as legal counsels by Trinamul leaders in the state. Sibal had represented Madan Mitra in the Saradha scam, while Singhvi, a Rajya Sabha MP of the Congress from Bengal, is one of the defence counsels in the on-going Narada sting operation case, where two Trinamul ministers and two other leaders were arrested by the CBI last month. “A lawyer can have a political ideology and also appear as a professional for people from a different ideology. It is important to see whether political ideology is clouding the judge’s judgment,” said Arunava Ghosh, a lawyer and Congress leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-19
18-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Governor postpones departure from Delhi||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has postponed his Friday afternoon departure to Calcutta from here, and is likely to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah again about the law and order situation in the state, source said. Dhankhar had a meeting with Shah on Thursday as well during which he is believed to have briefed the home minister about the law and order situation in the state where several incidents of post-poll violence were reported. Sources said Dhankhar was scheduled to leave for Calcutta on Friday afternoon, but the departure has been rescheduled for Saturday. A meeting with the home minister later in the day is not ruled out, they added. Dhankhar arrived in the national capital on Tuesday. A day before his departure from Calcutta, a delegation of BJP MLAs had petitioned him on the alleged deterioration of law and order in the state. Dhankhar also wrote a letter to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, accusing her of being silent over post-poll violence in the state and not taking steps to rehabilitate the affected people. He shared the letter on Twitter, a move the state home department criticised as being violative of all established norms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-19
18-06-2021||West Bengal||Hearing of Mamata's petition on Nandigram vote count deferred||The Calcutta High Court on Friday adjourned hearing to June 24 in West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's petition challenging the election of Leader Of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari from Nandigram. The matter was mentioned by Banerjee's lawyer before the court of Justice Kaushik Chanda as per the list for hearing. Justice Chanda asked the petitioner's lawyer to serve copies of the election petition to the opposite parties and fixed the matter for hearing on Thursday. In her petition, the Trinamool Congress chief accused BJP MLA Adhikari of committing corrupt practises as envisaged under Section 123 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951. Banerjee also claimed in the petition that discrepancies were committed in the counting process. Trinamul had demanded a recount of votes after the election results on May 2 but that appeal had been turned down by the returning officer. Mamata on the day of results had accepted the Nandigram result but hinted at moving court. “Accepting the verdict of the people of Nandigram. I salute the people there. It’s another thing that votes were looted there. We may move court,” she had told the media on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-19
18-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee launches new version of Krishak Bandhu scheme with higher pay||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday launched the new version of Krishak Bandhu scheme under which annual assistance to farmers in Bengal went up to Rs 10,000 a year from Rs 6,000 and highlighted that the dole came with no conditions unlike the central aid for agriculturists. “We had promised before the elections that we would enhance financial assistance under the Krishak Bandhu scheme to Rs 10,000. We are launching the renewed scheme today. A total of 62 lakh farmers would get the benefit,” said the chief minister at Nabanna on Thursday. Farmers would get the assistance in two half-yearly installments of Rs 5,000 each. The chief minister took care to explain how the state dole was superior to the Centre’s PM-Kisan scheme. “The Centre does not give assistance to all farmers and pays a lesser amount. This should be kept in mind,” she said. Sources at Nabanna said Mamata was trying to highlight that unlike the state scheme, the one by the Centre — in which farmers get an annual assistance of Rs 6,000 — was not for everyone because of conditions attached to it. “Out of 23 lakh farmers who applied for the central scheme, seven lakh-odd have qualified so far. The conditions are keeping a large number of farmers out of the scheme,” said an official. According to the conditions set under the PM-Kisan scheme, families with government staff, retired government employees who get a pension of more than Rs 10,000 and professionals like doctors, engineers, chartered accountants, lawyers and architects cannot apply for the farm dole. Moreover, farmers who pay income tax are also excluded from the central scheme. On the contrary, the Krishak Bandhu scheme has no such conditions and as a result, more than 62 lakh out of 73 lakh farmers in the state are eligible. Another issue that makes the state scheme more popular is the inclusion of sharecroppers and farm labourers as beneficiaries. “They will get Rs 4,000, a benefit that the Centre’s scheme does not offer,” said the chief minister. She also said the state scheme offered Rs 2 lakh to a family in case of a farmer’s premature death. “A total of 28,000 families have been extended this facility so far,” said Mamata. Within minutes of the chief minister launching the renewed scheme, Rs 290 crore was transferred to the bank accounts of 9,78,531 farmers. Mamata also said the state government had relaxed the norms to include more farmers in the scheme. “We have relaxed the criteria to bring all farmers under the scheme. We have done away with the process of producing land-related documents to prove one is associated with agriculture. Only a self declaration will do,” said the chief minister. The sources said once the mandatory provision of land-related documents for farmers to avail themselves of the dole was abolished, the number of registered farmers had gone up to 62 lakh from 47 lakh in the past seven or eight months. “We expect that a few lakh farmers would be included in the scheme in the next few months,” said a source. According to officials, the chief minister is keen to establish that the state scheme is more beneficial compared to the Centre’s dole keeping an eye on the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. “The BJP had used the PM-Kisan scheme as the main campaign tool in the Assembly polls. If the state scheme provides more facilities to the farmers, the ruling party is expected to do well in the Lok Sabha polls,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-19
18-06-2021||West Bengal||Two labourers die in rail tunnel crash near Kalimpong||Two labourers were killed when an under-construction tunnel of Sevoke-Rangpo (Sikkim) railway line caved in near Kalimpong on Thursday night. The incident occurred around 10.30pm at Bhalukhola, about 25km from Kalimpong. Police said seven labourers had been brought out of the debris but two of them died at Kalimpong district hospital. “All workers are said to be from Bihar,” said Kalimpong superintendent of police Hari Krishna Pai. Almost 86 per cent of the 44.98km rail link will run through 14 tunnels. Each tunnel will have a diameter of right meters. The total cost of the project, which started in 2018, is pegged at around Rs 4,000 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-19
18-06-2021||West Bengal||Saffron party delays Assembly poll defeat analysis||Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh on Thursday said the party would assess the reasons behind its unimpressive performance in the Assembly polls once the victims of post-poll result violence returned home. His comment once again captured the BJP’s desperation in spinning a narrative around violence after the elections, instead of identifying the mistakes that cost the party dear. “We will surely analyse the reasons that led to our defeat. The analysis will be done from the grassroots. However, it will be done only after the victims of post-poll violence return to their houses,” Ghosh said after attending an organisational meeting at the party’s Hastings office. The meeting was presided over by the BJP’s national joint general secretary (organisation), Shivprakash, state general secretaries and co-minders for Bengal Arvind Menon and Amit Malviya. Sources said a preliminary analysis of the loss had been conducted at the meeting. Sayantan Basu, a general secretary of the state unit, said six districts — Hooghly, North 24-Parganas, West Midnapore, Burdwan East, Birbhum and Howrah — had led to the BJP’s defeat. He also said the party should analyse every Assembly segment it had lost individually. Another general secretary, Sanjay Singh, who represents the Howrah district, said the party had thought the induction of Trinamul turncoat Rajib Banerjee would help the BJP score better in the district. However Banerjee failed to turn the BJP’s fortune and lost his own seat. The national leaders replied to Singh’s allegation by reminding him that he himself had lost the polls. The workers at the grassroots, however, want a detailed analysis of the situation. They also want the leaders to take their views into account as well. The Assembly poll results were declared on May 2, but the BJP state or central leaders haven’t yet sat down formally to discuss why the party’s projection of 200-plus seats didn’t come true and the tally ended only at 77. Several BJP insiders said though leaders and workers at the district and local levels had been repeatedly trying to reach out to senior functionaries to discuss the reasons behind the poor show, the state office-bearers seemed to be reluctant to engage in a poll performance analysis. A BJP source said most leaders were busy discussing how to use the post-poll narrative to embarrass the Mamata Banerjee government at Thursday’s meeting and no one bothered to discuss the poll results. “It is important for us to figure out what went wrong. But there is no one to discuss as our leaders know the defeat is a result of their mistakes,” a BJP source said. “The only thing that they want to talk about is post-poll violence now... I don’t know whether the poll performance analysis can be brushed under the carpet by bringing in this new narrative of post-poll violence,” added the source. Dilip Ghosh is being blamed by the majority for the lack of interest in analysing the poll results. Although the state president convened meetings at district towns like Hooghly, Asasnol, Midnapore and Bongaon, he didn’t discuss the defeat. In Hooghly and Asansol, Ghosh was surrounded by agitating workers who urged him to listen to their views about the defeat, but the Midnapore MP refused. “Immediately after the elections, things were bad and we were under attack... The situation, however, improved later. Most of the victims have returned home. This is high time that we discuss the poll results,” a BJP worker from Midnapore said. It has been decided that the party will hold an agitation programme in Calcutta on June 23 to protest against alleged atrocities by the Trinamul Congress. Similar programmes will be held in different districts on June 25.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-19
18-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal reports rise in active cases by 7,371 in 8 days||Bengal on Thursday reported a rise for the eighth day on the trot in its total active Covid-19 cases, by 921. With this, from 14,702 on June 9 to 22,073 now, the total number of active Covid-19 cases in the state has risen by 7,371 or over 50 per cent in the past eight days. The total number of active cases, which fell sharply from 1,32,181 on May 21 to 14,702 or by 89 per cent by June 9, started rising again from June 10. On Thursday, only 2,033 recoveries were logged against 3,018 new infections. Bengal reported 64 deaths, including 11 from Calcutta and 17 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst affected districts. Among the day’s cases, Calcutta logged 366 and North 24-Parganas 431 infections. Bengal now has 2.78 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is eighth among states with the most active cases. It had fallen from sixth to 13th place in a matter of days earlier this month. Bengal’s Covid-19 recovery rate, which began declining last Friday to snap a 39-day spell of rise, fell to 97.34 per cent on Thursday. The national recovery rate is 96 now. “This (rise in active Covid cases) is part of a wider, pan-India trend, from over the past week or so. It is not happening in Bengal alone. There is no cause for great worry at this stage,” said a minister. The daily confirmation rate, which had peaked in the second wave with nearly 33 per cent, was 5.42 per cent on Thursday. Bengal’s overall mortality rate, with 17,182 deaths in total, is 1.16 per cent, while the national rate is 1.28.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-20
18-06-2021||West Bengal||I have written to Narendra Modi two-three times for Dhankhar’s removal: Mamata Banerjee||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said she had written to Narendra Modi “two-three times” demanding the removal of Jagdeep Dhankhar as Bengal governor and underscored that “he is their man”, on a day the Raj Bhavan occupant met President Ram Nath Kovind and Union home minister Amit Shah. In response to questions on Dhankhar’s visit to the national capital, the chief minister refused to comment on speculation over his removal by the Centre, saying the convention of consulting the state government over such matters had been done away by the BJP regime. Asked if Mamata, whose testy ties with Dhankhar since his arrival in Bengal two years ago are no secret, wanted him to stay on as governor, she said: “What I want, how do I tell you?” “I have written to the Prime Minister two-three times, so that he is withdrawn.” When it was pointed out to her that Dhankhar had been meeting a number of people on his trip to Delhi, the chief minister said he was free to meet whomever he desired to. “He can meet (Shah)… whom he (Dhankhar) will meet is his business. Uni toh odeyri lok (He is their man),” said Mamata. Asked to respond to conjecture over the possibility of Dhankhar’s removal — although his term ends in 2024 — the Trinamul Congress chief said: “How will I know?” “When he was made the governor, I was not consulted. The rule implies that the state has to be consulted before the appointment… but it was not done. If he is going now, I haven’t been asked. So, how will I know? Asha jawar gaanta orai ekai gaay (Only they sing the song of arrivals and departures),” she added. Dhankhar has — according to Mamata and her party — been acting as a mouthpiece and instrument of the BJP since taking charge on July 30, 2019, courting numerous controversies without shying away from being seen as an integral part of the saffron ecosystem. Before the Assembly elections, Dhankhar had publicly called for change in the state. Since the historic mandate against the BJP — that brought Mamata to power for a third consecutive term with a landslide of a victory —, Dhankhar has, according to Trinamul, upped the ante. Just before his visit, Dhankhar held a controversial meeting in public view, in the portico of the Raj Bhavan, with 50-odd BJP MLAs and issued statements endorsing the party’s claims regarding post-poll result violence in Bengal, going on to shoot yet another missive to the chief minister about it. Asked about the portico meet, the chief minister said: “Why are you trying to get me to speak? In this matter, speech is silver, and silence is golden.” “If everybody is saying so (that Dhankhar’s conduct |does not behove a Raj Bhavan occupant), what need is there for me to say it? Everybody is, indeed, saying it. Because everybody is saying so, their saying so is my saying so. What is new in this that needs to be said?” Mamata asked. “If it’s a child, he can be scolded into silence.” Since the results, which the BJP seems to be living in denial of, the saffron echo chambers have been levelling countless outlandish allegations of Mamata overseeing a “retributive Hindu genocide” in the state after winning her third consecutive term. In the saffron echo chambers, there has been deafening noise from the chorus of outlandish demands ranging from the imposition of Article 356 in Bengal and “reducing it Kashmir-like rubble” to even a “third Partition” of the state (culling out parts in the north and the west that voted in favour of the BJP and giving them separate BJP-led governments). Against this backdrop, Dhankhar’s role has allegedly been dubious. While the BJP claims there have been 41 deaths in post-poll violence in Bengal between May 2 and June 17, sources at Nabanna said that a total of 16 people had died between May 2 and 4. “Eight victims were from Trinamul, while seven belonged to the BJP. One victim was a supporter of the ISF. The families of the victims have been given a compensation of 2 lakh each,” said a source at the state secretariat. A senior government official said there might have been some other incidents of violence in the state since, but none was a political clash. “So, the victims, if any, were not counted among those who died under post-poll result violence,” he said. Asked about Dhankhar’s alleged echo of the BJP’s charges of continuing post-poll violence, Mamata said: “Can you see any (political violence)? You all are journalists from here, can you see any? You would have seen before me….” “You cannot see, but… if someone wilfully cannot see, what can I do?” she asked. Referring to the various directives and visits from various national bodies and agencies to Bengal since the results, Mamata said anybody could go anywhere. “But they should have gone to places like Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat a bit more…. Despite being trounced in the Bengal election, by the mandate of the masses, they (the BJP) have no shame. Getting all agencies at the Centre’s disposal to do these things,” she said. “This is the BJP’s habit, their plan. Everything is pre-planned. There is no incident now after polls. Post-poll violence, at the time of the election, while it (the administration) was under the Election Commission of India, there were some sporadic incidents. But all were not political, there were some personal enmities also. But while the matter is sub judice, I will not speak regarding it,” she added. Mamata once again reaffirmed that she did not condone violence and the police administration had been instructed to come down heavily on any incident of violence. “I think, whatever they are creating, the atmosphere… that violence, violence, violence… there is no violence like that. One-two sporadic incidents, we took stern action, we condemned the violence,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-20
18-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee slams saffron camp for buzz on separatism in north Bengal||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday accused the saffron camp of creating unrest in north Bengal, referring to the sudden demand from some BJP leaders in the region, including legislators, who have been publicly talking about the need to confer Union territory status or separate statehood for north Bengal. “It is not easy to divide our state. We will never allow any further partition of Bengal. The proponents of such separate status should know that they will get a befitting reply from people of the state,” she said in reply to a question made on the issue. Over the past few days, a number of BJP leaders, including MPs like John Barla, who has considerable influence in the tea belt, have lent support to the demand. It was initially discussed at a virtual BJP internal meeting that some state and central leaders of the party had attended earlier this week and then leaders started talking about it publicly. “If such separatist movement resumes in north Bengal, it will be a security threat for the country,” said a source close to the chief minister referring to the strategic importance of north Bengal in the region’s geopolitics because of the Siliguri corridor, which connects the entire northeast with the rest of the country. Known as “chicken’s neck,” the width of the sub-continent is the thinnest here, where it is perched between Nepal in the north and Bangladesh in the south. The China border is hardly around 200 kilometres away. “What does this central-controlled region (Union territory) mean? Does it mean they will sell out the land of Alipurduar, or Jalpaiguri, or Siliguri? On one hand, they talk so much about China and now, such demands are being raised,” asserted Mamata. It was not clear why Mamata broached the issue of China while referring to the statehood or Union territory demand for north Bengal. The chief minister also spoke about a video that has been recently released by the self-styled chief of Kamtapur Liberation Organisation (KLO), a terrorist outfit comprising Rajbanshi youths, demanding the separate Kamtapur state that would cover the north Bengal region. “We have also come across a video where it has been mentioned that terror activities would be resumed. The CID, STF and the state police have been asked to start an investigation,” the chief minister said. In the six-minute-forty-second long video tape, self-styled KLO chief Jeevan Singha had reasserted their demand and backed Ananta Maharaj, one of the key proponents of the demand and a leader of Greater Cooch Behar Peoples’ Association. Ananta, who has a number of police cases pending against him, stays in Assam. He is close to the saffron camp and has always supported the BJP in recent elections. Ananta’s demand, Trinamul insiders believe, is part of a saffron strategy to create unrest in the region and that’s why the party has decided to tackle it politically. On Thursday, Trinamul youth supporters demonstrated in Alipurduar town where they carried placards and shouted slogans against the BJP for trying to divide the state. “Our political activities will intensify in the coming days. We will not let the BJP play the divisive card here,” said Ranjan Sarkar, the Darjeeling (plains) district Trinamul president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-20
18-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee moves Calcutta High Court on Nandigram vote count||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has filed a petition before Calcutta High Court alleging malpractices in the counting of votes for the Nandigram Assembly seat in which Trinamul turncoat and BJP nominee Suvendu Adhikari defeated her by 1,965 votes. The petition has been filed on Mamata’s behalf by advocate Sanjay Basu and is likely to be heard by Justice Kaushik Chanda on Friday, Trinamul sources said. The petition claimed that the Election Commission official, in charge of counting for Nandigram, had initially declared Mamata as the winner on May 2, but the result was reversed in Suvendu’s favour later the same day. Though Trinamul emerged triumphant in the election, Mamata’s loss in Nandigram left a sour taste in the victorious camp. Trinamul had demanded a recount of votes but that appeal had been turned down by the returning officer. Mamata on the day of results had accepted the Nandigram result but hinted at moving court. “Accepting the verdict of the people of Nandigram. I salute the people there. It’s another thing that votes were looted there. We may move court,” she had told the media on May 2. A day later, she had raked up the issue of malpractice in the counting of votes in Nandigram and alleged that the returning officer was threatened at gunpoint to ensure there was no recounting. “I have received an SMS where the returning officer is pleading for his life… From 8,000 votes, suddenly it went to zero. For hours the server was down. I know that EVMs were changed. For forty minutes, there was a power cut in the counting centre. We will investigate all of this, we will go to court,” she had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-20
18-06-2021||West Bengal||Heavy rain forces Mamata Banerjee to defer north Bengal trip||Heavy rain, which in undated a number of places in south Bengal, including Calcutta, made chief minister Mamata Banerjee postpone her trip to north Bengal, senior Trinamul leader Gautam Deb said here on Thursday. Mamata was to reach the region on June 21, which would have been her first visit after becoming the chief minister for the third time, to take stock of the situation after the recent Assembly elections. A new date for her visit has not yet been finalised. “Today (Thursday), the chief minister informed me that because of the flood-like situation in Calcutta and some other parts of south Bengal, she has has to postpone her trip (to north Bengal). There was waterlogging in a number of areas across Calcutta today (Wednesday) and there is a Met office forecast of high tide, coupled with rainfall, on June 26. That’s why she has decided to visit this region later,” said Deb. In north Bengal, Trinamul won in 23 Assembly seats in 2021, the same number the party had won back in 2016. But the dynamics have changed in the five years. This time, the Left and Congress were ousted and Trinamul fought pitched poll battles with the BJP. While it failed to secure even a single seat in districts like Darjeeling and Alipurduar, the party did well in Malda and North Dinajpur. A senior Trinamul leader in Siliguri said her visit was important, considering recent political developments, including the saffron camp’s campaign to rekindle the demand for separate statehood. “We need her guidance to know how we should handle the situation, keeping in mind the mixed population of north Bengal,” he said. Party insiders said leaders and veteran workers, particularly in districts like North Dinajpur and Malda, are eagerly waiting for her. “Since 2011, for the first time, she has kept the NB development department with herself instead of putting any other MLA as the minister-in-charge. This has drawn praise from the region and there are huge expectations from her,” said another leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-20
18-06-2021||West Bengal||Supply contract violence exposes ‘cracks’ in Trinamul Congress||Acute differences between two lobbies of Trinamul over the supply of construction materials to build  the permanent building of Calcutta High Court’s Circuit Bench in Jalpaiguri allegedly led to violence on Wednesday night. Sources said on Wednesday, Bikash Basak, a Trinamul leader based in Paharpur on the outskirts of the town, filed a complaint against Krishna Das, the district president of Trinamul’s SC and ST cell and deputy of Trinamul-run Baropatia panchayat (under Sadar block). “I got the contract to supply sand, stone and pebbles for the construction work. I started supplying the materials. Some associates of Krishna Das, however, attacked me and also beat me up. Krishna Das himself took out a firearm, fired a blank shot and warned me to stop supplying construction materials or face dire consequences,” alleged Basak on Thursday. Trinamul insiders said Basak is an associate of Saikat Chatterjee, the district youth Trinamul president. In Jalpaiguri district, differences among the lobbies of Das and Chatterjee are well known within the party. Sources said police acted on Basak’s complaint and detained an associate of Das late on Wednesday. This prompted Das to reach Kotwali police station on Wednesday night with around 1,000-odd supporters. “Das’s supporters virtually cordoned off the police station and eventually, the person who was detained was released early on Thursday. Such activities of Das have led to questions within the party,” said a Trinamul leader who did not want to be named. “The construction firm that has been assigned with the task to supply materials has in turn given sub-contracts to some local suppliers. This has led to the problem as both the lobbies want to control the supply,” the party leader added. Das, when contacted, however came up with a different version. He denied that he had been to the construction site and said there had been some altercation among local residents and workers. “Some local residents want to work on the site. But there are reports that workers from outside are being brought there.  This led to some discontent and hence some problems. But some people are trying to implicate me in false cases,” he said. Other Trinamul leaders, including party’s district president K.K. Kalyani, were tightlipped and denied to reveal any information about the incident. Police have started probing the incident and are trying to trace those who had perpetrated the violence. Debarshi Dutta, the Jalpaiguri district police chief, was also brief in his reaction. “It is not clear what led to the problem. We are keeping a close watch on the construction site and are conducting an inquiry,” he said. The ugly spat caused a halt in the supply of construction materials to the construction site both on Wednesday and Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-20
18-06-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul's victory in Assembly elections prompts slew of changes in north Bengal||The decisive victory of Trinamul in Assembly elections has prompted a slew of changes in north Bengal. In Malda, where Trinamul won eight of 12 seats, Trinamul members of the zilla parishad on Thursday went to the office of the divisional commissioner and gave an application, citing they wanted to table a no-confidence motion against sabhadhipati Gour Chandra Mandal. Ahead of elections, Mandal defected to BJP. He contested from Manikchak but lost to Trinamul’s Sabitri Mitra. “He ditched Trinamul and tried to damage our party. It is time to teach him and some other traitors a lesson. Some who were misled and joined BJP returned to us. Today (Thursday), 23 (of 37) elected members put their signatures on the application (for a no-confidence motion against Mandal),” said Mausam Noor, district Trinamul president. At the 2018 panchayat elections, Trinamul had 29 out of 37 seats in the zilla parishad. The sabhadhipati reacted briefly: “I know they are trying to remove me. Time will tell if they succeed or not.” Sources said the application would be forwarded to senior state government officials. “We will wait for their directive,” said an official. In Cooch Behar, Trinamul veteran and former minister Rabindranath Ghosh managed to get over 150 families of BJP supporters into the party. On Thursday, Ghosh, with local leaders, held a public meeting in Dewanhat to hand over party flags to families. Ghosh this time lost to Mihir Goswami from Natabari. Goswami, a former Trinamul MLA, had defected to BJP a little before the polls. “Ever since results, we have not seen the new MLA, but Ghosh is here daily to stand by people during this pandemic,” said a youth. Posters were seen in ward 25 of Raiganj, North Dinajpur, on Thursday against Ashim Adhikari, the councillor who defected to BJP from Trinamul earlier this year. Ashim had been giving feelers to rejoin Trinamul. The posters said he should not be let in. Additional reporting by Kousik Sen||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-20
18-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee asks Bengal residents to stay safe following forecast of heavy rainfall||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday asked people living in coastal areas and at other places across Bengal, including Calcutta, to stay safe following a forecast of heavy rainfall over the next few days and rise in the water levels of seasonal rivers. “Calcutta and districts faced heavy rainfall of around 179mm last night. We never witnessed such a heavy rainfall in the past (in a day). There is no way to release the water… The next high tide is likely to occur on June 26, which will result in an increase in the water levels of rivers in Hooghly and Howrah districts,” Mamata said at state secretariat Nabanna. “On the other hand, heavy rain has been reported in Jharkhand and Bihar. We face inundation if heavy rain occurs in Jharkhand as water is released from several dams. We can’t control nature, so we have to face it,” she added. The chief minister also sounded an alert and asked people residing in the low-lying areas of Hooghly’s Arambagh and Khanakul and Howrah’s Uluberia to stay safe. These areas face flood-like situations every year as seasonal rivers overflow during the monsoon. Several districts in south Bengal continued to be lashed by incessant rain on Thursday and the Met office in Calcutta forecast heavy to very heavy rainfall in the next three days. Sources in the Met office said Calcutta had received 144mm of rainfall, while South 24-Parganas and Bankura districts recorded 178mm and 133mm of rainfall, respectively, in 24 hours till 6pm on Thursday. Darjeeling received 70.4mm rainfall during the same period. According to the forecast, districts like North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Jhargram, Nadia, Purulia, Darjeeling and Kalimpong are likely to witness heavy to very heavy rainfall in the next three days and the Met office issued an alert for districts like Birbhum, West Burdwan, Bankura and Purulia. Administrations of several south Bengal districts have started evacuating people from lowland areas to safe places and deploying NDRF and civil volunteers in pockets where seasonal rivers already touched pre-danger or danger levels. “We have already evacuated 250 people residing on the banks of the Dwarakeshwar and Shankari rivers. The NDRF teams are ready to move to inundated areas if necessary. The teams have been deployed at places like Khanakul and Arambagh,” Hooghly district magistrate Deepap Priya P. said. Around 1,000 people were evacuated from the Katulpur and Onda blocks of Bankura after water levels of the Dwarakeshwar river touched the danger level on Thursday evening. While fair-weather bridges have been damaged at several places in the state, a bamboo bridge over the Damodar connecting Shaltora in Bankura and Asansol in West Burdwan was swept away on Thursday afternoon following consistent rain in the region. Hundreds of people who work at factories in Asansol had to cross the river in overcrowded country-made boats in the evening to reach Bankura. Fair-weather bridges are causeways built over rivers or water bodies that remain dry during most part of the year other than the rainy season. The situation is expected to worsen as several barrages in south Bengal have already started releasing water following heavy rainfall in bordering Jharkhand. The Durgapur barrage discharged around 21,400 cusec of water on Thursday and there will be further release if the water level rises. Additional reporting by Abhijeet Chatterjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-20
18-06-2021||West Bengal||Woman tortured over 'illicit affair', seven arrested ||A 42-year-old housewife was assaulted, her hair chopped, and she was stripped by some villagers, including women, in Jalpaiguri district on Wednesday evening. Sources said the villagers tortured the woman accusing her of having an illicit relationship. Police have arrested seven persons. “On the evening of June 14, some villagers spotted a youth entering the woman’s house when she was alone. Her husband was away on some errand. This made the villagers accuse her for having illicit relations with the youth and they dragged them out of the house, fastened them with trees and beat them up,” said a source. “Later, they were handed over to the police. As there was no complaint against them, the duo was released on Tuesday,” the source added. After facing such humiliation, the woman went to her parents’ place. According to sources, the woman was intercepted by some villagers, including women, when she returned to the village with her husband on Wednesday. “They started beating her up while some others chopped her hair and also tore her clothes. After some time, she somehow managed to get inside her house,” said a source. “A section of neighbours went on hurling abuses at her and said she might face dire consequences,” the source added.On Thursday morning, the woman’s husband lodged a police complaint accusing 11 persons of torturing his wife. “Seven persons have been arrested following the complaint. Our officers are investigating the case and other accused will also be arrested soon,” said Debarshi Dutta, the superintendent of police of Jalpaiguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-20
18-06-2021||North East||DoNER ministry to identify ten underdeveloped Northeast districts||The Union DoNER ministry will identify 10 underdeveloped districts in the Northeast within a week with the aim of improving the living conditions in these districts by ensuring smooth delivery of goods and services. These districts, lagging behind in most governance and development parameters, will be over and above the 14 aspirational districts shortlisted earlier, based on 49 key socio-economic indicators. Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER) minister Jitendra Singh disclosed this after a high-level meeting with the ministry and the North Eastern Council (NEC) officials on Wednesday. The exercise, he said, was aimed at accelerating the “Ease of living” in these ten districts from eight states in the region through “smooth” delivery of goods and services and bringing these at par with the developed districts in the country. Of the 741 districts in the country, 121 are in the northeast states, including Sikkim. Singh said the concept of aspirational districts, conceptualised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2018, was a major shift in governance at the grassroots after seven decades of Independence in India. The concept was also a shift to a more scientific and objective assessment of developmental activities, besides bringing about a sea change in work culture at all levels of governance, he said. The aspirational district development programme is aimed at helping the overall improvement in the human development index in the districts having very poor socio-economic parameters. There are 117 aspirational districts in the country identified by Niti Aayog, which also monitors the development in these districts. The DoNER minister has also directed officials to prepare a comprehensive database of developmental projects in each of the eight northeastern states in the past seven years and showcase the marked improvement in all the sectors in comparison to the previous 63 years. He said, the Prime Minister’s flagship projects and all the foundation laying ceremonies of Narendra Modi in all the eight states must be reflected in the Developmental Database. The BJP-led government under Modi came to power in 2014. Development of the region has been one of the key thrust areas of the present dispensation, frequently showcasing it as the growth engine of the country. The DoNER minister reiterated at the meeting that that Isro (Indian Space Research Organisation) will assist the region by offering optimum utilisation of satellite imaging and other space technology applications for better accomplishment of infrastructural projects in all the eight states. The projects included the mapping of forest gap areas, expansion of land area for horticulture development, identification and rejuvenation of wetlands and diversion of floodwater, assessment of bamboo resources for livelihood and border disputes management.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-2
18-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Through the roof||The latest official data on inflation in the Indian economy are disturbing in their implications. Wholesale inflation — measured by the wholesale price index — in May 2021 was 12.94 per cent compared to a negative 3.37 per cent one year ago. Retail inflation — measured by the consumer price index — for May 2021 was 6.30 per cent. This rate has breached the Reserve Bank of India’s tolerance corridor of 2-6 per cent. The recent spurt in rising prices has been triggered by fuel and food items, including petrol, diesel, pulses and vegetables. Globally, the prices of crude oil and commodities are rising. On top of spiking global crude oil prices, the Government of India is unrelenting in persisting with high taxes on petrol and diesel. Fuel prices have crossed Rs 100 per litre in many states. With the rise in the demand for dollars to foot the fuel import bill, the rupee has been depreciating. These trends have consequences for present growth as well as for future recovery rates that will help pull the economy out of a recessionary slowdown. If the RBI is not to throw inflation-targeting out of the window, it has to change its monetary policy stance sooner than later. It might be compelled to raise policy rates and inject less liquidity into the economy. Credit costs will start pushing northward and, hence, have an adverse effect on investments as well as on the government’s fiscal borrowing requirements. If it does not respond to inflationary pressures, then high rates of inflation would reduce the real incomes of consumers, which will have a decelerating effect on the growth of consumer demand. During the past one year, nominal incomes have fallen for the vast majority of Indians. A further round of inflation can have devastating effects on aggregate demand. This, in turn, would worsen the push required to have a sustained recovery. One way out of this dilemma would be if retail fuel prices were to be reduced by a cut in the Central tax. That would keep inflation below 6 per cent and the RBI could focus on accommodative credit growth for restoring supply chains. The Central government appears rigid in its position on fuel taxes. The need of the hour is for the RBI to have a deep conversation with the finance ministry and sort things out. Investors and producers also need to know which playbook will be used. Unfortunately, it appears that policy transparency is not something that the current government feels very comfortable about.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-8
18-06-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Bail for three activists, depression among elderly||Learn a lesson Sir — The observation made by the Delhi High Court while granting bail to three student activists that the State is blurring the line between the constitutionally guaranteed ‘right to protest’ and ‘terrorist activity’ was spot on (“Visionary”, June 17). The warning by the court that this could put democracy in peril must be taken seriously. The Delhi police should know even without being told that the right to dissent is not the same as ‘terrorist activity’. Working under the direct control of the home ministry, it was party to the suppression of dissent. Why else would it choose to misconstrue the protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act as an act of terrorism? The court’s remark that the chargesheet lacked any specific factual allegations that could be read as offence hints at extraneous considerations for filing the cases under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The subjective interpretation of sloganeering in the thick of a mass movement as ‘instigating violence’ would collapse before the objective scrutiny of courts. But the process of prosecution itself becomes the punishment. The Delhi police was criticized for ‘casually’ invoking the stringent provisions of the anti-terror law. Yet, the police did not feel chastened. Instead, it decided to file an appeal in the Supreme Court against the bail orders. We hope that the apex court will uphold the relief granted by the Delhi High Court and, by extension, the right to protest, and haul the Delhi police over the coals for acting in violation of citizens’ basic rights. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — The Delhi High Court’s order granting bail to the student activists is an instance of the judiciary reinstating the constitutional rights of the people to dissent and protest. Governments across the country must take note of its observations condemning the cavalier attitude of the Delhi police in mechanically invoking such stringent laws as the UAPA. But will the police be held accountable for the gross misuse of their powers? The judgment also exposes a total lack of professionalism on the part of the Delhi police and its willingness to please the powers that be. Its blatantly partisan role was equally evident from the fact that the members of the Bharatiya Janata Party, including a junior Union minister, making highly provocative speeches in public were not brought to book. One hopes that the apex court will lay down certain criteria for invoking the UAPA to prevent its further misuse. S.K. Choudhury,Bangalore  Pay attention Sir — A HelpAge India survey has found that 85 per cent of the elderly in Calcutta suffer from marginal depression; a majority of them said the pandemic has aggravated their suffering. This is worrying. The younger generations, in spite of their busy schedules, must reach out to senior citizens more often and ask after them. People could take turns to call their elderly neighbours, if only to hear them out. They must not be ignored, especially given the hard times. Aditya Karmakar,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-8
18-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Game’s Afoot||Personal is often political in India. The fate of the leader of the Lok Janshakti Party, Chirag Paswan, would testify to this hypothesis. Five parliamentarians from the party raised the flag of revolt hoisted by Pashupati Kumar Paras — Mr Paswan’s uncle and brother of Ram Vilas Paswan, the founder of LJP — and removed Mr Paswan from the post of national president. Mr Paswan has retaliated by cancelling the primary membership of his adversaries. The domestic tiff now threatens to implode the LJP and the word is that the man who is smiling is none other than Nitish Kumar. This political speculation has context. Mr Kumar is convinced that the poor harvest that his party reaped in the Bihar assembly elections — the Janata Dal (United)’s tally was a meager 43 seats — can be attributed to Mr Paswan’s strategy of putting up candidates to undercut the political appeal of his party. So this, the political grapevine insists, is a moment of comeuppance for the younger Paswan and, equally, a moment of retribution for Mr Kumar. Even though the LJP’s political imprint has been on the wane — its electoral haul was a solitary seat in the state polls — there is a possibility of political lines being realigned in Bihar. What must also merit attention is the role played by the Bharatiya Janata Party in the drama. It is generally agreed that Mr Paswan’s defiance towards Mr Kumar had the tacit approval of the BJP. A weakened JD(U), the BJP had calculated correctly, would put the reins of Bihar in its hands and Mr Paswan was identified by the BJP as its pawn in this game. Interestingly, Mr Paswan now finds himself abandoned by his shadowy patron. The BJP has chosen not to come to his aid as he battles for political survival and the reason is strategic. Narendra Modi’s party cannot afford to ruffle Mr Kumar’s feathers given the sticky wicket it finds itself on at the national level. Critical lapses in the management of a raging pandemic and an anaemic economy have been fundamental to the erosion in the public mandate in favour of the BJP: the result of the Bengal elections proves the point. The exit of the Shiv Sena and the Shiromani Akali Dal as allies from the National Democratic Alliance has cemented the JD(U)’s position in the coalition, handing it much-needed leverage as the BJP gets ready to face an acid test in the form of a series of assembly elections. Humouring Mr Kumar is thus a necessity, not a luxury, for the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-8
18-06-2021||Opinion||Get involved: USA and Iran||Seldom has a relationship experienced the kind of friction seen in the ties between the United States of America and Iran. Over the last 40 years, especially after the Islamic Revolution in Iran, the US and Iran have remained staunch nemeses. The actions taken by the administration of the former US president, Donald Trump, exacerbated the animosity between the two international actors to the point of open confrontation. However, the ostensible relaxation in ties, with the opening up of talks in Vienna regarding Iran rejoining the nuclear accord, has raised hopes of the restoration of normalcy. In this context, if any nation can help both countries resuscitate the robustness in their ties, it is India. India has the potential and the strategic depth to not only bring the two countries face to face but also mediate. This can help bring the nuclear accord back on track three years after it was abruptly jettisoned. But why India? It is not even a party to the Iran nuclear accord; it is essentially a third party. But it is the advantage of being a third party that has allowed India to become an impartial observer. Historically, India has been an ardent supporter of the accord which helped bring nominal stability to the tumultuous Middle East. India enjoys robust ties with both Iran and the US. Iran was India’s third-largest oil supplier; it is a trusted regional partner in the important Chabahar port project; it was a crucial stakeholder in Afghanistan; it also acted as a sort of bulwark against India’s recalcitrant neighbour, Pakistan. The US, on the other hand, was India’s largest bilateral trade partner and a vital destination for Indian exports. This makes it important for India to ensure that US-Iran ties become normal. India has the advantage of being a neutral site for conducting diplomatic negotiations because of its stated commitment to the principles of non-alignment which successive Indian establishments, including the Narendra Modi regime, have followed to this day. New Delhi can boast of its neutral credentials to ensure that any impasse between the two sides can be diplomatically solved without too many problems. It also has a huge market which can act as a carrot of sorts for both the US and Iran to jointly invest in. This gains significance in the light of recent landmark structural reforms enacted by the Modi government to roll out the red carpet for foreign investors. Despite these benefits, the task is easier said than done. India will face vociferous opposition from two of its most important allies — Israel and the United Arab Emirates — because they are wary of Iran’s ‘destabilizing’ actions in different countries of West Asia and its support for local militias. They can ask New Delhi why it is attempting outreach to a hostile republic at the expense of its existing allies. The next problem that India can face is Opposition parties alleging that the incumbent dispensation is undermining the secular credentials of the Indian republic. This, to a large extent, is a legitimate concern given that Iran is largely ruled by clerics from the Shia sect of Islam. Another elephant in the room is China, with which Iran has signed a $400 billion agreement. New Delhi should know that China will not want to play second fiddle. Diplomacy is the art of the possible. Despite all problems, the capital and prestige India enjoys in the global community may allow it to intervene in this conflict. The outcome of the Vienna talks is uncertain, but India can start a parallel negotiation in which all stakeholders involved in the nuclear deal can come to New Delhi and negotiate hard. India must play the role of an impartial moderator, highlighting how the nuclear deal will be key in stabilizing the Middle East and help in restoring US-Iran ties which, in turn, will augur well for Israel and the UAE. New Delhi must realize that with global winds changing rapidly, its geopolitical tactics need to keep up. As an aspiring superpower, it must reach out to Iran and the US.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-8
18-06-2021||Opinion||Lakshadweep: The troubled isles||The ongoing protests in Lakshadweep and outside against a series of new draft bills and regulations have started attracting international attention. The islanders believe that the draft bills that the new administrator, Praful Khoda Patel, introduced are part of a larger bio-politics, enmeshed in the cultural politics of the Bharatiya Janata Party, and it would damage the basic behavioural, dietary and occupational practices of the people there. They have not bought into the spurious reasons that the current island administration has placed before them in the name of ‘development’, ‘tourism’ and ‘safety.’ Among the many bills that Patel has proposed since January, the Lakshadweep Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation, 2021 and the Lakshadweep Animal Preservation Regulation, 2021 merit a closer look. There is concern that the rationale of the Lakshadweep Animal Preservation Regulation, 2021 is to place the islanders under surveillance to augment the ideological tenets of Hindutva. The content and the prescribed punishment for the violations of the clauses in the bill are being perceived as a calculated move to incapacitate the dietary traditions and choices of the people. A number of penal clauses not only impose a blanket ban on the consumption of the meat of cows, bulls, and bullocks (Section 5 & Schedule 1) but they also make the consumption of buffalo and goat meat nearly impossible. As per the clauses in Section 5:3, the “competent authority” has unquestionable discretion to decide if male buffaloes and goats are to be allowed for slaughter for meat. None of these animals will be certified in favour of consumption if the “competent authority” believes that they are “likely to become useful for the purpose of draught or any kind of agricultural operations,” or “useful or likely to become useful for the purpose of breeding”, or “useful or likely to become useful for the purpose of giving milk or bearing offspring” (Section 5:3). Additionally, the authority will be given a free hand to enter any house or institution if it thinks that “an offence under this Regulation has been or is likely to be committed” (Section-9: 1& 2). Mutton and vegetable-based protein-rich foods remain highly expensive; the proposed elimination of affordable red meat would definitely aggravate the grim health situation in the region. The Lakshadweep Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation, 2021 kindles similar anxieties on account of its intent and possible consequences. Lakshadweep has one of the lowest crime rates in India. The bill, therefore, fails to offer a rationale for its inception and its hurried execution. The clauses in the bill identify multiple categories of offenders, including ‘bootlegger’, ‘cruel person’, ‘cyber offender’, ‘dangerous person’, and ‘depredator of environment’ (Section 2). The expandability and the opaqueness of the clauses can put 70,000 people at the mercy of the ‘competent authority’. Section 3:4 of the bill gives the authorities the power to not only detain a person for the slightest aberration but also in anticipation of “making preparation for engaging in activities”, the definition of which comes with sufficient ambiguity. However, it is Section 6 of the proposed bill that is truly revealing. It clearly says that the detention orders issued under Section 3 on the basis of two or more grounds mentioned in Section 2 of the same bill “shall not be deemed to be invalid or inoperative merely because one or more of the grounds is or are vague, non-existent, not-relevant, not connected or not proximately connected with such person, or invalid for any other reason whatsoever.” This clause, along with others in the text, gives the competent authority the right to detain any person in the island without stating the reasons very clearly. In the current form, the bills empower the administration to detain any citizen for a year in the absence of solid evidence.             There is concern that these regulations are part of an engulfing bio-politics, which can invariably incarcerate citizens as has happened elsewhere in India. This could well be the signal of a transition of Lakshadweep from an undisturbed tribal conglomeration characterized by mutual trust and intimacy into a penal archipelago where people are left with limited mobility, voices and choices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-8
18-06-2021||Jharkhand||Seraikela karateka nominated joint secretary of state Delphic council ||Amit Modak, a karate practitioner and resident of Gamharia in Seraikela-Kharsawan district, has been nominated as the joint secretary of Jharkhand Delphic Council. The 23-year-old was nominated to the post during a recent online meeting of the South Asian Delphic Council. Expressing happiness, Modak thanked Indian Delphic Council founding president and advisor (South Asian Affairs) of International Delphic Council (IDC) Bijender Goel for his nomination. "There is no dearth of talented artists in Jharkhand and I would try my best to help them get international recognition," Modak, who also excels in taekwondo, said. Modak is the world record holder for the fastest punches in a second. He achieved the feat (10 punches in one second) in January, 2019. The High Range Book of World Records, a Hyderabad-based organisation established to explore talented, creative, outstanding, innovative or philanthropic people and honour them by certificates, recognised the skills of the youngster. Modak heads the Youngistan Warriors of Martial Art, an NGO formed last year. He trains school students under his NGO’s banner for free. The NGO also works in Seraikela-Kharsawan Ranchi, Simdega and Hazaribagh. The training has been discontinued due to the pandemic but will resume once the situation improves. He has won medals in national and international competitions. IDC is a voluntary, not-for-profit, non-political, non-religious global organization that works to foster harmony amongst people through engagements in the various arts forms and the cultural identities that manifest them, through the Delphic Games. The ancient history of the Delphic Games traces its roots back to Delphi in Greece 2500 years ago as the twin-sister of the Olympic Games. The Delphic Games are to Arts & Cultures what Olympic Games are to physical sports. While the Delphic Games of the modern era were revived in 1994, the Olympic Games were revived in 1894. Since revival, the Delphic Games have been hosted in Georgia, Russia, Malaysia, South Korea, Philippines, Germany and South Africa while Delphic Summits, Delphic Art Wall initiatives and other festivals of cultural significance have been organised elsewhere in the world. International Institutions like UNESCO, Council of Europe, ASEAN among others have endorsed the various editions of the Delphic Games in the past. World leaders, including Nelson Mandela (South Africa), Mikhail Gorbachev (erstwhile USSR), Helmut Kohl (Germany), Eduard Shevardnadze (Georgia) as well as celebrated musicians, painters, academicians, historians, arts & culture revivalists and the likes have supported the Delphic Games. India has participated in three editions of the Delphic Games in various countries and even won gold and silver medals in South Korea.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
18-06-2021||Jharkhand||Heavy rain disrupts Jharia water supply for three days ||More than five lakh residents of Jharia are facing disruptions in water supply for the last three days due to increase in water level of river Damodar and consequent submerging of the motors of the intake well at Jamadoba based water treatment plant of Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority. The power supply disruption caused due to heavy rains has also complicated the issue to some extent as a continuous eight hour of electricity supply is required for regular water supply from Jamadoba based water treatment plant. Expressing outrage over the situation, Pinaki Roy a private tutor of Jharia said, “Regular water supply which was a USP of basic amenities of Jharia has almost eluded the town since the five years due to various reasons, including water supply pipeline rupture, technical snag in motors of JMADA at Jamadoba and lack of regular electricity supply to the water treatment plant.” “Why can’t the arrangement of direct electricity supply connection to the water treatment plant be made through the DVC to avoid the power failure affecting the water supply?,”questioned Roy and added that instead of early morning water supply at around 6am to 8 am, water supply now a days is carried out at the odd times of 11 am to afternoon at around 3 pm and even during the night in some localities Echoing his sentiments former councillor of Ward Number 37 of Jharia, Anup Sao said “Besides the irregular water supply several areas of Jharia like, Fatehpur Lane, Hanuman Gadhi, Niche Rajbari, Dumariyatand, Hetli Bandh, Koiri Bandh, Mishra Para and Poddar Pada  are also affected through low pressure of water supply as a result of which water doesn’t reach in several of the houses of these locality” “We have also carried out an inspection of the water treatment plant (WTP) at Jamadoba as part of a delegation of Jharia resident two years ago during which we were apprised about the constraints being faced by the employees deputed at the Water Treatment plant in carrying out regular water supply including the constraints faced in lifting the motors from near the river bed during the time of rise in water level,” said Sao. “At a time When JMADA is investing more than Rs 317 crore in laying new pipelines and water treatment why can’t it invest a little on beefing up its existing water supply infrastructure at Jamadoba” said Sao Sub Divisional Officer of Water Supply Division of JMADA, Pankaj Kumar Jha said, “Rise in water level of the river Damodar to  around 467 feet from the safe level of 457 feet is the main cause of  water supply disruption as it led to dipping of motors of the intake well of Jamadoba based WTP. “Though, the problem has been fixed but not irregular power supply in affecting water supply,” further said Jha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
18-06-2021||Jharkhand||Heavy rain damages houses, traps families in Bokaro||Two families residing on the top floor of Sector-12/A in Bokaro Steel Township are trapped after the only staircase in that block subsided due to heavy rain. They have to depend on other residents to get their essential things. Neighbours are sending them milk and other essential commodities through a rope dropped by them. The BSL township houses employees and retired employees in majority. There are 10 different Sectors in the township in which more than three lakh people reside in residential blocks. Many of these residential buildings in each of the Sectors required immediate repairing and maintenance. During monsoon or rainfall, the subsidence of roofs or staircases is common in BSL township. In the past two months, about a dozen incidents took place in the quarters and blocks in Bokaro Steel Township when the residents had a close shave with subsidence of plasters, staircase and railings. The Sector-12/A area is most vulnerable to such incidents with poor quality construction. BSL employees have expressed fear for their lives who stay in such quarters. Residents blamed the Town and Administration department of BSL for turning a deaf ear to their complaints. Subroto Kumar Mallick, a BSL employee and a resident of the second floor who was trapped, said, “We heard a huge sound and the entire staircase collapsed to the ground. Unfortunately, a car parked under it got badly damaged. We have made complaint to Town and Administration department narrating the dilapidated condition of the building and requested them to repair it soon, but still nothing was done. We are now trapped in our houses.” On May 29, the district administration had also raised concern over deteriorating condition of residential blocks and quarters in the Bokaro Steel Plant township. Deputy Commissioner cum chairman of District Disaster Management Authourity, Rajesh Singh had sent a letter to director in-charge, Amarendu Prakash asking to take up repairing and other necessary tasks to prevent loss of life and property during monsoon. But the request seems to have gone unattended. Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said survey of buildings requiring critical maintenance work in sector 12 has been done. More than 100 such buildings in sector 12 have been identified for comprehensive repair. Work had started in some buildings but due to ravaging pandemic situation, not much progress could be made during the last two months. "A committee has also been made to explore the possibility of shifting the occupants of these buildings to other quarters till repair work is completed. Again, implementation of this step got hindered due to the pandemic situation and lockdown. In due course of time, action in respect of the above will be taken to address the issue at the earliest possible," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
18-06-2021||Jharkhand||Private hospitals want state to buy vaccines for them||Private hospitals in Jharkhand are hesitant to pay upfront and procure Covid-19 vaccines and have, therefore, asked the state government to buy vaccines on their behalf so that these could be administered at prescribed costs from June 21 as per the new vaccine policy. A government official said, “During a meeting with all private hospitals on June 14, this issue cropped up and everyone asked the state government to procure vaccines on their behalf. For example, one has to invest Rs 19 lakh for 3,000 doses (minimum prescribed quantity) of Covishield. Not many are keen on doing so fearing supply issues.” As per Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement on June 7, the Centre will provide vaccines for all adults to state governments free of cost from June 21. Under the new rule, the Centre will procure 75 per cent of the stocks from manufacturers directly and allocate to states. The remainng 25 per cent can be bought by private hospitals to administer on their own. Private hospitals have directed to impose a maximum of Rs 150 as service charge in addition to the price of the vaccine while administering jabs. While the per dose price for Covaxin and Covishield has been fixed at Rs 1,410 and Rs 780 respectively, the Russian vaccine, Sputnik V, will cost Rs 1,145 per dose in private hospitals. Many private hospitals are, however, reluctant to pay high advances apprehending a slow response from residents, especially in rural areas, owing to the high price of vaccines, said officials in the state health department. State director of National Health Mission Ravi Shankar Shukla has asked all civil surgeons to coordinate with private hospitals to know their requirements at the earliest. “A letter in this regard has gone to all civil surgeons two days ago. Based on their inputs and demands from private hospitals, the health department will communicate with the Centre,” he said. Jogesh Gambhir, state president of Association of Healthcare Providers India (APHI), conceded that they would like the state to procure vaccines for them. “Everyone is of the view that it would be better if the state government procures (vaccines) on our behalf and gives us on a day-to-day basis against daily advance payment. This will increase confidence of private hospitals as no money will be blocked and there will be zero apprehension of facing dead stock and expiry,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
18-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand records surplus rainfall in June ||Jharkhand has already surpassed its average rainfall for June this year by over 100 per cent, thanks to a vigorous monsoon that has ensured widespread showers acroos the state for the last few days. Met statistics revealed that against a June normal  of 85.6 mm rainfall, the state has so far received 173.3 per cent rainfall, which woks out to an excess of 102 per cent. Except for Gumla all the other districts of the state have so far received rain in excess of their espective monthly average. Against a normal of 94.4 per cent, Gumla district has so far received 93.1 per cent, a deficit of one per cent. In Met parlance a deficit of up to 19 per cent is considered normal. Lohardaga district reaped the maximum benefit. Data suggested that against a normal of 74.7mm Lohardaga so far recorded 274.4 mm rain, a surplus of 267 per cent. Dhanbad recorded 200 per cent surplus rain while Simdega and Garhwa recorded 186 and 185 per cent surplus rain. Southwest monsoon was in vigorous state over Jharkhand on Friday too. Statistics revealed that in last 24 hours Maithon in Dhanbad recorded the highest rainfall of 178.2 mm. Jamshedpur, Ranchi, Dumka and several other places experienced moderate rains. IMD's Ranchi Met Cente has forecast moderate thunderstorms accompanied by lightning in isolated places of the state during the next 48 hours. The Met office also extended the heavy rain alert in isolated areas till Monday. The widespread rain during the past few days resulted in an abrupt fall in day's reading. Most places on Friday recorded maximum temperature between 24 and 28 degree Celsius _ about six to eight notches below normal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
18-06-2021||Jharkhand||BJP takes on Hemant govt on farm loan waivers, Congress hits back||Opposition BJP staged three-hour protests at farmlands across the state from 8am on Friday, denouncing the Hemant Soren government for not  honouring its promises and duping farmers. The saffron camp alleged that despite a record harvest of paddy crops amid the Covid-19 pandemic last year, hundreds of farmers were forced to sell their produce at throw away prices and those who sold stocks at government run procurement centres were still to be paid. State party president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash along with Kanke MLA Samri Lal and other party workers staged a protest in Sukurhuttu. Other MLAs, MPs and party workers did so in various parts of the state with banners and posters decrying the Hemant government's policies. "The state’s annadata (farmer) is at the rossroads today because of sustained apathy and false promises of the Hemant government. They toiled hard  to produce a record output during the last kharif season but several of them are battling a crisis of money because of government apathy. For  crops sold at minimum support centres, farmers are yet to receive payments," he said. The party also questioned the state government on loan waivers. “What happened to the state government’s loan waiver scheme which it prmised to implement soon after coming to power? A majority of farmers are are still to be benefitted,” he said, boasting how the "pro-farmer" Central government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi was transferring money four times a year under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi. The Congress, which is part of the ruling JMM-led coalition government in Jharkhand, hit back at the BJP for using farmers as "political pawns". Citing the ongoing farmers' protests along Delhi borders against contentious farm laws, Congress’s national general secretary and Mahagama MLA Deepika Pandey said, “BJP MLAs and MPs of the state must stage protests outside the PM's office in Delhi if they are so serious about farmers. Several farmers have died in the last one year fighting for their existence ... but no one said anything about it. BJP has no moral right to talk about farmers.” State agriculture minister Badal Pratralekh cited figures to counter the BJP' allegations on loan waivers. “As on date, out of 9.02 lakh identified farmers eligible for waivers up to Rs 50,000, we have disbursed funds of Rs 980 crore to banks for writing off loans to 2,46,012 farmers. For theremaining, the process is underway,” he said. He also said that for the first time ever, the state government began distributing kharif seeds to farmers in May even before the arrival of the monsoon. “Out of a target of 44,000 quintal seeds, we have already distributed more than 68 per cent despite the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
18-06-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Motors launches country's largest solar carport in Pune||In line with Tata Group’s philosophy to promote green manufacturing, Tata Motors and Tata Power on Friday jointly inaugurated India’s largest grid-synchronised solar carport at the Tata Motors car plant at Chikhali in Pune. The 6.2 MWp (Megawatt peak) solar carport installed by Tata Power will generate 86.4 lakh kWh of electricity per year and is estimated to reduce 7,000 tons of carbon emission annually and 1.6 lakh tons over its lifecycle. Spanning over 30,000 square meters, the carport will not only generate green power, but will also provide covered parking for finished cars in the plant. Envisioned as part of its net zero carbon goal for 2039, Tata Motors had entered into a Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) with Tata Power on August 31, 2020. Despite the challenges of Covid-19, both companies successfully managed to develop this massive carport infrastructure in a record time of around nine months. On the launch of the project Shailesh Chandra, president, Passenger Vehicle Business Unit, Tata Motors said, “At Tata Motors, we have consciously anchored sustainability in every aspect of our business by striving for more meaningful ways to reduce our impact on the planet, whilst providing exciting products and sustainable solutions to our customers. We have always been conscious of the need to conserve energy and are committed towards achieving 100 per cent renewable energy sources for all our operations. Our partnership with Tata Power to deploy India’s largest solar carport at our car plant in Pune is a step in that direction.” Praveer Sinha, CEO and managing director of Tata Power said, “As one Tata initiative, we are proud to partner with Tata Motors and inaugurate India’s largest solar carport. Our partnership is a testament to our collective efforts to lower the carbon footprint and provide innovative and future-focused green energy solutions. We will continue to explore new ways to harness clean resources and offer them to our partners and customers.” Being a signatory of the RE100 (a global corporate renewable energy initiative) Tata Motors uses 100 per cent renewable power and has taken several strides towards achieving this goal by progressively increasing the proportion of renewable energy used in its operations. In FY20, the company generated 88.71 million kWh of renewable electricity which is over 21 per cent of its total power consumption (up from 16% in FY19). This helped prevent the equivalent of 72,739 metric tons of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. The company further intends to source renewable energy more rigorously to meet its aspiration of sourcing 100 per cent renewable energy by 2030. Significantly, Tata Power comes with a successful background of executing multiple large solar solutions including the world’s largest rooftop (16MW) at a single location at Radhasoami Satsang Beas , Amritsar ; 2.67 MW at Cochin International Airport; world’s largest solar powered cricket stadium-Cricket Club of India (CCI) with 820.8 kWp capacity; unique installation of solar vertical farm (120kW) at Dell Technologies at Bangalore and 1.4MW floating solar at Tata Chemicals, Nellore. In addition, Tata Power is carrying out an extensive pan-India residential rooftop program to make people aware of the benefits of savings through solar energy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
18-06-2021||Jharkhand||Woman branded 'witch', villagers force her to do sit-ups ||A 33-year-old woman, branded as a witch, was beaten, dragged from her house and produced in a village mahapanchayat where she was forced to do sit-ups in front of a gathering. The incident came to light after a video of the punishment went viral, following which, Katkamsandi police in Hazaribagh lodged an FIR on Friday. The woman has been identified by police, but The Telegraph Online is not publishing her name to protect her identity. She has told police that she was not given the opportunity to speak and branded a witch before being forced to do the sit-ups. She said on Wednesday, she was taken out of the house forcefully and taken to an open field where villagers were present. She named her neighbours Shakil Akhtar, his wife Arzu Khatoon, Shakeela Khatoon, Sakeena Khatoon, Kanti Devi, Poonam Devi, Jasma Devi and few others for branding her a "dian(witch)". “They fined me Rs 10,000 and when I refused to pay, I was forced to do 100 sit-ups in front of all,” she said. Recalling the horror, she said perpetrators were shouting that she deserves punishment if she failed to pay the fine. Two youths, Naushad Alam and Taufiq Akhtar, recorded the entire incident and posted it on social media. The video went viral on Thursday evening. Police have filed an FIR against 15 people involved in the case. The FIR has been registered under sections three and four of the Prevention of Witch-hunting (Dayan Pratha) Act 2001, with a punishment of imprisonment of up to six months or a fine of Rs 2,000 or both. Officer-in-charge of Katkamdag police station Arun Kumar said, “What happened was against the law and those involved will not be spared. We have lodged an FIR against the persons involved and efforts are on to nab them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
18-06-2021||Jharkhand||War of words over iron ore auction in Jharkhand||The Opposition BJP on Wednesday urged the Jharkhand governor to scrap the tender process for auctioning iron ore leading to a strong rebuttal from the ruling alliance. State BJP chief and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash met governor Draupadi Murmu at the Raj Bhavan in Ranchi and handed over a letter requesting her to scrap the tender process for auctioning iron ore stock at Thakurani mine in West Singhbhum district. Prakash later told mediapersons at the state BJP headquarters that the auction would allegedly serve some vested interests and cause a financial loss of Rs 40 crore. He accused the ruling UPA government of giving “loot ki chhut (licence to plunder) of the state’s resources like sand, coal and iron”. The lease for mining at Thakurani mine was granted to one P.K. Jain, which was cancelled in 2019, and a fine of Rs 334.47 crore was imposed on the lessee for the violation of mining norms. The state government entrusted the Jharkhand State Mineral Development Corporation to auction the iron ore stock and realise the amount. Accordingly, the corporation floated a tender notice for the purpose and invited bids to be sent till June 23, which has been now extended to July 2. The BJP, in its letter to the governor, alleged that the testing of samples from the site was done hurriedly and the grade of iron ore was shown to be of inferior quality. The party claimed the ore was actually of better grade, which would come to light after perusing other documents. Prakash urged the governor to stall the auction process and to get the samples tested outside the state for ascertaining the actual iron ore grade. “Auctioning the ore stock, estimated to be about 1.02 lakh tonnes, by showing it is of an inferior grade would reduce its value by about Rs 40 crore,” Prakash told reporters. “The state exchequer was being forced to make a loss just to serve certain vested interests,” he alleged. The ruling JMM and the Congress both rejected Prakash’s allegations. “Illegal mining of all sorts was rampant during the rule of the BJP-led government in the state,” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said. “Deepakji should remember that the then cabinet minister Saryu Roy (who later left the BJP and became an Independent MLA) had alleged irregularities by the Raghubar Das government in the case of Shah Brothers (the firm which was allowed to sell the iron ore stock leading to protests),” he said. “Actually, the present government has stopped illegal mining and started investigating some cases,” he further said, adding the BJP was trying to divert people’s attention from these probes. “The BJP should refrain from making the Raj Bhavan a political arena,” said state Congress spokesperson Alok Kumar Dubey. “Prakash has a habit of commenting on everything, be it the theft of a cycle or an incident in the US,” he added. “Let alone the Shah Brothers case, even the bridges constructed during the BJP rule are collapsing within five-six years. You can judge the level of corruption they indulged in from this situation,” said K.N. Shahdeo, another Congress leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
18-06-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro Xavier’s alumni’s water supply plan for tribals ||Alumni of St Xavier’s School in Bokaro, Jharkhand, have come forward to ensure that drinking water supply is not hindered for the 100 tribal families residing in Jaipal Nagar, around 7km from the district headquarter. The 1986 batch of the school under the aegis of its alumni association Bokaro Old Xavarians Association (Boxan) had started the water supply project in December 2020 at Jaipal Nagar contributing over Rs 1.75 lakh to install a submersible pump with 24 hours water supply through the solar power. However, a fortnight ago, the solar electric supply inverter had developed technical snag due to lightning following which poor residents of Jaipal Nagar were unable to get water from the pump. “The solar power inverter was damaged beyond repair due to the lightning and since the cost of repairs was more or less similar to a new one. We had no alternative but to arrange for contribution among Boxan after being informed by ADG rank IPS, Anil Palta (also a Boxan) about the plight of the residents,” said Boxan secretary Sajan Kapoor. “We managed to collect the necessary amount through major contributions from Saurabh Chandra (1986 batch), Sumedha Roy (2003 batch) and Jude Roy Chacko (1984 batch) and will get the new inverter installed on Sunday morning. Till that time we have hired an old inverter which was installed on Thursday evening,” he said. The Boxan secretary said they couldn’t wait till Sunday for starting the water supply. “After being informed about the defect in the inverter we did a recce and found that children have to go nearly 3km to fetch water. We couldn’t have waited till Sunday for installation of the new inverter (costing nearly Rs 55,000) and instead used our influence to hire an used inverter so that at least water supply is done a truncated manner,” Kapoor said. At the moment, the water supply project functions for an hour in the morning and an hour in the evening. “We have requested the tribal families to fetch water during the one-hour period during morning and evening till the new inverter is installed after which they can get water throughout the day,” Kapoor added. The new system, which will be installed on Sunday, will have an inverter along with a lightening conductor earthing system to safeguard the equipment from lightning in future.  “We do not want the water supply to be hindered again in future due to lightning and would have a lightening conductor/ earthing system along with the inverter,” Kapoor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
18-06-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI ranks at level 5 in second edition of Positive Impact Rating ||The XLRI-Xavier School of Management, Jamshedpur, has been ranked at level 5 (Pioneering Business Schools), the top ranking in the second edition of Positive Impact Rating, which was released at the World Economic Forum in Lucerne-Burgenstock, Switzerland, on Thursday. “XLRI is the only B-school in the world to have moved up from level 3 (progressing schools) to level 5 in a span of a year. Nearly 47 B-schools located in four continents and 21 countries participated in the rating,” said a communiqué issued by the XLRI on Thursday evening. Two other B-schools from India — Goa Institute of Management and SP Jain Institute of Management and Research, Mumbai — featured in level 5, along with the University of Business and Technology (Kosovo). Positive Impact Rating (PIR) is a global student-led rating of business schools on how they contribute to solving societal challenges by energising the school and its culture. It addresses their positive impact beyond their contribution to business and the economy. It contributes as a lever of change for transformation in business schools. “We are delighted to note that XLRI has attained the topmost level 5 in the second edition of Positive Impact Rating, 2021. Positive Impact Rating guides business schools from being the best in the world to striving to be the best for the world. For over seven decades, XLRI has steadfastly held on to its mission of offering world-class education and ethics-driven teaching while nurturing responsible global leaders for the greater common good and a sustainable future. The PIR ranking inspires us to work more diligently towards attaining our vision and mission,” said Father Paul Fernandes, director of XLRI. He added: “The millennial B-school students across the world have got a unique opportunity to evaluate their own institutions on how they are solving societal and sustainable challenges, and how they perceive their institution’s positive impact on the community and society at large. This marks a paradigm shift towards fostering a collaborative ecosystem and making the process of management education more meaningful and serve as a tool for continually improving the business schools, especially in a world that is still suffering as a consequence of the Covid-19 pandemic.” “While traditional business school rankings in India and abroad have not shown significant engagement in integrating sustainability and social impact, the PIR has a clear focus on the social impact of business schools. The Covid-19 pandemic is an inflection point for B-schools. Business schools have to reorient and reinvent themselves to the new reality and step up their role as positive change agents in addition to their traditional role of supporting business and the economy,” said Sunil Varughese, chief brand and sustainability officer, XLRI. In 2020, IIM Bangalore (level 4 — transforming schools) and XLRI had featured in the first edition of PIR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
18-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Antibiotics for Bokaro zoo inmates||Bokaro: The arrival of monsoon has raised concern of zoo authorities to safeguard animals and birds from various diseases. The authorities of Jawaharlal Nehru Biological Park have given antibiotic and de worming medicines to zoo inmates. JNB, popularly known as Bokaro Zoo, is owned and maintained by Bokaro Steel Plant. “Medicines for de-worming were given to the JNB Park inmates,” said Manikant Dhan, chief of communication (COC), BSL. Though JNB Park has shelters to protect animals from rain, zoo authorities found that many of the inmates get wet during rain and need extra care. “Spotted deer and black buck are more exposed to rain. They are being administered antibiotic. We served antibiotic medicine mixing it with their food. This would protect them from falling sick,” said an officer. Apart from 40 spotted deer and black buck, the zoo has several other animals and birds including tiger, leopard, Himalayan bear, deer and others. Spread across 127 acres, the natural greenery and trees has transformed the park as a natural abode to the zoo inmates. Zoo staff said,“Animals deal and cope with the rain in their own way”. There are 26 separate enclosures with separate cells for animals and birds. “The rainy season is prone to parasitic disease, to protect inmates from it, an appropriate de-worming protocol is being followed,” said the zoo officer. As per guideline of Central Zoo Authourity, the grasses were cut regularly and cleanliness is maintained in animal cell and enclosures during the monsoon. (Our correspondent) Dhanbad: Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Thursday instructed the officials of Dhanbad division of East Central Railway to prepare a detailed project for the broadening of the railway underpass near the Rangatand Chowk of coal town to ensure the launch of the work at the earliest. Singh held a meeting in this regard with officials of Railways, Dhanbad Municipal Corporation, Road Construction department etc said that broadening work of the underpass would be carried out through the District Mineral Foundation Trust fund. (Praduman Choubey) Daltonganj: The Rotary Club of Daltonganj is the first NGO in Palamau to come forward to offer free education up-to class 12 to the children orphaned by Covid-19. Assistant district governor of Rotary based in Daltonganj, Anugrah Narain Sharma said, “We have handed down a written pledge of free education to children up-to class 12 orphaned by the coronavirus to the divisional commissioner Palamu Jata Shanker Chowdhury.” Sharma said a small delegation met the Commissioner on Wednesday and submitted the letter of assurance. Sharma said, “We run our school in buildings set up at Daltonganj and at Chainpur and our orphaned children will have a choice as to where they want to be enrolled.” Sources said the two school buildings are nearly four and a half kilometers apart from each other. The schools have a fleet of buses. Sharma promised the buses will pick the orphaned children from their respective dwellings. Palamau civil surgeon in-charge Dr Anil Kumar said the second surge of Covid claimed 86 lives. During the first wave last year, 25 lives were lost in the district. Deputy Commissioner Palamu Shashi Ranjan said, “In our raw household survey completed and compiled recently we have found a total of 1,408 deaths in the months of April and May alone.” “Now we are finding out deaths caused by Covid and this may take some more time as finer points like symptoms of patients, duration of treatment, name and address of the attending doctor, any history of comorbodity, way of disposal of the body etc,” said the DC. (Our Correspondent )||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
