20-06-2021||India||PM Modi to address Yoga Day programme on Monday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Monday morning address a programme to mark International Yoga Day whose theme this year is ‘Yoga For Wellness’. “Tomorrow, June 21, we will mark the seventh Yoga Day. The theme this year is ‘Yoga For Wellness’, which focuses on practising Yoga for physical and mental wellbeing,” Modi tweeted. “Tomorrow, June 21, we will mark the seventh Yoga Day. The theme this year is ‘Yoga For Wellness’, which focuses on practising Yoga for physical and mental wellbeing,” Modi tweeted. “Around 6:30 am tomorrow, will be addressing the Yoga Day programme,” he said. The Ayush Ministry, which is the nodal ministry for International Day of Yoga (IDY), in a statement has said that in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and the consequent restrictions on congregational activities, the lead event of the day will be a televised programme with Prime Minister Modi's address being the highlight. Scheduled to start at 6.30 am on all Doordarshan channels on Monday, the event will also include an address by Minister of State for Ayush Kiren Rijiju and a live yoga demonstration by the Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga, the Ministry said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-49
20-06-2021||India||Sudheendra Kulkarni's wish for Rahul stirs undeclared anguish ||Sudheendra Kulkarni, who had worked closely with Atal Bihari Vajpayee and L.K. Advani, on Saturday wished Rahul Gandhi through a tweet: “Dear HOPE, happy birthday.” Kulkarni attached to the tweet a picture of Rahul speaking to some people sitting on a pavement. While such a gesture from an intellectual so deeply entrenched in BJP politics not long ago delighted Congress workers, a senior leader of the Opposition party told The Telegraph during an informal conversation: “The tweet could have been worded differently — Dear HOPE, don’t cause so much despair.” This leader, not a dissident by any standard and who has worked closely with the Nehru-Gandhi family, added: “There is no doubt that the leadership crisis in the Congress has caused much despair in the Opposition and the country, and Rahul cannot escape the responsibility. He turned 51 today and we all expect him to be more responsible and demonstrate greater resilience.” The refrain among the majority of Congress workers is that Rahul is the only “hope” and they are desperately awaiting his return to the helm of the party. But there is no denying that another category of leaders within the Congress — albeit a small section — believes that Rahul is incapable of leadership and has already missed the bus. They point to his rigidity in walking away from the party’s leadership and wasting precious time that could have been used to rebuild the organisation and wonder what he was waiting for if he intended to return. But an organised resistance to Rahul’s return seems impossible at this stage as no other Congress leader has nationwide acceptability and stronger credentials to confront Narendra Modi. The real problem is the uncertainty about Rahul’s own plans as there is complete agreement among Congress leaders and workers that wasting even another month will be unpardonable. A Congress general secretary told this newspaper: “While there may be uncertainty about the timing, there is no doubt that he is the only leader and he will have to return. The last time we met him, he had said he was ready to do whatever the party decided. Our impression is that he will become the party president soon. There is no other way to revive the party and strengthen the Opposition.” Who wished Rahul on his birthday and who didn’t also became a topic of discussion. While Prime Minister Narendra Modi usually greets him, no such gesture was extended this time on social media with their relations appearing to have further strained in the aftermath of Rahul’s incessant attacks on him over China, the pandemic and other issues. What triggered gossip in political circles was Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Union surface transport minister Nitin Gadkari — both from the BJP — greeting Rahul. Among the key Opposition leaders, Sharad Pawar, M.K. Stalin, Tejashwi Yadav, H.D. Deve Gowda, Arvind Kejriwal and Omar Abdullah wished Rahul on Twitter, while Mamata Banerjee, Akhilesh Yadav and Uddhav Thackeray did not do so in public. Some leaders, however, may have wished him personally. Stalin put out an emotional tweet, saying: “Wishing my beloved brother Rahul Gandhi on his birthday and I join others in praising his selfless, untiring work to establish an egalitarian India in every aspect. His commitment to the ethos of Congress party has been exemplary.” Many leaders referred to Rahul’s humane qualities. Former Prime Minister Deve Gowda tweeted: “Rahul Gandhi has always come across as a fine person, deeply committed to a humane and inclusive society. It is his birthday today. I wish him well and sincerely pray that his view of the world and his compassion defeats the narrowness that surrounds us.” Actress Swara Bhasker said: “Happy birthday to present day India’s most gracious and decent politician. Rahul Gandhi, more power to you. May you always have the strength to fight for India’s constitutional principles… and rise above the vitriol.” Filmmaker Anubhav Sinha tweeted: “Happy Birthday Mr @RahulGandhi. Stay strong like you have been.” Rahul had already announced that he would not celebrate his birthday because of the miseries caused to the nation by the pandemic. The Congress observed the day as “Sewa Diwas”, distributing food, dry rations, medicines and masks among people. The Youth Congress and the NSUI organised free vaccination camps in several states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-49
20-06-2021||Opinion||Heart’s arrears||“Write your Will.” These three words formed the terse advice given the other day by a financial expert. This was in an article on what those hit by the virus or expecting to be hit should do as priority, and do so fast. He went on to give other suggestions about how bank accounts should be re-organized, with clear “Either or Survivor” options, enabling one’s husband or wife or progeny to operate one’s holdings in case of immobilization. But the primary advice, that of making sure one has written a Will, was the main, overarching and overwhelming suggestion. Now those who read the dailies are the kind who hold bank accounts. And they have, most of them, written up Wills. Most, I have said, not all. A surprisingly large number have not and they constitute the young, those who have just begun to earn incomes, start savings. They have life and living on their minds, not death and dying. Writing Wills is the last thing on their minds. Covid-19 has changed that. It has not only made death seem far more real — more within-touching-distance — than ever before in our generation’s memory, but it has also made us see its inevitability, whenever it is to come, more sharply than before. In the current, so-called ‘second wave’, the young seem to have been afflicted more than in the first. And even though they are said to be likely to recover faster than the once-young, their brush with the likelihood of death has made the advice more than valuable. Apart from the young among the earning, saving, tax-deducted-at-source kind of people who are reading this, members of a wider swathe of society also need to give some indication of what they wish to be done with what they own, hold, in terms of tangible assets, things, small objects whether of sentiment or of monetary value but even more about what needs to be done with what they owe, what they need to return, share, hand over, acknowledge, in terms of what Vikram Seth has described, unforgettably, in the concluding lines of his soul-cleansing novel-in-verse, The Golden Gate: “Pay what are your own heart’s arrears./ Now clear your throat and dry those tears.” Our hearts have arrears, our souls have debts. Are we to leave those sentiments undisclosed, unrepaid, unattended? These are not tax dues that will have to be paid post-mortem or stashes that will have to be apportioned to heirs and successors. These are what each of us, rich or poor, owe to those who have made us what we are, helped us, healed us, made us whole. And so, while the financial expert was, essentially and only, thinking of that piece of starched stamped paper bearing the signatures of an authorized notary public, I have read in his advice that which he has intended, of course, but also something more, much more, that each one of us, chastened by the virus, needs to ponder and to do — in the time that has been left for us. The last hours of Socrates have been vividly recorded by Plato in his Dialogues. As the hemlock began to work, we are told Socrates said to Crito, “We owe a rooster to Asclepius. Please, don’t forget to pay the debt.” Neurologists would see in this an example of a befuddled brain talking gibberish. Interpretations have been given to Socrates’s words, one of which suggests that the sardonic sage was playing on the word, Asclepius, supposed to be the name of the God of Cures, thereby saying that death is the ultimate cure of all illnesses. I would like to take Socrates’s words literally and think that he was actually talking about a loan that had to be repaid, except that the rooster can be taken to mean any debt, any arrear that is to be attended to. The arrears can be, and very often are, about two simple words or thoughts: ‘sorry’ and ‘thank you’. A redemptive conversation took place between a great soul and a person who was attending on him. Ramana, the Maharshi of Arunachala in the Tamil town of Tiruvannamalai, had a memorable conversation shortly before he crossed over, with a devoted attendant, Sivananda, who knew no language other than Tamil. To him, the sinking Ramana said ‘thanks’ in English and then translated the word for him into Sanskritized Tamil as santosham meaning ‘happiness’. The significance of Ramana’s translation of the word into santosham is enormous. It has to do with not wanting more. The then Maharani Sita Devi of Baroda, a socialite fond of the good things in life, of extravagant travel and purchasing, was yet introspective enough to feel the need for the Maharshi’s redemptive healing. She had, in April 1947, gifted to the sage a white peacock. This bird had taken to Ramana and to the ashram as if they were its very own. Ramana named it Madhavan, after a devotee who had died just prior to the peacock’s coming. Madhavan would perch just above the sage’s bed, stride up to him when he was eating, follow him about. Madhavan famously wailed from the roof above where the Maharshi lay dying. Opening his eyes, the Maharshi asked, “Has the peacock been fed?” The late philosopher, Ramchandra Gandhi, has metaphorized Ramana’s words to say, essentially, that even as he had thanked his attendant, from the receiving end, and indicated his happiness, he, in attending to the distressed peacock, stood at the giving end, even at the very end of his time on earth. And in so doing was redeeming also his debt to the Maharani of Baroda who, irrespective of what quotidian historians may have to say of her lifestyle, has forever and ever entered the columns of the spirit by gifting the avian, Madhavan, to Ramana. The financial expert was not suggesting (nor am I) that death stares at the reader and the writer of the sane advice. And, please, I am not proposing a breathless listing of sorry-s and thank you-s by us! But the fact that we have all, over the last one and a half years, felt death brush past us is not to be denied. And, so, thinking of arrears to be paid is both sound and natural. Socrates’s rooster symbolizes for me material debts, Ramana’s peacock, debts of the soul. What is owed to individuals by us and to our great and vast provider — the natural environment which we mutilate, remorselessly, everyday — is something to be pondered by us, and restitution attempted betimes. The emperor, Asoka, lived well beyond the etchings on stone of his anusochana — remorse. His edicts are his Will. And since we have been on the subject of peacocks, it would be only apposite to remind ourselves what he says in his Edict I: In place of “thousands of animals slaughtered for soups in the royal kitchen”, only three lives are henceforth allowed to be killed — “two peacocks and one deer” — a lesson for us in the zoonotic miasma of our current scourge. Returning and giving, apologizing and atoning, are part of the Will of Wills that each of us may consider drawing up in these life-threatening times, not on parchment paper perhaps but in the covenants, caveats and codicils of our souls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-7
