21-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Cars on rent for office-goers||Many office-goers who have to physically report for work amid Covid curbs are looking for cars on hire that will ferry them back and forth. These cars, many of which were app-cabs and are sitting idle in the absence of enough passengers, don’t come cheap. Offices were allowed to reopen from June 16 with 25 per cent attendance. An executive who has to travel to Garia from Charu Market in Tollygunge has contracted a car owner for a two-way ride that will cost around Rs 700 daily. The arrangement is for a drop in the morning and journey back home in the evening. An official of a private company has struck a deal for Rs 1,500 daily with a car owner to ferry him from Dhakuria to his office in Salt Lake’s Karunamoyee and back home. The deal is from 9am to 5pm and the driver can’t make trips in between. Some office-goers are trying to offset the steep rates by making small detours to pick up and drop a colleague and share the fare with him or her. Most of the users have set a condition that the cars will not make any trip in between, while some have allowed the drivers to make small trips during the office period in return for a reduction in the fare. Car owners are happy with the arrangements because only a handful of passengers are booking cabs through ride-hailing apps and the current arrangement at least guarantees them some income. “There have been occasions when I have bagged a trip of Rs 150 around 12.30pm after having logged in at 10am,” said Tuntun Shaw, an app-cab driver. “Throughout the day I may end up bagging only three or four trips.” Also, this hiring arrangement ensures that the car owner doesn’t have to travel long distances waiting for a passenger. “I am saving on fuel, which I could not have done as an app-cab driver. If I log in, I usually spend at least Rs 35 on every 5km-trip in search of passengers. It doesn’t make sense,” said Dilip Mondal, another app-cab operator. When the cars are not booked for an entire day, it offers the owners a chance of making other trips, a flexibility that the car owners like and those hiring them don’t mind. “It is still better than having a new driver every day or having to wait after booking a cab and then discover that the driver has cancelled the trip,” said Debolina Dutta, an executive of a private company. “A fixed driver means you are certain of reaching the office on time and returning home without any hassle, including a surge in fares.” Some office-goers who have opted for a day’s contract have found co-passengers to split fares with. “I have come across a man who lives in Beleghata and whose office is in Dalhousie. Two of us travel together and we split the daily fare of Rs 1,400,” said Abhirup Samaddar, a Kankurgachi resident with his office on Kiran Shankar Roy Road. “We have made it clear to the driver that he cannot make any trip in between. The car will be exclusively ours during office hours. We don’t want to take chances during the pandemic.” As bus and train services are suspended, many office-goers from suburbs, too, are hiring cars for their daily commute. “Car owners started receiving calls for contracts on June 16 (the day offices were allowed to reopen),” said Indranil Banerjee, the secretary of the West Bengal Online Cab Operators Guild.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
21-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid vaccine and cancer survivors||Covid is the worst calamity of this century so far. Cancer and Covid make a lethal combination, though recovery is possible in both. Cancer patients and their families fight not only the disease but also the social stigmata and even ostracisation at times. Over-inquisitiveness, undue sympathy, unnecessary queries from neighbours and “well-wishers” tend to further demoralise the cancer families. The advent of Covid has worsened the situation. The struggle for survival seems to be never ending, a cancer survivor’s tale is now to fight and overcome the fear of Covid as well. Maintaining physical distancing, wearing masks, hand sanitisation are mandatory, though vaccination seems to be the more logical solution. Cancer patients are more vulnerable than the normal population to infection with the Covid virus, though the outcomes may not be worse. Precautions need to be followed diligently. The government took steps to make the vaccine available as early as feasible and identified individuals with comorbidities for priority vaccination. Unfortunately, all cancer survivors were not included. Only those patients with solid cancers diagnosed on or after July 1, 2020, or those still undergoing treatment were included. This meant that the large majority of cancer patients who underwent therapy prior to July 1, 2020, were denied access to priority vaccination. This demoralised many cancer families. There have been unending queries from many patients regarding the safety, efficacy and complications related to the vaccine. At present, the available vaccines have been declared safe and efficacious. The complications are minimal and that can be managed easily. Many are confused regarding which vaccine to take, Covishield or Covaxin.  At present, both are approved and have been shown to be effective. No direct comparisons are there to establish superiority of one over the other. Thus it is best to take whichever is available earlier. Since cancer patients are prone to develop severe form of the disease, it is best to take the vaccine at the earliest opportunity. However, if anyone has a history of major allergies, the opinion of the treating oncologist is mandatory. The gap between the two doses of vaccine has been controversial and there have been repeated changes in the past few months. The current government regulations state that for Covishield, the gap should be 12 to 16 weeks and for, Covaxin four to six weeks. Though there has been a lot of discussion on this issue, it may be best to follow the government guidelines. Those who have been infected already also need to be vaccinated irrespective of their antibody status as vaccines offer additional safety. The recommendation is that they need to be vaccinated preferably three months from recovery to achieve the best results. Even the immunocompromised patients need to be vaccinated after consultation with their oncologist as there is always some benefit --- it may reduce the severity of Covid infection. The common side-effects like pain at injection site, mild fever or weakness can easily be overcome and it should not be a reason to avoid vaccination. The initial reluctance to get vaccinated among the common people is now gone and many are eagerly waiting for their turn. Cancer treatment does not become less effective after vaccination as some allege. Those undergoing surgery may take the vaccine preferably two weeks after surgery. Patients undergoing radiotherapy should wait till the therapy is over and take the vaccine a couple of weeks later if blood counts are normal. Chemotherapy is a long-term treatment, which may continue for six to eight months. The vaccine can be taken in between cycles when the blood counts are normal. Patients who have undergone stem cell transplantation should wait for six months for vaccination. There must always be a balance between risk and benefit and the treating oncologist will determine that individualising every case. There is an additional risk of comorbidities like diabetes and hypertension, and respiratory, cardiac and renal disorders, not to forget obesity. These conditions may increase morbidity significantly. However, there are some issues which must be considered as priority by the cancer families. ⚫Vaccination is strongly recommended, the benefits are much more than risks ⚫All available vaccines are safe and efficacious, none can be deemed superior as there are no direct comparisons between them so far ⚫Cancer treatment does not become less effective after vaccination ⚫Do not delay cancer treatment for fear of Covid, the prognosis will be worse ⚫There is a possibility to get infected with Covid during cancer treatment, but untreated cancer carries a much graver prognosis ⚫Maintain physical distancing, wear mask, sanitise hands frequently and avoid smoking During the last year, Covid has proven that life is indeed fragile and death of an apparently healthy person is not impossible. Losing near and dear ones have become commonplace. Covid has also taught us to fight for survival, learn to protect precious lives and take adequate precautions. Cancer families are fighting a more difficult battle. They have to fight mental and physical agony, along with social stigmata, ostracisation and even workplace isolation. However, in spite of all odds, victory seems imminent. Get vaccinated. Dr Gautam Mukhopadhyay is secretary, Bengal Oncology Foundation, and clinical director, department of surgical oncology, Peerless Hospital, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
21-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University waives hostel, library and laboratory fees for students||The Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology, to which all private and government engineering colleges in Bengal are affiliated, have waived the hostel fees, library and laboratory fees for its in-house students till the resumption of in-person classes. Those who have already paid the fees will get refunds. “It is being notified to all concerned that due to pandemic situation arising out of the spread of Covid-19, hostel fees, library and laboratory fees of all in-house students are waived for three months during even semester, 2020 and are being fully waived for odd semester 2020-2021 until further notice,” a notice issued on June 9 by the university’s registrar, Parthapratim Lahiri, said. An official of the university said the waiver would only apply to the 2,000-odd in-house students, who are enrolled in programmes run directly by the university. “Fees will be refunded to those who have paid,” said vice-chancellor Saikat Maitra. He said fees were waived for the three months in the even semester last year —which spanned from January to June — as the students had not availed themselves of the facilities after the lockdown was imposed in March. “Students are encountering financial constraints as family members have suffered job loss or salary cuts during the continued run of the pandemic. By waiving the fees, we want to help the students as much as possible,” Maitra told Metro on Sunday. The hostel charge in each semester stands at Rs 9,000. The laboratory and library fees in each semester are Rs 1,000 and Rs 600, respectively. The university had in October made "half/full’’ refund of the examination fee to “deserving’’ students in the intermediate semesters, following a demand for a waiver on the ground that they were facing financial constraints because of the pandemic. Then, students of the affiliating colleges who were in the second, fourth and sixth semesters demanded a waiver of the exam fee (Rs 1,200 in each semester). A university official said the financial constraints had worsened with the renewed surge in Covid cases. “The financial hardship has posed such a challenge that students are finding it difficult to pay the bare fees,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
21-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: CISCE posts 'scheme' for ICSE and ISC exams ||The ICSE council on Sunday posted on its website the “scheme” for this year’s ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) exams. The council has said in the circular that if the situation remains “conducive and stable”, the results will be “published on or before 31st July 2021”. Anyone wanting to go through the “scheme” can visit the council’s website cisce.org. The Telegraph has earlier reported about the formula to arrive at the ICSE and ISC results that the council proposed to the Supreme Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
21-06-2021||Calcutta||Bagjola canal stretch to be desilted  ||The stretch of the Bagjola canal between BT Road in Kamarhati and VIP Road will be cleared of garbage and silt to increase its capacity. “We will take up the work of desiltation of the canal shortly after the removal of the garbage,” Saumen Mahapatra, the minister in charge of irrigation and waterways department, told Metro. “An estimate for the expenses has been drawn up and the basics of the work are being finalised.” The 38km-long Bagjola canal carries water from BT Road in Kamarhati in the west to the Bidyadhari river in the east, cutting through parts of Baranagar, Dum Dum, Lake Town and New Town. To ensure better management, the irrigation department has split the canal into two halves — the 9.23km upper Bagjola canal, from the origin till VIP Road, and the 28.8km lower Bagjola canal, from VIP Road till the Bidhyadhari. Officials said the last thorough desiltation of the canal was done ahead of the 2017 monsoon. Over the next few years, maintenance was restricted only to parts that had accumulated lots of garbage. “Around 1.2m-high silt gets deposited on the bed of the canal every four years,” said an official of the irrigation and waterways department. “In 2017, we had built four vents so that the water would pass through a total of 10 vents. But indiscriminate dumping of garbage has left a toll on the capacity of the canal.” Engineers of the department said the upper part of the canal had become a garbage dumping ground. “Several of the agencies engaged to clear garbage have not done their job,” Mahapatra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
21-06-2021||Calcutta||Kasba leather worker attacks boss||The owner of a leather gloves manufacturing unit in Kasba, the chief accountant of the unit and his driver were injured when a 50-year-old worker suddenly attacked the trio with a leather-cutting blade on Saturday evening, police said. Kahar Molla, the accused labourer who suffers disability in a leg, told the police that the chief accountant had stopped receiving raw materials from him since the stricter Covid curbs came into force in May and he was not being paid his dues. Around 6.10 pm on Saturday, Kahar walked into the factory of Balaji Impex Private Limited, on Dharmatalla Road near Kasba police station, armed with a round metal blade.  Eyewitnesses said he pulled out a steel rod and fixed the blade to it and approached the reception in a rage. Kahar first attacked Saswata Chakrabarty, the 29-year-old driver of the chief accountant, who was checking his mobile phone sitting on a chair. “Kahar swung the rod and the blade hit Saswata's neck. He fell, bleeding from a deep wound,” said Joydeb Bacher, an eyewitness. He next entered the room where Tuhin Kumar Dey, the chief accountant, was at work. Shakti Prasad Mazumder, the factory owner, was there, too. Kahar attacked Dey with the rod and the steel blade hit the accountant's shoulder and his right hand. Shakti Prasad was hit when he tried to resist Kahar. Some labourers overpowered Kahar, while others took the injured to a private hospital nearby alerting the police. “Apart from working in the factory, the accused said he also used to provide men and materials. The accountant apparently had stopped placing orders with him for materials since the partial lockdown came into force. The man said his dues were not being cleared,” said an officer of Kasba police station.  “Kahar has been arrested on the charge of attempt to murder under Section 307 of the IPC." Mazumder said from his hospital bed that he had invited Kahar on Monday to discuss his grievances but the accused did not meet him. “There are documents to show he had received all his dues on Saturday,” Mazumder said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
21-06-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta doctor blackmailed after taking video call||A 61-year-old city doctor has lodged a police complaint alleging that his photographs had been captured after he answered WhatsApp video calls from unknown numbers and superimposed with objectionable pictures. The doctor, a resident of Suren Sarkar Road in Phoolbagan, was allegedly threatened that the morphed pictures would be circulated on social media unless he transferred a particular amount to a bank account. Being threatened, the doctor transferred Rs 5,100 to the account and reported the matter to police. “The incident happened on Thursday night when the victim started receiving video calls on WhatsApp from unknown numbers. According to the complaint, he received multiple calls from two numbers between 9am and 11pm,” said an officer of Phoolbagan police station, where the complaint has been lodged. The complainant then received multiple photographs in his Whatsapp account which purportedly showed his face superimposed on objectionable pictures, the police said. “The gang members then started to threaten the doctor saying they would put these photographs on Facebook and other social media platforms”. Scared of being maligned by the purportedly fake photographs, the doctor apparently transferred the amount to the bank account. On Friday, he reported the matter to Phoolbagan police station and a case was registered under IPC sections related to extortion, defamation and criminal intimidation and also under the Information Technology Act. Senior officers at Lalbazar said they had received several other cases of people falling prey to video calls from unknown numbers and later being threatened to shell out money. The police said several gangs were at work. An officer at Lalbazar said: “Till now the pattern suggests that they make calls at random. If they are lucky, the receiver accepts the call. A minute’s WhatsApp video call is enough to record or capture photographs, which are later superimposed with obscene photographs.” The police believe there are more such cases than what have been reported because most victims are ashamed to lodge complaints fearing humiliation. “WhatsApp users should not answer video calls from an unknown number without first ascertaining whose number it is,” said an officer. “If a suspicious call is received accidentally, disconnect and block the number immediately. If someone blackmails with morphed photographs, report the matter to the police immediately.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
21-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Calcutta church distributes groceries to over 150 families||A city-based church on Sunday distributed groceries to over 150 families in a pocket of South 24-Parganas who are struggling to make ends meet because of the Covid-19 curbs. The distribution camp was organised at Bakrahat in Bishnupur block, around 28km from the heart of Calcutta. One hundred and sixty-five people got a kit that included cereals, pulses, edible oil, potatoes, onions and soaps. The drive was organised by the Calcutta St Thomas Orthodox Cathedral, a church of around 80 families who trace their roots to Kerala. Besides a charitable dispensary, the organisation runs a chapel and a school in Thakurpukur, a 10-minute drive from Bakrahat. “Most of the recipients have lost their income because of the pandemic. There were many senior citizens in the queue as well,” said Ajit Kuruvilla, one of the organisers. One of the beneficiaries was Prasanta Sardar, who rolls bidis for a local wholesaler. He used to go to work “at least 25 days” a month in April. The production was halted in May. It has since resumed but the production has halved. His wife used to work at four homes in Behala as domestic help. Two of the households terminated her services. “The ration we got today will last a fortnight. But beyond that, it is the same uncertainty that has haunted us since the start of the pandemic,” said Sardar. Noor Nehar Bewa, 70, was another recipient. Her son ferried people on a van. But the fresh curbs imposed since May led to a significant drop in the number of people stepping out for work. As a result, his income has dropped substantially. Sunday’s drive started at 2pm and lasted for a little less than two hours. Father Anil Varghese, the priest at St Thomas Orthodox Cathedral Church in Smith Lane in Taltala, was at Bakrahat on Sunday, distributing kits. “This pandemic has affected so many people. So many of us have lost our loved ones. People have lost their jobs and source of livelihood. We are a small community of Orthodox Christians from Kerala and have been doing various charitable activities. There was a feeling amongst us that in our own small way at least, we should do something to ameliorate the sufferings of the poor,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
21-06-2021||Business||Sensex rebounds 230 points to close at 52,574||Equity benchmark Sensex rebounded from the day's low to end 230 points higher on Monday, tracking recovery in HDFC twins, SBI and Reliance Industries amid a mixed trend in global equities.  After plunging over 600 points in early trade, the 30-share BSE index made a U-turn to settle 230.01 points or 0.44 per cent higher at 52,574.46. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 63.15 points or 0.40 per cent to 15,746.50.  NTPC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying around 4 per cent, followed by Titan, SBI, HUL, IndusInd Bank and UltraTech Cement.  On the other hand, Maruti, TCS, Tech Mahindra and L&T were among the laggards.  Domestic equities witnessed brisk recovery after seeing steep gap-down opening, but shrugged-off weak global cues once again, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities.  "Strong rebound in PSU banks was a prime factor for market's recovery. Further, Reliance Industries also recorded some gains ahead of its AGM and arrested market's fall. Barring Auto and IT, most key sectoral indices recovered to green from initial losses," he added.  Notably, investors once again seemed to be lapping up quality midcap and smallcap stocks after the recent steep correction.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses largely ended with losses. In Europe, equities were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals.  International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.18 per cent higher at USD 73.64 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-14
21-06-2021||Business||Sensex tanks nearly 600 pts in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex plunged nearly 600 points in early trade on Monday, tracking losses in index-heavyweights ICICI Bank, SBI and L&T amid a steep correction in global equities. The 30-share BSE index was trading 596.78 points or 1.14 per cent lower at 51,747.67 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tumbled 175.35 points or 1.12 per cent to 15,508. M&M was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by L&T, UltraTech Cement, ICICI Bank, Maruti and SBI. On the other hand, NTPC, HUL, Sun Pharma and Asian Paints were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 21.12 points or 0.04 per cent higher at 52,344.45, while Nifty inched 8.05 points or 0.05 per cent lower to 15,683.35. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,680.57 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic markets do not look to be inspiring as of now. "Indian equities saw profit booking last week led by weak global cues. Undoubtedly, weakening INR, rising crude prices and doubts over sustainability of FIIs flow due to taper talk in the US aggravated investors' concerns. "While India's daily caseload falling below 60,000 offers comfort, indication of a third wave in the next 6-8 months in the country has raised fresh concerns," he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with heavy losses in mid-session deals. International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.53 per cent higher at USD 73.90 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-14
21-06-2021||Business||Authum emerges as highest bidder for Reliance Home Finance||Authum Investment & Infrastructure Ltd has emerged as the highest bidder for Reliance Home Finance, the Anil Ambani group firm. Sources said that the NBFC has been selected as the top bidder by the lenders of Reliance Home Finance, led by Bank of Baroda. Authum made the highest bid of Rs 2,900 crore of which the lenders would receive Rs 2,587 crore, or 90 per cent, upfront and the remaining Rs 300 crore within a year. Voting for the Rs 11,200-crore debt resolution process of the Anil Ambani firm began on May 31 and concluded on June 19. It saw participation from over 91 per cent of the lenders by value. The other bidders included ARES SSG (a global fund with over $8 billion under management) along with Assets Care & Reconstruction Enterprise Ltd; Avenue Capital (a global fund with over $9.5 billion under management) jointly with Arcil and domestic NBFC Capri Global Capital Ltd. Authum is a domestic NBFC with around 15 years of presence and net worth of over Rs 1,500 crore as on December 31, 2020. The resolution plan of Authum was selected as it offered the highest net present value and has fewer and reasonable conditions, sources said. Its bid also scored highest in terms of ease of implementation and was found to be comprehensive for all the stakeholders, including the employees and customers of Reliance Home Finance, they added. Though the plan has been selected, a few more lenders are yet to give their approval because of internal delays. The resolution of Reliance Home Finance is the only successful one after Altico in March 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-14
21-06-2021||Business||Centrum-Bharatpe joint venture to pump Rs 1,800 crore into PMC on merger ||The joint venture floated by Centrum Group and digital payments start-up BharatPe to launch a small finance bank will infuse Rs 1,800 crore capital into troubled Punjab & Maharashtra Cooperative Bank (PMC) on its merger with the proposed bank, a top Centrum official has said. Last Friday, the Reserve Bank gave an in-principle approval to Centrum Financial Services, a step-down arm of the diversified financial services group, to set up a small finance bank (SFB) provided it took over the troubled PMC Bank. The in-principle approval has been in specific pursuance to Centrum Financial Services’ offer on February 1, 2021, in response to the expression of interest notification dated November 3, 2020, published by the PMC Bank, the RBI said. This paves the way for ending nearly two anxious years for PMC depositors whose over Rs 10,723 crore are still stuck in the crippled co-operative bank that has been under RBI administrator since September 2019. To launch the SFB, the Centrum group has sewed up an equal joint venture with Resilient Innovations, an arm of Gurgaon-based BharatPe. But Centrum Capital will be the promoter of SFB, under the prevailing laws, the group said. “We (the SFB joint venture) have set aside Rs 1,800 crore for the SFB, which eventually will be pumped into PMC once the government scheme for merger is notified. Of the Rs 1,800 crore, Rs 900 crore will be invested in the first year by the joint venture split equally between the two and the remaining capital in stages,” Jaspal Bindra, executive chairman of Centrum Group, said over the weekend. Whether they will take over the more than Rs 6,500 crore of NPAs of PMC and also the over Rs 10,700 crore of its deposits, Bindra said that will be known only after the government notified the merger scheme. “What terms and conditions the government will set in the merger scheme will decide the fate of huge bad loans and losses. In fact, this is the only little unknown we have as of now,” Bindra quipped. The seriousness of the promoters is evident from the fact that the groups have allocated nine-times more capital over the RBI mandate of Rs 200 crore for the SFB. If it succeeds, this will be the first SFB in nearly six years —  the first set of SFB licences were issued in August 2016 — when the monetary authority also made such licensing on-tap.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-14
21-06-2021||Business||Sebi asks PNB Housing to put on hold its Rs 4,000 crore-Carlyle deal||Market regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has asked PNB Housing Finance to put on hold its proposed Rs 4,000-crore deal with Carlyle group. The market regulator feels the transaction is “ultra-vires” of the company’s Articles of Association (AoA). It has now directed PNB Housing Finance to carry out a valuation process by an independent registered valuer and then proceed with the allotment of preferential shares. Late last month, PNB Housing Finance had said that Carlyle group will lead a Rs 4,000-crore capital infusion in the company with other investors that include Aditya Puri, the former MD & CEO of HDFC Bank. The transaction would have seen Pluto Investments S.a.r.l. (Pluto Investments), an affiliated entity of Carlyle Asia Partners IV, and Carlyle Asia Partners V  investing up to Rs 3,185 crore through a preferential allotment of equity shares and warrants at a price of Rs 390 per share. It would have also eventually resulted in the Carlyle group holding more than 50 per cent in the housing finance company, thus becoming the major promoter and shareholder along with Puri, while Punjab National Bank’s stake would have come down to a little over 20 per cent from 33 per cent at present. However, after the announcement, proxy advisory firm Stakeholders Empowerment Services (SES) had raised a number of questions on the proposed deal. It had said that the preferential issue proposed is against the interest of public shareholders and also the shareholders of PNB and the exchequer. SES had also asked if PNB had willingly surrendered control without extracting a fair compensation while pointing out that the deal is “ultra vires” to the AoA of the housing finance company. According to SES, the company’s AoA clearly provide that either it must make a rights issue, or if a rights issue is not being made, it must issue shares at a price which has been determined by a registered valuer. The proxy advisory firm also added that PNB Housing Finance had not determined the price by valuation by a registered valuer. Following these concerns, the market regulator had begun to look into the “regulatory issues” related to the preferential allotment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-14
21-06-2021||Business||Hyundai Motor India Ltd witnesses surge in market share in SUVs||Hyundai Motor India Ltd (HMIL) has been witnessing an increase in its market share in the SUV segment. Its market share in SUVs has risen to 26 per cent in 2020 from 11 per cent in 2015. The company has been increasing its portfolio of SUV offerings that include the Venue, the Creta, the Tucson and the Kona Electric together with the newly launched six and seven-seater Alcazar. The previously launched SUVs were contributing 45 per cent to the company’s sales. “Now, with the addition of the Alcazar, we expect it to grow even further,” Tarun Garg, director, sales, marketing and service, HMIL, said during a virtual meet after the launch on Thursday. The Alcazar is placed between the Creta and the Tucson and is priced in the range of Rs 16.30-19.99 lakh. The Alcazar will compete with the likes of the MG Hector Plus (Rs 13.62 lakh-Rs 16.37 lakh), the XUV 500 (Rs 14.13 lakh-Rs 18.76 lakh) and the Tata Safari (Rs 14.99 lakh-Rs 20.56 lakh). The Alcazar had received 4,000 bookings in 10 days before its launch. On the nature of the demand, Garg said: “We have launched the Alcazar in three trims and the bookings are equally divided among the three trims. About 55 per cent of the bookings are for diesel.” The price difference between the petrol and the diesel variant of the Alcazar is just about Rs 20,000. On the waiting period for the Venue and Creta, Garg said: “It is about four to eight weeks.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-14
21-06-2021||Business||Hard bargain on GST payouts||The Opposition-ruled states are set to drive a hard bargain at the next GST Council meeting — likely in early July — to discuss compensation to the states. Officials said the key areas of contention were the amount of compensation as well as the base year for a fresh formula of payout. They said the Council is expected to meet early next month to discuss the compensation issue and the borrowing plan for the current fiscal to meet the shortfall in the cess amount. At the last Council meeting on May 28, the central government proposed to borrow Rs 1.58 lakh crore to fund the shortfall in cess collections for 2021-22. The government has projected the compensation for the current fiscal at Rs 2.7 lakh crore, assuming nominal GDP growth of 7 per cent for the year. The cess will fetch Rs 1-1.1 lakh crore, leaving the remaining Rs 1.58 lakh crore to be funded by central borrowing. The Council would also decide on the compensation mechanism beyond June 2022, when the five-year initial window ends. At least six states — Bengal, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Odisha — are seeking the extension of the compensation period and the relevant cess on various ‘‘demerit’’ goods. At the May meeting of the Council, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said there would be a special meeting of the Council on compensation. “We are in the last of the five years of 14 per cent compensation. Even from last year, there has been a worry if there will be an opportunity to extend it beyond July 2022. So, I have assured the members that there will be a special session only to discuss that one agenda: how the compensation cess will be collected, how long it will be collected and how much will be collected beyond July 2022.” The compensation is being provided to the states for the loss of revenue arising on account of the implementation of the GST. For this, 2015-16 has been taken as the base year while the growth rate of revenue is assumed to be 14 per cent per annum. For the payment of compensation, cess is being levied on certain goods in the 28-per-cent bracket. However, the question is whether the government will stick to the older formula or opt for a new one such as shifting the base year or on actual state GST revenues collected in 2021-22 (July-June year) .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-14
21-06-2021||Business||Air India has time till mid-July to challenge Cairn lawsuit||Air India has time till mid-July to challenge the lawsuit filed by Cairn Energy PLC demanding that a US federal court force the airline to pay a $1.26-billion arbitration award it had won against the Indian government in December last year, sources said. Air India is controlled by the Indian government so much that they are “alter egos”, Cairn had said in the lawsuit filed with the US district court. The court should hold the airline company liable for the arbitration award, the company had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-15
21-06-2021||Business||ATM operators likely to deploy more terminals with RBI hiking usage charge||ATM operators are expecting to deploy more terminals with the Reserve Bank of India hiking a charge on their usage. From August, the interchange fees, which are the amounts paid by a card issuing bank to the bank owing the ATM, have been raised to Rs 17 per financial transaction from Rs 15 in case of cash withdrawal and to Rs 6 from Rs 5 for non-financial transactions. An RBI report said new ATMs were not keeping pace with the rise in the number of debit cards issued by PSU banks. The number of debit cards rose to 4,171 per ATM in March 2019 from 2,908 in March 2012. But the ATMs per 1 lakh debit cards have fallen to 24 from 34 . “In our judgement, a reason why banks and WLA operators (white label ATMs) were not putting in ATMs were because the economics of running ATMs were not making commercial sense. Cost of running an ATM will not change. But an increase in interchange fees have effectively brought down the transaction break even,” said K. Srinivas, MD and CEO, BTI Payments Pvt Ltd.  He said the rise in the charges would  encourage the deployment of more ATMs. Moreover, white label atm (WLA) licences available are on tap which may encourage more participation. BTI will consider expanding its network from around 8,500 sites to cross 10,000 in the coming months, Srinivas said. “Economic viability has an important co-relation towards deployment of new ATMs especially with increased cost of compliance. In my opinion several banks would now consider their ATM deployment strategy and we can expect net positive deployment numbers,” said Pranay Jhaveri, country manager – India and South Asia, Euronet Worldwide. “Currency in circulation has grown significantly post demonetisation. The government is also executing direct benefit transfer into bank accounts of citizens. All these factors have led to an increased usage of ATMs. The increase in interchange fees will give a new filip to ATM deployment in semi urban and unbanked areas which will enable citizens to access cash from their bank accounts,” Jhaveri added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-15
21-06-2021||Business||Decriminalise IT rules, social media platforms should follow rule of the land: CII president T.V. Narendran||The newly elected CII president T.V. Narendran has indicated the need to decriminalise the IT rules even as he asked the social media platforms to follow the rule of the land. “Overall we believe that we should decriminalise our regulatory framework from the point of view of the industry and corporate... (however) we would say that we would go by the law of the land,” Narendran told The Telegraph in an interview. He added that “we (the CII) would have a look at it (new IT rules). There is a committee that would go into the details and if required to make any recommendations to the government we will, especially from the point of view of the industry, we would do so. Our earlier recommendations on the Companies Act on decriminalisation have been largely accepted by the government and some are still pending which we will take up with them”. The new IT Rules, or the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, were notified by the Indian government on February 25. They came into effect on May 25 and have created a storm over compliance. While WhatsApp has challenged the rules in the courts, criminal cases have been filed against micro-blogging site Twitter for hosting communally sensitive video on its platform. On the FIR against social media giant Twitter and the kind of signal it would send to global investors, Narendran said that it was not just in India, but across the world countries are figuring out how to deal with the social media firms. Several countries are looking at ways to regulate social media companies and put in place checks and balances, he added. Duty on fuel Narendran, who is also the chief executive and managing director of Tata Steel Ltd, emphasised the need to reduce the duties on petrol and diesel to provide relief to the common man as well as industry. “When the global crude prices were low, the government had increased the duties that helped the state coffers. Now, the crude prices are high, the government should provide relief to the common man and industry,” he said. Voicing the need to bring petroleum products under the ambit of GST (Goods and Services Tax), he said “airlines have to shell 60 per cent of the total cost on ATF and we demand that ATF should be also brought under GST”. Central and state taxes make up 60 per cent of the retail selling price of petrol and over 54 per cent of diesel. The Union government levies Rs 32.90 per litre of excise duty on petrol and Rs 31.80 on diesel. Driving demand Narendran said the GST Council should consider cutting the rates on consumer goods to trigger consumption. Last week, he had said the government should introduce a stimulus package worth Rs 3 lakh crore, including cash transfer to households through the Jan Dhan accounts “We have asked if we can reduce the GST on consumer goods by 2-3 per cent for at least six months to trigger consumption as people have spent significant sums on medical expenses. This could provide some relief to consumers and put money into their hands,” he said. Narendran said “smaller companies have struggled more than larger companies over the last year. That is why focus has been on industries that got impacted such as MSMEs, hospitality, travel and tourism to get consumption back. As far as bigger companies are concerned, reforms are always important because if you want to get the private sector investment cycle back, you need to continue improving the ease of doing business at both the Centre and state levels”. He also specifically pitched for cutting the tax rate on cement to boost construction activity in the country as it has a spiralling effect across the whole value chain. “At present, cement is taxed at the highest rate of 28 per cent, while most of the other building materials are taxed under 18 per cent. As cement is the most essential input for construction, the GST on cement could be brought down to 18 per cent or less. This would reduce the overall cost of all construction related projects. Reduction in real estate prices would boost demand,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-15
21-06-2021||Business||BPCL and Air India selloffs gain pace as Covid second wave subsides||Contrary to fears that the selloffs of BPCL and Air India will be delayed till the next fiscal, the Centre now expects to complete the exercise in this fiscal as the second wave of the coronavirus subsides. The financial bids will now be called in September against apprehensions the bids can only be called in the fourth quarter, officials said. They said the Union cabinet would soon consider tweaking the foreign direct investment policy to allow 100 per cent ownership of a state-owned refinery by global players through the automatic route. The draft share purchase agreement is expected to be finalised by late July-early August and the financial bids called around September. The BPCL divestment that involves the sale of the government’s entire 52.98 per cent stake in the PSU, was cleared by the Union cabinet in November 2019. But there has been limited progress because the Covid outbreak has dimmed global oil majors’ interest in the stake sale. Only three bidders responded to the call for expressions of interest (EOIs) for BPCL and these include two private equity players and the Vedanta group. Both the bidders of Air India and BPCL given virtual data room access and the government replying to their queries, officials expect the due diligence to get over in the next three months. They said the bidders are likely to begin site visits soon. “After the bidders are comfortable and complete their due diligence, putting financial bids will not take much time,” the officials said. The Tata group and SpiceJet CEO Ajay Singh are the final two bidders for Air India. Both submitted expressions of interest (EoI) to the government in December 2020 and are expected to submit financial bids. Meanwhile, Air India has announced the sale of its properties located across India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-15
21-06-2021||Business||Think out of the box: Introduction to index funds||Those of us who are artless enough to think that the dominant duo — Nifty and Sensex — alone will grab all the eyeballs in the world of indices for long should recalibrate their thoughts. A number of lesser-known yardsticks seem to be making inroads quite firmly. As the offer documents of some of the more recent equity funds filed by asset management companies reveal, an altogether new set of indices may well keep our investors engaged in the days to come. A surge in allocations in favour of index funds (and exchange-traded funds) may be viewed as the prime mover in this context. The trend may be seen in the backdrop of a new found interest in index-based investing, a notion that has generally found acceptance across the country and indeed globally as well. While the older and more established indices, including the two market leaders, remain by far the most popular ones, there is little doubt that the also-rans are now gaining fresh ground. These include diversified indices such as Nifty Midcap 50 and Nifty Next 50 as well as narrowed-down sectoral and thematic gauges based on industries such as financial services and healthcare. Some of the proposals that have been rolled out lately relate to exchange-traded funds — this category, still nascent, is likely to snowball into a colossal sub-set for sectors like metals, energy, consumption and automobiles. For ordinary investors, the indices chosen for these ETFs are fairly fresh in terms of use. While sectoral indices are not altogether new in the country, these yardsticks have remained relatively unexplored in the Indian market. Their introduction is expected to partially move investors’ attention away from the big daddies, Nifty and Sensex. However, not many ordinary investors are likely to adopt these indices, at least in the initial stages. It is also quite likely that institutional investors, especially the international sort, will simply keep investing in the top handful of stocks — may be in the first fifty or so. Indeed, the global moneybags have been mostly chasing the main index constituents in India for quite a while. A few reminders For investors who are keen to try out some of the new-generation funds, here’s a set of reminders to offer. Do check the following list: Despite the little niggling doubts, the rationale that sustains index-based investing stands out perfectly. Investors are aware that indexing takes the whole issue of active management out of the equation. Active management — that is, attempts by the fund manager to outperform the chosen index — seems to be going out of favour with a section of the market. In India too, there is a greater inclination these days towards passive management (simply put, it is all about exactly replicating the chosen index) than before. The fund manager concerned does not attempt to outdo the index at all; his performance, nevertheless, is subject to what is commonly known as “tracking error”. In short, this represents the difference between index returns and the returns actually generated by the fund. In the practical world, tracking errors can be generated because of a variety of reasons, not all of which can be appreciated fully by ordinary investors. In all likelihood, indexing will grow considerably in the Indian market, courtesy a set of newer, brasher investors who are more clued-in when it comes to index funds than the older generation. Already, as mobilisation and deployment figures will no doubt reveal, ETF investors are a growing community in the Indian market. As I foresee it, the involvement of new players in this space will simply add to the emerging trend. Investors have so far been mostly familiar with active management — indeed, that is how the domestic asset management industry has forged its own growth trajectory over all these years. Nevertheless, be that as it may, the industry seems serious about rolling out new kinds of index products in the days ahead. Considerable changes in this space have been already brought about in recent times, courtesy Indian players investing through international Fund of Funds. Today, elements such as Greater China, Nasdaq 100 and the FAANG basket are within our reach, thanks to special initiatives taken up by domestic asset managers. Perhaps “enhanced index” is the next way forward for some sections — but that is a separate idea and may warrant an independent scrutiny. The writer is director, Wishlist Capital Advisors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-15
21-06-2021||India||Vaccines losing effect on new variants of Covid-19: WHO official  ||According to a World Health Organization (WHO) epidemiologist, Covid-19 vaccines are showing reduced signs of efficacy against the Delta variant of coronavirus. The vaccines are, however, still found to be effective at preventing severe illness and death. As per a Hindustan Times report, in future, there might be a "constellation of mutations" which means vaccines are likely to lose their potency against fighting the coronavirus, the WHO official added. “Vaccines are a critical tool in the battle against Covid-19, and there are clear public health and lifesaving benefits to using the tools we already have. We must not put off getting vaccinated because of our concerns about new variants, and we must proceed with vaccination even if the vaccines may be somewhat less effective against some of the Covid-19 virus variants. We need to use the tools we have in hand even while we continue to improve those tools. We are all safe only if everyone is safe,” WHO said in a statement recently. The Delta plus variant has been formed due to a mutation in the Delta or B.1.617.2 variant. First detected in India, the Delta variant  – which now accounts for more than 90% of new Covid cases in the UK – has raised concerns as it appears to be somewhat more resistant to vaccines than the Alpha variant that was first detected in Kent and previously dominated in the UK. It is also considered one of the drivers of the second wave in India. The highly transmissible variant of the virus is listed as the fourth variant of concern by the WHO. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Monday warned of a "rough winter" ahead even though things may be "looking good" for July 19 to be the so-called "terminus point" marking an end to all lockdown restrictions in the country. His warning came as the UK registered a further 9,284 daily Covid-19 infections on Sunday, a day before the government had planned to ease all lockdown measures until the Delta variant forced a month-long delay into July. "You can never exclude that there will be some new disease, some new horror that we simply haven't budgeted for or accounted for," said Johnson, when asked about further lockdowns in future. "But looking at where we are, at the efficacy of the vaccines against all variants that we can currently see, I think it's looking good for 19 July to be that terminus point," he told reporters. He indicated that the cases of the Delta variant are rising at a rate of about 30 per cent a week, with hospitalisations and intensive care admissions "roughly the same". "I think what the scientists are saying is that things like flu will come back this winter, we may have a rough winter for all sorts of reasons, and obviously there are big pressures on the NHS. All the more reason to reduce the number of Covid cases now, give the NHS the breathing space it needs to get on with dealing with all those other pressures, and we are certainly going to be putting in the investment to make sure that they can, he added. The Russian authorities have also blamed the ongoing surge in cases, which has seen more than 17,000 new Covid-19 cases reported for a fourth day running, on the new Delta variant, while conceding that a nationwide ad campaign meant to encourage people to get vaccinated had fallen short. President Vladimir Putin warned on Monday that the coronavirus situation in some Russian regions was getting worse. Additionally, the Portuguese authorities have confirmed suspicions that the new delta variant of the coronavirus is driving a spike in new cases in the Lisbon region. Portugal's National Health Institute said Sunday the highly infectious variant that was first found in India has a prevalence of 60% of new cases in the nation's capital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-47
21-06-2021||India||Amarnath Yatra cancelled, will be kept symbolic||In the wake of the Covid pandemic, the Jammu and Kashmir administration has decided that the annual Amarnath Yatra will be kept symbolic, Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha said on Monday. The 56-day yatra to the 3,880-metre-high Himalayan cave shrine was proposed to start from the twin routes of Pahalgam and Baltal on June 28 and culminate on August 22. The pilgrimage was cancelled last year too due to the pandemic. Sinha also directed officials to ensure devotees can virtually attend the morning and evening 'aartis' (prayers) at the shrine. This will allow them to pay their obeisance while also avoiding travel and exposure to the infection, the lieutenant governor (L-G) said. He said that at the shrine, all traditional and religious rituals shall be performed according to past practice. "It's important to save people's lives. So, it is not advisable to hold and conduct this year's pilgrimage in the larger public interest. Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board (SASB) is aware of and respects the sentiments of millions of devotees, and to keep the sentiments alive, the board shall continue the live telecast of morning and evening 'aarti' from the holy cave shrine," Sinha, who is also the board's chairman,said. The decision to keep the pilgrimage symbolic was taken after discussions with members of the SASB, an official spokesman said. Following the meeting with the board's members, the L-G also held deliberations with Chief Secretary Arun Kumar Mehta, DGP Dilbag Singh, Principal Secretary Home Shaleen Kabra, and Principal Secretary to the Lt Governor Nitishwar Kumar, who is also the CEO of the Shrine Board, he said. Those in the meeting were informed that the SASB has made arrangements so that devotees can watch the morning and evening prayers on virtual platforms and television, the spokesman said. The L-G stressed upon the need to follow Covid protocol on significant and pious days like 'pratham pooja' and 'samapan pooja'. He further stressed that seers visiting the shrine cave to perform 'aartis' according to rituals must follow Covid appropriate behaviour. The SASB CEO said the shrine board has made the arrangements for the mace of Lord Shiva Chhari Mubarak' to be taken to the holy cave on August 22, when the yatra is to conclude coinciding with the festival of Raksha Bandhan. "The Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board has been assessing the Covid situation in the Union Territory and the country. Our focus is on containing the pandemic and strengthening health infrastructure," he observed. The CEO Kumar said that both morning telecast of 'aarti' at 6 am and evening aarti' at 5 pm, each for 30 minutes, is to be live-streamed on the board's official website and an app specifically dedicated for devotees. The devotees can pay their virtual obeisance online through the Shrine Board's aarti' link.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-47
21-06-2021||India||Shakti Singh Extols Students’ Contribution To Promote Vaccination Prog During Apna Nawada’s Virtual Seminar||The world is dealing with a crisis named COVID-19 since 2020 and thousands of lives have already been lost at its altar. Naturally, society is doing everything possible to create awareness against this virus and its spread. One such effort was recently organized by Apna Nawada in which Shakti Singh, prominent students' activist and former President of Delhi University Students Union, also addressed the participants through a virtual seminar. The topic of the seminar was “Role of Students in Covid Period.” Addressing the virtual seminar, Shakti Singh drove home the relevance of standard operating protocols against Coronavirus and how students can play a significant role in culling misleading information being spread by vested interests. He said, “When India became one of the first countries in the world to manufacture a vaccine for Coronavirus, it was a proud moment for every Indian. We must thank our great scientists and researchers who gave this great gift to not just 135 crore countrymen but also to the world.” He said that India had managed to stop the virus well in its tracks due to the brilliant management of the crisis under the able leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his team of ministers and bureaucrats as well as the frontline workers including doctors, healthcare workers, policemen and safari karamcharis. He said it was a commendable thing that even as developed nations like the US were seen struggling with this disease, despite having one of the best health infrastructures in the world, India stopped this threat from reaching the financially weaker sections of the society. He added, “If the economically weaker sections had become affected by this virus, it would have meant disaster for the poor families with no resources at all.” Shakti Singh extolled the students to engage themselves in awareness activities and events regarding vaccination campaign throughout Uttar Pradesh. He was of the opinion that in a country like India, with such diversified communities and geographical limitations, a large part of the population still lived in villages, where the misinformation campaign against the vaccine could spread like wildfire. The BJP leader asked the students to visit rural areas in large groups and motivate people to go for vaccination. Shakti Singh said if students stand behind the government’s vaccination campaign, they could make it an enormous success and help the country in its fight against the pandemic. The organiser of the event Apna Nawada is a digital media portal and advocacy group based in Bihar. It was founded by Suman Shekhar, a journalism graduate from Delhi University in 2014. Apna Nawada mainly works on publishing authentic news and information pertaining to Nawada and surrounding districts of Bihar, India. It also works with civil society groups, public representatives and district administration in dissemination and verification of information. Apna Nawada is actively indulged in creating awareness against the COVID crisis through propagating expert information into the public. Apna Nawada : (apnanawada.in)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-47
21-06-2021||India||SIDDHAGURU – Understanding an accomplished enlightened Guru||Who is a Siddhaguru? The word “Siddhaguru” that is prefixed before the name of a spiritual teacher signifies his uninterrupted connection with the Self. A spiritual master who attained completeness is a Siddhaguru. His mind is entirely accommodated to the words of the “Thy” and “Thyself”, are destroyed in him. How old is this lineage? Siddhaguru follows the concept of “Lord is one”. They do not stand by one religion word. Defacto, their actions remain devoid of religion. The primary guru of this lineage is Lord Shiva-The Brahman, and the lineage continues to this day with numerous incarnations of Paramagurus and Immediate Gurus. Why do I need a guru on the path of attaining self? A journey of attaining true self cannot be complete without Guru’s helping hand. Without it, it's like putting your efforts in traveling in a fuel-free vehicle. How can I identify a Siddhaguru (or a genuine guru)? It is simple. Like a Jasmine spreads its fragrance to those who come to its arena. A Siddhaguru with his aura draw attention of many people towards him. Your mind becomes still in his proximity. He always speaks about enlightenment experience. He celebrates the day of his Self-realization. What do a Siddhaguru do to his Disciple? A Siddha guru can make his disciple like him. He transmits spiritual energy in his disciple through Shaktipat and awakens Kundalini (Cosmic Energy) in him. His Crown Chakra stays open because of which energy flows continuously in his body What does a Siddhaguru expect from his disciples? Guru Bhakti, being considered as “The Yoga of love”, is a practice of submitting yourself to a Siddhaguru and being loyal to him for attaining the state of completeness. It is not taught or learned indeed. Guru Bhakti gives patience in a disciple and enhances fidelity towards a guru.   How does a Siddhaguru direct his disciples? A Siddhaguru guide as per the seeker’s mindset. His aura always works to take away the deep karmic impressions of the seeker and contributes to the spiritual elevation of the seeker according to his/her receptivity and admissibility. What qualities a disciple should possess to get qualified for attaining Self-realization? Passion to attain God or Guru. It is the only quality which makes you qualified for attaining enlightenment. Your passion should be like a man drowned in the water trying to get out of that wood, like an infant crying for her mother’s affection. How strong is the Guru-Disciple relation? This is dependent upon the disciple's unconditional love and loyalty to his Guru. The more love, the more graciousness. What is Shaktipat? Why a Siddhaguru Perform Shaktipat? Shaktipat is a transfer of spiritual energy by a Siddhaguru to his/ her disciple for dissolving the accumulated impressions from many incarnations and take him/her into higher realms of consciousness. It brings about a dimensional change by burning the useless scrap metal in its astral body and makes it ready to reach completeness. Guru or the Lord. Whom to Choose? Both are important in one’s life. A guru makes you experience God, who in turn makes it an unbroken experience. This is a sponsored article and curated by ABP Digital Brand Studio. The Telegraph India editorial team played no role in creating this content.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-47
21-06-2021||India||Tamil Nadu to have panel comprising Duflo, Raghuram Rajan for economic rebound||An Economic Advisory Council to the Chief Minister would be constituted with leading experts including Nobel laureate Prof Esther Duflo, Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit said here on Monday in his customary address to the Assembly. The Council is to prepare a roadmap for "rapid" and inclusive economic growth of the state, Purohit said in his first address to the House, which also marks the commencement of the first session after the formation of the DMK government last month. "In recent years, we have seen a slowdown in Tamil Nadu's economic growth rate. This government will make all out efforts to reverse this trend and usher in a period of rapid economic growth...," he said and announced that the panel would be set up. Besides Duflo of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology-USA, former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan, former chief economic advisor to the union government, Arvind Subramanian, development economist Prof Jean Dreze and former union finance secretary S Narayan would be part of the Economic Advisory Council, he said. Based on the council's recommendations the government would take steps to revitalise economy and see that the benefits of growth reached all segments of society, he said. The fiscal health of the state is a cause for concern and the government would focus on improving it and bringing down debt burden and a white paper on Tamil Nadu's finances would be released in July. There could be no social justice when there is high economic inequality and stratification. Inclusive growth is government's priority and growth and progress must benefit all sections of society and not just the top of the economic pyramid, the Governor noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-47
21-06-2021||India||More than 80 lakh people vaccinated in a day as new rule kicks in||More than 80 lakh vaccine doses, the highest in a single day, were administered across the country on Monday as the revised guidelines for Covid-19 vaccination came into effect, the Union Health Ministry said. India's cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage has reached 28.33 crore since January 16, it said. "Today's record-breaking vaccination numbers are gladdening. The vaccine remains our strongest weapon to fight Covid-19. Congratulations to those who got vaccinated and kudos to all the front-line warriors working hard to ensure so many citizens got the vaccine," Prime Minister Narendra Modi said. The previous single-day record was of over 48 lakh on April 1. In June so far, India saw an average vaccination of around 31 lakh per day. The average single-day vaccinations fell to as low as around 16 lakh in the first week of May when the country was at the peak of the second wave. Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Modi said that central government is beginning the 'Free Vaccination For All campaign' for every Indian from today. "The biggest beneficiary of this phase of India's vaccination drive shall be the poor, the middle class and the youth of the country. All of us should pledge to get ourselves vaccinated. Together we will defeat Covid-19," he said. According to the revised guidelines, vaccine doses provided free of cost by the Centre will be allocated to states and UTs based on criteria such as population, disease burden and the progress of vaccination, and all above the age of 18 will be eligible for the free jabs. Any wastage of vaccine will affect the allocation negatively, they said. The Centre will now procure 75 percent of the vaccines being produced by the manufacturers in the country. It had earlier allowed states and private hospitals to procure 50 percent of the vaccines following demands for decentralisation of the process. However, after several states complained of problems including of funding, Prime Minister Modi announced the revision of the vaccine guidelines on June 8. In order to incentivise production by vaccine manufacturers and encourage new vaccines, domestic vaccine manufacturers are given the option to also provide vaccines directly to private hospitals. This would be restricted to 25 percent of their monthly production, the new guidelines stated. Within the population group of citizens more than 18 years of age, states and UTs may decide their own prioritisation factoring in the vaccine supply schedule, the revised guidelines issued by the health ministry stated. The states and UTs would aggregate the demand of private hospitals keeping in view equitable distribution between large and small private hospitals and regional balance, they said. "Based on this aggregated demand, the Government of India will facilitate the supply of these vaccines to the private hospitals and their payment through the National Health Authority's electronic platform. This would enable the smaller and remoter private hospitals to obtain a timely supply of vaccines, and further equitable access and regional balance," the ministry said. The price of vaccine doses for private hospitals would be declared by each vaccine manufacturer, and any subsequent changes would be notified in advance. The private hospitals may charge up to a maximum of Rs150 per dose as service charges. State Governments may monitor the price being so charged, the guidelines said. All citizens irrespective of their income status are entitled to free vaccination. Those who have the ability to pay are encouraged to use private hospital's vaccination centres, the guidelines said. "To promote the spirit of 'Lok Kalyan' (public good), use of non-transferable Electronic Vouchers, which can be redeemed at private vaccination centers, will be encouraged. "This would enable people to financially support vaccination of Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) at private vaccination centres," the revised guidelines said. The COVID vaccination in the country commenced with the vaccination for all healthcare workers from January 16. The programme was expanded with time to include vaccination of frontline workers, citizens more than 60 years of age, citizens more than 45 years of age and eventually citizens more than 18 years of age. Under the National COVID Vaccination Program, from January 16 to April 30, 100 percent of vaccine doses were procured by the Government of India and provided free of cost to state governments. State Governments were, in turn, asked to administer vaccination free of cost to defined priority groups. To increase the pace of vaccination, participation of private hospitals was also enlisted where individuals could also choose to get vaccinated at a prescribed rate, the ministry said. In response to the suggestions of many state governments to be permitted the flexibility to procure vaccine directly and administer them as per their own prioritisation based on local requirements. From May 1, the Centre was procuring 50 percent of the vaccine produced and was continuing to provide them to states free of cost for administering to priority groups. The state government and private hospitals were now also empowered to directly procure from the remaining 50 percent vaccine pool. "Many states have, however, had communicated that they are facing difficulties in managing the funding, procurement and logistics of vaccines, impacting the pace of the National COVID Vaccination Program. "Also it was noted that smaller and remoter private hospitals were also facing constraints. "Keeping in view these aspects and the repeated requests received from states, the Guidelines for National COVID Vaccination Program were reviewed and revised and new guidelines were issued on June 8," the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-47
21-06-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi convenes party meet on June 24 ||Congress president Sonia Gandhi has convened a meeting of the party's general secretaries and state in-charges on June 24 to chalk out a strategy to plan protests against the government on issues such as the hike in petrol and diesel prices. In the meeting, which will be held virtually, party leaders will also discuss the current Covid and political situations. They will give their suggestions for taking on the government and reaching out to the people to highlight its failures, sources said. Besides the hike in fuel prices, the Congress will also plan protests against the government over high inflation, the pace of Covid vaccination and handling of the pandemic, they said. The economic situation of the country is also likely to figure during the discussions. The meeting comes ahead of the Monsoon Session of Parliament which is likely to start in July. The Congress has been also attacking the government on issues related to the farmers' agitation against three new agri laws. The Congress chief had been vocal about various issues in the past. In May, she had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure the assured supply of essential medicines for the treatment of mucormycosis (black fungus) and cost-free care to those affected. "I understand that Liposomal Amphotericin-B is absolutely essential for the treatment of Mucormycosis. However, there are reports of its acute scarcity in the market," the Congress chief wrote in the letter. In another letter, she entreated Narendra Modi to provide free education to children who had lost both parents or the earning guardian to Covid-19. “Amidst the devastation caused by the pandemic and the heart-wrenching tragedies being faced by affected families, news of young children losing one or both parents to Covid-19 are the most poignant. These children are left with the trauma of loss and no support towards a stable education or future." Sonia wrote to the Prime Minister||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-47
21-06-2021||India||Don't believe Third or Fourth Front can successfully challenge BJP, says Prashant Kishor ahead of Sharad Pawar's Opposition meet||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Monday met political strategist Prashant Kishor here and will host a meeting of leaders from several parties and eminent personalities on Tuesday to discuss the current scenario in the country, his party said and asserted that the Maratha strongman is working to unite the Opposition. The meeting held at Pawar's residence, which was their second this month, lasted for more than two hours and has further fuelled speculation that a Third Front could be in the works to take on the BJP. According to a NDTV report, Prashant Kishor has ruled out any association with an opposition front to take on the BJP in the next general election. "I don't believe in a third or fourth front... don't believe Third or Fourth Front can successfully challenge BJP," he told NDTV. Today's meeting came amid speculation about a plan for "Mission 2024" for opposition parties to take on the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance in the next national election. Kishor, who was instrumental in the Trinamool Congress' victory in the recent West Bengal assembly election, had a meeting with Pawar over lunch in Mumbai on June 11. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) spokesperson and minister in the Maharashtra government Nawab Malik in a series of tweets said Pawar will host a meeting of prominent political leaders as well as eminent persons at his residence in Delhi on Tuesday. The meeting has been called to discuss the current scenario in the country and it will be attended by National Conference leader and former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir Farooq Abdullah, TMC leader Yashwant Sinha, Sanjay Singh from AAP and D Raja from CPI, Malik said. Sanjay Jha, Pawan Verma and Sudheendra Kulkarni will also be present in the meeting, Malik said. "Pawar is working to unite all opposition leaders. Maybe, the meeting was to discuss it. The party's national executive meeting is also taking place in the national capital tomorrow," Malik said in Mumbai when asked about the NCP chief's meeting with Kishor. Yashwant Sinha later tweeted that Pawar is hosting a meeting of the 'Rashtra Manch', a political action group floated by the former BJP leader in 2018 that targeted the Modi government's policies. "We shall have a meeting of the Rashtra Manch tomorrow at 4 PM. Sri Sharad Pawar has kindly agreed to host the meeting at his place," he said. Besides politicians, eminent people from various fields such as senior advocate KTS Tulsi, former chief election commissioner SY Qureshi, former ambassador KC Singh, lyricist Javed Akhtar, film-maker Pritish Nandy, advocate Colin Gonsalves, filmaker Pritish Nandi and media personalities Karan Thapar and Ashutosh will attend Tuesday's meeting, Malik said. Kishor, who was part of the BJP's 2014 Lok Sabha campaign, later handled the campaign of several opposition parties like the TMC, AAP and the DMK.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-47
21-06-2021||India||Facebook, WhatsApp urge HC to stay CCI notice on Privacy policy ||Facebook and WhatsApp on Monday urged the Delhi High Court to stay the Competition Commission of India (CCI) notice asking them to furnish certain information in relation to a probe ordered by it into the instant messaging app's new privacy policy. A vacation bench of Justices Anup Jairam Bhambhani and Jasmeet Singh said it will pass an order on the application. During the hearing the bench said since it was sitting on a vacation bench, it did not want to delve into the merits of the matter even as the main petitions are pending before a bench headed by the Chief Justice. We will pass an order. The matter will be listed on July 9 (the date already fixed for the main petitions), the bench said. The case relates to the appeals of Facebook and WhatsApp against a single judge order dismissing their pleas against the probe CCI ordered into the instant messaging app's new privacy policy. The high court had earlier issued notices on the appeals and asked the Centre to respond to it. In their fresh applications filed in the pending appeals, Facebook and WhatsApp sought stay on the CCI's June 4 notice asking them to furnish certain information for the purpose of inquiry conducted by it. Senior advocate Harish Salve, representing WhatsApp, said the problem is that they have received a fresh notice on June 4 and the last date to respond is today, that is June 21. He said the privacy policy is already under challenge in the Supreme Court and the Delhi High Court by way of a batch of petitions and even the government is looking into it. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Facebook, said the question here is of propriety and it is not correct as the highest court of the country, that is, the Supreme Court is looking into the matter. Why did they wait for June 4 evening to issue the notice? They could have done it earlier, he said. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Aman Lekhi, representing CCI, opposed the pleas saying at the stage of inquiry furnishing of information will not lead to any order by the CCI and the notice is in pursuance to the inquiry which was not stayed by the high court and that this not the first notice issued to them. ASG Balbir Singh, also appearing for CCI, said since there is a statutory order against Facebook and WhatsApp, they should not use the high court's order and say that they will not furnish the information sought by CCI and the information should not be stalled at this stage. When the court asked what was the hurry of issuing notice by CCI, Lekhi said the question was not of hurry but the matter itself requires a lengthy process. He said till a report is submitted by the Director General to the CCI, there will be no precipitate action against them. The high court had on May 6 issued notice and sought reply of CCI on the appeals filed by Facebook and WhatsApp. The single judge on April 22 had said though it would have been "prudent" for the CCI to await the outcome of petitions in the Supreme Court and the Delhi High Court against WhatsApp's new privacy policy, not doing so would not make the regulator's order "perverse" or "wanting of jurisdiction". The court had said it saw no merit in the petitions of Facebook and WhatsApp to interdict the investigation directed by the CCI. The CCI had contended before the single judge that it was not examining the alleged violation of individuals' privacy which was being looked into by the Supreme Court. It had argued before the court that the new privacy policy of WhatsApp would lead to excessive data collection and "stalking" of consumers for targeted advertising to bring in more users and is therefore an alleged abuse of dominant position. "There is no question of jurisdictional error," it had contended saying that WhatsApp and Facebook's pleas challenging its decision were "incompetent and misconceived". WhatsApp and Facebook had challenged the CCI's March 24 order directing a probe into the new privacy policy. CCI had also told the court that only after the investigation can it be determined whether the data collection by WhatsApp and sharing it with Facebook would amount to an anti-competitive practice or abuse of dominant position. It had also contended that the data collected, which would include an individual's location, the kind of device used, their internet service provider and whom they are conversing with, would lead to creation of a customer profile and preference which would be monetised by way of targeted advertising and all this amounts to "stalking". The two social media platforms had contended that when the top court and the Delhi High Court were looking into the privacy policy, CCI ought not to have "jumped the gun" and intervened in the issue. They had also said that CCI's decision was an abuse of the commission's suo motu jurisdiction. They had claimed that the CCI in the instant case had "drifted far away" from the competition aspect and was looking into privacy issues which were already being looked into by the apex court and the Delhi High Court. In January, the CCI on its own decided to look into WhatsApp's new privacy policy on the basis of news reports regarding the same.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-47
21-06-2021||India||India to have 257 crore Covid vaccine doses by December, says Nadda||India will have 257 crore Covid vaccine doses by December to take up double dose vaccination of people in full swing, BJP national president JP Nadda said on Monday. He said this while visiting a vaccination centre at the RML hospital in the national capital. Nadda said 130 crore people of the country have come forward to take vaccines on the call of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, despite the opposition trying to mislead them and create obstructions. "Some leaders opposed vaccines saying they were not guinea pigs or mice. Those who doubted vaccines are now getting them. I want to ask such leaders if it was due to change in their mind, heart or soul," the BJP national president said. He lauded BJP workers for helping people during the pandemic, saying that while other parties went into quarantine or the ICU, party workers risked their lives to provide relief to the people on the ground. Nadda said BJP workers in all booths of the country were reaching out to people to ensure implementation of the prime minister's call for vaccination. He said that in India, the world's "largest and fastest" vaccination programme is going on and within 9 months the country produced two indigenous vaccines against Covid under the leadership of Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-48
21-06-2021||India||Prashant Kishor meets Sharad Pawar second time in two weeks||Poll strategist Prashant Kishor met with Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Sharad Pawar today for second time in two weeks amid buzz about preps for "Mission 2024" to fight Prime Minister Narendra Modi's BJP, according to a report from NDTV.com. The two met in Delhi days after their last meeting on June 11 at Sharad Pawar's Mumbai home. Their second meeting lasted half an hour, sources say, unlike the previous one that went on for three hours. Their discussions are seen to have a larger context related to the 2024 election and talk of a third front - minus the BJP or Congress - and a joint opposition candidate to challenge PM Modi. Many parties have indicated their willingness to join such a grouping, say sources. Kishor's client Mamata Banerjee, who won a third straight term in West Bengal after fighting off a difficult challenge from the BJP, was asked whether she saw herself as the opposition prime ministerial candidate. "I think all together, we can fight the battle for 2024. But let's fight Covid first," she had said soon after the verdict. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut had talked about the need for an alliance of opposition parties at the national level. Raut had said that he had spoken Sharad Pawar on this.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-48
21-06-2021||India||SC reserves verdict on Rs 4 lakh ex-gratia compensation to kin of Covid deceased||The Supreme Court Monday reserved verdict on the pleas seeking directions that ex-gratia compensation of Rs 4 lakh be paid to the families of those who have died of COVID-19. A special vacation bench comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan and M R Shah heard Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and senior advocate S B Upadhyay and other lawyers for almost two hours. The top court asked the parties to file written submissions in three days and specifically directed the Centre to simplify the process of grant of death certificates to the dependents of those who have died of COVID-19. The Centre had earlier told the apex court that the ex-gratia compensation of Rs 4 lakh cannot be paid to the families of those who have died of COVID-19 as the finances of state governments and the Centre are under severe strain. In an affidavit filed before the top court, the Ministry of Home Affairs said the Centre submitted that it has by ways of Minimum Standard Relief under section 12 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, taken several steps providing for substantial and speedy measures by way of, increase in the health, infrastructure, ensuring food safety to every citizen. Advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal, one of the petitioners in the matter, had argued that under section 12(iii) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, every family whose member died due to disaster is entitled for ex-gratia compensation of Rs 4,00,000. He had argued that since COVID-19 has been declared as a disaster and as per the order dated April 8, 2015, every family whose member dies due to disaster is entitled for ex-gratia compensation of Rs 4 lakh. The counsel, appearing for another petitioner Reepak Kansal, had argued that a large number of deaths were taking place due to COVID-19 and death certificates need to be issued, as only after that the affected family members can claim compensation under section 12 (iii) of the Act. In his plea, Kansal has said that states should be directed to fulfil their obligation to take care of victims of COVID-19 and also their family members.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-48
21-06-2021||India||Transcending Boundaries: Laxmi Narayan Tripathi on Championing Transgender Rights||Even though the Constitution of India contains the provision for a third gender, Indian society as a whole is yet to embrace the existence of transgenders, whether as a biological fact or as a part of our socio-cultural reality. To shed light on the struggle of transgenders and the need to sensitise Indian society on the same, Kalam Vishesh, an initiative of Prabha Khaitan Foundation, organised a virtual interaction with Acharya Mahamandaleshwar Laxmi Narayan Tripathi. A transgender rights activist who has worn many hats, Laxmi has been an author, actress, Bharatnatyam dancer, choreographer, and motivational speaker. In 2008, she became the first transgender individual to represent Asia Pacific at the United Nations. Featured in several documentaries over the years, Laxmi was also a part of the popular reality show Big Boss in 2011. Conversing with Laxmi on a range of issues affecting transgenders in India was Apra Kuchhal, Ehsaas Woman of Jaipur. Kuchhal kick-started the discussion by contextualising the fight for the recognition of transgenders: “This is a fight that has to be fought at three levels, first with the self, then with one’s loved ones, and finally with society...Laxmi is someone who has kept fighting this fight without bending or stopping at any stage.” Talking about how she did not consider herself a boy (the gender assigned to her at birth) while growing up, Laxmi recounted that “it was society that kept reminding me at every stage that I was different. I never felt I was different from society. I wanted to do normal things, live life normally, but people would not let me.” Shifting the discussion to her writing, Kuchhal asked Laxmi about the motivation behind the autobiographical book, Red Lipstick, which addresses the relationship Laxmi has shared with the most important men in her life, including her father. “My life has always been an open book, so I thought I might as well write a real book on it! I wanted to tell my story as it is, for I have done nothing wrong,” responded Laxmi. During the next part of the conversation, Laxmi brought up the nefarious impact of colonisation on the perception of transgenders in India. She argued how “the British, with their Victorian morality, could not understand the nuances of Indian lifestyle and culture. They were the ones who began the process of denigrating transgenders by spreading rumours about the community, such as how transgenders are prone to kidnapping children.” Concluding her thoughts on her journey, Laxmi recounted her mother’s advice: “My mother always told me that society can take away everything from you, but it cannot take away your character. For me, the most important tool of empowerment is to believe in oneself and to fight for one’s own dignity.” At the end of the interaction between Laxmi and Kuchhal, Laxmi fielded a number of questions from the audience, including how the title of Mahamandaleshwar has affected her identity and what she thinks is the biggest strength of the transgender movement in India. "Since I became Mahamandaleshwar, I have become more patient, more Indian in my outlook than Western, and I have started to comprehend myself better...to make sense of who I really am…. As for the transgender movement, we are the youngest civil rights movement in India and we have already accomplished a number of things. But there is still a long way to go, and I am confident we will achieve complete dignity and equality, for that is the belief that keeps us going, that is the belief that keeps us united,” emphasised Laxmi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-48
21-06-2021||India||Nation celebrates International Day of Yoga||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-48
21-06-2021||India||Centre to increase pace of Covid vaccination in July-August, says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday said the central government has decided to increase the pace of vaccination against COVID-19 in July and August. Talking to reporters after visiting a vaccination centre here, Shah said with Prime Minister Narendra Modi's decision to provide free vaccine against COVID-19 to people aged 18 and above, "we will fast achieve the goal of inoculating almost everyone". "The central government has decided to increase the pace of vaccination in July and August," he added. Shah said from Monday morning, an important journey has started in the fight against Covid-19 under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The PM had taken an important decision that the Centre will provide free of cost vaccination to those aged 18 and above, he said. In a country having such huge population, providing free vaccination is a big decision, he said. On the International Yoga Day on Monday, the drive of free vaccine for all is being launched across the country, Shah said, adding that India was already on top in the vaccination programme. "Now we will reach the target to vaccinate almost all very fast," he said. Shah is on a two-day visit to Ahmedabad from Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-48
21-06-2021||India||Daily Covid count in India lowest in 88 days||India logged 53,256 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 88 days, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 2,99,35,221, while the active cases further reduced to 7,02,887, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 3,88,135 with 1,422 fresh fatalities, the lowest in 65 days. The active cases now comprise 2.35 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.36 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A net decline of 26,356 cases has been recorded in the COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 13,88,699 tests were conducted on Sunday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 39,24,07,782. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 3.83 per cent . It has been less than 5 per cent for 14 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 3.32 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 39th consecutive day.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,88,44,199, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.30 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 28,0036,898 COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 1,422 new fatalities include 605 from Maharashtra, 182 from Tamil Nadu, 120 from Karnataka and 112 from Kerala. A total of 3,88,135 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,17,961 from Maharashtra, 33,885 from Karnataka, 31,197 from Tamil Nadu, 24,914 from Delhi, 22,178 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,348 from West Bengal, 15,826 from Punjab and 13,387 from Chhattisgarh. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-48
21-06-2021||India||Yoga remains a 'ray of hope' amid global fight against Covid, says Modi ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said yoga remains a "ray of hope" as the world fights the coronavirus pandemic and asserted that in these difficult times it has become a source of inner strength. Addressing the 7th International Yoga Day programme, Modi also said that in collaboration with the World Health Organization (WHO), India had taken another important step and now the world was going to get the power of M-Yoga application, which will have many videos of yoga training based on Common Yoga Protocol available in different languages of the world. “This will help us in making the 'One World, One Health' motto successful,” he said. "At a time when the whole world is fighting the coronavirus pandemic, yoga remains a ray of hope," Modi said. The prime minister noted that there may not have been any major public events in countries around the world and in India for around a year and a half, but the enthusiasm for Yoga Day has not diminished. For most of the countries of the world, Yoga Day is not their age-old cultural festival and in this difficult time, people could have forgotten about it and ignored it, but on the contrary, people's enthusiasm for yoga has increased, he said. "When the unseen coronavirus knocked on the doors of the world, no country was prepared for it in terms of resources, capability and mental state. We all have seen that in such difficult times, yoga has become a great source of inner strength," he said. Yoga shows us the way from stress to strength and from negativity to creativity, he asserted. Modi noted that the medical science focuses as much on "healing" as on treatment, and said yoga plays a role in healing. "Yoga not only focuses on physical health but also mental health. During Covid, several studies are going on, researching the benefits of yoga on our body and immunity. We see that yoga and breathing exercises are being done at the beginning of online classes. This is helping children in fighting the virus," PM Modi said. Many schools now begin their online classes with yogic exercises like pranayam, he said, adding that this prepares children physically to deal with Covid. The prime minister expressed confidence that yoga will continue playing its preventive, as well as promotive role in healthcare of masses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-48
21-06-2021||India||Congress prods Supreme Court, PM Modi on Ram temple land ||The Congress on Sunday questioned the silence of the Supreme Court and Prime Minister Narendra Modi after the Ram Mandir trust, which received donations from people across the country to build the temple in Ayodhya, was accused of having bought another plot of land at inflated rates. “The trust was constituted by the Prime Minister on the instructions of the Supreme Court. Shouldn’t the Supreme Court take note when the donations given by the people are looted by members of the RSS-BJP, under direct or indirect patronage of the central and state governments?” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala asked. “The Supreme Court should intervene if thousands of crore meant for construction of the temple is being eaten up by the thieves,” he said. Surjewala cited a report in the news portal Newslaundry on Saturday that alleged that a plot that was sold for Rs 20 lakh in February had been bought by the Ram Mandir trust for Rs 2.5 crore in May. Earlier, it has been alleged that the trust paid Rs 18.5 crore to buy another plot that had been purchased by the seller for Rs 2 crore just minutes earlier. Trustee Champat Rai has denied any wrongdoing in that deal. The Congress has sought a probe by the Supreme Court. Surjewala continued: “The question is whether the Supreme Court and the Prime Minister will do their duty or not. We leave it to their conscience. Both constitutional responsibility and morality demand their intervention. We are surprised the Chief Justice of India is silent even as the evidence of loot is absolutely clear. “And why is the Prime Minister not taking action against those who are looting the contributions made by devotees? The Prime Minister will definitely be judged by his action in this case.” The Congress has firmly rejected the charge by the RSS-BJP that it wanted to delay the construction of the temple by raising such issues, asking the government to respond on the specific point of swindling of funds instead of making wild allegations. The party sees questions like whether their leaders had contributed to the fund as attempts at diversion from the core concern about loot. Surjewala repeatedly used words like “sin” and “deceit” while saying that “chanda-chor” and “chanda-khor” hurt the religious sentiments of the devotees. “Why is the Prime Minister protecting those RSS-BJP leaders who are cheating the God? Even the trust chairman Mahant Nritya Gopaldas has condemned what happened and said he was not consulted on how the money is being spent. Even Sankaracharya Swamy Swaroopanand Saraswati has demanded a probe,” he said. Arguing that “hawks, masquerading as devotees, have an evil design to loot the donations made by devotees” Surjewala said: “We saw how a piece of land purchased for Rs 2 crore was sold for Rs 18.50 crore within five minutes. Now another case involving BJP leaders has come to light.” Surjewala then repeated details of the deal cited in the Newslaundry report. He said Deep Narayan, a relative of Ayodhya mayor Rishikesh Upadhyaya, had bought a plot in Ayodhya for Rs 20 lakh in February and sold it to the Ram Mandir trust for Rs 2.5 crore in May. Upadhyaya, when contacted by Newslaundry, had neither denied nor confirmed that Narayan was a relative. He described the allegations as politically motivated and said the transactions were clean, but added that only the trust or Narayan could comment on the deal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-48
21-06-2021||India||Chirag Paswan announces Bihar roadshow||Chirag Paswan on Sunday announced a roadshow in Bihar next month, seeking to demonstrate mass support and claim control of the Lok Janshakti Party after being pushed into a corner by his uncle. Chirag held a meeting of party office bearers here on Sunday and claimed 90 per cent of the working committee members of the LJP were with him. Early this week, Chirag had been taken by surprise when four of the six MPs of the LJP elected his uncle Pasupati Paras as the party’s leader in the Lok Sabha, displacing him. The rebels later elected his uncle the president of the LJP. After the meeting on Sunday, Chirag told reporters he would hold the roadshow across Bihar in July to mark the birth anniversary of his late father Ram Vilas Paswan, who was the party’s founder and a Dalit leader. The meeting also decided to demand  Bharat Ratna for Ram Vilas. “My father’s birth anniversary falls on July 5.… So, we have decided to launch an Aashirvad Yatra from July 5 from Hajipur,” Chirag told reporters. Hajipur is the Lok Sabha constituency that Ram Vilas had represented many times. Chirag appears to be planning the roadshow and the demand for Bharat Ratna for his father to not only assert his claim over the party formed by his father but also to send a message to the BJP to not back his uncle. He has already petitioned Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to recant his decision of declaring Paras as leader of the LJP and is also gearing up for a legal battle to claim the party formed by his father. The rebellion by the uncle is widely seen to have been pushed by Bihar chief minister and JDU boss Nitish Kumar. It is being seen as a hit-back for Chirag’s move to contest separately in the October-November Bihar polls and harm the JDU. The BJP so far has maintained silence over the developments in the LJP. Chirag now wants to prove that he carries the legacy of his father and so he can’t be ignored.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-48
21-06-2021||India||Bihar panchayat polls: State govt asks EC to make vaccination mandatory for candidates||The Bihar government has petitioned the state election commission to make Covid vaccination mandatory for people who want to contest the upcoming panchayat polls in the state. The request is being seen as an attempt to boost the state’s vaccination drive, which is lagging because of hesitancy and resistance from people, especially in the rural areas, and to check the spread of the infection during the elections. “Those who want to contest the polls but are not getting vaccinated should stay at home instead of moving around campaigning and spreading the coronavirus,” Bihar panchayati raj minister Samrat Choudhary told The Telegraph. Asked whether making vaccination mandatory for poll contestants might fall foul of the Constitution, state election commission (SEC) secretary Yogendra Ram said he hadn’t seen the government letter but indicated such a demand might be accepted in the public interest. “We don’t want a repeat of Uttar Pradesh here,” he said, referring to the April panchayat polls in the heartland state where not just contestants and voters but over 1,600 schoolteachers assigned poll duty are believed to have died of Covid. The Bihar panchayat elections, which were to be held by June 15, have been postponed because of the pandemic and a delay in procuring electronic voting machines. But with the Covid second wave waning, Yogendra indicated the polls could be held after the rains. Samrat said: “I formally requested the SEC on Saturday not to permit non-vaccinated people to contest the panchayat elections. The Disaster Management Act is in force and everybody should cooperate.” He added: “Around 25 lakh people are expected to contest the polls. These are people considered aware about the situation. They will travel house to house and hold small meetings canvassing votes. If they don’t take the vaccine, what will the others learn from them? They need to conform to the government’s policies while running the local self-government.” Told about possible constitutional difficulties and reminded that the central and state governments had not made vaccination compulsory for everybody, the minister defended his stand. “Making a demand is not banned under the Constitution. It’s up to the SEC to accept or reject it. Everybody should do their bit to tackle the disease,” he said. Yogendra said: “We’ll have to first see the letter. Even if the demand is for mandatory Covid vaccination for the candidates, we might accept it in the interest of public safety.” He added: “We have the example of Uttar Pradesh which suffered high casualties when the panchayat elections were held during the pandemic. Many candidates too died of the virus. We don’t want it to happen in our state.” Yogendra appealed to all voters to take the vaccine shots. “The monsoon season has begun, so the panchayat polls will be held after it. We appeal to all the voters to take the Covid vaccine,” he said. The panchayat polls will involve 8,386 panchayats, block samitis and zilla parishads across the state, covering 2.59 lakh posts in six categories: mukhiya (panchayat headman or chief), ward members, sarpanch (village court head), panch (village court member), and others at the block and district levels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-49
21-06-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir parties likely to accept Centre’s offer of talks||Jammu and Kashmir’s political parties are likely to accept the Centre’s offer of talks, where they might reaffirm their call for restoration of special status, but a formal decision is expected only by Tuesday. Fourteen leaders from key parties here have been invited to an all-party meeting on Kashmir that Prime Minister Narendra Modi plans to hold in Delhi on Thursday, marking the Centre’s first outreach to the Valley’s mainstream parties since the dilution of Article 370 on August 5, 2019. The Valley parties see the offer as an admission on the Centre’s part of its failure to provide a political alternative in Kashmir, or even to restore a semblance of normalcy. The constituents of the five-party alliance that includes the National Conference and the People’s Democratic Party have held intra-party discussions on the Centre’s offer. The alliance will meet on Tuesday to take a formal decision. Speculation is rife that the Centre wants to offer the restoration of statehood and discuss the redrawing of constituencies and an Assembly election. It’s not clear how willing the Valley parties would be to soften their stand on restoration of the special status and agree to participate in elections. The National Conference meeting was chaired by its president Farooq Abdullah, while Mehbooba Mufti presided over the PDP meeting. Sources in both parties said there was near-consensus on accepting the offer and using the meeting to renew the call for restoration of the special status. Akbar Lone, National Conference MP from Baramulla, said his party had decided to attend the Delhi meeting but the party’s provincial president, Nasir Sogami, said a decision would be announced only after further consultations. Hasnain Masoodi, National Conference MP from Anantnag, told The Telegraph the party favoured dialogue. “But we are part of the alliance and (have to abide by) whatever consensus emerges during Tuesday’s alliance meeting,” the former high court judge added. “Our meeting under Farooq Sahab’s leadership lasted two-and-a-half hours, during which more than a dozen leaders expressed their opinion. We believe that restoration of the August 4 (2019) status should be the starting point for further consultations. Our stand remains that Articles 370 and 35A should be restored.” Both articles gave certain special rights and privileges to Jammu and Kashmir and its permanent residents. PDP chief spokesperson Suhail Bukhari said his party had at Sunday’s meeting authorised Mehbooba to take the decision on participating in Thursday’s talks. A PDP source said the party’s leaders were in favour of the talks. “There were differences on whether we should separately put forward our demands before the Prime Minister or as part of the alliance,” he said. “We are meeting other constituents of the alliance and will see what emerges there. Since there is no fixed agenda for the talks with the Prime Minister, we will be free to air our views. We are clear that Article 370 has to be restored fully.” The source said Mehbooba had told the meeting that the Centre’s agenda seemed to be to complete the ongoing delimitation exercise that will carve out more constituencies, possibly in Hindu-majority Jammu, and hold Assembly elections. “But she said this was not our agenda, which remains the full restoration of Article 370. She said Delhi should have taken some confidence-building measures before announcing the meeting,” the source said. PDP sources said they could not afford to snub Modi, implying the meeting was a compulsion too. The Centre has cracked down on the pro-India politicians over the past two years, arresting former ministers including chief ministers, and former legislators. Most of them have been released but many continue to be chased by the central agencies. On Saturday, the government released Mehbooba’s uncle and senior PDP leader Sartaj Madni, which was seen as a confidence-building measure. On Sunday, Mehbooba’s key aide Waheed Para, booked in a militancy case, was shifted to Srinagar’s central jail from a Jammu jail where he had been transferred just two days ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-49
21-06-2021||India||Covid: Father’s Day gift for Odisha orphaned children||On the Father’ Day, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik acted like a father and launched a scheme named “Ashirbad” for children orphaned by the Covid pandemic. Under the scheme, these children  will get a monthly assistance from the government. According to the announcement on Sunday, children who have lost both their parents or single parent are entitled to get Rs 2,500 per month and those who  lost  one of their sole earning parents are entitled to get Rs 1,500 per month under the scheme. The amount will be directly credited to the accounts of the guardians of the children till they attain the age of 18. However, the government will not give any kind of financial assistance if the child is adopted by someone. “Children who lost their parents due to Covid on or after April 1, 2020 will be covered under the scheme,” said a press release issued by the chief minister’s office. The government has announced to extend health services and food security for the children under the Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana and state food security scheme.  In order to ensure that orphaned children get the best possible education, the Odisha government has announced that they would be given seats in Odisha Adarsha Vidyalaya, Central schools and other reputed schools. “Under the Green Passage scheme, the state will also bear the educational expenses for their higher studies,” said the press release. In order to encourage the guardian to look after the orphaned children,  the chief minister also announced that people who  take care of the children and are eligible to get houses will be given houses under Pradhan Mantri Yojana and Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana on a priority basis. “For children residing in child care institutions, government will deposit Rs 1,000 in their respective bank accounts till they attain the age of 18 years,” the press release said. Similarly surviving mothers of such children, if eligible, will be covered under Madhu Babu pension scheme (social security scheme). To ensure that children are not being exploited, the district child protection units, childline, block and panchayat level committee and frontline workers will be in touch with their guardians. Sources said the government decided to launch the scheme after terrifying stories of children losing their parents came to its notice. One such was the story of Krishna from Balasore. At the tender age of seven, Krishna is saddled with the responsibility of looking after her two month-old baby brother. Krishna’s world turned upside down within a span of just two months that saw both her parents succumbing to Covid-19. Her father, Kamlesh  Panda was an employee of the East Coast Railways and her mother Smita  a staff nurse at  Acharya  Harihar Regional Cancer Centre, Cuttack.  Her pregnant mother was rushed to the hospital where she delivered a baby boy on April 15. She had tested Covid positive but the boy was healthy and tested negative. She passed away on May 2. Later Kamlesh was found positive and admitted to the hospital. After spending 15 days there he, too, passed away on June 9.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-49
21-06-2021||India||Odisha doctor to ensure fitness of Tokyo-bound hockey team ||Dr Sudeep Satpathy (physiology and sports medicine), professor of Kalinga Institute of Medical Sciences, is a much elated man after being nominated as the doctor of the Tokyo-bound Indian men’s Olympic hockey Squad. He has the onerous job to ensure that the players remain fit and give their best during the matches without any health issues. “The team is practicing in Bangalore. I am going to join the team soon. I do have a big responsibility. As per the Japanese government’s direction, the Indian team along with 11 other countries have to report to Tokyo at least seven days ahead of the Olympic. As the Olympics begin from July 23, we are likely to leave India by July 17-18,” Satpathy told The Telegraph. Stating that the Covid pandemic has thrown a new challenge for the doctors, Satpathy said: “The players are not used to going for tests always. We have to ensure that the players go for the Covid test and other tests regularly without a single miss. They will remain in a bio bubble. No one will be allowed to go outside the bio-bubble created for a specific purpose. We did it in the Indian senior men’s hockey team tour for Argentina from April 1 to April 15 for two games of FIH pro league and four practice games in build up for Tokyo Olympics. We will repeat again basing on the international Covid code.” Dr Satpathy, who holds a diploma in sports medicine from the International Olympic Committee (IOC) said, “The job of a doctor now is three fold. He will have the responsibility of regular treatment, see no one is victim to any kind of dope testing and there  is an issue of infection. Other people including physiotherapists are there to support the team.” Satpathy was a doping control officer in the medical delegation for Asian Federation Cup (AFC) championship league 2020, Doha, Qatar. Stating that hockey is a very fast-paced game, Satpathy said: “We need to be very careful about the health of the individual players. We have noticed how football players die because of sudden cardiac arrest. For this purpose, we build specific emergency plans. The health plan is individual specific and not team specific. We need to be careful from their diet to sleep. Everything will be monitored and not a single deviation will be allowed.” He said: “The sports and exercise medicine field is a niche field where all the potential as a doctor and a scientist is involved. We study and look at athletes (Man as a Machine) and help them in preventing injuries and improvement of performance. It involves a lot of dedication and care and the motivation to be a help to the athletes. It’s a whole world of knowing the human body better and taking the advantages of learning in practice. We are there for the safety and health of athletes so that they can utilise their potential and skill to the maximum.” He also has a note of praise for the Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology (KIIT Deemed University) and Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences (KISS) founder Prof Achyuta Samant. “Prof Samant continues to encourage and I am indebted to him,” Satpathy said. Satpathy, who did his MBBS from VSS Medical College Burla and MD from SCB Medical College, Cuttack had worked as sports medicine doctor in Rio Olympics polyclinic at the Olympic village in 2016 and also as team doctor for the Kerala Blasters in 2015.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-49
21-06-2021||India||Covid: Can't pay Rs 4 lakh ex-gratia to families of dead, Centre tells SC||The Centre has told the Supreme Court the cash-strapped Union and state governments cannot pay Rs 4 lakh in ex-gratia compensation to the families of dead Covid patients, as sought by petitioners who have cited the Disaster Management Act and a six-year-old government order. “It may also be noted that the term ‘ex-gratia’ itself connotes that the amount is not based on legal entitlement,” an affidavit placed before the apex court by the Union home ministry says. It asks the court not to “second guess” or “substitute its own judgement for the decision to be taken by the executive” on relief, saying the DM Act, 2005, leaves such matters to the “national authority”. The affidavit adds that the government has provided the “minimum standard relief” mandated by the DM Act by improving the health infrastructure and ensuring food safety for every citizen. It describes the idea that help can be provided only through ex-gratia assistance as “a rather pedantic and narrow approach”. “The prayer of the petitioner for payment of ex-gratia to all deceased persons due to Covid-19 is beyond the fiscal affordability of the state governments,” the affidavit says. “Already the finances of state governments and the central government are under severe strain due to the reduction in tax revenues and increase in health expenses on account of the pandemic. “Thus, utilisation of scarce resources for giving ex-gratia may have unfortunate consequences of affecting the pandemic response and health expenditure in other aspects and hence cause more damage than good.” Section 12 of the DM Act says it’s the “national authority” that is empowered to recommend guidelines for the minimum standards of relief, including ex-gratia assistance, the affidavit says. “It is well settled through numerous judgments of the Supreme Court that this is a matter which should be performed by the authority to whom it has been entrusted and not one where the court will substitute its own judgement for the decision to be taken by the executive,” the Centre has argued. The Centre said: “Any attempt to second guess may create unintended and unfortunate constitutional and administrative ramifications.” In contrast to the “narrow approach” of ex-gratia assistance, the Centre has recommended “a broader approach, which involves health interventions, social protection and economic recovery for the affected communities” as “more prudent, responsible and sustainable”. “Globally, the governments in other countries too have followed this approach, and have announced interventions that provide fiscal stimulus. Government of India has followed a similar approach,” the affidavit says. The apex court is hearing two petitions, one seeking directions to the Centre and the states to provide Rs 4 lakh in compensation to the families of dead Covid patients and the other seeking a uniform policy on Covid death certificates. Many have complained that the death certificates of Covid patients often mention other conditions as the cause of death, preventing their families from claiming compensation. Advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal, one of the petitioners, had argued that under Section 12(iii) of the DM Act, every family that loses a member to a disaster is entitled to an ex-gratia compensation of Rs 4 lakh. He said the Centre had notified this on April 8, 2015. Since Covid has been declared a disaster, he said, families losing members to the virus are entitled to this compensation. On May 24, the top court had sought the Centre’s reply on both petitions and asked it to furnish the Indian Council of Medical Research guidlines on the death certificates for Covid patients. On June 11, the Centre had told the top court the issues raised in the petitions were “genuine” and the government was considering them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-49
21-06-2021||India||Life after Covid took one parent||When schoolteacher Dimple Arora died of Covid in April, she left husband Vijay Jagga with not just a sense of loss but deep anxiety over the future of their child. Jagga, 45, is worried how to afford the education of daughter Niharika, a Class XI student who aspires to be a doctor, and save their house from being auctioned off by their bank. Dimple, who taught at the Kendriya Vidyalaya Pragati Vihar here, had bought the Faridabad house with a loan from the State Bank of India. Her death stopped her salary, leading to EMI default. The bank has frozen her salary account and initiated the process of seizing the house. Vijay had lost his job with a private firm during last year’s March-May national lockdown and is yet to find another. Dimple, who wanted Niharika to become a doctor, had got her admitted to a private coaching institute against a quarterly fee of Rs 25,000, paying which has become a challenge for her husband. Vijay will not receive any family pension or death gratuity. Dimple had been recruited in 2007 after the Centre had abolished the traditional pension scheme and brought in the National Pension Scheme (NPS) without family pension or gratuity. Vijay will only receive what Dimple and her employer contributed under the NPS. “Every single day, the burden is increasing on us. I have borrowed from relatives. I have visited the school four times to have my NPS dues processed. I’m worried about my daughter’s education,” he said. Vijay and Niharika will get no help from the central government, either. “The Centre has announced help only for children who have lost both parents to Covid. But my wife was the sole earning member and her death has left us devastated in every sense,” Vijay said. “The government should think of helping all the children who have lost a parent, and even those whose parents have lost their jobs.” It’s a demand being echoed by child rights activists who say that children orphaned by Covid make up a small fraction of children rendered extremely vulnerable by the pandemic, and the government’s scheme therefore leaves thousands of such children in the lurch. Several state governments too have announced help — again, only for children orphaned by Covid. As for Vijay, he did not receive any ex gratia from the KV Sangathan, either. He is unsure if he would get any job on compassionate grounds because the list of aspirants is long and the backlog stretches back years. On May 29, the Centre announced a corpus of Rs 10 lakh from the PM-Cares fund for each child who has lost both parents to Covid. The money will be available only when the children turn 18. For five years after turning an adult, the child will receive a monthly payment towards higher education and then the balance as a lump sum at the age of 23. Those orphaned by Covid and aged below 11 years have been offered admission to a Kendriya Vidyalaya or a private school. The government will bear the expenses on tuition, uniforms, textbooks and notebooks. But if the child has to shift from a village to a town for KVS admission, the government will not pay for lodgings or food. Those aged 11 to 18 years have been offered seats at central government-run residential schools where hostel and mess charges will be waived too. For higher studies, the children will receive scholarships or subsidised education loans. They will be covered under government health insurance. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) told the Supreme Court on June 6 that 3,621 children had been orphaned by Covid while 26,176 had lost one parent between April 1 and June 5 this year. The NCPCR added that 274 children had been “abandoned” by parents impoverished by the pandemic. Figures for the entire pandemic period from March last year could not be obtained from any authority. Enakshi Ganguly, child rights activist and co-founder of HAQ: Centre for Child Rights, said the central and state governments’ schemes for children orphaned by Covid might draw public attention and create an impression of the authorities being proactive, but they left out the vast majority of Covid-hit children. “Many children have been orphaned but many more have lost one parent, who may have been the sole breadwinner for the family. According to the NCPCR, many children have also been abandoned. They really need to be supported by the State,” she said. “By announcing help for the orphans, the government has gone for the lowest-hanging fruit to create hype. It has ignored a much larger segment of vulnerable children who are staring at a bleak future.” Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab have announced monthly allowance schemes for children orphaned by Covid. Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh have announced fixed deposits that can be withdrawn after the child turns 18; while Maharashtra, Kerala and Karnataka have announced both a monthly allowance and a deposit. Ganguly also cited problems with the implementation of the government scheme because of the requirement for documentation. For instance, the child must furnish an RT-PCR test report of the dead parent, or the parent’s name must figure in the government’s record of Covid deaths. “During these abnormal times, the procedure should be smooth and simple,” Ganguly said. “Without proper coordination and guidance, there will be confusion and the children will fall through the cracks.” An email sent to the women and child development ministry on June 1 seeking its reaction to the calls for government support for all children who have lost one parent to Covid or been left vulnerable for other reasons has remained unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-49
21-06-2021||India||Nigerian dead after ‘rescue’ in Ghaziabad||A 30-year-old Nigerian died in hospital after being found bedridden and malnourished by police in a home in Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad, which for practical purposes is considered as a Delhi suburb. A Nigerian activist in the capital identified the deceased as auto parts dealer Michael Emenike Madueke, and alleged that he was confined and starved by his landlord for the past eight months for not paying rent. The police said they had not yet found evidence to back up  the charge. No external injuries were found by a doctor who first attended to him. An officer from Nandgram police station told this paper that they received a call on the emergency number 112 on Saturday afternoon. “He was living with the family of one Rahul in this flat for three months. The door was not locked when we arrived… His friend Charles Kennedy of Greater Noida and a few other Nigerians were present, and he took him to hospital with our assistance. There is no FIR.” The Nigerian Citizens Welfare Association, a group of expats headed by Kennedy, recorded videos of the “rescue” at the apartment. The video shows Michael’s skin sticking to his shoulder bones. He is heard saying: “He wants more  money everyday.” A man in the house is seen telling police in Hindi:  “We fed him, what else do you want? Talk to his friend Rahul Chauhan.” A woman is heard crying and saying: “Hamne kuchh nahi kiya (We did  not do anything).” The officer added: “Michael did not show us his passport or its soft copy. He said that it has gone for renewal…. Rahul is at fault as he did not inform police that he sheltered a foreign national. The local intelligence unit (of  Ghaziabad police) is verifying his passport and these other details… Rahul is also a tenant.” The officer said it needed to be verified if he was in hiding as his passport had expired. Kennedy said the  passport might have been “held as ransom”. Rajeev Tyagi, medical director of Ghaziabad’s Apex Multi Specialty Hospital, attended to Michael first. Tyagi told The Telegraph that Michael’s breathing was laboured, his oxygen saturation was 79 and pulse, 44. The normal values are above 94 and 60 to 100, respectively. “He was unable to move both legs properly. He was not even able to move himself from the stretcher to the bed…. It seemed like a neurological disorder such as GuillainBarré syndrome (in which the immune system mistakenly attacks nerves located outside  the brain and spinal cord). He needed a CT scan or MRI…. He was having edema (fluid retention) in his legs and looking quite malnourished. Either he was not eating properly or not taking a balanced diet. I asked Michael when he had his last meal. He replied that last night he had chicken and rice,” Tyagi said. Asked, the doctor said: “There was no sign of assault. Neither did he (Michael) talk of anything like that.” Tyagi says that he recommended that he be moved to a more advanced hospital with equipment to treat neurological disorders. “Charles said that his family is in Mehrauli (south Delhi), and he should be referred to Medics Clinic over there. I  said that he is not in a position to be treated in a clinic and he needs a super specialty hospital. He said that if the clinic recommends, then Michael could be moved to AIIMS or Safdarjung (Hospital)… We arranged an ambulance with oxygen. The driver told me that the patient had a cardiac arrest after 15 minutes after reaching after reaching Medics Clinic and expired…. Somebody from Medics Clinic told to shift him to AIIMS mortuary. Two (UP) policemen were in the ambulance,” Tyagi added. The report from the emergency department of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences recorded “MICHEAL” (sic) a 30 years old male, ‘BROUGHT DEAD, PENDING INVESTIGATION” at 8.08 pm. No response was received from a phone number given by Kennedy who said it belonged to Rahul, with  whom Michael was staying. Kennedy said Michael’s family in Nigeria had sent Rs 42,000 in two instalments to Rahul. It is not clear how much Michael owed Rahul. “We have not filed a formal police complaint yet as we are waiting for what his family and the Nigerian High Commission tell us,” Kennedy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-49
21-06-2021||West Bengal||Situation due to post-poll violence in Bengal alarming and worrisome: Jagdeep Dhankhar||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar Monday called the situation arising out of the alleged post-poll violence in the state as "alarming and worrisome" and questioned Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for her "ostrich-like" stance on the issue. Dhankhar, who embarked on a week-long visit to North Bengal earlier in the day, slammed the state government for how it dealt with complaints of violence following the assembly elections. "I am worried about the post-poll violence happening in West Bengal after May 2. This is unacceptable. The situation in the state is alarming and worrisome. This kind of violence has put a question mark on the democratic setup. "Even after so many weeks, the state government is in denial mode. Why is the chief minister silent on this issue? The ostrich-like stance of the state administration is not acceptable," he said. The ruling Trinamool Congress, however, dubbed the allegations as baseless and his visit a "publicity stunt". Dhankhar claimed that the country has never witnessed such post-poll violence since Independence. "Elections were held in four states and a union territory. But, violence is taking place only in Bengal," he said. Dhankhar also took a dig at Banerjee for her confrontational approach, which he said was meaningless. "Confrontation with the Centre, the governor and all other constitutional bodies won't serve any purpose. This approach has to be shunned." Meanwhile, Dhankhar was shown black flags by TMC supporters on his way to Kurseong in the Darjeeling hills. "We are opposed to his visit. He has been maligning our state since the day he assumed office," one of the supporters said. TMC deputy leader in Rajya Sabha Sukhedu Sekhar Roy said: "He is free to go anywhere, but he should have taken the state government into confidence. This visit is nothing but a desperate attempt to be in the news, a sort of publicity stunt." Kunal Ghosh, the party's state general secretary rubbished the allegations of post-poll violence made by Dhankhar. "Political violence took place when the Election Commission was in charge of the polls. After the TMC government took over, the state administration initiated measures to contain it. The governor is behaving like a spokesperson of a political party," he said. The West Bengal BJP unit came out in support of Dhankhar and said he had exposed the truth. "The TMC is angry with him as the governor has uncovered the lawlessness in the state... And, he has every right to visit any part of the state," BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said. Dhankhar was on a four-day visit to New Delhi last week, where he met Union Home Minister Amit Shah twice and apprised him about the law and order situation in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-18
21-06-2021||West Bengal||Nusrat Jahan, the spotlight never leaves her||The spotlight was all that Nusrat Jahan craved for. Much before she became an actress, even before she knew she would take to films, Nusrat knew she wanted the spotlight. Now, 10 years in Bengal’s film industry, she has single-mindedly pursued her object of desire. The spotlight never leaves Nusrat. On Sunday, she shared a picture of herself with her baby bump on Instagram, with the comment “kindness changes everything”. The photograph got 1,19,183 likes till Monday morning. This was the second picture of herself since a photograph that revealed her pregnancy made it to the internet more than a week ago. The pregnancy raised eyebrows as she is yet to disclose the father’s identity. Her husband, she says is not her husband and the two were only living together for some part of 2019 and 2020. The “Turkish wedded” husband, Nikhil Jain, has denied being a part of her pregnancy plans. “I won’t be remembered as a woman who can keep her mouth shut and I’m OK with that,” Nusrat wrote on her Instagram account on June 9. Yet, she hasn’t been the one talking. She is speaking through her Instagram posts and stories which are updated regularly, and these make it to news portals in Calcutta and the rest of the country. She has 2.5 million followers on Instagram and over 83,000 followers on Twitter. She is careful how she uses her social media. Instagram is for her star persona, while she uses Twitter for her views on Mamata Banerjee, Bengal, BJP and all things politics, mostly. Even those who may not have seen a single film of hers, know she has denied her marriage, is pregnant out of wedlock. An actress, a member of the Indian Parliament, coming from a Muslim family and flaunting her out-of-wedlock pregnancy, is unheard of. A Nusrat Jahan is unheard of in Indian public life. Nusrat is a trailblazer. She is the first actor coming from a Muslim family in progressive Calcutta’s mainstream Bengali cinema. And not just any actor, a popular female lead. Unlike the Hindi film industry or other regional languages, the leading men and women in the films from progressive, liberal Calcutta have been unapologetically Hindus. The producers of her first film had considered a change of name but she had put her foot down and insisted on being launched as she was known all her life, Nusrat Jahan, born January 8, 1990. She takes pride in not having any identity crisis and, also, being the first Muslim girl to act in Bengali films from this side of the border. This month Nusrat turned a decade old in films. Her first film, Shatru, was released on June 3, 2011. A website that monitors box office collection of Bengali films, describes her last release, Dictionary, as a disaster. Whether she has a release or not, Nusrat has been counted among the top actresses in commercial Bengali films. Very often the ratings have moved back and forth between her and her close-friend and Trinamul Congress colleague, Mimi Chakraborty. The success of a film has little to do with her popularity. Rather, social media fuels the battery of fame and popularity which Nusrat has ensured stays her way. Those familiar with the machinations of the commercial film industry in Calcutta, say the male gaze in Bengal, cutting across age and urban-rural barriers, usually rests on Nusrat, occasionally drifting elsewhere but returning to her ultimately. Nusrat makes sure the gaze does not drift too far away from her. Nusrat is not bothered with what people say about her. Like the Muslim clerics who criticised her for using Hindu marriage symbols or playing the dhaak during Durga Puja, or the trolls from the BJP who scoffed at her for attending Parliament in a pair of pants and peplum zipped top. Nusrat stays focussed on what is to be done. During the lockdown, she kept herself busy with setting up a Covid safe home, tweeting against the BJP and giving a peep show into her life. In 2001, former councilwoman for Taipei City Chu Mei-feng, when caught on camera having sex with a married lover, had said, “It may not work for politics, but it sure works for entertainment.” In the post-Covid world of work-from-home, Nusrat’s updates on her personal life is wholesome entertainment, a reality show available to anyone and everyone empowered with a device and internet connectivity. And here Nusrat decides what and how much she is going to reveal about herself. When Chu Mei-feng’s fall from grace happened, Nusrat was still in school. It took her another 10 years to win a beauty pageant in the city and then bag her first film opposite Jeet, her senior in Bhowanipur College from where she earned her B.Com honours degree. The film was a hit and Nusrat stayed on. She had decided that the arc lights in the decrepit studios of Calcutta would take her to her coveted goal. Always ahead of the pack A look at the go-to place for all things movies, the Internet Movie Database, or IMDb, throws up seven other Nusrat Jahans: six actors and a singer. All of them are from Bangladesh. Nusrat Jahan Papia, Nusrat Jahan Nushu, Nusrat Jahan Khan Nipa, Nusrat Jahan Titly, Nusrat Jahan Nodi, Nusrat Jahan Marin and Nusrat Jahan Era, a singer. But the name of Nusrat Jahan of Calcutta tops the search results. She has more films, more fame among the other Nusrat Jahans of the world. Nusrat also has a third name, Ruhi, which is missing from her film credits and, therefore, the IMDb website. On her Twitter handle, she gives her full name as Nusrat Jahan Ruhi. It is the same name in the Lok Sabha website of which she is a member, an elected representative. She achieved all this before she turned 30. It wasn’t easy for her. Nusrat might have lost her way in films when her name got dragged into the infamous Park Street gangrape case of February 2012. She was dating the main accused in the case and was alleged to have facilitated his escape from Calcutta. The Calcutta Police did not have too many questions for her, and her name did not appear in the chargesheet. Nusrat came out unsmeared. The incident fuelled curiosity on who this young woman was. Her success in commercial films endeared her to the biggest production house in the city, where she did a mix of films with commercial and critically acclaimed filmmakers, acting opposite the biggest stars in Bengali films of the last decade. That journey was short-lived yet eventful. This was also the same time when she was rumoured to have had an affair with the co-owner of the company, Shrikant Mohta. But Nusrat has always denied it. Calling the shots Nusrat’s best run came in the year 2017 when she did six films for the Mohta co-owned company. During those days, even when she was not in front of the camera, she used to call the shots on marketing and PR. She made it a point not to upset the directors or interfere in the shooting process. Her concern was her image and how it got projected with every film, how she was billed. “The staff there would wonder why instead of Mohta or his partner Mahendra Soni, an actress was taking decisions (on a film’s marketing),” said an acquaintance. Following Mohta’s arrest for his alleged involvement in the Saradha scam in January 2019, Nusrat found herself out of favour, and almost overnight found herself replaced by Mimi. One of her films got shelved the night before the muhurat. Nusrat had just finished the last round of script-reading. The road could have ended for Nusrat right there. But it didn’t. Within two months, Mamata Banerjee declared Nusrat as her party’s nominee for the Basirhat Lok Sabha seat which was quickly followed by her Turkish wedding and the Lok Sabha swearing-in. Despite being without any films that year, Nusrat was busier than before. Her status had climbed several notches with her poll victory. Unlike actors of yesteryear who made the crossover to politics only after they were past their tinsel glory, Nusrat embraced politics while she was still at the top of her game. In terms of popularity, if not her merits and demerits as an actor, she still has many more years of films left for her. Although there were rumours and questions about her interference during her days with Mohta’s company there never was any bad blood between the employees and Nusrat. “She does not raise her voice, misbehave with the staff,” said someone who has seen her at work from a distance. Always polite, well-meaning That is also one quality that has endeared her to the media. Nusrat is always polite with journalists, never refuses to speak and when she does speak, she is never rude. In the party that she threw to celebrate her Turkish wedding in 2019, Nusrat had invited even ex-journalists. For the purpose of this article, many of her directors, co-actors and even close friends turned down requests to talk about her. Some said a direct “no”, while many others thought it prudent not to respond at all. Those who spoke had only good things to say about her. “She is always very good to work with. Never shows any attitude, no starry tantrums. In that sense she is just like she was 10 years ago,” said Abhishek Datta, a Calcutta-based fashion designer. Be it her vanity van or hotel room, Nusrat doesn’t mind sharing either with her female co-stars with some of whom she has developed a close friendship over the years. Today, Nusrat counts herself among the seniors in the Bengali film industry. She is known as someone who can quickly adapt to the situation, in any kind of shoot. “A party person, she keeps her lives separate, the political, the personal, the filmy. There is a bit of Nusrat everywhere,” said a colleague of hers. In the June 9 photograph of a pregnant Nusrat, she is flanked by colleagues Shrabanti Chatterjee and Tanushree Chakraborty. Missing from the photograph was Nusrat’s closest friend in the industry and fellow Trinamul Congress parliamentarian Mimi Chakraborty. The two address each other as “Bonua”, an endearment for sister in Bengali. Those in the know say Mimi was invited to the event but she stayed away. Are they still friends? No one will know till they are seen in public again. Some say, Mimi has not attended Nusrat’s parties for some time now. Mimi has not only been a close friend of Nusrat, she is also close to Nusrat’s current beau Yash Dasgupta, having acted opposite him in a number of films. In one of the films where Mimi was signed after Nusrat was booted out, Dasgupta was the male lead. Changes over the last year People who have known Nusrat say there were indications of a change in her for some time. Over a year, she has replaced her staff _ her driver, makeup man and hair artiste, household staff, social media team, till she replaced the man in her life, Nikhil Jain, whom she had met in 2018, the same time when her film life had hit a rough patch. Second Innings Sports and Entertainment, which manages the accounts of many Bengali film actors, still has a post on its Facebook page congratulating Nusrat and Jain. “Nusrat Jahan and #NikhilJain, the Made in Heaven couple is on their way towards a happily-ever-after journey.” The post is from July 3, 2019. Four months later, Nusrat was admitted to a private hospital, what many believe was a drug overdose, though her family had maintained she was suffering from respiratory problems, including asthma. Among those in her inner circles the one person she hasn’t yet replaced is Abhishek Majumdar, her right-hand man. Majumdar handles her work, her business, accounts, media and, also occasionally appears as her spokesperson. The two women seen with Nusrat in her baby bump picture are from the film fraternity and contested the elections on a BJP ticket. So did Dasgupta. The year Nusrat entered parliamentary politics was also when the BJP put up its best-ever electoral showing in Bengal, winning 18 Lok Sabha seats. Soon enough the party was trying to emulate everything that Mamata had done in her eight years in Bengal and that included a share of the film pie. Many of Nusrat’s friends and colleagues had joined the BJP, they got tickets in the Assembly elections and lost. Post-elections, many of them have, in private, decided to stay away from politics. It didn’t pay the way they expected it would. Is Nusrat bringing the two factions together again under one happy Trinamul family? Unity moves? Mamata’s annual political jamboree held near Victoria House on July 21 has been known to be a reunion ground, bringing together old friends and foes, who swear by the Trinamul chief. Nusrat still does. Despite the controversies surrounding her and the occasional attempt by the BJP to smear her, the Trinamul has silently been with her. Party leaders have been instructed not to comment on her “personal matters”. Such examples of “personal matters” are not unknown to the Trinamul. A former mayor from the party caught between his wife and a “friend” for many years, had to lose important posts and even leave the party. The late American suffragist Elizabeth Monroe Richards Tilton, in the late 19th century when caught for her dalliances with preacher Henry Ward Beecher, is believed to have said in her defence that women should be allowed to do what men do. More than a century later in a city younger than New York, Nusrat did not wait for anyone to allow her to say or do what she wanted. That is all that there is to her story till Nusrat herself decides to let anyone know.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-18
21-06-2021||West Bengal||Centre launches 'inquiry proceedings' against Alapan||The Narendra Modi government has launched inquiry proceedings against the former state chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, who was caught in the crossfire between the Centre and chief minister Mamata Banerjee over skipping a review meeting with the Prime Minister. On June 16, the ministry of personnel, public grievances and pensions issued a memorandum to hold “major penalty proceedings” against Bandyopadhyay. The proceedings have been initiated against him under rule 8 of the All India Services (Discipline and Appeals) Rules, 1969 along with Rule 6 of the All India Services (Death-cum-retirement benefits) Rules, 1958. “Alapan Bandyopadhyay is directed to submit within 30 days of the receipt of this memorandum a written statement of his defence and also to state whether he desires to be heard in person,” reads the memorandum. Bandyopadhyay has been charged with breach of service rules, for which he has been specifically asked to reply whether he admits or denies wrongdoing. In case he denies wrongdoing, the government will constitute an inquiry by appointing an inquiry officer and a presenting officer from the pool of serving or retired officers. In case, Bandyopadhyay declines from responding to the June 16 memorandum, or does not appear in person, an ex parte inquiry will be held against him to look into the charges. The Centre will appoint an inquiry officer and a presenting officer from the serving or retired pool of officers. Bandyopadhyay, a 1987 batch IAS officer, had been granted an extension for three months, but was forced to retire May 31 after falling foul of none other than Modi himself. On May 28, Bandyopadhyay was abruptly recalled to Delhi, hours after he, along with chief minister Mamata Banerjee, had skipped a meeting called by Modi to review damages caused by Cyclone Yaas at Kalaikunda. After Bandyopadhyay hurriedly retired on May 31, the Centre issued a notice to him evoking the Disaster Management Act for not attending Modi’s review meeting and hinting at unspecified action against him for defying the order to report at North Block on May 31. But Bandyopadhyay retired from service the same day and was appointed chief adviser to the chief minister. Though Mamata had later claimed that Alapan chapter was closed, the June 16 letter indicates the Modi government is determined to prosecute the retired bureaucrat. But according to a retired bureaucrat who has served in Bengal, the Centre's case against Bandyopadhyay was weak. “He was the chief secretary of Bengal, and not the Centre. The Centre cannot give a showcause notice to an officer who was not serving it,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-18
21-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal to employ 32,000 teachers by next March, announces Mamata||The Bengal government will be appointing over 32,000 teachers for upper primary and primary levels by March next year, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday. The appointment process to fill up at least 14,000 vacancies in the upper primary level (classes 5-8) and 10,500 in the primary level (classes 1-4) will be completed before the Durga Puja in October. Around 7,500 more posts for primary teachers will be filled up by March 2022, Banerjee said. "So, around 32,000 teachers will be appointed by next March. This will definitely help our school education," the CM said. She said that the appointments will be made on the basis of the merit list and no lobbying will be required. "Those who have passed the examinations are eligible for the jobs. The appointments were stuck because of court cases," Banerjee said. The Calcutta High Court had in February ordered an interim stay on the recruitment process for primary teachers following petitions filed by job aspirants who alleged discrepancies after their names did not feature on the merit list issued by the West Bengal Board of Primary Education. The high court later directed the Bengal Central School Service Commission (WBCSSC) to ensure that deserving candidates are not left out and the recruitment process is conducted transparently. The Calcutta High Court, which initially asked the Commission to publish the interview list by May 10, had allowed them some time in view of the ongoing COVID pandemic. The Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) for recruitment of teachers in upper primary schools was held in August 2015 and the results were declared in September 2016. The results of the interview were out in August 2019. Around five lakh candidates had appeared for the tests. In December last year, Banerjee had announced that 16,500 teachers would be appointed at the primary level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-18
21-06-2021||West Bengal||BJP's north Bengal leader, seven others join TMC||In yet another jolt to the BJP, the party's Alipurduar district president, Ganga Prasad Sharma, joined the TMC on Monday, as senior leader of the state's ruling party Mukul Roy, who also switched sides two weeks ago, claimed that this was the "beginning of the saffron party's end" in the state. Seven other BJP leaders from the region, too, followed in Sharma's footsteps and joined the Mamata Banerjee camp. Roy, addressing a press meet here, said the BJP's rise in the state began with the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, when it managed to bag several seats in north Bengal, and its downfall, too, will start from the region. "This is just a glimpse of what lies ahead... The BJP's fall in the state is imminent," Roy, who was the saffron partys national vice president until recently, underlined. Asked what he might have to say about BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari's insistence that he quit as an MLA, having won the Krishnanagar Uttar assembly seat on a saffron camp ticket, Roy said, "He should first find out what his father (Sisir Adhikari) was up to." Roy was referring to the TMC's demand for disqualification of Kanthi MP Sisir Adhikari, who crossed over to the BJP, much like his son, ahead of the polls. Sharma, on his part, alleged that the BJP has ignored the sentiments of grassroots workers while choosing candidates for the assembly polls, "inducting people at its own will and flying them to Delhi". "We felt neglected but still gave our best to the organisation and ensured that five saffron camp candidates from Alipurduar district get to win the assembly elections. Now, however, I intend to work for people under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee," he stated. Rejecting Suvendu Adhikari's assertion that Sharma changed sides as he was denied a saffron party ticket in the assembly polls, Sharma said, "Let me ask him why he chose to join the BJP ahead of the polls? Also, I wish to know why he was made the leader of opposition in the Assembly and not Manoj Tigga, who is a senior and loyal member of the camp." Coming down heavily on local MP John Barla, who has recently sought a separate union territory comprising north Bengal districts, the BJP turncoat pointed out that the parliamentarian, instead of doing something constructive for the region, is "fanning the flames of division". TMC chief whip in the Upper House, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, who was also present at the press conference, said the people of the state will distance themselves from the BJP even further due its demands of "separatism". Echoing him, education minister and senior TMC leader Bratya Basu noted that the saffron camp, on one hand, is observing 'Poschimbongo divas' (West Bengal Day), and on the other, its MP is seeking a bifurcation of the state, with no regard for its integrity. Talking about Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar's visit to north Bengal, the TMC's Rajya Sabha MP said, "He is free to go anywhere he wishes to... but he should have taken the state government in confidence." Dhankhar has embarked on a week-long visit to north Bengal earlier in the day amid the controversy that has erupted in the region in the wake of Barla's demand. Slamming state BJP president Dilip Ghosh over his claim that Bengal is becoming a "safe haven of terrorist outfits due to inaction of the state government", the TMC MP said, "There are central agencies to keep a check on terrorist activities. If we were to believe him, the obvious question would be what are these agencies doing." "Are the agencies only there to harass and arrest student activists and the ones who raise their voice against the policies of the BJP government?" the MP added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-18
21-06-2021||West Bengal||Post-poll violence: HC dismisses Bengal govt's plea||The Calcutta High Court on Monday dismissed the Bengal government's plea for recalling its order that directed the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to examine all cases of alleged human rights violations in post-poll violence in the state. A five-judge bench of the high court dismissed the prayer of the West Bengal government for recalling the order passed in respect of a bunch of PILs alleging displacement of people from their residences, physical assault, destruction of property and ransacking of places of business owing to post- poll violence in the state. The bench had passed the order on June 18, taking note of a report submitted by the Member Secretary of Bengal State Legal Services Authority which said that 3,243 persons were reported to be affected till noon of June 10. The Member Secretary of WBSLSA further mentioned that in a number of cases the complaints were referred to the superintendents of police or the police stations concerned but no response was received. The five-judge bench, comprising Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and justices IP Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Subrata Talukdar, had in its order directed the chairperson of the NHRC to constitute a committee to examine the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-18
21-06-2021||West Bengal||Decade-old overhead reservoir maintained by Eastern Coalfields Limited collapses in West Burdwan||A decade-old overhead water reservoir owned and maintained by Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL) collapsed on Saturday night in West Burdwan’s Andal, disrupting drinking water supply. Engineers with ECL said the reservoir, with a capacity of 2.22 lakh gallons, collapsed owing to constant rainfall. “The concrete reservoir had weakened with age and it collapsed under the brunt of rain. Luckily, no casualty or injury was reported,” said an engineer. ECL officials said the reservoir was unsafe for use during a recent health study of all overhead reservoirs in the ECL’s command areas. “We decided to construct a new reservoir and demolish the old one after engineers declared it sick. But work could not start during the pandemic. We will start work  soon,” said J.C. Roy, general manager of ECL’s Kajora mining area. This triggered a drinking water crisis in the ECL colony, where employees of the coal major stay, and three adjoining villages, though ECL officials said they were supplying water through tankers. “We aren’t getting water since Sunday morning, we are now fetching water from nearby ponds,” said a resident at Porashkol village in Andal police station limits. Another resident Kanhaiya Chouhan said had the incident occurred in the morning, there could have been deaths or injuries as the reservoir was located beside a road. ECL officials maintained that they had been supplying water in tankers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-18
21-06-2021||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung keen on ‘permanent political solution’ talks with Mamata Banerjee||The Bimal Gurung camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha has decided to prod chief minister Mamata Banerjee to start discussions on a “permanent political solution” for Darjeeling hills and adjoining areas. “We want to move ahead with talks on permanent political solution with the state government. We want discussions to start,” said Roshan Giri, general secretary, Morcha (Gurung) camp. The Gurung faction is talking about the provision in Article 244 A of the Constitution on autonomous state, sources said. “Our thoughts are big, but let us see how the discussion moves ahead,” Giri said. Mamata, during her Assembly election campaign, said she would find a permanent political solution for the region, which many believed was to counter the BJP. Giri's statement comes at a time when there is buzz in the hills whether Gurung's faction would contest the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration election if it is held by the state government. Gurung has been hinting he is more interested in finding a permanent political solution for the region.His rivals, the Binay Tamang faction of the Morcha have no problem in contesting the GTA elections. Both the factions are allies of the Trinamul. An observer said that the Gurung camp had not fared well in the last Assembly elections with all their three candidates coming third after the BJP and the Tamang camp. The Tamang camp also won the Kalimpong seat. “The Gurung camp is probably seeking relevance in hill politics,” the observer said. There are more elections coming up. Four civic bodies in the hills are likely to go for elections in the next 8 months. Trinamul leaders in the hills are also pitching for panchayat elections, which were last held in 2005. “If the Gurung camp does manage to initiate talks on a permanent political solution before these elections, it may make space for itself at dinner table talks in the hills,” said a hill resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-18
21-06-2021||West Bengal||Two ‘child traffickers’ nabbed from Tinsukia-Bangalore night train||The Birbhum wing of Childline NGO, working with district railway police, on Saturday night nabbed two adults allegedly trafficking four children from Bihar to Bangalore from a Tinsukia-Bangalore night train. The train was halted with special permission at Rampurhat station around 9.30pm on Saturday, for 15 minutes as opposed to the usual three minutes, to stop the alleged trafficking bid, said a source. Though the team was acting on a tip-off about a much larger team, only two adults and four children could finally be rounded up. The two adults were detained and the children, all from Bihar’s Araria, were sent to a government home temporarily. NGO functionaries said they received several tip-offs about this particular train used by traffickers with children from Bihar and Bengal. “The children are then taken to Bangalore and Chennai,” said an NGO official. “They are then engaged in child labour.” On Saturday, the train was halted at Bolpur after Rampurhat, but no suspicious person could be tracked the second time. The decision to halt the train one more time at Bolpur was based on a report from a BSF jawan who had inspected the train earlier at Bihar’s Kishanganj and reported about a suspicious group of about 10-15 persons, including children. Childline works with Bachpan Bachao Andolan, another child rights organisation based in Delhi and founded by social reformer Kailash Satyarthi, to stop child trafficking. “We are still searching for the rest of the adults, in coordination with authorities (police, railway personnel),” said Birbhum Childline coordinator Debashish Ghosh. Deep Banerjee, Bengal coordinator of the Bachpan Bachao Andolan, added: “We are in touch with our Karnataka wing so the train is inspected on arrival there. We are hopeful of tracking all the children and adults.” NGO functionaries also sought better supervised train routes to prevent child trafficking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-18
21-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Total active cases in Bengal rise by 3||Bengal on Sunday reported a rise for the 11th consecutive day in its total number of active Covid-19 cases, but by a marginal three, to 23,016. The state reported 2,128 Covid-19 recoveries, 2,184 new infections and 53 deaths. “The rise (in total number of active cases) is getting arrested. The trend will soon be reversed, and the total will start falling again,” said a minister. “We are realistically looking at fewer than 1,000 new infections a day within the next couple of weeks.” The total number of active cases declined till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702, from the peak of 1,32,181 on May 21. But over these 11 days, it rose by over 56 per cent. Bengal now has 3.28 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is eighth among states with most active cases. The state’s recovery rate is 97.28 per cent, while the national recovery rate is 96.32 now. In a significant positive, the daily confirmation rate, which had peaked in the second wave with nearly 33 per cent, is now 4.12 per cent. Bengal’s mortality rate, with 17,348 deaths in all, is 1.17 per cent, while the national rate is 1.29. Of the 53 deaths reported on Sunday, seven were from the city and nine from North 24-Parganas. While Calcutta logged 185 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 332.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-19
21-06-2021||West Bengal||Alipurduar district BJP president to join Trinamul Congress||Alipurduar district BJP president Ganga Prasad Sharma said on Sunday that he would join the Trinamul Congress without “any condition”, but he would expect “minimum respect” in the new party. Sharma, who was instrumental in expanding the BJP’s base in the district, will be the first major leader from the saffron camp to change sides in north Bengal after the Assembly polls. He will join the ruling party at Trinamul Bhavan in Calcutta. The BJP had performed well in north Bengal in the elections winning 30 of the 54 Assembly seats. Sharma had on Saturday exited a WhatsApp group of the BJP, fuelling speculation all through the day. On Sunday, he confirmed that he would join Trinamul on Monday in the presence of party general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and Alipurduar district president Mridul Goswami. “I had to work hard to consolidate the party’s base in the district. I can no longer stay in a party where the district president is not given importance. I have left the BJP,” said Sharma. Sharma said he would join Trinamul without “any condition”. “I am joining Trinamul without any condition. I have told Abhishek babu to show me minimum respect in the party and provide me with an opportunity to work for the people. I am feeling free now.” Under Sharma’s leadership, the BJP had won the Alipurduar Lok Sabha seat in 2019 and all five Assembly segments in the district this year. Alipurduar is the only district where the BJP won all Assembly seats in the recent polls. Sharma indicated that he was unhappy that the BJP had given credit to Alipurduar MP John Barla for the recent victory. “I can’t stay in a party where the elected representative is given importance over the party president,” Sharma said without taking Barla’s name. Sharma was probably hinting at a statement issued by central BJP leader Arvind Menon in Calcutta about a fortnight ago. He had credited Barla for the BJP’s success in Alipurduar. Apart from Menon’s statement, Sharma was disgruntled with the way the BJP’s higher leadership was handling the party in Alipurduar. Barla could not be immediately contacted. Madarihat-Birpara BJP MLA Manoj Tigga said: “This is an unfortunate development even though I do not know why Ganga da took such a decision.” On Saturday Tapan Sinha, a close aide to Mukul Roy, left the BJP and joined Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-19
21-06-2021||West Bengal||Malda murders: Asif Mohammad gave pistols and live cartridges to two of his friends for safekeeping||Police probing the Malda murders have found that Asif Mohammad, the 19-year-old online gamer who allegedly killed and buried his parents, sister and grandmother four months ago in Gurutola village, had given pistols and cartridges to two of his friends to keep two days before his arrest early on Saturday. Malda police on Saturday night arrested his friends Sabir Ali, 18, and Mohammad Mahfuz, 20, and seized from them five 7mm pistols, 84 bullets and 10 magazines, which apparently belonged to Asif. The duo purportedly told the investigators that Asif had asked them to keep the cache of arms and ammunition. “The arrested duo have confessed that Asif had asked them to keep the arms and ammunition safely,” said Aneesh Sarkar, additional superintendent of police (rural), Malda. Asif gave the weapons to his friends on Thursday, a day before his brother Arif, 21, reported the murders to the police. An officer said it was yet to be ascertained if Asif had guessed his elder brother would report the murders, allegedly committed on February 28, to the police. Police said till now, according to one of Asif’s statements, he eliminated his wealthy family because he wanted the whole house to himself. “(But) he is changing his version every minute. He shows no signs of remorse.” “He told his family that once they transfer the entire property in his name, he would send them to a location where they can live peacefully,” said an officer. An investigator added: “It is clear Asif was interested in the dark net. Tracking his online activities would give us an insight into his plans.” The dark net is a part of the Internet that can be accessed only through specific software and is mostly used by hackers for illegal cyber activities. Asif reportedly forced his father to sell some property, including a four-wheeler and a dumper. But he never shared details of his activities with his family or friends.“He gave those around him the impression that he was doing something very important and people should not disturb him,” an investigator who questioned Asif’s friends and brother, said. Asif had allegedly mixed a strong tranquilliser with cold drinks on February 28 and given them to his parents Jawad Ali, 53, and Ira Bibi, 39, sister Rima Khatun, 16, and grandmother Aleknoor Bewa, 73, and when they fell unconscious, tied them and taped leucoplast on their mouths to choke them. He then allegedly dug a trench on the premises of their house and buried them, telling neighbours that “everyone’s in Calcutta”. Arif told the police that he managed to flee from his brother. Cops questioned him on why he had not reported the crime earlier, waiting for four months instead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-19
21-06-2021||North East||Three lynched in Tripura over cattle theft suspicion||Three people were lynched on suspicion of cattle theft in Tripura’s Khowai district on Sunday morning. Police said two of the deceased were beaten up by a mob at North Maharanipur while the third, who had escaped, was caught and assaulted at Sovaram Para, 3km away. Neither transport nor slaughter of cattle is banned in Tripura, the police said, adding they have registered two cases of lynching against unidentified people. Khowai superintendent of police Kiran Kumar told The Telegraph they had first received a call around 4.40am about an accident involving a truck. The trio was allegedly fleeing the Namanjai Para area after stealing cows. The owner of the cows had alerted nearby villagers. “Since people were waiting for them, they must have panicked and hit a roadside coconut tree. Our team found two persons lying near the truck, critically injured,” Kumar said. The injured men were rushed to a nearby primary health centre, and then to the G.B. Pant Hospital in Agartala, about 45km from Khowai. “Our team came to know there was a third person who had managed to escape. We informed our police stations. Our personnel rescued him at Sovaram Para but he too was badly injured. Two cases of murder have been registered in this connection,” Kumar said. All were declared dead on arrival at G.B. Pant Hospital. No arrests had been made till the filing of this report on Sunday evening. The deceased — Saiful Islam, 18, Zayed Hussein, 28,  and Billal Miah, 30, — hailed from Sonamura in Sipahijala district bordering Bangladesh. Sipahijala is around 45km from Khowai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-1
21-06-2021||North East||Covid: Tough task for Assam Class X-XII result panels  ||The Assam government-constituted expert committees to finalise modalities on which results of this year’s Class X and Class XII final examinations will be declared faces a “challenging task”. Both the examinations were cancelled on Friday owing to the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the state. Those familiar with the state’s education sector told The Telegraph that the committees would not only have to come up with modalities which are “fair and acceptable” but also withstand legal scrutiny in the future. The two expert committees, consisting of nine members each, were constituted on Saturday. The panels have been given time till June 25 to submit their report so that the results could be declared by July 31. The Assam Higher Secondary Education Council, which conducts the Class XII examinations in the state, has directed all colleges to be ready with marks of Class X, two unit tests held last year and pre-test marks which may be required for evaluation. The Board of Secondary Education, Assam (SEBA) conducts Class 10 examinations in the state. “It is not going to be an easy task, quite challenging in fact. The results will be record-based, that is based on internal assessment like unit test, half-yearly test, annual test, Pre-board test and practical examinations. If schools and colleges fail to provide the marks for whatever reason, it could make things a bit complicated,” one of them said. Reports from the ground said quite a few schools and colleges could not conduct their normal assessment-related activities because of the Covid situation. “What will be the modalities for students from these institutions. Students cannot be deprived. It will take some doing to come up with modalities which is fair to all students,” a college teacher said. Another senior college teacher said the modalities should give more weightage to Class X (matric) results while evaluating Class XII results. “CBSE is giving 30 per cent weightage to Class X marks but we should consider 50 per cent. Rest 30 per cent will come from the practicals. The committee should then decide how the remaining 20 per cent through internal assessment. This I think would be fair under the prevailing circumstances,” he said. He also urged the authorities to set up vigilance committee at the district and sub-divisional level to keep an eye on how the internal assessment has been done to “ensure fair play”. The examinations were cancelled after the health department apprised the state cabinet and then various stakeholders that it will not be permissible to hold the examinations because of the threat posed by the pandemic. The health department has said about 25,000 persons in the age group between 11 and 18 were infected since May. Till Saturday, Assam had 34021 active cases with a positivity rate of 2.21. Altogether 3,571 cases were detected on Saturday which also saw 40 deaths. The state government will review the overall situation on Monday. Districts where things have remained unchanged could be placed under complete lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-2
21-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Mixed Bag||Progress seldom follows a linear pattern; new challenges are created with every hurdle that is crossed. This would be the correct inference to draw from the findings of the annual report of the Civil Registration System for 2019 that have yielded a mixed picture as far as India’s perennial gender imbalance problem is concerned. On the one hand, none of the states and Union territories surveyed recorded a sex ratio at birth that was less than 900 girls for every 1,000 boys. On the other, several of them registered significant declines from the data they had posted in 2017 and 2018. This is not surprising; figures from the National Family Health Survey published as recently as December last year found that out of 22 states, eight that had previously made progress in their sex ratios had reported discouraging figures. As far as the CRS data are concerned, the apparent reversals in the performances of certain states are worthy of note. Chhattisgarh, which has a predominantly tribal population that usually has a better record than other communities when it comes to a healthy SRB, noted the highest fall, while habitual offenders in terms of sex-selective abortions like Punjab and Chandigarh have improved their SRB rates significantly. The SRB figure has also fallen marginally in Kerala — India’s most literate state. This only goes to puncture the myth that higher literacy levels complement gender sensitivity. There are several reasons to which the persistent challenges can be attributed. Institutional oversight and regressive societal attitudes have led to the overwhelming preference for the male child in India. Even the strict implementation of the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques Act, which bans prenatal sex determination, has not helped. The record of welfare programmes has been equally patchy. The Centre’s Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao scheme has had little to no success, with a disproportionate amount of funds spent on advertisements as was revealed in Parliament in 2019 — the same year for which the CRS data were recorded. The breaches on the medical, legislative and societal fronts are but one part of the problem. The absence of political will to address these anomalies is an equally formidable obstacle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-7
21-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Poor harvest||India houses the largest absolute number of people living below the poverty line in the world. Yet, India has stopped counting its poor from 2011-12. The 75th Consumer Expenditure Survey done in 2017-18 was not accepted and published because there was, according to the government, a divergence between the findings and administrative data. The position adopted was hardly on firm ground while claiming administrative data were more reliable than a statistical survey conducted by specialists. The information contained in the survey that was leaked to the press revealed that the survey indicated a decline in consumer expenditure, which would lead to an increase in the number of poor people. Poverty is estimated by first taking the results of consumer expenditures as a proxy for income and then using a poverty line to measure the number of people living below it. Since the National Democratic Alliance government came to power in 2014, no alternative methodology has been suggested and no new data collected. All recent data available come from private sources like the Centre for Monitoring the Indian Economy. The existing official definition of the poverty line continues to be the one that has been in place since 2005. This line is supposed to be revised every 10-15 years. Private data, although revealing, are not a substitute for official data that can be used for policy formulation in India and for international monitoring by multilateral agencies like the World Bank. The absence of data has two significant implications. While designing welfare schemes, Indian policymakers are forced to base their decisions either on dated evidence or on specious data. Indeed, it reveals the government’s deep reluctance to take decisions based on hard evidence. The second implication is global. Institutions like the World Bank have been unable to monitor and measure the progress on global poverty elimination as a Sustainable Development Goal to be reached by 2030. Lack of data from India makes the estimation of world poverty, and its changes in the recent past, well-nigh impossible because India remains the largest reservoir of poor people in the world. All private estimates of poverty in India show that poverty had actually increased even before Covid-19 struck. The pandemic exacerbated the process further. Back in 2017, the nation accounted for 139 million of the total of 689 million people living in poverty globally. The proportion as well as the absolute number have increased since then. The Centre’s denial of this trend can only make matters worse.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-7
21-06-2021||Opinion||Mighty hearts||I have just finished reading Escape Through the Pyrenees, the memoirs of Lisa Fittko. It is an extraordinary account of a young couple, Lisa and her husband, Hans Fittko, escorting many who fled Nazi Germany to Spain from France through a secret mountain path. The couple was then based in Banyuls-sur-Mer in France, at the foothills of the Pyrenees, just across the border with Spain. Among the first to be escorted by Lisa was Walter Benjamin, the great German philosopher and critic, a Jew. She gives us a brief, but stunning, portrait of Benjamin, and of herself and her husband. An anti-Fascist activist (and a Jew), Lisa had fled Berlin. In 1940, she was interned in a French camp for women in Gurs in south France for being an “enemy alien”. The irony of being imprisoned for opposing the Nazis in a state that was opposing the Nazis was brutal and death, disease and hunger were everywhere. Lisa eventually reached Banyuls, where the “Emerescue” (Emergency Rescue Committee) project was set up and the rescue route was provided by the mayor, a Socialist. It was a smugglers’ route originally. Lisa and Hans helped possibly hundreds to safety. Like Hans, Lisa had been an underground resistance fighter and on the run since 1933. The couple themselves were waiting their turn to escape. Hans was not a Jew. What is perhaps more extraordinary than their feat is how they felt about it. Their work needed extreme intelligence, utmost caution, constant networking, clever manipulation of the authorities and even sweet talking, all in the face of death. They had no food, no money, no address and no identity: their papers were either false or did not exist. After they had left Banyuls, at Cassis, Lisa discovered that being in the sea, under water, made her feel less hungry, less weak. Their political training helped. This young couple, in love with each other, kept saving lives, and, above everything, appeared joyous. In want of a better word, almost brutally so. Perhaps the banal — although the eminent political theorist, Hannah Arendt, who had been a Gurs inmate with Lisa, would warn of “the banality of evil” — helped with its familiarity in a mad world: “la pagaille”, the total chaos. When entering the Gurs camp, Lisa’s friend, Paulette, had insisted on carrying with her a lipstick. Another clue lay in what Hans had told “Old Benjamin”. Benjamin had quit smoking when he and Hans were at a French camp together and was suffering from withdrawal symptoms. Hans had told him that it was not the right time, concerned because Benjamin was incapable of coping with the “adversities of the external world, which, like wolves, appear at times”, in his own words. Hans had tried to explain to Benjamin that “to ride out crises and not lose one’s mind, this basic rule was vital: Always look for the positive side, not at the existing hardships.” Perhaps in his own way Benjamin followed that. Although only 48, he was very ill with a severe heart problem. But he walked across the difficult mountain terrain with Lisa, bringing with him a heavy leather briefcase that contained his last manuscript, more important than his life, he said. His aim was to reach that to safety, so that the Gestapo could not lay its hands on it. He walked for hours at his own pace, resting when he wanted to. “One must not completely overspend one’s strength,” he said. His breathing was laboured, but he did not complain. He even drank from a dirty pool to keep himself going. He had to reach the other side. Lisa left after seeing him walking down the slope towards Spain, the azure sea meeting the majestic mountains. One day later, Benjamin committed suicide. His friends found some comfort believing the manuscript had reached safe hands. Decades later, Lisa would come to know that it was lost. But he had had a beautiful trip, full of laughter and conversation. And he had carried his briefcase across the border.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-7
21-06-2021||Opinion||Covid-19: Examining examinations||Amidst the pandemic-induced uncertainties, examinations were on the minds of around 10 million students who take the board exams annually. Organizing board exams — many have been cancelled this year — is a mammoth exercise, involving the setting and distribution of question papers, organizing the centres for examinations, invigilation, collection and evaluation of answer scripts, compilation of results and so on. In sum, the board exams could have become a ‘superspreader’. The prolonged uncertainty over the exams adversely affected students, teachers and parents. Any social or political concern on the discourse of education is limited to examination and evaluation. An examination or an evaluation is not an end in itself; how we use the ‘results’ is what determines the value of examinations. Generally, the results of the senior secondary exams are taken into account for enrolment in higher education programmes. But statistics suggest that only 14-17 per cent of students have access to higher education. This means that around 83 per cent of students have the board exam marksheet as the last certificate of academic qualification on the basis of which they are compelled to make choices about life and livelihood. Most professional institutions — engineering, medical, business administration, law — conduct separate entrance tests for admission. State and Central universities have their own entrance tests or go by the Central Universities Common Entrance Test results. Similarly, the exams for employment are conducted separately by agencies like the School Service Commission, Union Public Service Commission and others. Yet the brouhaha over the board examination results and the examination itself does not subside. Schemes and strategies for alternatives to the examination or evaluation are not uncommon, ranging from open book and online exams to evaluation based on the results of Class XI or internal, online viva-voce. But any alternative needs to be considered on the basis of infrastructural constraints. The ministry of education should treat the present crisis as an opportunity to rethink and restructure examination and evaluation systems. An examination gets its legitimacy from the role and the function it performs. Examinations help establish meritocracy, a pre-requisite for any democratic society. Meritocracy is generally held to be a social system within which individuals earn rewards and opportunities according to their abilities and efforts. The democratic ideal of individual freedom is linked to the belief of greater agency in a consumerist marketplace. Meritocracy provides motivation for individual achievements that benefit collective progress. Significantly, embedded inequalities in resources are justified under the presumption that everyone has an equal chance of succeeding on the basis of individual merit. Educational accomplishment and performance are perceived to be key factors in determining merit. Many assume that education improves one’s chances for gainful employment and is, therefore, the most transparent means for social mobility. Some advocates of meritocracy have argued that academic talent is equally distributed throughout the population irrespective of socio-economic status. The truth is that children from families with higher socio-economic status and better repositories of cultural capital are likely to attend better-resourced schools and have access to a wider range of academic support and opportunities. Even within the same district, public schools can offer unequal educational opportunities due to differences in course offerings, the quality of faculty, and the socio- economic background of students. Educational institutions evaluate and certify individual skill, knowledge and efficiency but these performances are always subject to varying cultural values and market interests. For example, most students do not end up with gainful careers and the markets do not acknowledge the norms for merit recognized by conventional centres of learning. As societies advance, the demand for specialization leads to a preference for those with higher scholastic attainment and greater knowledge. Simultaneously, as industry and manufacturing get replaced by services and advanced technocratic economies, the market for average expertise shifts, resulting in a smaller share of opportunities for the average performers. Meritocracy, however faulty, is acceptable to a feudal aristocracy or the caste system. However, its success depends on egalitarianism and justice. An innately just system, in turn, depends on unbiased market forces in a society where access to education and employment should be equal. This parity is difficult to achieve because of existing social segregation. Some — not all — have the means to learn how to best navigate the field of play. Is it then not time to examine the examination and the stultifying evaluation system? Navneet Sharma is faculty, Department of Education, Central University of Himachal Pradesh||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-7
21-06-2021||Opinion||A sinister pattern||This is a random, anecdotal account of the ordinary people — journalists of the regional media, cultural performers, those posting on Facebook — who provoke the law and order machinery to spring into action. It doesn’t take much to unsettle the State. Let’s go back over the last decade. In February 2010, Seema Azad, the editor of a monthly magazine called Dastak Naye Samay Ki, and her husband were arrested in Allahabad on charges of sedition and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The Indian Express reported that the magazine, duly registered with the Registrar of Newspapers, focused on public issues. Its editor was the organizing secretary of the Uttar Pradesh chapter of the People’s Union for Civil Liberties. The judge hearing the case for bail noted that she had been charged with offences which were not even remotely made out. The duo was arrested shortly after Seema wrote against the Ganga Expressway Plan, a project that would have displaced many farmers. She also wrote on Operation Green Hunt and the arbitrary arrests of Muslim youth by the Special Task Force in Azamgarh. They spent more than two years in jail before they got bail. November 2012: Shiv Sena leader, Bal Thackeray, had died in Mumbai and the city shut down. Shaheen Dhada, 21, took to her Facebook account to ask why. “When was the last time did anyone show some respect or even a 2mins silence for Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Azad, Sukhdev or any of the people because of whom we r free living Indians...? [sic]” She added, “Today, Mumbai shuts down due to fear not due to respect!!!” After the comment was noticed by a Sainik, Dhada and a friend who had liked the comment were arrested. They were first charged with Section 295(A) of the Indian Penal Code which deals with deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings or any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs. This was changed to Sec 502-(2) — statements creating enmity, hatred or ill will between classes. Finally, the police charged them with Sec 66(A) of the Information Technology Act, and then, a few weeks later, following widespread outrage, withdrew the charge. The incident led to Sec 66(A) being challenged in the Supreme Court and the striking down of this section of the IT Act in 2015. The year 2012 ended with a Kannada TV reporter, Naveen Soorinje, being sent to jail for reporting the raid on a homestay party by a Hindu fundamentalist group in July. The Hindu Jagarana Vedike allegedly attacked a birthday party at an unlicensed homestay in Mangalore, beating, stripping and molesting those who had attended. The police charged Soorinje under the UAPA and IPC, put him in jail in November, and the Karnataka High Court denied him bail. He was the criminal, for reporting the attack. Between 2011 and 2017, members of the young Pune-based Dalit activist performing group, the Kabir Kala Manch, were arrested under UAPA by Maharashtra’s anti-terrorism squad, jailed at different times and then released on bail, three of them by the Supreme Court in 2017. They would sing political songs in Naxal-dominated areas on issues of Dalit and tribal oppression, malnutrition, female infanticide, and farmers’ suicides. They were charged with being a front for Maoists. Again in 2020, the National Investigation Agency arrested three members of this group in the Bhima Koregaon-Elgaar Parishad case. In 2015, Santosh Yadav, a Bastar journalist, was arrested by the Chhattisgarh police for his alleged involvement in an encounter during a road operation that claimed the life of a police officer. He was charged with aiding Maoists under various sections of the IPC, the Arms Act, the UAPA, and the Chhattisgarh Public Security Act. The evidence offered was a police officer’s statement that he could see Yadav’s face in the light of a para bomb that was flared during an ambush in Darbha in August 2013. But later, in an identification parade memo in January 2016, the officer could not identify the accused “with certainty”. Nevertheless, Yadav spent a year and a half in jail till the Supreme Court granted him bail in early 2017. He told journalists that the police had been gunning for him because they felt he did ‘too much’ reporting on the adivasis and their plight. Facebook posts have acquired the status of major unlawful activity, attracting charges of sedition and UAPA. The year, 2016, saw a Kashmiri youth in Chhattisgarh being arrested on charges of sedition for liking a cartoon on Facebook which allegedly made fun of India. He was finally granted bail by the Chhattisgarh High Court, on his fourth bail plea. The year, 2018, saw the editor of a small newspaper in Chhattisgarh land a sedition FIR for posting a cartoon about the Supreme Court that someone had shared, on his Facebook wall. That was the year of the judges’ press conference. The complaint to the police came from a citizen of Rajasthan. Masrat Zahra, a Kashmiri photojournalist who covers women and children in conflict, was in April 2020 charged under the UAPA for uploading photographs that allegedly glorified “anti-national activities”. The UAPA had been amended in 2019 to allow the government to proscribe individuals as terrorists. In October 2020, Siddique Kappan, a journalist for a Malayalam news portal set out to report on the gang rape and murder of a Dalit girl in Hathras in western Uttar Pradesh. He was arrested before he even got there for alleged links to a radical group not proven so far. This has become a widely reported case of incarceration for charges relating to terrorism, outraging religious feelings, conspiracy to incite violence, and sedition. He was given bail briefly to visit his dying mother, and has survived Covid in jail. Earlier this month, a Mathura court dropped proceedings on the charges related to apprehension of breach of peace against him and three others after the police failed to complete the inquiry in time. But he remains in jail for other charges. As the chronology shows, the unleashing of laws relating to sedition and terrorism did not begin with this government, and is not confined to the Central government. It has become both an occupational hazard and a random hazard for those who run out of luck. Sevanti Ninan is a media commentator and was the founder-editor of TheHoot.org||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-7
21-06-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Ronaldo's bold step, Indian judiciary||Sir — Cristiano Ronaldo should be lauded for his bold step. Few celebrities have either the good sense or the courage to openly snub a corporate entity as large as Coca Cola for its unhealthy products. Usually, celebrities will endorse any product — from paan masala to fried food — for the sake of money. This is dangerous because they have significant power to sway public opinion as Ronaldo has shown.  Arup Ganguly, Calcutta Sir — One would expect that in the interest of fairness and justice, judges of both the Supreme Court and the high courts should be asked to submit a declaration that they neither owe allegiance to any political party nor are inspired or influenced by the activities and ideals of any political party. It is thus not surprising at all that Mamata Banerjee’s lawyer has asked her case challenging the Nandigram assembly election verdict be transferred to a judge other than Kaushik Chanda, who, apparently, is an active member of the Bharatiya Janata Party (“CM’s lawyer seeks judge switch in counting case”, June 19). Banerjee did not know that the petition filed by her in the Calcutta High Court will be heard by a judge who has alleged links to the BJP. She is lucky that this fact was brought to her notice by her advocate. Of course it should not be automatically assumed that if the case is heard by Justice Chanda it will bring a prejudiced verdict. But to rule out even the slightest kernel of doubt in the minds of the people and the appellants, the matter should be reassigned to another judge. This way, Banerjee will later not be able to claim bias if the verdict goes against her. Arun Gupta, Calcutta Sir — It is not surprising that Mamata Banerjee’s lawyers want her appeal in court to be transferred to a judge who is not affiliated to the BJP. Everyone knows that one party in this country cannot accept defeat and is most ungracious when it loses. No matter how definitive the verdict, this party refuses to accept that it has been beaten. It will continue to try and change the verdict through backchannels, tricks, underhand tactics. What it does not realize is that every such step is further alienating the party from the common people. But does it care? It has money power and the government machinery at its beck and call. C.K.R. Nathan, Ghaziabad||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-7
21-06-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad theatre artists lose livelihood, demand government support||Over 300 coal town theatre artists are facing extreme penury due to the lack of permission for drama festivals, shows and functions during lockdown and are demanding honorarium from the government to sustain life. Many of them, deprived of ration cards, are facing difficulty to procure food while others suffering from ailments are facing difficulty in treatment for themselves and their family members. Talking to The Telegraph Online, 58-year-old Basistha Prasad Sinha, founder of Bhuli based theatre organisation, Kalniketan, said, “Most of the 30 members of our organisation as well as other artists of over  29 other organisations, 13 of which are empanelled with the district public relation department for performance in government functions and awareness drives are passing through difficult times since March last year.” “A Bhuli based senior artist of our organisation, Ranjit Mishra,52, is suffering from a serious lung infection since April 11 and had to spend his entire savings and was even compelled to take debts for his treatment due to lack of any support from government for artists,” said Sinha. “Dhanbad MLA, Raj  Sinha, visited our centre at Bhuli earlier this month and provided food grains to around  18 artists suffering from the crisis but food is daily necessity and unless we get opportunity to work and earn it will be difficult to sustain with the limited help provided by one or other individual organisations,” said Sinha. Sinha, a native resident of Jehanabad in Bihar who migrated to Dhanbad in 1981 and after completing his graduation and post graduation from RSP College and from Ranchi university respectively established Kalaniketan in Bhuli in 1983, has won over 200 awards all across the country as part of drama competitions. “My entire family including wife Nutan Sinha, and four children including three daughters Divya Sahay (27), Shaivya Sahay (25), Nitya Sahay (22) and son Akash (19) also perform along with me as part of our organisations  and have no other source of income,” said Sinha. “We have sent letters to the Chief Minister Hemant Soren and also wrote to other officials seeking government support in the form of honorarium but there is no response till date,” Sharda Giri, 25, president of Black Pearls, comprising of youth artists and recent college pass outs and students. “In many of the other states, governments have fixed honorarium for registered artists so while Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh government are providing honorarium of Rs 5 thousand per month the government of neighbouring Bihar is also providing honorarium worth Rs 3000 but artist in our state who are suffering are depending on the  occasional social and voluntary organisation’s support,” said Giri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
21-06-2021||Jharkhand||East Singhbhum starts two-day Covid testing drive ||The East Singhbhum district administration has launched a two- day special drive for detection of Coronavirus positive cases across the district from Monday, in view of the third wave of the pandemic tipped to hit the country shortly. Though the cases have waned considerably in both the urban areas of the steel city as well as in the rural areas of the district, the special drive has been launched as a precautionary move. District civil surgeon, A.K. Lal said that they have targeted to carry out 14,000 Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) during these two days across the district. "Health workers across the district have been given the task to carry out 7,000 RATs during these two days beginning from Monday. 7,000 tests have to be carried out in Jamshedpur and as many tests have to be done in the rural areas, "said the civil surgeon to The Telegraph Online. Lal said 22 teams of health officials were set up for the special drive. "While 11 teams have been engaged in the steel city for carrying out the drive, the same number of teams will cover the rural areas, "the civil surgeon informed. Lal pointed out that the pace of RAT had slowed down following the decline in cases in the district, but the administration decided to carry out such a special drive on a regular basis in view of the pandemic's third wave. On Sunday, seven positive cases were detected following 3,986 samples subjected to RAT and RT-PCR tests in the district. Following these seven positive cases, the total number of Covid cases in the district has risen to 51,412. Presently, there are 185 active Covid cases undergoing treatment at various hospitals here whereas 50,181 people have already been cured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
21-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand BJP chief whip says Hemant govt anti-Dalit||State BJP chief whip  Biranchi Narayan on Monday accused the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD government of being anti-Dalit, alleging that incidents of harassment of Dalits had increased. Narayan, who is MLA from Bokaro,  came out in support  of Amar Bauri, the Chandankyari MLA of his neighbouring Assembly constituency, who Congress leader Irfan Ansari had said  resembled a “South Indian Goon”. Narayan said, “MLA Irfan Ansari always acts childish. He should be a little conscious while speaking. Otherwise we are ready to give befitting reply to him anywhere he wants. Ansari being a public representative should to know how to respect other public figures.” MLA Bauri is the president of the scheduled cast unit of Jharkhand Pradesh BJP. "Incidents of harassment against Dalits are happening continuously at various places in the state under this government," said Narayan. The BJP has demanded that Ansari apologise to Bauri immediately. Or else, its leaders have threatened to hit the streets, despite the lockdown. The party has asked the state government to pull up  Ansari for his insensitive remark. BJP district president Bharat Yadav said it was not only Bauri who was "victimised" by the  JMM-Congress government. He said that on  May 21, Dalit families were assaulted for not cleaning toilets at Caravan Basti of Hatma Gora village of West Singhbhum. In another incident, he said, Bhukhal Ghasi, a resident of Karma panchayat under Kasmar block of Bokaro district, died on March 6,  2020 due to hunger. In Sahebganj, a Dalit woman, Rita Paswan, had alleged that a luxurious bungalow was being built on her ancestral land of  16 bighas after it was illegally taken over.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
21-06-2021||Jharkhand||Chanchala creates wrestling history for Jharkhand ||A tribal athlete from Ranchi created history on Monday by becoming the first woman wrestler from Jharkhand to have qualified for the world wrestling championship. Fourteen-year-old Chanchala Kumar of Hotwar village in Ranchi achieved the feat by clinching gold in the trials held in Delhi earlier in the day to book her berth in the sub-junior category (40 kg). The world championship will be held in Budapest, Hungary, between July 19 and 25. Chanchala belongs to Jharkhand State Sports Promotion Society (JSSPS), a joint venture between Central Coalfields Limited (CCL) and the state sports department, which runs various academies at the mega sports complex in Hotwar to hone skills of budding players. JSSPS officials said that Chanchala belongs to the first batch of JSSPS which stared training in 2016. Jharkhand State Wrestling Association president Bholanath Singh said, “It’s a momentous occasion for the entire wrestling fraternity of the state as Chanchala has become the first ever wrestler to have qualified for the world championship.” Singh said Chanchala had the potential to scale heights and since the start of her career, she has been gradually taking high strides. “She has already won a few medals at national meets. For example, she won silver in SGFI games in 2017 and went on to clinch two successive golds in these meets which were held over the next two years,” he said. She inducted to the India camp about a year back to hone her skills. “She was picked up by Sports Authority of India (SAI)-Lucknow where she was training for about a year now,” he said. Chanchala was ecstatic after her qualification. “I am hoping to do better for my country in the upcoming meet. The last one year was a challenging period in terms of training due to Covid-19 as we resorted to online training on technique more than physical action. But I kept practicing on my own even when I was at home for many months during lockdown. Fortunately, my parents never discouraged me to leave the game even though there were times when there was huge strain on my father's earnings due to the lockdown,” she said. Chanchala's father, Narendra Pahan, is a small time farmer, while her mother is a home maker. She has three siblings—an elder brother and two sisters, one younger to her.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
21-06-2021||Jharkhand||CCTV vigil soon on key steel city thoroughfare to curb rash driving||Kadma police on Sunday recommended setting up speed-breakers and installing CCTV cameras on the marine drive due to frequent road mishaps taking place on the stretch. The recommendation has been made to the senior superintendent of police, M.Tamil Vanan. An accident killing a 10-year-old boy on Saturday prompted the police to make such a suggestion. An unidentified SUV had hit the boy while he was crossing the marine drive from his house at a slum adjoining it. The SUV had sped away as soon as the mishap took place. Following the boy's death during treatment of a head injury at the Tata Main Hospital, family members and the sympathisers had set up a blockade on the marine drive which continued for over three hours. The protesters were demanding compensation and measures to curb the frequent fatal mishaps on the marine drive. Fatal mishaps on the marine drive that connects Subernarekha Road in Sakchi linking Jai Prakash Setu inango in Mango to Toll-bridge in Kadma linking Adityapur, are taking place frequently, in most of the incidents the slum dwellers along Kadma and Sonari fall victim. On an average one person is killed on the marine drive a month. Significantly, after every fatal mishap in which a slum-dweller is killed, local residents resort to setting up blockade on the marine drive. The OC of Kadma thana, Manoj Thakur said, “As there remains very negligible traffic on the marine drive, riders of both two-wheelers and four-wheelers tend to drive at a breakneck speed, thus causing the mishaps.” "As there is no speed-breaker on this nine-km-long stretch, the vehicle riders feel free to ride at their wishful speed. We have, therefore, recommended for setting up speed-breakers which should be set in the gap of every 300 metres, " said Thakur to The Telegraph Online. The OC said as most of the vehicle riders tend to flee the spot after a mishap takes place, leaving no evidence of them to be traced by the police, an adequate number of CCTV cameras should also be installed at strategic points along the marine drive. The OC said while recommending for the speed-breakers and CCTV cameras, they have also requested for setting up foot overbridge and drawing zebra crossing lines at the strategic points.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
21-06-2021||Jharkhand||Delta variant most prevalent in worst-hit Jharkhand districts||The Delta variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus – a mutated variant of concern with high transmissibility and severe effect on the human body – was found to be the most prevalent mutant strain in five most-affected districts of Jharkhand during random sampling done from April 1 to June 9, health officials said on Monday. The state health department sent 364 samples of Covid-19 patients from Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad, Hazaribagh and Palamau for Whole Genome Sequencing to the Institute of Life Sciences (ILS) in Bhubaneswar and the results showed that at least 204 of the samples were infected by the Delta variant of the coronavirus, which is said to be the reason behind the unprecedented spike in Covid cases during the second wave in India and many other countries. The genome sequencing results showed that as many as 63 samples were infected by the Kappa variant of the virus, while 29 were infected by the Alpha variant, which was first reported in the United Kingdom. The Delta variant, which is said to be 40 per cent more transmissible than the Alpha variant, was first detected in India in late 2020. Of the 364 samples sent for genome sequencing, at least 328 were found to be variants of concern. According to World Health Organisation (WHO), a variant of coronavirus which causes more deaths and triggers severe symptoms in patients is categorized as a variant of concern. Of the 204 Delta variants detected in the state, 86 were from Jamshedpur, 26 from Ranchi, 32 from Dhanbad, 39 from Hazaribagh and 21 from Palamau. Of the 63 Kappa variants, 43 were from Jamshedpur, eight from Ranchi, four from Dhanbad, five from Hazaribagh and three from Palamau. As many as 29 samples were found infected by the Alpha variant and 18 of them were from Ranchi, seven from Hazaribagh and two from Palamau. While the Delta variant of the  coronavirus was found to be most prevalent among the five districts, the new Delta plus variant, reported in Maharashtra, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu were not detected in Jharkhand during the recent genome sequencing, health officials said. “As the virus passes from one body to another, it mutates for its survival. This is how new mutant strains are formed. The Delta variant, which is a variant of concern, was found to be most prevalent in our state. However, the new Delta plus variant was not found in any of the samples sent for genome sequencing,” said Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer of the health department’s Information, Education and Communication (IEC) wing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
21-06-2021||Jharkhand||Railways to make journeys safer with new signal system||The South Eastern Railway will implement a massive modernisation plan of the signalling system, making movement of trains safer. Keeping in view the advantages of the modern signalling system, South Eastern Railway last week completed the commissioning work of the new interlocking system in 26 stations in Chakradharpur and Ranchi railway divisions. The old relay interlocking system was replaced by a new upgraded interlocking system at nine railway stations including Ghatshila on Howrah-Mumbai main route and Bano under Ranchi division. Work is underway for replacing the traditional mechanical lever frame interlocking system with that of electronic interlocking systems at 12 stations including Bokaro Steel City, Talgoria and Lodhma - borh in Ranchi railway division. South Eastern Railway has also earmarked funds for setting-up electronic interlocking systems at Bondamunda and Birarajpur - both in Chakradharpur division and several other stations in Ranchi and Adra divisions. Talking to The Telegraph Online chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway, Sanjay Ghosh said, "Upgradation of the signalling system would help to facilitate train operations at higher speed and even during bad weather." He went on to say that a modernised signalling system will not only ensure safety but will also help in providing seamless train operation. The CPRO said a centralised traffic control system for better monitoring and faster movement of trains have also been planned in Howrah-Kharagpur - Tatanagar section. "All such modernisation work will make the railway zone future ready for train operation," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
21-06-2021||Jharkhand||Active Covid caseload drops below 500 in Ranchi||The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped below 500 in Ranchi on Sunday for the first time in 2021 as the district reported only eight fresh cases of Coronavirus infection against 25 Covid recoveries on the day, figures released by the health department highlighted. At least four districts – Saraikela, Pakur, Godda and Latehar – did not report fresh cases of infection on the day, while at least 18 of 24 districts reported a single-digit-spike in Covid cases, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. Jharkhand reported zero Covid deaths from 9pm on Saturday to 9pm on Sunday and the Covid toll in the state remained 5099, the NHM highlighted in its bulletin. The state on Sunday reported 138 Covid cases against 181 recoveries and the active caseload dropped to 1596. Health officials have attributed the dip in active caseload to strict lockdown restrictions enforced by the state government. As per NHM data, as many as 489 Ranchi residents were battling Covid-19 by the end of Sunday – the highest among the 24 districts in the tribal state. West Singhbhum reported the highest spike of 32 cases on the day, which took the active caseload in the district to 57. At least 12 Covid patients recovered from the disease in the district on Sunday. Dhanbad reported 27 cases against 14 recoveries, while East Singhbhum reported seven cases against 17 recoveries. As per figures compiled by the health department, no Jharkhand district reported a spike of more than 50 cases on the day. The state on Sunday tested swab samples of 42,443 residents and less than 0.5 per cent of them were found infected by the deadly virus. So far, over 3.44 lakh people have been infected by Coronavirus in the state and 98.05 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of infection in Jharkhand was 0.04 per cent on Sunday against the national average of 0.15 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state reached 1787.43 days against the national doubling rate of 463.64 days, the NHM stated in its bulletin. As per data shared by NHM, the state on Sunday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 1,08,030 residents and almost 80,000 of the beneficiaries fell in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. The second jab was administered to as many as 17794 beneficiaries and at least 2658 of them were in the aforementioned age bracket.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
21-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand health worker crosses river with her baby and box of vaccines to reach work||A few days every month, a woman in her mid-20s can be seen crossing a nearly waist-deep hilly stream in a Jharkhand forest on foot, her baby tied to her back. Manti Devi wades the fast-flowing waters of the Burra river with a heavy box of vaccines and a bag full of baby food and other essentials hung over her shoulders, while she holds her chappals in her hand. It’s hard work for meagre pay that Manti does six days a week, travelling nearly 40km every day through thick jungles, to feed her child and jobless husband. But her work ensures that other families and their children stay safe in the remote forest villages of Latehar district, where medical treatment is hard to access and prevention is key. Manti, a contractual auxiliary nurse midwife, carries out the government’s regular immunisation programme for young children in the Aksi panchayat, and the Covid vaccination drive at some centres in the Sohar panchayat. So, she has to travel about 25km every day from her home in Mahuadanr block to the Chetma health centre, to which she is attached, before setting off for forest villages 10-12 km away. Husband Sunil Oraon, unemployed at the moment, takes her to the health centre and a part of the way to the villages on his scooty “since public transport is difficult to find these days”, Manti said. The rest of the distance — at least 4-5km each way on most days — has to be covered on foot across difficult jungle terrain. Does she have to carry her year-and-a-half-old baby all the way every day? “I can’t leave her alone back home for such a long time, almost the entire day,” Manti said over the phone. Manti has to cross the Burra to reach only a few villages like Tisiya, Goyra and Sugabandh, but this poses a problem when the river is in spate after heavy rain upstream — a threat that will only increase over the next few months. “I have to visit each of these villages at least once every month. Most of the other villages can be reached by walking through the forests,” Manti, who got the job in January last year, said. Under the regular immunisation programme, children are protected from diseases like measles, influenza, hepatitis and tuberculosis, for which multiple jabs have to be administered at regular intervals. Manti also has to regularly distribute certain medicines such as iron and folic acid tablets for anaemic children and anti-worm drugs. Last week, the Jharkhand government introduced an anti-pneumonia programme under which pneumococcal conjugate vaccines are also being administered to the children. It’s likely to begin soon in Manti’s area of operations. The state health department recently asked all the district civil surgeons to undertake catch-up rounds to boost the regular immunisation programme and cover all the children who may been left out or dropped out halfway through the vaccination regime. Jharkhand’s regular immunisation programme had always run smoothly before the pandemic posed a challenge. One which a young mother, baby tied to her back, is trying her best to negotiate on behalf of her state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
