22-06-2021||Calcutta||Fire breaks out at shop selling plastic sheets, rakhis and sanitisers in Burrabazar’s Bonfield Lane||A fire broke out at a shop selling plastic sheets, rakhis and sanitisers on the ground floor of a multi-storey building in Burrabazar’s Bonfield Lane on Monday evening. Till last reports came in, 15 fire tenders were trying to douse the flames, which had spread to the first and second floors of the building. Police said no one was injured as all the shops in the area were closed. Firhad Hakim, the chairman of the board of administrators of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, and fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose reached the spot. The area where the building is located is dotted with godowns stacked with chemicals and other inflammable items. Eyewitnesses said they spotted thick black fumes coming out of the ground floor of the building around 8pm and immediately alerted the fire services department. Six fire tenders reached the spot, followed by four others. Later, five more tenders were sent. “Some gas cylinders are known to have been stocked in shops on the floors above,” Hakim said. Punjab and Haryana High Court granted permission to carry out a second post-mortem on gangster Jaipal Bhullar’s body in Punjab on Monday. Jaipal was killed in a police raid on a New Town flat on June 9. His father Bhupinder Singh Bhullar had demanded a second post-mortem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-14
22-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Seven major markets and four malls shut in Barrackpore to break the infection chain||Seven major markets and four malls in Barrackpore were shut on Monday to break the Covid infection chain. Alarmed at the growing number of Covid cases across the Barrackpore sub-division in North 24-Parganas, the civic body there had decided on June 18 to close all markets for seven days, till June 27, from Monday. A team of police officers and representatives of the Barrackpore Municipality, led by Uttam Das, the chairperson of the board of administrators, toured parts of Nona Chandanpukur, Madav Nivas, Burir Market and Talbagan Road in the morning to ensure that the markets remained closed. “We had made extensive announcements over the last three days informing everyone about the decision,” Das told The Telegraph. Over the last few weeks, Barrackpore, 32km north of Calcutta, was registering a little over 100 Covid cases every day even when the other five sub-divisions of North 24-Parganas were witnessing a steady fall in cases, senior officials of the health department said. “We thought of working or micro containment zones in Barrackpore but realised even that wouldn't be enough to flatten the curve,” said a senior official of the health department. “After a few rounds of meeting, it was decided that a seven-day closure of the markets was the only way out.” Barrackpore Municipality, which is spread across 24 wards, is the first civic body to impose complete closure of markets during the second-wave of the coronavirus this year. In July last year, Barasat Municipality, also in North 24-Parganas, had decided to close all markets across 35 wards to bring down the number of Covid cases. “Residents across wards  (in Barrackpore) shouldn’t face much problem because vendors selling fish and vegetables keep visiting the localities. Besides, the grocery shops in neighbourhoods are open,” said Debasishish Ghosh Dastider, a member of the board of administrators of Barrackpore Municipality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-14
22-06-2021||Calcutta||State higher secondary council extends deadline for submission of Class XI annual exam mark sheets ||The state higher secondary council has extended the deadline for submission of Class XI annual examination mark sheets from June 23 to June 28 after several schools said the target was unrealistic. The schools argued that they were simultaneously occupied with online submission of Class IX exam marks by June 24, a deadline set by the state secondary education board ahead of the preparation of the Madhyamik 2021 results. The HS council had set the June 23 deadline last week. A statement signed by Mahua Das, president, West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education, on Monday said: “You (heads of the institutions) are being informed that the last date of submission of marks foils of Class XI annual examination has been extended up to June 28”. Over 2,000 schools are yet to submit hard copies of the mark sheets to the council, at the head office in Salt Lake or any of the council offices. The council has also asked the schools to preserve all marks foils and answer scripts related to the Class XI annual exams held in March 2020. The statement uploaded on the council’s website says: “Any marks foils or answer scripts may be asked for by the council for review purpose within a time period of 6 months from the date of publication of Higher Secondary results, 2021”. The marks are sent through foils that contain large sheets provided by the council. A council official said they want to check whether the schools are sending inflated marks. “If we sniff any discrepancy, the answer scripts and the scores on the mark sheets will be verified,” he said. The council had announced on Friday that it would give 40 per cent weightage to a student’s performance in the Class X board exams and 60 per cent to Class XI annual exam marks and the total would be added to the score in the 30-mark practical (for lab-based subjects) or 20-mark project (for non-lab subjects) to arrive at the final marks of an HS candidate. “The board has warned against any tampering in the marks registers as well as in the marks submitted on the website. We will run a check and take steps,” said an official of the council. The headmaster of a school in south Calcutta said submitting the subject-wise marks of Class IX exams within June 24 on the secondary education board’s new website https:// www.wbbsedata.com was a tough target. “In addition to that, the council had said on Friday while announcing the evaluation methodology that Class XI examination marks would have to be submitted within June 23. We have a shortage of personnel, as many teachers and staff have tested positive for Covid and are on leave. We had to seek an extension,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-14
22-06-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier's College starts accepting online applications for admission to undergraduate programmes ||St Xavier's College on Monday started accepting online applications for admission to undergraduate programmes. The application submission process has been started early so that too many students don’t apply at the same time, said Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the Park Street college. “Or else it will pose a challenge for the college to go through details of the applications at the same time. If we sort out some of the tasks beforehand, we can prepare the list faster.” The Kerala government had conducted the Class XII board exams on campus soon after the Assembly polls got over on April 6. The results are expected to be published by June. “Results of the southern boards like (that in) Kerala could be published this month. In that case, students of the board can start applying. We will complete the process of going through the document verification of the respective boards accordingly. The merit list, however, will be published only after the receipt of applications from (students of) all boards,” said Father Savio. According to information uploaded on the website of the college, students may apply for more than one stream/subject. At the time of applying, documents like board/council final mark sheet, Baptism certificate (if applicable, in case of Catholic applicants) and caste certificate (if applicable) have to be uploaded in the PDF format. “You need the final +2 mark sheet to fill up the form. Hence, do not attempt filling up the online form before your board/council final results are published...,” it says. The eligibility criteria for each subject has been mentioned on the website.. The results of the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education are expected to be published between July 25 and 30. The Class XII results of the CBSE and the ICSE council are also expected in July. Plus-II results are being prepared based on earlier exams written by the students, performance in school projects, practicals and using mathematical formulations to derive a final score. Father Savio said students of the Bengal board, CBSE and ICSE council would have at least 10 days from the date of publication of their results to submit the applications. “That is why the last date of submitting the application has not been mentioned on our website.” Last week, the college had announced that it would give 75 per cent weightage to marks in the Class XII results and 25 per cent to the subject in which an aspirant wants to major while drawing up the merit list for the undergraduate courses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-14
22-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid vaccine crunch hits jab drive at CMC inoculation centres||Lack of enough Covid vaccine doses is triggering long queues for jabs at inoculation centres run by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. Long queues are forming despite the CMC’s decision, prompted by lack of enough supplies, not to vaccinate anyone between 18 and 44 years other than those in priority groups. “We are not able to open the vaccination to everyone who is 18 or above because there is not enough supply of doses. As of now we are restricting vaccination in the 18-44 age group to the priority groups,” Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the CMC’s board of administrators, told Metro on Monday evening. “We cannot even commit when we will be able to vaccinate everyone in the 18-44 age group because we have not yet received the schedule of supply. We are getting small volumes of vaccines every day and that is not enough to open vaccination to everyone 18 and above,” Hakim said. On Monday, winding queues were seen outside CMC vaccination clinics at Star theatre, Uttam Mancha and several other centres. People queued up since early in the morning to ensure they did not miss out on getting the jab. As demand is far outstripping supply, not everyone in the queue is getting the shot. Abhijit Dey, 32, visited two health clinics of the CMC at Muchibazar, near Ultadanga, on Monday. “When I reached one of the clinics at 10am, there were already 250 people in the queue. Some of them told me I had a slim chance of getting the vaccine today,” said Dey, an app cab driver. He then went to Star theatre, where only people in priority groups are being vaccinated. Dey could get the jab there. Many of those who assembled outside Star theatre, and other centres meant for vaccinating priority groups, did not belong to any such group. They were just hoping that the CMC would start vaccinating everyone in the 18-44 age group. The priority groups in the 18-44 segment include transport workers, employees at shops in markets and malls, sex workers, transgenders, drivers and conductors of buses and domestic help. Apart from the priority segments in the 18-44 age group, the CMC clinics are vaccinating everyone who is 45 or above. Ajay Chakraborty, state’s director of health services, echoed Hakim. “There is still a shortage of vaccine doses and we are giving priority to the specially identified groups. We are going to see how many doses we get so that we can vaccinate all people above 18,” said Chakraborty. Officials and doctors of the CMC said the civic body was vaccinating various groups from different centres: The ward health clinics are vaccinating those who are 45 and above. The priority groups are being vaccinated from dedicated centres, such as Star theatre. Five centres — Bidhan Sishu Udyan in Ultadanga, St Xavier’s College on Park Street, Roxy cinema in Esplanade, South City International School on Prince Anwar Shah Road and Quest Mall near Park Circus — will take bookings through the WhatsApp chatbot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
22-06-2021||Calcutta||Bengal govt to appoint over 32,000 schoolteachers at upper primary and primary levels by March 2022||The Bengal government will appoint over 32,000 schoolteachers at the upper primary and primary levels by March 2022, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday. “The appointment process to fill at least 14,000 vacancies in the upper primary level (Classes V to VIII) and 10,500 in the primary level (Classes I to IV) will be completed before Durga Puja in October. Around 7,500 more posts of primary teachers will be filled by March 2022. So around 32,000 teachers will be appointed by next March. This will definitely help our school education,” the chief minister said. “Those who have passed the examinations (teacher eligibility test) are eligible for the jobs. The appointments were stuck because of court cases.” Aspiring teachers had been among the most vocal critics of the Mamata Banerjee government ahead of the Assembly elections. Their grouse stemmed from the fact that the recruitment of teachers for primary schools had been stalled for years. The recruitment at the primary and upper primary levels had earlier been stayed by the high court following allegations that the process lacked transparency. The court later vacated the stay on primary teacher recruitment following an appeal by the state government. The West Bengal Board of Primary Education will appoint teachers at the primary level based on vacancy reports submitted by the district primary school councils. The school service commission will appoint teachers at the upper primary level based on vacancy reports from the respective schools. The high court had on December 11 quashed the process for recruiting nearly 15,000 teachers at the upper primary level following a complaint of discrepancies in the list. Justice Moushumi Bhattacharya had directed the commission to start the recruitment process afresh following the guidelines of the National Council for Teacher Education, which mandates that candidates with a BEd degree will be given first preference. An official of the school education department said: “The commission was instructed to start the process on January 4. The verification of candidates and preparation of merit list were to be completed by May 31, and the recruitment by August 14. Since the process has been completed, the recruitment has been announced by the chief minister.” A high court judge had on February 22 ordered an interim stay on the recruitment of 16,500 primary school teachers following complaints of discrepancies in the merit list. A division bench later stayed the order, saying the judiciary should not prevent an elected government from executing its plan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
22-06-2021||Calcutta||Financial woes drive 31-year-old father to ‘suicide’ in Bansdroni||A 31-year-old father of one, a mason by profession, was found hanging in a building under construction in Bansdroni on Monday morning, with police suspecting suicide driven by financial crisis. Sudhamoy Mondal, a resident of Paschim Anandapally in Regent Park, was found hanging in the building where he had been working for the past few days. Police said he had used a bunch of insulated wires to hang himself from the ceiling of a room where he was involved in paint work. A plastic bucket, which was apparently inverted and used for reaching the noose hanging from the ceiling, was found at the spot. The police said Mondal did not leave any suicide note. He is survived by his wife, an 11-month-old child, his parents and two siblings. Mondal’s father — a rickshaw-puller — has not earned anything in the past one-and-a-half months because of restrictions on public transportation as a precaution against Covid. “The cause of his suicide is yet to be ascertained. It is apparent the family is in an acute financial crisis and in debt. The victim was working as a paint mason at a building under construction at 533 Pirpukur Road. But his earnings were hardly enough to support his family, especially because his father is unemployed,” said an officer of Bansdroni police station. The family has not filed any police complaint. The body has been sent for post-mortem. At least two other persons committed suicide in the city in the past week, unable to put up with the financial crisis and uncertainly because of employment or reduced income amid the pandemic. A homemaker had committed suicide last week unable to cope with the unemployment of his son and inadequate income of her husband, which was apparently lesser than their monthly house rent. An employee of a pharmaceutical company, who had lost his job during the lockdown last year and was forced to sell plastic bags in shops for a living, had committed suicide, leaving behind his wife and two children. The CBI on Monday got court’s permission to conduct a DNA test on Amritava Chowdhury, who was declared dead in the Jnaneswari train accident 11 years ago and was found alive last week. Relatives of another Jnaneswari victim, Prasenjit Dutta, met CBI officers saying they could not identify Dutta’s body. If Chowdhury is alive, they said, the body handed over to his family could have been Dutta’s.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
22-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Nobel winning economist calls for global solution ||A global solution is the only solution to the Covid-19 pandemic, Nobel winning economist Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee said at a virtual session on Tuesday. The Ford Foundation International Professor of Economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who heads the global advisory board to counsel chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Bengal’s Covid-19 response, was speaking at a Bengal Club Library virtual talk session. He was in conversation with club president Soumendra Nath Mookherjee and Rudra Chatterjee, managing director of Luxmi Tea. Excerpts from the conversation: Finding hope Mookherjee cited a few lines from the foreword in Banerjee and Esther Duflo’s book, Poor Economics: The book “makes clear why hope is vital and knowledge critical, why we have to keep on trying even when the challenge looks overwhelming. Success isn’t always as far away as it looks.” Mookherjee then asked the economist: “Today, in the midst of this pandemic, when India’s economy has been devastated, a large number of people have fallen below the poverty line, how do we keep our hopes alive? Where do we look for hope?” Banerjee said he did not want to give a recipe “for what the next step should be”. But he suggested that people look back to the past two decades of human progress to find hope. “If you take 20 years before 2019, the most striking fact about this period is that overall world poverty declined massively. The second thing, may be even more important, is the quality of life measured by things like infant mortality, which has halved in this period globally. Maternal mortality has reduced by a third. It is extraordinary,” said Banerjee. “There were a number of major breakthroughs, for example HIV medicine is now available essentially free everywhere in the world, a huge increase in vaccination of children. All of these have saved a lot of lives. I think we should not lose the perspective on the last 20 years. This (Covid 19) has been a disaster, perhaps a disaster that will have long-term consequences. But I wouldn’t take away just the sheer magnitude of progress that leads up to 2019,” he said. Vaccine inequality Mookherjee spoke of Banerjee’s article in The Guardian, where he made an argument, “both moral and economic”, for rich countries to share their vaccine stocks with the poorer nations. “Most of these rich countries are democracies. Is it politically practical to get the leaders of these countries to really share the existing stocks of vaccines?” asked Mookherjee. Banerjee said the leaders of the rich countries should explain to voters a simple logic — that it was important to share vaccines for their own protection. “They are dragging their feet partly because the political commitments are difficult. On the other hand, it is also a democratic failure. The UK is shutting down its planned opening because of the so-called Delta variant. This will keep coming. If they don’t solve the problem worldwide, you can’t solve the problem in one country. That’s the whole point of a pandemic…. To be honest, this is not a question of democracy. You should be able to go to the voters and say, ‘look, this just to protect ourselves, we are going to give them (vaccines) away because (if we don’t) it’s going to come and kill us,” said Banerjee. Monopoly The co-founder and director of Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab, Banerjee has done ground-breaking work on studying human inequalities. On Tuesday, Chatterjee asked him about corporate inequality. “My question is on the inequality among companies…. It seems some companies have done incredibly well and most companies haven’t done so well. It seems one day, we will all be shopping on Amazon. All our information will be on Google and maybe we will all be buying energy from Tesla. Where is this going in terms of corporate inequality? This is global, not just in any one country,” he said. Banerjee said he would “bet against Tesla supplying all our energy”. “There is a real difference. Both Amazon and Google have massive economies of scale. Once you have set up a supply chain, your advantages are so massive. If you have volume, you can have storage in the neighbourhood. If you don’t have volume, you can’t have storage except in some central location. Economies of scale are built into both (Amazon and Google). I don’t think that is built into Tesla,” he said. “But having said that, we should be scared of these massive monopolies because they do have the ability to block productivity growth,” added Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
22-06-2021||Calcutta||Over 9 lakh plastic bottles, water pouches and bags flushed out from Sunderbans in 10 days: Officials ||More than 9 lakh plastic bottles have been flushed out from the ecologically sensitive Sunderbans in 10 days and all of that was part of relief materials sent to the region after Cyclone Yaas, said district administration officials. Apart from plastic bottles, water pouches and various types of plastic bags were fished out of rivers and ponds and accumulated at collection points using mosquito nets to prevent them from flowing back into the water. The remaining plastic waste will be disposed of, too - in a similar way or through registered recyclers of plastic approved by the state pollution control board, said an official involved in the drive. What has been collected till now is believed to be only a small percentage of plastic dumped across a 230sqkm area of the Sunderbans, covering eight blocks that were worst affected by the cyclone that had struck on May 26. Waste collectors, including ragpickers in the city, have been engaged to weed out the plastic items and take them to recycling units. The plastic bottles are being manually sorted and their lids and labels removed before being compressed into cubes and sent for recycling. The administration is working along with women from over 300 local self-help groups and members of the government’s vector-borne disease control teams. “In the last 10 days, 3.5 tonnes of plastic bottles have been removed from the riverine areas with the help of local kabadiwalas”, said the district magistrate of South 24-Parganas, P. Ulganathan. “The process will continue till the entire lot is cleared.” According to official estimates of the district administration, an estimated count of 1 crore plastic pouches, 20 lakh drinking water bottles and polythene and plastic packets were dumped in water bodies across the 69 affected gram panchayat areas in eight blocks — Kakdwip, Namkhana, Patharpratima, Sagar, Kultali, Mathurapur, Basanti and Gosaba. Of the 20-lakh bottles, approximately 9.6 lakh have been fished out of the water. The bottles that were removed weighed 9.03 tonnes and would need five or six large trucks to be transported. Pockets of the Sunderbans delta — which are a little more than 100km from the heart of Calcutta — have been ravaged by supercyclone Amphan, which hit last year, and then Yaas. Apart from the government’s aid, the cyclone affected areas received large quantities of private relief in form of food, water, baby food, sanitary napkins and medicines. The relief materials were all carried in plastic bags. The bags and plastic bottles and pouches were dumped across villages after use. “As river water flooded the villages during high tide, it washed away all the plastic. We split the accumulated plastic in separate categories — plastic bottles and the remaining plastic bags, wrappers and tetra-packs,” said Prasun Kanti Das of Aamra Susama Jalaprapat, an NGO that has been engaged by the South 24-Parganas district administration for solid waste management in the Sunderbans. The presence of huge quantities of plastic has set alarm bells ringing among environmentalists. “Dolphins and turtles unknowingly consume plastic and may choke to death. The smell of plastic used for carrying food attracts fish, which nibble at them. Such fish is bad for human consumption,” said Sugata Hazra, a former director of the School of Oceanographic Studies, Jadavpur University. “The mangrove roots are breathing roots and they protrude out of the surface to breathe. If they are covered with plastic, their condition becomes as bad as that of a person who is choked,” he said. District magistrate Ulganathan said the adminis-tration was trying to persu-ade people carrying relief materials to use starch or jute bags.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
22-06-2021||Business||Sitharaman meets Infosys officials, reviews I-T portal tech glitches||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday reviewed with Infosys officials the technical glitches that continue to mar the new income tax e-filing portal. Sitharaman, along with Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur, Revenue Secretary Tarun Bajaj, CBDT Chairman Jagannath Mohapatra and other senior ministry officials, went point by point on the issues facing the new portal with officials of Infosys - the vendor which developed the site. While there was no official word on what transpired at the meeting, a statement issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) said "the technical glitches shall be addressed fast". ICAI representatives attended the meeting on Tuesday. The portal launched on June 7 continued to face glitches, including longer logging in time, inability to generate OTP for Aadhaar validation, non-availability of ITRs for past years. Several stakeholders have submitted written inputs highlighting the issues facing the portal as well as areas that need to be fixed. The stakeholders have also highlighted weak user interface, inability to view old demand, grievances and intimation orders as the issues that need to be fixed. The ICAI in a statement issued after the meeting said that it has been asked to provide its continuous support and inputs to CBDT and Infosys, in resolving the issues, as early as possible. The Income Tax Department said the new portal was aimed at making compliance more taxpayer-friendly, however the technical glitches shall be addressed fast, for convenience of all, the ICAI statement said. The e-filing portal www.incometax.gov.in was launched on June 7, which the tax department as well as the government said was aimed at making compliance more taxpayer-friendly. This is the portal that common income taxpayers will also use to file their annual returns for assessment year 2021-22, for income earned in financial year 2020-21. The last date for filing of such returns by individual taxpayers is September 30. At the company's annual shareholder meeting, Infosys had on Saturday stated that it is working to resolve the issues and has already succeeded on some fronts. Addressing shareholders' questions on the matter, Infosys said it is deeply concerned with the inconvenience caused by the technical glitches in the new income tax e-filing portal, and that it is working to resolve all the issues at the earliest. "Infosys is working to resolve the concerns in the new income tax e-filing portal. For the last week, several of the technology glitches, which impacted the performance and stability, have been addressed. And as a result, we have observed lakhs of unique daily users in the portal," said Infosys Chief Operating Officer Pravin Rao while responding to queries during the AGM. Answering a shareholder's question, Rao informed that close to one lakh income tax returns have been filed so far on the portal. Ahead of Tuesday's meeting with Infosys, the Finance Ministry had on June 16 invited written representations from stakeholders regarding glitches or issues faced on the new income tax e-filing portal. Tax consultants have submitted their representations pertaining to technical and performance issues, issues of missing data, modules which are not working. Some consultants have also suggested that the old e-filing portal should remain active till the time the new portal stabilises and in the meantime beta testing be carried out to resolve the issues faced by users. Infosys was in 2019 awarded a contract to develop the next-generation income tax filing system to reduce processing time for returns from 63 days to one day and expedite refunds. Sitharaman herself had on June 8 asked Infosys and its Chairman Nandan Nilekani to fix the technical glitches. A day after the launch of the new portal, social media users had flagged glitches in the new e-filing portal to the finance minister. Following that, Sitharaman took to Twitter and asked Infosys and its chairman to fix the problem. Replying to the tweet, Nilekani had said Infosys is working to fix the glitches.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-12
22-06-2021||Business||Can Life Insurance Serve as a Steady Source of Post-Retirement Income?||The life expectancy figures in India have risen over the last decade. As per Statista, life expectancy in India has increased from 67-68 years in 2015 to 69-70 years in 2020. This implies that the post-retirement life span has also increased. This has a direct influence on the financial preparedness for retirement. While many of you might rely on your accumulated savings to get you through the non-working years of your life, the truth is, the annual rise in inflation (nearly 5-6%) combined with the longer life span and mounting medical expenses can all be an expensive outcome. To ensure a financially secure retirement, your basic need is to have a regular source of income in your post-retirement life. You should plan and invest in wise investment options like life insurance that offer you dual advantages of a life cover, along with guaranteed post-retirement income. With a regular source of post-retirement income, you will be better equipped to maintain your standard of living, combat the impact of inflation, and meet your and your family’s medical expenses in the future. How does life insurance help? Specific life insurance plans known as retirement plans are designed to provide you with financial stability during the non-working years of your life. These plans offer the double benefit of life insurance and investment. You pay regular premiums when you are working and enjoy tax exemptions on the premiums paid. The money is invested in the market, and it accrues over the policy tenure. At the vesting age, when you decide to receive the payouts, you can choose to take regular income withdrawals as per your preference. You also get life insurance cover throughout the policy term like a term insurance. Some benefits of the Retirement Insurance Plans 1. Life protection and regular income till 99 years: When you invest in the Retirement Plan, you enjoy a life insurance cover along with regular income and tax benefits. The payouts can begin from the 2nd policy year and continue till 99 years. This means that even during your retired life, you will have a regular source of income to meet your expenses. 2. Income options of your preference: You can choose your income payout period. You could opt to receive a regular income stream from the 2nd policy year or take the defer income option, where you start getting income a year post your policy tenure expiry. Further, you can also choose the guaranteed income type. You could either take a stable payout or select an increasing income option, where your payouts increase at a defined frequency. This gives you the freedom to plan your retired life well. 3. Added rewards and bonuses: You also benefit from the good financial health of the company. Every time the plan performs well, you have the chance to get added cash bonus as a reward. Each added reward helps to increase your retirement corpus. 4. Riders to enhance your coverage: These Plans helps you enhance your insurance coverage by offering additional riders. These include Critical Illness Rider, Income Benefit Rider, Accidental Death Benefit Rider, Accidental Total and Permanent Disability Rider, Waiver of Premium Rider and Payor Waiver Benefit Rider. 5. A reliable friend in times of urgent need: In case of financial troubles or urgent need of cash, you can also take a loan from your Active Income Plan. This means that even during critical times in retirement, you will have a reliable asset to fall back on. 6. Tax benefits: The premiums you pay in this plan are exempt from taxes under Section 80 (C). Moreover, the income you receive is also eligible for tax benefits under Section 10(10D). This will lower your tax burden in the present as well as in the future after retirement. With effective retirement planning and the right income options, you can easily secure the most important phase of your life, spanning decades. There is no margin for error here, so make the right choice and at the right time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-12
22-06-2021||Business||Sensex ends flat, retreats from 53K mark on profit-booking||Equity benchmark Sensex ended on a flat note after scaling the 53,000 mark on Tuesday as investors booked profits at higher levels.  After touching a lifetime intra-day peak of 53,057.11, the 30-share BSE index settled 14.25 points or 0.03 per cent higher at 52,588.71.  Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 26.25 points or 0.17 per cent to 15,772.75.  Maruti was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 5 per cent, followed by L&T, UltraTech Cement, TCS and Titan.  On the other hand, Asian Paints, Bajaj Finance, Nestle India and HUL were among the laggards.  Markets opened strong on the back of global cues and pick-up in the pace of vaccination. Tuesday's trade saw hectic activity in stocks pertaining to the 'unlock' theme, said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities.  Nearing Mount 53K, however, Sensex witnessed profit-taking across the board in afternoon trade, he noted.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo ended with gains, while Hong Kong was in the red.  Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading with gains in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.47 per cent lower at USD 74.55 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-13
22-06-2021||Business||NCLT clears Jalan Kalrock Consortium's revival plan for Jet Airways||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on Tuesday approved Jalan Kalrock Consortium's resolution plan for the bankrupt-Jet Airways. As part of the revival plan NCLT has given 90 days to Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and Aviation Ministry to allot slots to the debt-laden Jet Airways. However, Jet Airways being given its important historic domestic and international routes remains unresolved The Kalrock-Jalan consortium had proposed to repay banks, financial institutions and employees ₹ 1,200 crore over next five years and plans to establish Jet Airways as a full service airline with 30 aircraft. Jet Airways, which suspended operations in April 2019, has been undergoing a resolution process under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) for two years. In October 2020, the Committee of Creditors (CoC) of the grounded airline had approved the resolution plan submitted by a consortium of UK's Kalrock Capital and UAE-based entrepreneur Murari Lal Jalan. In June 2019, NCLT admitted the insolvency petition against Jet Airways filed by the lenders' consortium led by the State Bank of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-13
22-06-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 350 points to hit record intra-day high||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 350 points to scale a fresh intra-day record in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index-heavyweights Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and ICICI Bank, amid a positive trend in global equities. After touching a lifetime intra-day peak of 52,957.13, the 30-share BSE index was trading 374.92 points or 0.71 per cent higher at 52,949.38 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 115.05 points or 0.73 per cent to 15,861.55. Maruti was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by M&M, L&T, TCS, ICICI Bank, SBI and HDFC twins. On the other hand, Nestle India and Bajaj Finance were the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 230.01 points or 0.44 per cent higher at 52,574.46. Similarly, the Nifty advanced 63.15 points or 0.40 per cent to 15,746.50. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,244.71 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities look to be good as of now following firm global cues. US stocks finished sharply higher with Dow and S&P 500 recording 1.4-1.8 per cent gains as investors focused on strengthening of the US economy and strong corporate earnings, Modi noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong was in the red. Further, India's daily caseload falling below 60,000 and ramp-up in vaccination programmes offer comfort, Modi said, adding that expectations of sharp improvement in high frequency key economic indicators from the current month supported by ease of business curbs in various states should continue to offer support to corporate earnings. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.35 per cent higher at USD 75.16 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-13
22-06-2021||Business||Bandhan Bank scrip surges on the bourses ||The Bandhan Bank scrip surged on the bourses on Monday on the back of an announcement by the Assam government last Friday to offer a relief package to bail out small-loan borrowers in the northeastern state. As an incentive to good borrowers who have not defaulted, the Assam government will provide a relief of Rs 25,000, or the current outstanding, whichever is lower. Relief will also be provided to borrowers who are overdue to help them regularise their repayments and to those who have no plans to leverage further. On the BSE, the Bandhan Bank shares gained almost 8 per cent to close at Rs 341.10. On the NSE, the stock rose 7.53 per cent to Rs 340.50. The Assam government’s package, estimated to cost around Rs 8,500 crore, is likely to be part of the state budget. It will address a key concern of elevated stress in the microlending sector in the state without affecting the credit score of the borrowers. The state’s outstanding loan at the end of March 2021 was around Rs 12,000 crore with delinquency levels in  double digits. According to the Crif Microlend report, a combination of economic stress, agitation over the Citizenship Amendment Bill, the Covid-19 pandemic and the Microfinance Bill has impacted lenders. Bandhan Bank has a substantial exposure in Assam with a portfolio of about Rs 7,000 crore or 12 per cent of its overall microfinance loan book. Regulatory backing Regulatory oversight is a major concern in the microfinance segment that includes banks, small finance banks, traditional non-bank finance companies (NBFCs) and non-bank microfinance institutions (NBFC-MFIs) and even nonprofit institutions. While NFBC MFIs have their set of voluntary code of responsible lending, that is not applicable to banks or small finance banks. But the target borrowers of all lenders are the same, thus leaving room for overleveraging. Alok Misra, CEO and director, MFIN, told The Telegraph that the oversight of MFIN as self regulatory organisation is limited to NBFC MFIs. In order to have a more sustainable growth, the industry body has urged banks, small finance banks and NBFCs to consider the voluntary code of responsible lending and around 85 per cent of the industry is currently covered. “Had it got a regulatory backing, it would have been 100 per cent from day one,” Misra said. Brokerages on Monday remained bullish on the bank following the announcement of a package by the state government. The concern however will be addressed once the proposals in the consultative document on regulation of microfinance announced by RBI and applicable to all entities comes into effect.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-13
22-06-2021||Business||Steel firms firm up plans to invest Rs 60,000 crore over next three years: CII president||Higher global steel prices have impacted the MSME sector and other industries with increased input cost, but it has also put more money in the hands of the steel firms, which are now going in for capacity expansion. “The steel prices are cyclical, much like several other commodities. Steel firms have firmed up plans to invest about Rs 60,000 crore over the next three years, the biggest private sector investment plans announced in recent times,”  newly elected CII president and MD of Tata Steel, T.V. Narendran, told The Telegraph. “I think we have seen both (demand and profitability) coming back and I can say that from the steel sector point of view, all companies are having significant expansion plans,” he said. Tata Steel is investing Rs 25,000 crore. “The industry is exposed to cycles... when companies make money and margins are high, capacity expansions takes place. When prices were low, many steel industries went into losses… the country needs to take a call on how to manage not just steel but most commodities..” The MSME engineering sector has expressed concerns on the rising steel prices. Narendran said he was conscious of those concerns, but added that steel prices in India were still the cheapest in the world. “They have a concern where they have a fixed price contract... I am not insensitive to their concerns,” he said. Volatility in prices is the unfortunate reality of the industry, it sometimes hurts producers and sometimes it hurts consumers and “both of us need to de-risk ourselves”, he added. “Domestic demand for steel had picked up pace in the second half of FY21. However, the second wave of the coronavirus has mildly hit demand from certain sectors. We expect it to be lower in the first quarter of FY22. However, in the second quarter, demand will return with unlocking of restrictions. Capacity utilisation rate of user industries will improve as more people get vaccinated ,” Care Ratings said . “Steel producers are likely to cover up the lost production in the subsequent months and therefore there is no change in our annual crude steel output forecast of 9-11% growth for FY22.  Domestic steel prices continue to remain at a sharp discount to international steel prices which indicates there is room for further price hike,” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-13
22-06-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki India to substantially hike prices across models||Maruti Suzuki India, the country’s largest car maker, is set to substantially hike prices across its models in the July-September quarter because of a rise in prices of various essential commodities, including steel. The hike in prices would be the third increase for the car maker in 2021. “Steel prices have gone up by 80 per cent compared with May last year and prices of precious metals such as rhodium and palladium have increased by 250 per cent. So, the price increase could be substantial compared with the January and April price hikes,” MSI executive director (sales and marketing) Shashank Srivastava told The Telegraph. The data showed that the average price hike across models in January was 1 per cent and in April it was 1.6 per cent. “In April, we passed on a part of the increased input costs to consumers thinking that the prices of these essential commodities will come down eventually. But that has not happened and as a last resort we are doing it to safeguard the company’s financial health,” he said. He noted that the price of steel has gone up from Rs 38 per kg to Rs 68 per kg, while that of rhodium has gone up from Rs 19,000 per gram to about Rs 66,000 per gram, thus impacting the production cost. Rhodium and palladium are used in the catalysers and their demand has gone up manifold because of the introduction of stricter emission norms across the world. The requirement of these precious metals in BS-VI models is substantially more, leading to a spike in the cost of the vehicle. “There are no signs that the prices of steel and precious metals would come down, in fact it is increasing. We are not in a position to absorb the impact and, therefore, would pass on some of it to the consumers in the July-September quarter,” Srivastava noted. Srivastava said “the company is still working out the price hike issue – whether it should be across all models or only to some models. The internal debate is on the input cost impact on the topline and the bottomline and how to work out an optimal solution to it”. Earlier in a regulatory filing, MSI stated: “Over the past year, the cost of the company’s vehicles continue to be adversely impacted by the increase in various input costs. Hence, it has become imperative to pass on some of the additional costs to customers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-13
22-06-2021||Business||Tea Board of India auction to commemorate International Tea Day||The special tea auction conducted under the aegis of the Tea Board of India to commemorate the International Tea Day met with good response from buyers. A special lot from Goodricke’s Badamtam tea estate in Darjeeling fetched the highest price among all the categories auctioned on Monday. A batch of Assam orthodox produced by the Chubwa tea estate of Amalgamated Plantations came a close second. The buyer — Golden Tea House — paid Rs 27,560 a kg for the Darjeeling tea from Badamtam, understandably the highest in the auction. Golden Tips Tea Co Ltd was the buyer for the Assam orthodox tea from Chubwa, fetching Rs 24,010 a kg. For the CTC variety, the honour was taken by Assam’s Amgoorie tea estate of Goodricke Group. Uniworld Tea Cheers Pvt Ltd was the buyer, which paid Rs 2,510 a kg. This is the second edition of the special auction conducted by the Tea Board. Tea sold in this auction was plucked on May 21, which is celebrated as the International Tea Day. Only small batches of high quality and speciality teas were produced and sold under this auction on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-13
22-06-2021||Business||Facebook, WhatsApp urge HC to stay CCI notice on Privacy policy||Facebook and WhatsApp on Monday urged the Delhi high court to stay the Competition Commission of India’s (CCI) notice asking them to furnish certain information in relation to a probe ordered by it into the instant messaging app’s new privacy policy. A vacation bench of Justices Anup Jairam Bhambhani and Jasmeet Singh said it will pass an order on the application. During the hearing, the bench said as it was sitting on a vacation bench, it did not want to delve into the merits of the matter even as the main petitions are pending before a bench headed by the Chief Justice. “We will pass an order. The matter will be listed on July 9 (the date already fixed for the main petitions),” the bench said. The case relates to the appeals of Facebook and WhatsApp against a single-judge order dismissing their pleas against the probe CCI ordered into the instant messaging app's new privacy policy. The high court had earlier issued notices on the appeals and asked the Centre to respond to it. In their fresh applications filed in the pending appeals, Facebook and WhatsApp sought a stay on the CCI’s June 4 notice asking them to furnish certain information for the purpose of inquiry conducted by it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-13
22-06-2021||Business||Securities Appellate Tribunal allows PNB Housing Finance to hold extraordinary general meeting||The Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) on Monday allowed PNB Housing Finance to hold its extraordinary general meeting (EGM) on Tuesday. Among other proposals, the shareholders’ meet will consider the contentious deal with the Carlyle group. In an interim order, the tribunal said the results of the voting on the proposed transaction will not be declared and that it will be kept in a sealed cover till the final orders are passed. This came after the housing finance company filed an appeal against Sebi’s direction that it should not proceed with the transaction till a valuation is done by an independent valuer. On Monday, the shares of PNB Housing Finance were locked in at the lower circuit because of the Sebi order. It ended lower by 5  per cent at Rs 702.40 on the BSE. “The company has filed an appeal before SAT against the letter issued by Sebi on June 18,” PNB Housing said in a regulatory filing on Monday. Sebi had directed the company that it should not consider the first item of the EGM notice (of May 31, 2021) till such time as an independent valuation of the shares is done.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-13
22-06-2021||Business||Clarity on sops for chemical cell batteries||The production-linked incentives to  manufacture advanced chemistry cell batteries will be offered only to those firms that have been allocated the production capacity under the national programme on ACC battery storage through a transparent mechanism. According to a notification of the department of heavy industries, the incentives will not be offered to conventional battery pack segment of the industry as such manufacturing activities are already happening in the country. In May, the government approved the PLI scheme for manufacturing ACC (advanced chemistry cell) batteries at an estimated outlay of Rs 18,100 crore. ACCs are the new generation advanced energy storage technologies that can store electric energy either as electrochemical or as chemical energy and convert it back to electric energy as and when required.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-13
22-06-2021||Business||Rupee slumps to its lowest level in nearly eight weeks||The rupee on Monday slumped to its lowest level in nearly eight weeks, shedding 24 paise to close at 74.10 to the dollar as participants turned cautious, apprehending foreign fund outflows after hawkish comments from the US Federal Reserve. At the interbank forex market, the domestic unit opened weak at 74.20 against the American currency, pared some initial losses and finally closed at 74.10, showing a fall of 24 paise over its previous close. This was the lowest level seen by the local currency since April 28. Meanwhile, the dollar index, which gauges the greenback’s strength against a basket of six currencies, fell 0.19 per cent to 92.04. “The rupee depreciated against the dollar on Monday on broad greenback strength and worries of foreign fund outflows due to hawkish comments from the US Fed,” said Sriram Iyer, senior research analyst at Reliance Securities. The unit had fallen to an intra-day low of 74.28, but trimmed losses on dollar sales by exporters, Iyer said, adding that “most regional currencies also weakened on Monday following the dollar’s strength and weighed on the prices”. Fifth in FDI inflows India received $64 billion in foreign direct investment in 2020, the fifth largest recipient of inflows in the world, according to a UN report which said the second wave of Covid-19 in the country weighs heavily on the country’s overall economic activities but its strong fundamentals provide “optimism” for the medium term. The World Investment Report 2021 by the UN Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), released on Monday, said global FDI flows have been severely hit by the pandemic and they plunged by 35 per cent in 2020 to $1 trillion from $1.5 trillion the previous year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-14
22-06-2021||Business||Finance ministry take up tax portal glitches in meeting with Infosys||Two weeks since the new income tax return filing portal was launched, technical glitches continue to mar the site, an issue finance ministry officials will take up in a meeting with Infosys — the vendor which provided the IT solution —  on Tuesday. Several stakeholders have submitted written inputs highlighting the problems they face. Users have complained they are unable to view past e-filed returns, the web page is taking too long to load, the user interface is weak while old demand, grievances and intimation orders are unavailable. The e-filing portal, www.incometax.gov.in, was launched on June 7. This is the portal that income tax payers will also use to file their annual returns for the assessment year 2021-22 for income earned in financial year 2020-21. The last date for filing of such returns by individual taxpayers is September 30. The meeting on June 22 will also be attended by members from ICAI, auditors and consultants. Tax consultants have complained about missing data and modules which are not working. Some consultants have also suggested that the old e-filing portal should remain active till the time the new portal stabilises and in the meantime, beta testing be carried out to resolve the issues faced by users. Infosys was in 2019 awarded a contract to develop the next-generation income tax filing system to reduce processing time for returns from 63 days to one day and expedite refunds. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman herself had on June 8 asked Infosys and its Chairman Nandan Nilekani to fix the technical glitches. The Direct Taxes Professionals  Associations (DTPA) in a letter to Sitharaman has pointed out 40 problems in the new income tax portal for filing of returns. The DTPA has also urged the finance minister to extend by two months the date for payment of tax under the Vivad Se Vishwas Scheme (VSV) as also the date for furnishing TDS/TCS statements and for other compliance which are due by June 30. DTPA Representation Committee chairman Narayan Jain said, “There is no option for the VSV scheme even though the scheme is still on for payments... we are unable to file TDS/TCS statements, form 10A for making application for fresh registration of societies and trusts  under Sec 12AB and 80G not available in this portal.” “IT acknowledgements and Intimation under Sec 143(1) cannot be downloaded. Moreover, we are facing probems with DIN Number, IT payment challan numbers are not getting validated, while digital signature certificates not getting registered or updated.” DTPA president N.K. Goyal said that many taxpayers have got notices from the National Faceless Assessment Officers and Faceless CIT (Appeal) but taxpayers are unable to comply in the absence of an e-proceeding tab in the portal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-14
22-06-2021||Business||Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules 2020 drafted by the consumer affairs ministry||E-commerce marketplace entities will have to put in place an effective grievance redressal system if they wish to shield themselves from lawsuits arising from a botched sale on their platforms. The move to recast the rules will subject e-commerce giants to a regulatory template that borrows heavily from the contentious regime that governs information technology giants under the revised intermediary regulations that came into effect last month. The consumer affairs ministry on Monday floated a draft Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules 2020 that grants e-commerce players exemption from liability against lawsuits from irate consumers in much the same way as set out in the IT intermediary rules. “A marketplace e-commerce entity which seeks to avail the exemption from liability under sub-section (1) of section 79 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 (21 of 2000) shall comply with sub-sections (2) and (3) of that section, including the provisions of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines) Rules, 2011," the e-commerce rules say. Section 79 of the IT Act grants an IT intermediary exemption from any liability if it “observes due diligence while discharging his duties... and also observes such other guidelines as the Central Government may prescribe”. The protective cover disappears if the intermediary conspires, abets, aids or induces the “commission of an unlawful Act”. The extension of the same safe harbor provision to the e-commerce players may not ignite fierce protests as have been raised by Twitter and WhatsApp but there will be a deep sense of foreboding about the fallout of any guidelines that the government may frame in the future. The draft law also says that every marketplace e-commerce entity shall include in its terms and conditions governing its relationship with sellers on its platform, a description of any differentiated treatment which it gives or might give between goods or services or sellers in the same category. No logistics service provider of a marketplace e-commerce entity shall provide differentiated treatment between sellers in the same category, it added. Under the grievance redressal system, the e-commerce platform will have to provide all information relating to a seller including his address on request after a sale to aid dispute settlement resolution. E-commerce firms will now have to appoint a chief compliance officer who shall be responsible for ensuring legal compliance and is liable for any proceedings related to any relevant third-party information, data or communication link made available or hosted by e-commerce entity. The compliance officer has to be a resident Indian citizen. The companies also have to appoint a nodal contact person for 24x7 co-ordination with the law enforcement agencies and officers to ensure compliance to their orders . A grievance redressal mechanism has to be put in place by the e-commerce entity along with appointing a resident grievance officer who is an Indian citizen. The co-ordinates of the grievance officer have to be put up on the website. The e-commerce firms must have mobile apps along with a mechanism for users to make complaints against violation of the provisions of the rules and other matters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-14
22-06-2021||India||Covid: Pending editions of JEE-Mains likely in August, NEET in September||The Ministry of Education is contemplating conducting pending editions of engineering entrance exam JEE-Mains in July and August while the medical entrance exam NEET can be shifted to September, according to sources. However, a final decision in this regard is yet to be taken and the Ministry is in process of reviewing the Covid-19 situation across states and UTs. "The pending editions of JEE-Mains are likely to be conducted either at the end of July or August with a fortnight's gap between the two tests. NEET is likely to be pushed to September," a source said. From the current academic session, JEE-Mains is being conducted four times a year to offer flexibility to students and a chance to improve their scores. The first phase in February was followed by the second phase in March, while the next phases were scheduled for April and May. But those were postponed after an exponential rise in the number of COVID-19 cases during the second wave of the pandemic in the country. The JEE-Advanced exam, which is conducted for admission to the prestigious Indian Institutes of Technology and the National Institutes of Technology, was also postponed. The exam was scheduled on July 3. While no further decision was taken on NEET-UG which is scheduled on August 1, the registration for the exam, which was supposed to commence from May 1, was kept in abeyance. The ministry is also yet to decide on the fate of the Central University Common Entrance Test (CUCET). Earlier this month, the CBSE cancelled class 12 board exams in view of the pandemic and has announced a marks tabulation policy. Following the same route, the CISCE and several state boards also cancelled the same exams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-43
22-06-2021||India||Covid: Maharashtra's daily cases rise to 8,470||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 8,470 new coronavirus cases - up from 6,270 cases a day ago - taking its Covid-19 tally to 59,87,521, while 188 fresh deaths pushed the count to 1,18,795, the state health department said. According to NDTV news report, as many as 9,043 patients were discharged during the day, taking the number of recovered cases to 57,42,258, a statement from the health department said. There are now 1,23,340 active cases in the state, where the coronavirus recovery rate is 95.9 per cent, while the fatality rate is 1.98 per cent, the statement said. The health department said 2,16,861 people were tested for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours and added that so far, 3,98,86,554 tests have been conducted in the state. According to the statement, Mumbai city reported 568 new cases and 10 deaths, taking its infection tally to 7,21,099 and the count to 15,315. In the wider Mumbai division, comprising the city and its satellite towns, there were 1,784 cases and 33 deaths. This took the cumulative caseload in the region to 15,79,123 and the deaths to 31,401, it said. Meanwhile, Maharashtra on Tuesday administered a record 5.52 lakh doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, breaking its previous record of inoculating 5.34 lakh people on April 26, a senior official said, according to news agency PTI. The state, till 8pm on Tuesday, had given 5,52,909 doses, and the actual figure could increase further, according to additional chief secretary (health) Pradeep Vyas. With this, the total number of doses administered in Maharashtra stands at 2.85 crore, the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-44
22-06-2021||India||China recruits Tibetans in army amid standoff with India||China’s People’s Liberation Army has reportedly raised a new batch of soldiers comprising Tibetan youths in the strategic Chumbi Valley in Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) amid a months-long standoff with India. According to a report by the Hindustan Times, which quoted sources familiar with the development who cited intelligence reports, this exercise is a part of enhanced efforts to recruit more Tibetans in the Chinese army. Indian security agencies, over the past year, have been gathering information regarding the Chinese Army holding recruitment drives across TAR to rope in more people from the area. However, these are the first reports about the raising of new Tibetan militias in the eastern segment of the LAC, sources quoted by Hindustan Times said. At least two batches of youths, each batch comprising 100 of them, have been recruited to join the Chinese force. One batch has completed its training with the PLA and has been deployed at different locations across Chumbi Valley, including Yadong, Cheema, Rinchengang or Renqinggang, PB Thang and Phari, the anonymous sources said. The second batch is being trained at an army facility in Phari, the sources said, citing intelligence reports and communications intercepts from different security agencies. The soldiers presently operate without uniforms or ranks, they added. “The militias are being raised with the aim of being deployed mostly in local border areas to exploit their knowledge of the local terrain, language, demography and weather conditions,” a source told Hindustan Times. Tibetans who get into the PLA’s Special Tibetan Army Unit are taken to Buddhist monks for their blessings after completing their training, security agencies have learnt. “There are no records of such a practice of taking Tibetan recruits to Tibetan monks for their blessings. This is likely a new strategy by the PLA to get some religious mileage from the newly-recruited Tibetan troops,” the source cited above told Hindustan Times. China’s official statistics from 2010 show that 2.1 million Han personnel operate in the Army, compared to 4,300 Tibetans. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-44
22-06-2021||India||Pfizer in final stages of agreement for supply in India, says CEO||US Pharma giant Pfizer is in the final stages of an agreement with India to supply anti-COVID-19 vaccines, CEO Dr Albert Bourla said on Tuesday, observing that the domestically manufactured vaccines would be the backbone of vaccinating the Indian people. Addressing the 15th edition of the India-US Bio Pharma & Healthcare Summit being organised by the US-India Chamber of Commerce, Dr Bourla also said that Pfizer has made a specific plan that the mid and low-income countries, which includes India, will receive at least two billion of such doses. "My hope is that very soon we will finalise the approval of the product in India by the Indian health care authorities and the agreement with the government so that we can also start sending vaccines, on our side, Bourla said. The Pfizer CEO said that significant local manufacturing of vaccines that is happening at the Serum Institute of India will provide the backbone of vaccinating the Indian people. "But getting the additional mRNA vaccines from us and also from Moderna will contribute significantly," he said. Pfizer, he said, is confident of producing three billion doses of COVID-19 vaccines and another four billion by next year, making it seven billion in all. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-44
22-06-2021||India||Adityanath, RSS leaders visit UP Deputy CM’s home as Assembly polls near||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday joined senior RSS leaders for lunch at the home of Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, as the ruling party geared up for the Assembly polls just months away. RSS general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale and two other functionaries, Krishna Gopal and Anil, spent an hour and a half at Maurya's house, where the chief minister and another deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma were also present. The meeting was described as informal and the guests blessed Maurya's recently married son and daughter-in-law. But some significance is being seen in this being the first time that the CM has dropped in at the official residence of his deputy, located close to his own in Lucknow. Recently, replying to reporters' queries in Bareilly, Maurya had said the BJP parliamentary board will decide under whose leadership the next Assembly elections are to be fought, a remark interpreted by the Opposition as a sign of a rift between the two. A party spokesperson had dismissed the comment as the BJP's traditional stance, but Maurya had been seen as a likely candidate for the CM's post before the party chose Adityanath the last time. Earlier, on Monday, Adityanath, his deputies Sharma and Maurya, and RSS leaders Hosabale Krishna Gopal had met BJP national general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh and BJP vice-president and Uttar Pradesh in-charge Radha Mohan Singh at the CM's home. The two central BJP leaders also met the party office bearers at the state unit headquarters on Tuesday. A Maurya aide said Tuesday's lunch was the first time that Adityanath visited the deputy CM's official residence. But before this, the CM had visited Maurya's family home in Kaushambi district in October 2018, when the deputy CM's father Shyam Lal Maurya passed away. Maurya presented a saffron angavastra to Adityanath and white ones to his other lunch guests. His family posed for photographs with them. His son Yogesh Kumar Maurya married Anjali Maurya on May 21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-44
22-06-2021||India||Opposition talks Covid management, unemployment at Sharad Pawar's meeting||Leaders of several Opposition parties including the TMC, SP, AAP, RLD and the Left assembled at NCP chief Sharad Pawar's residence here on Tuesday and discussed various issues facing the country, amid heightened speculation about the possibility of a third front against the ruling BJP. Leader of the Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) Nilotpal Basu, who attended the meeting, said it was not a political meeting but an interaction among like-minded people. "Issues like Covid management, 'attack' on institutions and unemployment were discussed at the meeting," he said. "The meeting was called by Yashwant Sinha, not Sharad Pawar, this was not a political meet," reasserted Majeed Memon, a leader of Pawar's NCP. "There are talks that the meeting was for a third front without the Congress, which is not the truth. There is no discrimination. We called all like-minded people. We also invited Congress leaders. I called Vivek Tanha, Manish Tiwari, Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Shatrughan Sinha for the meeting. They couldn't come. It's not true that we didn't invite Congress," he stressed, when mediapersons inquired about the absence of the congress in the meeting. The meeting lasted over two hours. Former finance minister and Trinamul Congress (TMC) leader Yashwant Sinha, Samajwadi Party's (SP) Ghanshyam Tiwari, Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) president Jayant Chaudhary, Sushil Gupta from the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Binoy Viswam from the Communist Party of India (CPI) were among those present at the meeting. National Conference (NC) leader and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Farooq Abdullah, former Congress leader Sanjay Jha and former Janata Dal (United) leader Pavan Verma also participated. Other prominent personalities who arrived at Pawar's residence to attend the meeting were Javed Akhtar and KC Singh. "Yashwant Sinha heads the Rashtra Manch. He asked to meet with Mr Pawar. So the meeting is an initiative of the Rashtra Manch," NCP leader Praful Patel was quoted as saying by ndtv.com. Sources close to Sharad Pawar, as quoted by ndtv.com, said neither he nor his party had put out any invitations. "This is a highly overrated and speculative meeting," they said. Earlier in the day, a senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader, on the condition of anonymity, said though Pawar is hosting the meeting, it has been organised by Yashwant Sinha who is the convenor of the Rashtra Manch. Sinha formed the Rashtra Manch, a political action group, in 2018 that targeted the BJP-led government's policies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-44
22-06-2021||India||Eight Opposition parties, including TMC and AAP, attend Sharad Pawar's meeting||Leaders of several opposition parties including TMC, SP, AAP, RLD and the Left parties assembled at NCP chief Sharad Pawar's residence here on Tuesday to hold a meeting, amid the heightened speculation about the possibility of a third front against the ruling BJP. Former finance minister and Trinamul Congress (TMC) leader Yashwant Sinha, Samajwadi Party's (SP) Ghanshyam Tiwari, Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) president Jayant Chaudhary, Sushil Gupta from the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Binoy Viswam from the Communist Party of India (CPI) and Nilotpal Basu from the Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) arrived at Pawar's residence to attend the meeting. National Conference (NC) leader and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Farooq Abdullah, former Congress leader Sanjay Jha and former Janata Dal (United) leader Pavan Verma also came to participate in the meeting. Other prominent personalities who arrived at Pawar's residence to attend the meeting were Justice A P Shah, Javed Akhtar and KC Singh. The meeting was still on. Earlier in the day, a senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader, on the condition of anonymity, said though Pawar is hosting the meeting, it has been organised by Sinha, who is the convenor of the Rashtra Manch. Sinha formed the Rashtra Manch, a political action group, in 2018 that targeted the BJP-led government's policies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-44
22-06-2021||India||How does a menu QR code change the ways restaurants operate during the COVID-19 pandemic?||Since its spread in the early 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic becomes the biggest problem the world is currently facing today. It causes fear, hunger, risks and death to anyone who is infected. Because of its severe negative effect to the people’s health and well-being, many stores and public places are closed, to mention, restaurants, gatherings, beaches and more. But as their closing are sought to be a temporary one, some business establishments are not able to reopen their business due to staff and financial constraints. As essential food is in people’s lives, restaurants and other foodservice businesses are trying their best to minimize the risk of infection while providing the best service they can give to their customers. While mandating people to follow the regulated health protocols that the local health center mandates like maintaining social distancing measures and wearing a face mask, restaurants are also doing their part by thinking of new safe operating ways to serve their customers. How does a menu QR code change the ways restaurants operate during the COVID-19 pandemic? As the use of disposable menus can not only increase the amount of waste they need to throw per day, the use of a menu QR code enables them to change their restaurant operating means with the following means. Transforms physical food ordering into contactless one Restaurants were able to transform their food ordering means into a contactless one with the use of menu QR codes. Their use of it help them maintain the social distancing protocol because they will no longer need to mandate their staff to go wait tables for them. With their customers scanning the menu QR code and place their orders through it, their staff can only appear serving the food at their table. Reduces time consumed in taking orders Since restaurants are tapping the use of menu QR codes for customers to view with their phones, the time consumed in taking orders lessens. As they can easily scroll through the menu appetizers, entrée and desserts, they can easily decide on which food should they order. Through quick ordering decisions made, a restaurant can have the pre-COVID number of diners in a day, depending on how fast their restaurant serve food for their customers. Cuts down their usual paper usage As it printing menu QR codes can only take small amount of paper to set up, their usual paper usage cuts down. How can you create a menu QR code for your Restaurant? If you are thinking of making your restaurant a safe place for diners to dine in, you can start transforming your physical menus into a menu QR code by following these 1. Open a QR code generator with logo online. 2. Click the menu QR code category and upload your menu file. 3. Generate and customize your QR code. 4. Do a scan test of your menu QR code to check if it directs you to your menu page. 5. Download and place your menu QR code in your restaurant. Conclusion: It is very important for restaurant owners to have their menu QR code on the table to help promote efficient and contactless access to the menus. The experience would be the main reason why some customers are coming back and forth. Besides, you wouldn’t want that you or one of your staff or one of your customers be a victim of the Covid-19 virus. Since we are all following all safe health protocols, restaurants can give the best and safe dining experience for their customers by utilizing the use of a QR code generator online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-44
22-06-2021||India||22 Delta plus Covid variant cases in the country till now, says govt||As India achieved a "historic milestone" of administering 88.09 lakh coronavirus vaccine doses in a single day on June 21, nearly 64 per cent of the jabs were given in rural areas, the government said on Tuesday. Madhya Pradesh administered the maximum number of doses on June 21, followed by Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Haryana, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Assam, an official said. Addressing a joint press conference on the pandemic situation and vaccination status, the official said, "A historic milestone was achieved on 21st June 2021 -- 88.09 lakh doses administered in a single day." Of the doses, 36.32 per cent were administered in urban areas and 63.68 per cent in rural areas, the official said. Since the vaccination began in mid-January, India has administered 29.16 crore doses of COVID-19 vaccines till 3 pm on June 22, he said. The government also said the coronavirus situation has been improving in the country but stressed on following COVID-19-appropriate behaviours. It said there has been an almost 90 per cent decline in India's daily COVID-19 cases as compared to the highest peak reported on May 7. It said 22 cases of delta plus variant of the coronavirus have been detected in the country so far, and added that it's still not a variant of concern. Of the 22 cases of delta plus variant, 16 have been reported from Ratnagiri and Jalgaon in Maharashtra and the rest from Madhya Pradesh and Kerala, the government added. India recorded less than 50,000 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 91 days, taking the total tally of cases to 2,99,77,861, while active cases fell below 7 lakh after 79 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. A total of 42,640 Covid infections were reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 3,89,302 with 1,167 daily fatalities, the lowest in 68 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-44
22-06-2021||India||CBSE, CISCE marking scheme fair and reasonable, says SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to interfere with the assessment scheme propounded by both CBSE and CISCE for evaluation of Class 12 students, whose board examinations have been cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The top court rejected the objections raised by a parents' body as well as students and said that it is not possible to have a second guess approach with regard to various aspects of the assessment scheme. A special bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari said, "We accept the scheme as propounded by both the boards-(CBSE and CISCE)." The bench also noted the submission of Attorney General K K Venugopal, assisting the court in individual capacity and also appearing for the Centre, that University Grants Commission (UGC) will issue directives to all the colleges and varsities that admissions be made after the declaration of results by all the boards -- CBSE, CISCE and state boards. The top court, which dealt with all the major objections of the interveners -- Uttar Pradesh Parents' Association, and second compartment and private students -- said the scheme propounded cannot be doubted on the mere apprehension of manipulation of marks by the CBSE schools to favour their own students. The bench rejected the submission of senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for UP Parents Association, Lucknow, that option to students for external examination as given in the CBSE's scheme should be offered at the very initial stage to both the school and the students and the results should be declared together. It said that after hearing the views of Venugopal, We are of the view that this suggestion cannot be taken forward. This would result in denial of an option to the students and also result in increasing the uncertainty until the exam of improvisation is conducted and the results are declared". The bench said that if students are given the option of internal assessment then as per the schemes, their results will be declared by July 31 and thereafter they can opt for improvisation, if their marks are less. :Therefore, the suggestions given cannot be accepted," the bench said, adding that the boards have taken a conscious decision to cancel the class 12 exams, which is in larger public interest. It said that on the suggestion that the results (of both physical examination and internal assessment) be declared on the same date to avoid students missing the opportunity in admissions to colleges, the Attorney General has made statement on instructions that UGC will direct all universities to complete the process of admissions after declaration of results by all the boards. "In view of the above we hold that there is no reason to interfere with the scheme propounded by CBSE and CICSE," the bench said, adding that the schemes take into account the concerns of all sets of students. With regard to compartment and private students, the bench said that they will be allowed to take the physical examination to be held by CBSE in between August 15 and September 15, 2021. On Monday, the top court had asked the CBSE and the CISCE to respond to the concerns raised by some students and parents on the schemes of both the boards formulated to evaluate Class 12 students. The UP parents' association and the students have flagged several concerns with regard to the CBSE and ICSE schemes for evaluation for Class 12 results and said that many clauses are arbitrary and would be detrimental to future prospects of the students. Earlier, the CBSE and CISCE boards told the Supreme Court that class 12 board examination results would be declared by July 31 and the students, desirous of taking up the board examination physically of CBSE can do so between August 15 and September 15, subject to conducive pandemic situation. The CISCE has said its students can take improvement examinations which may commence from September 1, subject to the situation remaining conducive. The apex court was told by both Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CICSE) that they have amended their respective evaluation scheme to assess Class 12 students and incorporated a dispute resolution mechanism for the candidates who have any objections with regard to the results.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-44
22-06-2021||India||Will press PM for restoration of J&K’s special status, says Mehbooba||Ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's all-party meet, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Tuesday said peace in the region cannot be restored without undoing the "illegal" and "unconstitutional" act of revocation of the special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. Speaking to reporters at the end of a huddle of the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), she said during the meeting with the prime minister on Thursday, she will press for the restoration of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir which was "snatched away from us". "The agenda of the alliance, for which this alliance has been formed, what has been snatched away from us, we will talk on that, that it was a mistake and it was illegal and unconstitutional, without restoring which the issue of J-K (cannot be resolved) and the situation in J-K (cannot improve) and peace in the whole region cannot be restored," she said. Mehbooba, who was flanked by other leaders of the alliance including its chairperson Farooq Abdullah, said the Centre should hold dialogue with everyone including Pakistan to resolve the Kashmir issue. "They (India) are talking to the Taliban in Doha. They should talk with everyone in Jammu and Kashmir and with Pakistan as well for the resolution (of Kashmir issue)," she said. The PDP president said her party was never against dialogue with the Centre, but wanted some confidence-building measures for the people of Jammu and Kashmir like release of prisoners as in other parts of the country due to Covid. She said the political prisoners and other detainees from J-K should have been released if the Centre truly wanted to reach out to the people of J-K and to the political parties who were "humiliated so much" over the last two years. "I think they should have done so, but it does not mean that we are against the dialogue," she said. The PDP president, who is also the vice-chairperson of the PAGD, said she wanted Abdullah as the head of the PAGD to represent the alliance for the prime minister's meeting, but "he (Abdullah) said as the leaders have been invited individually, so we all should go individually". "Whatever agenda they have, we will place our agenda before them. We hope that with our going for the meeting, at least our people who are in various prisons in and outside J-K, are released and those who cannot be released, be at least brought to J-K. Poor people have to collect money to go and meet their kin (who are in prisons outside J-K) once or twice a year," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-44
22-06-2021||India||BJP responds to 'white paper', says Rahul playing politics over Covid crisis||The BJP on Tuesday accused Rahul Gandhi of playing politics over the coronavirus crisis after the Congress leader released a "white paper" on the Centre's handling of the pandemic. Releasing the "white paper" prepared by his party, Gandhi said it was clear that the government's management of the first and second waves of COVID-19 was "disastrous". Hours after Gandhi released the document, BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra told a press conference, "Since yesterday we have been fearing this. Whenever something good happens in our fight against coronavirus, the Congress and Rahul Gandhi specially do something to derail it." "Yesterday was a significant day when India became the first country in the world to administer 87 lakh vaccine doses in one day. People seemed excited and jubilant. There is a feeling that India is winning in its fight against coronavirus, just then Rahul Gandhi spoke of white paper and tried to derail it," he said. Patra said that from the beginning of the fight to contain the pandemic, the Congress party had questioned every step taken by the government. "Whenever we are at a crossroads in our fight, Rahul Gandhi and the Congress party have tried to derail the efforts by playing politics. In fact, the Congress has really worked tirelessly to create hurdles and obstacles in our path, he said. The BJP spokesperson said that the second wave began with a Congress-ruled state, the most number of the infected were from Congress-ruled states and so were the most number of deaths. He said that the maximum vaccine hesitancy was seen in Congress-ruled states and so was the highest COVID-19 positivity rate. "The demand for decentralisation of vaccines came from the Congress-ruled states and then the U-turn demanding centralisation too came from them. Instead of virtual press conferences and white papers, Rahul Gandhi should go to such states and give them this data, said Patra. Calling Gandhi confused , Patra accused the Congress party of making contradictory demands. "First they called the lockdown 'Tughlaki', then they questioned why there was no lockdown.... They promoted vaccine hesitancy... I would like to ask Rahul Gandhi how long will he conduct just virtual press conferences? When will you do some real work? "Go to states ruled by your party and see the situation there. How vaccines are being wasted in Rajasthan, how vaccine profiteering is happening in Punjab and how Chhattisgarh is misusing vaccines. Go to the ground and survey," Patra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-45
22-06-2021||India||Fake TRP case: Arnab Goswami named as accused in second charge sheet||The Mumbai Police has named senior television journalist Arnab Goswami as an accused in the alleged TRP (Television Rating Points) rigging scam in its second charge sheet filed before a court here on Tuesday. The charge sheet was submitted before a magistrate's court by the police's Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) probing the case. "Among others, Goswami and ARG Outlier have been named as accused in the charge sheet," lawyer of Goswami, the Editor-in-Chief of Republic TV, said. The alleged fake TRP scam came to light in October last year when the rating agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint through Hansa Research Group (HRG), alleging that certain television channels were rigging TRP numbers. The police named Republic TV and two other Marathi channels that were allegedly involved in the practice. They further said that sample houses, where bar-o-meters had been installed to monitor the ratings, were paid to watch certain TV channels to boost the TRP. The amount paid was between Rs 400 and Rs 500 per house per month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-45
22-06-2021||India||Covaxin 77.8 per cent efficient in Phase III trials||An expert panel of the country's central drugs authority has reviewed and accepted the phase-3 trial data of Bharat Biotech's COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin, sources said on Tuesday. According to the data submitted by the Hyderabad-based firm, the indigenously developed vaccine has shown 77.8 per cent efficacy in the trial conducted on 25,800 subjects, they said. The firm had submitted the results of its phase-3 trial efficacy data of Covaxin to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) over the weekend, they added. The COVID-19 Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) on Tuesday reviewed the data and accepted it. Their recommendations have been sent to the DCGI now, a source said. Bharat Biotech is also expected to attend a "pre-submission" meeting on July 23 with the World Health Organisation (WHO), which will take the vaccine-maker closer to a WHO Emergency Use Listing (EUL). Though the meeting will not be a detailed review on the product, the vaccine-maker will have an opportunity to submit a summary on the overall quality of the jab, according to the WHO. The information was provided on the WHO website in the Status of COVID-19 Vaccines within WHO EUL-PQ evaluation process document. Covaxin is one of the three vaccines approved by the DGCI for emergency use and is being deployed in India's COVID-19 vaccination programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-45
22-06-2021||India||Mahant Deependra Giri deems Amarnath Yatra cancellation 'unpleasant but appropriate'||Mahant Deependra Giri, the custodian of the Charri Mubarak of Amarnath, the holy mace of Lord Shiva, on Tuesday said the decision to cancel the annual pilgrimage for the second consecutive year was "not pleasant" but an appropriate one, keeping in mind the COVID-19 pandemic and the safety of the pilgrims and the staff involved. "The annual Amarnath pilgrimage has been cancelled this year like last year. Though the decision is not pleasant, it is appropriate in view of the (Covid) pandemic and for the safety of the pilgrims and the staff involved in the yatra," Giri said in a statement. The Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board decided to cancel this year's pilgrimage on Monday in view of the pandemic. The board said the ritualistic aspects of the yatra will be conducted and the proceedings streamed live on certain platforms. Giri hoped that the countrymen would be fully vaccinated against Covid-19 before the next year's yatra and the pilgrimage would also resume. "I hope by this time next year, the citizens of our country will be fully vaccinated and we can have the usual and normal pilgrimage," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-45
22-06-2021||India||J&K's Gupkar alliance to attend Centre's all-party meeting||The People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) will attend the all-party meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi on Thursday, said alliance chairperson Farooq Abdullah. The announcement came after PAGD leaders met at Abdullah's Gupkar Road residence here on Tuesday to discuss the Centre's invitation to leaders from Jammu and Kashmir. "We have received the invitation from the prime minister and we are going to attend (the meeting)," Abdullah, who was flanked by other leaders of the alliance, told reporters after the meeting. The PAGD chairperson said the alliance was confident it would be able to put its stand before the prime minister and Union Home Minister Amit Shah during the meeting. "When the meeting ends, we will brief you here as well as in Delhi on what we did there, what we said and what was their response," the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and National Conference president said. Asked what would be the stand of the alliance, Abdullah said, "You all know our stand and there is no need to repeat it. Whatever our stand was, is still there and will be there." Various constituents of the PAGD have approached the Supreme Court with a petition asking for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir's special status and its statehood. Abdullah said all those invited will attend the meeting. "Mehbooba ji, me, Tarigami sahab and all those who have been invited from us (the alliance), will go," he said. As the invitation is to individual leaders of various parties they all will go and all will speak there , the NC leader added. Asked about the agenda of the meeting, Abdullah said no agenda has been pitched from their side (the Centre). "We can talk about any issue there," he added. Fourteen leaders from Jammu and Kashmir have been invited to the meeting to be chaired by the prime minister to discuss the future course of action for the union territory. The meeting is the first such exercise since the Centre announced the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir's special status and its bifurcation into union territories in August 2019. The PAGD is a six-party alliance of mainstream parties which came into existence after the Centre revoked the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-45
22-06-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi releases White Paper on Covid management||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday urged the government to prepare for the third wave of coronavirus by improving medical infrastructure and vaccinate on a war footing to protect all Indians. He also released a white paper by the party on the Centre's Covid handling, saying, "It is pretty clear that the management of the first and second wave was disastrous." Gandhi also took a swipe at the prime minister for turning emotional while talking about Covid deaths in his address to the nation, and said the deaths have been needless and could have been avoided. "The prime minister's tears cannot wipe the tears of those who lost the lives of their kin. The PM's tears did not save the lives of those who died, but oxygen could have saved them," he said. He alleged the prime minister did not take the second wave seriously and was fighting elections in Bengal and his focus was elsewhere. The former Congress chief said there were some central reasons as to why the first and second waves were disastrous and added that the party has "tried to point out those reasons in our white paper". "This is a blue print on how to react to the third wave, which is going to come. It is our intention to provide the government with information and insights on what went wrong," he told reporters at a virtual press conference. The purpose of this white paper is not to finger point at the Government, but to help the nation prepare for the third wave that is going to come. "If the second wave was bad, the third wave would be worse," Gandhi said, noting that the virus is smart and is mutating fast. "The idea behind our white paper report on Covid-19 is to provide insights and information so that avoidable deaths can be prevented in the coming waves. GOI must work on our constructive inputs in the interest of the country," he later tweeted. Asserting that the central pillar to fight Covid is vaccination, Gandhi said it is important that "we aggressively do vaccinations and cross this bridge over 100 percent vaccination as soon as possible, because that is the only protection." "It is important that the government prepares itself for what is going to come," he said, adding that it needs to have the infrastructure ready, which was there in the first and second wave, and have oxygen supply and medicines required ready. Noting that vaccinating 50 percent population would not help, he said, "we have to vaccinate everybody as fast as possible.Vaccinations should be done fast on a war footing, as a mission". He also urged the government to treat all states equally for Covid-19 vaccinations, asserting that there should be no bias and they should not be viewed as BJP or opposition states. He also called for granting compensation to all victims of Covid and suggested the setting up of a compensation fund. "The government must treat all states equally. The Government must not view states as BJP states or opposition states. That bias should not come in," he said. The former Congress chief said the government must work towards vacccination with an open mind and not a closed one. Gandhi also said that this is not the time for claiming victory over Covid, as the virus has hurt the country so far and will continue to hurt in the third wave and the consequent ones. He also noted that the idea of Covid vaccination mission is "a good one", but the government has to make the process work as a continuous one and not a one-day event. Talking about the white paper, the Congress leader said it is the result of the discussion held within the Congress and with experts and they have come out with the concept of four pillars. Explaining further, he said, the first pillar is on what went wrong and that is the foundation of the white paper and our suggestions that look into some of the shortcomings and correcting them. The second pillar is preparation for the third wave, which includes developing the critical infrastructure like oxygen and the third one is the idea of an economic assistance package to assist the poorest and weakest people. The fourth element of the paper is to have a Covid compensation fund, where money is given to people who have lost loved ones and we commit to them and stand with them as the Indian nation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-45
22-06-2021||India||India's daily Covid caseload lowest in three months||India recorded less than 50,000 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 91 days, taking the total tally of cases to 2,99,77,861, while active cases fell below 7 lakh after 79 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. A total of 42,640 Covid infections were reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 3,89,302 with 1,167 daily fatalities, the lowest in 68 days. According to the data published at 7 am, India administered 86.16 lakh vaccine doses, the highest ever single-day vaccination achieved in the world so far, the Health Ministry said. Cumulatively, 28.87 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide inoculation drive. The active cases have further declined to 6,62,521, comprising 2.21 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.49 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A net decline of 40,366 cases has been recorded in the caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 16,64,360 tests were conducted on Monday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 39,40,72,142, while the daily positivity rate has declined to 2.56 per cent. It has been less than 5 per cent for 15 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has declined to 3.21 per cent. Recoveries continued to outnumber daily new cases for 40 consecutive days. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,89,26,038, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.30 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-45
22-06-2021||India||Debt-ridden Tamil Nadu constitutes Economic Advisory Council||The debt-ridden Tamil Nadu government has constituted a five-member Economic Advisory Council to chief minister M.K. Stalin, which includes Nobel laureate Esther Duflo and former Reserve Bank of India governor Raghuram Rajan, to steer the southern state’s economic revival. Duflo, who won the Economics Nobel in 2019 along with husband Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee and Michael Kremer, will head the top-level team of advisers. The other advisers on the council are Arvind Subramanian, who was chief economic adviser to the Narendra Modi-led government in its first term; Jean Dreze, development economist and social scientist; and S. Narayan, former Union finance secretary and also a former economic adviser to Prime Minister Modi. The announcement was made by governor Banwarilal Purohit in his address to the Tamil Nadu Assembly, which opened in Chennai on Monday after the recent and emphatic victory of the secular progressive front led by Stalin. Later in the day, the state government issued an official order notifying the composition of the new team of economic advisers to the Tamil Nadu chief minister. The new council will coordinate with the state planning commission as well. “They (the government) have issued an order,” Narayan told The Telegraph on Monday evening. Dreze, who has co-authored books with Nobel laureate Amartya Sen and advised the UPA government on its flagship anti-poverty MGNREGA scheme, said in an email to this newspaper: “I accepted this assignment with some hesitation, because I am a little sceptical of unilateral policy advice disconnected from wider deliberation. But hopefully, some consultation processes will evolve.” Dreze, who is now in Bastar, Chhattisgarh, added: “In any case, I look forward to this learning experience and I shall do my best to make myself useful.” Some the economists on the council — especially Rajan and Subramanian — have been trenchant critics of the Modi government’s policies. It will be interesting to see what suggestions they come up with. State governments have been left with very little independent ammunition in their fiscal armoury after switching to a goods and services tax (GST) regime in 2017. They are also subject to very rigid regulations on borrowings. The decision to put together such a group of economists drew immediate praise from fellow economists. “This is such excellent news. Congratulations, M.K. Stalin. If these people also had a say in all-India policymaking, India’s economy would turn around from where it has reached," Kaushik Basu, chief economic adviser to the Manmohan Singh-led UPA government, tweeted. “This is perhaps the first time that any state has opted for a structured approach to economic policymaking through a council of advisers. However, there have been several instances when noted economists have served as economic advisers to chief ministers,” said N.R. Bhanumurthy, vice-chancellor of B.R. Ambedkar School of Economics. Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee heads a global advisory board that counsels Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on addressing the economic impact of the pandemic. (See Metro) In Chennai, governor Purohit said the council would bring out a white paper in July that would focus on the true state of Tamil Nadu’s finances. “The fiscal situation of Tamil Nadu is precarious with persistent high revenue and fiscal deficits, and a large overhang of debt. At the same time, expectations of people are very high...,” the state government said in its notification. Tamil Nadu had been governed by the AIADMK, now a BJP ally, for the past 10 years. Tamil Nadu — which has had a long reputation for populist schemes offering free rice and laptops to the poor — reported outstanding liabilities of Rs 5.12 lakh crore in its budget estimates for 2020-21, which works out to an increase of 124 per cent over the Rs 2.28 lakh crore in 2015-16, according to a RBI review of state budgets that was put out last October. The state had budgeted for a fiscal deficit of Rs 59,346.3 crore in its budget estimates for 2020-21 — the highest among the country’s states and Union Territories.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-45
22-06-2021||India||Business as usual on Aatma Prashansa Asan Day||“Thank you PM Modi,” screamed the message, from Lucknow’s roadsides to the Delhi University campus and website. In the context of a pandemic where the Indian government’s failures have invited worldwide criticism. But this was Prime Minister Narendra Modi claiming credit for the “world’s largest free vaccination campaign” on a day the Centre started bearing the cost of free vaccination for all adults at government centres, sparing the states any expense. Lucknow, capital of poll-bound Uttar Pradesh where bodies floated down the Ganga at the peak of the Covid second wave, bristled with billboards thanking Modi. The billboards carried the national emblem and the words “Government of India”, seeking to associate themselves with the Centre. Delhi University, which has lost about 60 teachers and other employees to the pandemic, uploaded digital banners in English and Hindi on its website at the behest of the University Grants Commission and put up physical hoardings on the campus. More institutions are expected to follow the example with the higher education regulator having written to all the universities “to kindly display these hoardings/ banners in their institutions” and attaching to the letter a model banner. Several academics condemned the publicity blitz, calling it “shameful propaganda” to divert attention from the government’s Covid mismanagement and the people’s sufferings. Some resented the attempt to turn the universities into “cheerleaders”; others underlined that the government wasn’t doing citizens a favour by offering free vaccination — a policy adopted by many other countries right from the start. The development comes on the International Day of Yoga, an annual event the Centre habitually uses to build up fanfare around Modi. While Monday’s banners and billboards crowed “Vaccine for all, free for all”, they seemed to sacrifice accuracy for hype in one respect. “So far free vaccine was available for people above 45 years of age. From June 21, free vaccine available for everyone above 18 years in government centres,” they said. However, the jabs had been free for every adult at almost all government centres even before Monday although the Centre was supplying the states with free doses only for those aged 45 and above. While the states had to buy the vaccines to inoculate adults younger than 45, almost all of them including Uttar Pradesh and Delhi had absorbed the cost themselves. There were slight differences in the DU and Lucknow banners. While the DU banner carried images of Modi and four smiling citizens, Lucknow’s billboards showed the Prime Minister and chief minister Yogi Adityanath. An email that UGC secretary Rajnish Jain had sent on Sunday to all the universities said: “The government of India is starting free vaccination for 18 years and above age group from tomorrow i.e 21st June 2021. In this regard, universities and colleges are requested to kindly display these hoardings/ banners in their institutions.” It added: “The approved design (creatives) of hoardings/ banners in Hindi and English, as provided by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, are attached for your ready reference. Kindly note, these creatives are embargoed for social media till 7 am tomorrow, i.e 21st June 2021.” Manoj Sinha, principal of the DU-affiliated Aryabhatta College, said the university had forwarded the UGC email to him, and that his college too would put the banner up on its website. Sinha said the move would encourage campus communities to get themselves vaccinated and facilitate the gradual reopening of higher education institutions. Rajib Ray, president of the DU Teachers’ Association (DUTA), slammed the government. “This is shameful. Academic institutions should not be used to propagate the name of any person. Whether it’s Yoga Day or any other central government event, academic institutions are being used for propaganda,” he said. Former DU executive council member Rajesh Jha said teachers and students were “not cheerleaders of the government”. “On any government policy, there can be divergent opinions. It’s part of academics to see and analyse policies critically. The way DU has used its website and Twitter handle to spread this message is condemnable,” Jha said. Another former DU executive council member, Abha Dev Habib, said free vaccination was a right and not a favour. “There have been vaccination programmes for many ailments, but there never was such propaganda praising the Prime Minister,” she said. “Such propaganda is now happening amid a disaster in terms of deaths and suffering caused by the government’s failure to handle the situation.... Since 2014, we have been witnessing educational institutions being used for propaganda.” Habib chided Modi for addressing huge poll rallies when he should have been focusing on managing the Covid crisis. “DUTA had requested Covid care centres with oxygen facilities on the campus, but nothing was done. It was a nightmare for the staff who had to run from pillar to post to get treatment in April and May,” she said. DU registrar Vikash Gupta defended the university’s actions. “Today was International Yoga Day. We discussed how students and staff should remain safe with healthy food, yoga and vaccination,” he said. “It was our own decision to put up this banner to spread the message about vaccination.” He said some people always criticised whatever the university did. “Everybody has the right to cry, crib...” Gupta said. The Central Board of Secondary Education too has for sometime been exhibiting two banners showing Modi on its website. One urges people to register for vaccination, the other to follow the Covid protocols. Emails sent to the UGC and the Union education ministry, to which the regulator reports, brought no replies. To some in Uttar Pradesh, the hoardings in Lucknow seemed a sign that the Centre had taken direct charge of the BJP campaign for the Assembly elections, due next March, at a time the party high command seemed to have lost some of its confidence in Adityanath. The image-conscious Modi seems to feel let down by Adityanath’s Covid mismanagement, with the pictures of corpses floating down the Ganga or buried on the riverbanks earning the Prime Minister scathing criticism from the foreign media. Modi — roasted at home and abroad also for his own short-sighted Covid policy — and Union home minister Amit Shah had recently summoned Adityanath to Delhi and briefed him on what party sources claimed was “poll strategy”. A BJP insider said: “Modi had worked hard to burnish his international image. But the way the world criticised him for the dead bodies floating in the Ganga — this could be why the Centre has taken over the campaign in Uttar Pradesh.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-45
22-06-2021||India||US researchers mark birthday parties as Covid risk||US researchers have measured how birthdays might contribute to increases in Covid-19 infection through a study whose findings support the cautionary calls in India against unrestricted social gatherings and parties amid the fall in new infections. The researchers have found that in areas with high Covid-19 transmission, households with recent birthdays averaged about 86 more cases per 100,000 individuals than other households in the same areas without birthdays during the same time. Their study, based on a sample of nearly three million households across the US, did not count the birthday parties but used birth dates of household members through health insurance records as a proxy for social gatherings or in-person festivities. The findings were published on Monday in the JAMA Internal Medicine, a medical research journal. The study’s major contribution is “to not only show that close contact with people we know and trust can lead to disease, but that the risk is substantial”, said Anupam Jena, associate professor of medicine at the Harvard Medical School. “Many people probably believe that contact with people they don’t know — at a store or a restaurant — pose a risk and that contact with others they are familiar with would be safe,” Jena, the study’s senior author, told The Telegraph via email. Public health experts, relying on anecdotal accounts, have long believed that social gatherings such as birthdays, weddings and parties may have contributed to the spread of the novel coronavirus. But the risk from such events has not been measured or estimated yet. “It is a difficult question to study because one needs to know who’s attending a social gathering, whether they develop infection and whether those that gather differ in other ways such as mask-wearing, which may also be correlated with Covid-19 infections,” Jena said. In their study, Jena, his colleagues and collaborators at the RAND Corporation, a policy think tank, analysed Covid-19 incidence and transmission patterns across different counties across the US and found that the magnitude of the risk appeared linked to the age of the person with a birthday. In households where a child had a birthday, they observed an increase in Covid-19 cases of 158 per 100,000 persons in the two weeks after the birthday compared with Covid-19 cases in families without birthdays. And in households where an adult had a birthday, the increase was 58 per 100,000. The researchers have speculated that households with a child’s birthday are less likely to cancel birthday plans because of the epidemic or that social distancing is followed less strictly at children’s birthday parties. Senior Indian health officials, while flagging the country’s declining numbers of daily new infections, have asserted the need for the public to continue adhering to personal precautions such as wearing masks and avoiding crowds and social gatherings. “We were able to examine only a single kind of event that likely leads to social gatherings,” Christopher Whaley, a co-author from the RAND Corporation, said in a media release. “But given the magnitude of the increased risk associated with having a birthday in the household, it is clear that informal gatherings of all kinds played a significant role in the spread of Covid-19.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-45
22-06-2021||India||'Nazul' category land involved in deal with Ram temple trust||The Uttar Pradesh government said on Monday that the land involved in a lucrative deal between a nephew of the Ayodhya mayor and the Ram temple trust fell into the “nazul” category that cannot be sold without a notification. “It’s nazul land and cannot be sold without a notification from the government that it had been converted into a freehold. I didn’t know that this nazul land had been transferred. Nobody has the right to transfer a nazul land to anybody,” Anuj Kumar Jha, district magistrate of Ayodhya, told reporters. Nazul land is government-owned land leased out to someone. However, the official remained silent when asked whether the government would reverse the deal. The portal Newslaundry had first reported that Deep Narayan, a nephew of Rishikesh Upadhyay, Ayodhya mayor and BJP leader, had paid Rs 20 lakh to a mahant for a 890sqm plot on February 20 and then sold it to the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust on May 11 for Rs 2.5 crore. The deal yields a cool profit of Rs 2.3 crore — a fresh instance of profiteering or “flipping” amid allegations that those who swear by Ram are milking the trust, entrusted with building the temple in Ayodhya, of funds collected from the government and from the public. Deep, who allegedly bought the land from Mahant Devendra Prasadacharya of the Dashrath Mahal Badasthan in Kotramchandra area of Ayodhya Sadar, told reporters: “I bought the land for Rs 20 lakh. Thereafter, it was my land and I developed it. Since the trust needed the same land, I sold it to them. Every norm has been followed.” The nature of the land development that Deep said he had undertaken between February, when he bought the land, and May, when he sold it, is not clear. He did not give specific answers to the question how he could have bought and sold nazul land. Upadhyay, the mayor, did not respond to phone calls or a text message from this newspaper. Prasadacharya said: “The nazul land had been in our temple management’s possession for the past many decades and we used to do farming there, but without much success. Deep Narayan told me he was buying the land to hand it over to the Ram temple trust. Since the land was of not much use to us, even Rs 20 lakh seemed enough and we accepted the deal.” Brij Mohan Das, mahant of the adjoining Chauburji temple, suggested it was not an isolated development and that officials were aware of such deals. “Government officials used to visit the area and ask us to sell the land to the trust. They knew that the plots were nazul but still wanted us to register them. Even I sold a piece of nazul land adjacent to the same plot to the same person. The officials knew about it,” he said. A trust official said land was being bought to accommodate those displaced by the temple project. “We are buying land to rehabilitate those who will be displaced from the Ram temple area in Ayodhya where construction is going on. People may level allegations against us but we are working in a transparent manner,” Champat Rai, general secretary of the trust, said. Earlier, the trust had bought another plot of land in Bag Bijaisi of Ayodhya for Rs 18.5 crore from a person who had bought it for Rs 2 crore the same day. The trust said the land was bought at a rate that was less than the market rate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-46
22-06-2021||India||Need to be ahead of Covid-19 third wave, not react after it hits: Experts||Multiple factors — some critically dependent on human behaviour — will determine whether India will face a third nationwide Covid-19 wave. Public health experts say the uncertainty around them makes it near-impossible at this point to forecast with scientific evidence the timing or size of the anticipated but still uncertain third wave. The determinants include the fraction of the population still susceptible to the infection, the fraction of the population that will adhere rigorously to personal precautions such as masks and crowd avoidance even after districts and states relax restrictions, and the fraction of the population protected through vaccination. The distribution of highly-transmissible coronavirus variants — such as the delta variant first detected in India — might also influence future surges. Amid those uncertainties, Dr Rahul Pandit, a senior critical care medicine specialist at the Fortis Hospital in Mumbai and a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force, spoke with The Telegraph about the imperative of continued preparation now when the epidemic is shrinking. It is not possible to say at this point that the next peak or surge will definitely happen at a particular time. Mathematical models have limitations — they rely on assumptions. The delta variant is a concern for us in the country and we have to be prepared for the worst-case scenario. It is important to prepare with an understanding that if and when the wave does come, we face it with our best possible levels of preparation. We need mathematical models that take into account vaccine penetration. We expect a continued increase in vaccine penetration in the coming weeks and this needs to be factored into models. If we are able to fully vaccinate a large fraction of the population in the next three months or so and we also have a large fraction of the population protected through natural infections, India might be able to push the wave forward as much as we can and reduce the severity. Infections and localised outbreaks might continue to occur but if they are addressed promptly and efficiently, a large wave could be averted. India needs a quick nationwide survey again. The last such survey in January had found roughly 21 per cent of the population had been infected. It is important that we also simultaneously do significant genome sequencing to understand if variants of concern are contributing to reinfections. Along with vaccination and natural infections, we should be able to reach that magic figure of herd immunity threshold. But for that to happen, we should have at least 60 to 70 per cent of our population protected through vaccination or natural infections and we seem to be at a distant point from that right now. While Maharashtra’s population is lower than that of Uttar Pradesh or Bihar, Maharashtra is an industrialised state. Mumbai and the surrounding region is the country’s financial capital, so there is a huge potential for person-to-person interactions that provide the virus opportunities to spread. Also, Mumbai has one of the country’s highest population densities. Fifteen million people live in Mumbai. The other reason is that there has been excellent awareness about Covid across the state. Data collection and reporting, whether on positive patients or deaths, have always been done on a priority basis. This adds to the completeness of data and to the numbers. The Mumbai model has been well appreciated. Mumbai was the first to decentralise the Covid-19 response. Mumbai had a number of wards divided with their own war rooms. We had a real-time understanding of oxygen requirements, or how much oxygen is required by which hospital. That helped us tackle the oxygen crisis. Also Mumbai prepared itself way ahead of time through beds and other infrastructure such as through jumbo hospitals. We expanded our bed capacity several-fold as the pandemic progressed. And even now we would be happy to expand it several-fold. In preparation for a possible third wave, we should take a holistic approach. Again. Which means to look at all requirements — beds, oxygen, medications, equipment required in each state to treat patients effectively. We need action plans in place for the third wave, in terms of how the surge capacity would be increased. This has been done in Maharashtra on a priority basis, and we are looking at preparing ourselves again. We need to be ahead of the problem and not react after it hits us.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-46
22-06-2021||India||Covid: Govt defends ex-gratia decision with pandemic spending||The Centre on Monday told the Supreme Court that the government has other commitments like providing free vaccines, buying anti-viral drugs and creating additional health infrastructure to overcome the pandemic and as such it would not be possible to pay Rs 4 lakh ex-gratia to the kin of each individual who died of Covid-19. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta told a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and M.R. Shah that it was not the case that the Centre doesn’t have money to pay ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh to the kin of Covid victims but would rather utilise funds to build health infrastructure, ensure food for all, vaccinate the entire population and provide financial stimulus to boost the economy. The court was dealing with a PIL filed by advocate G.K. Bansal seeking a direction to the Centre to ensure that the kin of each deceased person was paid Rs 4 lakh as ex-gratia in terms of a 2015 notification of the Union government under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The bench was also informed by some of the interveners that different states were paying different amounts of ex-gratia to the kin and sought a direction to the Centre to place before it data pertaining to the amount and criteria adopted by states/Union Territories in disbursing the money. The court also directed the Centre to ensure simplification of the death certificates given during the pandemic so that the kith and kin do not face any difficulties in getting the ex-gratia or compensation. It said there should be a mechanism to correct death certificates already issued or else the family members will be deprived of any ex-gratia being considered by the government. The court made the observation because there have been complaints that many hospitals are not declaring a death as Covid-related for various reasons. Mehta, however, said all victims diagnosed with Covid-19, irrespective of co-morbidities, will be classified as deaths due to the pandemic. During the arguments, senior advocate S.B. Upadhyay cited the Supreme Court’s ruling in the 2018 Swaraj Abhiyan case wherein it was held that financial constraints will not come in way of meeting constitutional obligations. The senior counsel complained that presently, insurance cover is being provided only to doctors on regular rolls and not to other paramedical staff and contractual doctors. Advocate Sumeer Sodhi appearing for family members of Covid-19 victims pointed out that different states were paying different ex-gratia amounts. While Madhya Pradesh is paying Rs 1 lakh, Bihar is giving Rs 4 lakh, but no information was forthcoming from where these funds were being disbursed. Sodhi pleaded that there must be a centralised mechanism for disbursing a uniform amount. Mehta, while arguing that the government had other priorities like vaccination and buying anti-viral drugs, said it also had to go by the recommendations made by the Finance Commission on disbursal of amounts under the National Disaster Response Fund.“If Parliament has allocated 15,000 crore for five years and a big pandemic like Covid has come, then is it your case that Centre or state cannot go beyond Rs 15,000 crore?” Justice Shah asked. Mehta responded in the affirmative and said that in such situations the government had no other option but to go to Parliament for ratification. “Finance Commission recommendations were accepted by Parliament and it is what guides us. We ensure that no one sleeps hungry. When we run special trains for migrants that expenditure is part of disaster management… Everyone is entitled to 2kg rice and 5kg pulses which is a part of food security… measures to enhance oxygen production levels is also (under) disaster management act. “This is an ongoing process and instead of one-time relief for death, its better we go for multi-pronged preparedness. Health insurance scheme applies to all health workers, whether government or private. Insurance premium which central government pays is under the DMA,” Mehta said. The court, after hearing the arguments, reserved its verdict, which is expected to be pronounced within a fortnight.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-46
22-06-2021||India||Covid: India administers record eight million vaccine doses in a day||India on Monday administered a record over eight million Covid-19 vaccine doses, more than double the average in June so far, as the inoculation campaign shifted into new rules under which all adults may walk in for free vaccinations at all government sites. The Union health ministry’s digital platform that tracks the campaign in real-time had logged by 10.30pm a total of 8,407,420 doses, a sharp rise over the average 3.1 million daily inoculations from June 1 to 20, surprising sections of experts hitherto concerned about the campaign’s slow pace. The experts said India would be able to fully vaccinate nearly its entire estimated eligible population of over 950 million people if the pace of inoculations on Monday is sustained throughout the rest of the year and backed by steady vaccine supplies. “This is a big jump. I don’t think anybody expected this. It’ll be excellent if they can maintain this through supplies,” said R. Ramakumar, a health economist and professor of developmental studies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai. Prime Minister Narendra Modi described the record-breaking rise in vaccinations as “gladdening.” “The vaccine remains our strongest weapon to fight Covid-19,” Modi wrote on Twitter. “Congratulations to those who got vaccinated and kudos to all frontline warriors working hard to ensure so many citizens got the vaccine. Well done India!” Health officials have attributed multiple reasons for the rise, including the new rules that allowed for the first time anyone to walk into any vaccination centre and seek on-site registration, a feature hitherto available only for those 45 years or older. “The walk-in registration is only one factor — I think we’re seeing the accumulated effects of many things,” said Samiran Panda, the chief of the epidemiology division at the Indian Council of Medical Research, who is among the technical experts guiding the government’s vaccination policy. “Vaccine supplies are increasing. We’ve taken painstaking efforts at communicating the need for vaccines to people across the country. We’ve urged districts to prioritise the vulnerable groups and vaccinate them as quickly as possible,” Panda said. Another health official said about 67,000 vaccination centres across the country were active on Monday with more than half of them in rural areas. “The walk-in feature would have made a big difference in rural areas,” said Narendra Arora, another senior adviser who has guided the Covid-19 vaccination policy. “But we have been preparing for this day through micro-planning and strong supply-chain management, and mobilising groups of 100 to 120 people in rural areas to visit vaccination centres.” Arora said the country has the capacity to increase the number of sites to 75,000. “Our target is to reach 10 million doses per day,” he told The Telegraph. The vaccination rules changed on Monday with the Centre now supplying doses to all states to vaccinate all adults 18 years or older for free in government centres, allowing people to opt for paid vaccinations in private hospitals. Health officials have said, under these rules, doses to private hospitals would also be channelled through state governments to ensure that they are evenly distributed and not overwhelmingly used up by a few networks of large hospitals. The campaign launched on January 16 has administered over 283 million doses, but only about five per cent of the eligible population is fully vaccinated with the required two doses, the pace of inoculations primarily constrained by slow vaccine supplies. Health experts have estimated India would need to administer an average 8.8 million doses daily to complete the estimated 1.9 billion doses during the remaining 183 days of the year to achieve its target of vaccinating all.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-46
22-06-2021||India||BJP combats rising cases of dissent in party-ruled states||The BJP central leadership has been combating rising cases of dissent in party-ruled states, betraying signs of loosening of the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah duopoly’s iron grip over the machinery. Over the past couple of weeks, party managers have been rushed to Uttar Pradesh in the north, Karnataka and Goa in the south, Gujarat in the west and Tripura in the east to douse growing voices of unrest in BJP units, seeking to defy the top leadership. The struggle to put its house in order in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh continues despite a visit by a central BJP team to Lucknow and chief minister Yogi Adityanath dashing to Delhi to hold talks with Prime Minister Modi and home minister Shah. General secretary in charge of organisation B.L. Santosh and party’s Uttar Pradesh minder Radha Mohan Singh were in Lucknow on Monday, their second visit in a month, to quell unrest against Adityanath’s leadership style and make the BJP poll-ready. The problem in Uttar Pradesh poses a direct threat to the authority of the top duo with Adityanath’s rise as a popular Hindutva icon, seeking to establish a Modi-like control over the most populous state. Many in the party believe Adityanath could emerge as a strong contender to succeed Modi in Delhi if he can retain Uttar Pradesh comfortably in the Assembly polls next year. The challenge before the party is to use the voices of dissent in Lucknow to rein in Adityanath, sources said. While Uttar Pradesh continues to simmer, party managers have been grappling with rebellion in Karnataka. Dissidents seeking to unseat 78-year-old chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa look determined. Karnataka’s BJP minder Arun Singh was rushed to Bangalore last week to fire-fight. The party for now has managed to buy an uneasy peace by threatening disciplinary action against the dissidents. Karnataka is the only state in the south where the BJP has managed to wrest power and the bickering, many leaders fear, could spoil the future. Despite not being happy with Yediyurappa, who again doesn’t seem to care much about the central leadership’s authority, party’s Delhi managers are wary that edging him out could anger the numerically strong Lingayat voters, the main support base of the BJP. Differences between young Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant and some of his ministers also surfaced and Santosh was rushed to the state. Though a tiny state, Goa holds significance for the BJP, scheduled to go to polls with Uttar Pradesh in February-March next year. The condition in Modi-Shah’s home state Gujarat is also threatening to go out of control. The internal tussle between chief minister Vijay Rupani and state BJP president C.R. Patil, seen as a favourite of Modi, spilled out in the open during the Covid crisis and continues to grow, sources said. Deputy chief minister Nitin Patel too is apparently sulking and eyeing the hot seat before the Assembly polls scheduled for 2022. BJP’s state in-charge Bhupendra Yadav was rushed to calm the situation. Sources, however, said the problem remains unresolved amid speculation of a leadership change still rife. While the defeat in the recent Bengal polls has led to an all-out battle in the BJP’s state unit, internal bickering in Tripura, targeting chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb, has surfaced again. While the party’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya faces attack from BJP leaders post the poll defeat, reports of him eyeing the chief minister’s chair in his home state Madhya Pradesh have also surfaced. The party has had to rule out any leadership change in the state, to end speculation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-46
22-06-2021||India||Meeting at Pawar's residence breeds fictional third front notion ||A third front, excluding the Congress, to fight the RSS-BJP almost came into being on Monday, much like a political fairy tale creatively woven with imagination. The fictional political plot was hawked with such force that even the real characters involved got rattled, destabilising the objective of a dialogue between like-minded individuals. Yashwant Sinha, the architect of Tuesday’s meeting which is being projected as NCP veteran Sharad Pawar’s initiative, told The Telegraph: “This is not a meeting to form any third front or exclude the Congress. I cannot help if the media creates a false impression.” What accorded credibility to the impression that a third front of 12-13 parties was being unveiled is the venue of the meeting: Pawar’s residence. It was reported throughout the day that Pawar had invited leaders of non-Congress and non-BJP parties to float a separate front that will ultimately confront Narendra Modi’s dominance. Election strategist Prashant Kishor was portrayed as the mastermind of this grand idea. Kishor, however, has nothing to do with this event and his meeting with Pawar on Monday was unrelated, sources said. Although the venue is Pawar’s New Delhi residence, he is neither the host nor a part of the group holding the meeting. His party colleague Majid Menon, who is a member of the platform Rashtra Manch formed by like-minded individuals, fixed the venue as Pawar showed interest in meeting the leaders. This was enough for speculation to begin on an alleged Pawar conspiracy against the Congress. Kishor’s meeting with Pawar was interpreted as Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee’s blessings to the group. Initially, Trinamul’s Dinesh Trivedi was a member of this group but he has not been invited. Manish Tewari of the Congress too was a member but will not attend Tuesday’s meeting after the propaganda about its anti-Congress agenda. Another invitee, Kapil Sibal, has also declined to attend. The first invitation for this meeting was sent by Ghansyam Tewari, a spokesperson of the Samajwadi Party and a member of the Manch. As nobody responded favourably, Menon started talking to individual leaders and requesting them to attend “to discuss the current political scenario”. No senior leader — Mamata, Akhilesh Yadav, Tejashwi Yadav, M.K. Stalin, Uddhav Thackeray, Sitaram Yechury, D. Raja — will be present. The meeting might have attracted greater participation but for the propaganda on television. One senior Opposition leader, who initially consented to attend and later pulled out, told this newspaper: “Any inclusive politics should not begin with exclusion. What is this anti-Congress agenda? Is this how you plan to fight the RSS-BJP? We may be concerned about what the Congress is doing but the solution is not to jettison the main Opposition party.” Sinha said: “Rashtra Manch, formed three years ago, used to meet once in a while but couldn’t meet for the last 16 months due to Covid. We just thought we should meet now. The venue, decided by Majid Menon, incidentally happens to be Pawar’s residence. There is no agenda against the Congress. We are obviously against the policies of the Modi government. Any like-minded party can send their representatives for discussion. What shape this discussion will take in the future is not known. Nothing more, nothing less.” Those likely to attend the meeting are retired judge A.P. Singh, poet Javed Akhtar, lawyer K.T.S. Tulsi, former JDU leader Pawan Verma, journalists Karan Thapar, Ashutosh and Pritish Nandi and former Chief Election Commissioner S.Y. Qureshi, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-46
22-06-2021||India||Bihar: Murder and violence in its aftermath leaves 3 persons dead||A murder and violence in its aftermath left three persons dead and several injured on Monday in Samastipur district in Bihar, around 90km from the state capital. The incident at Adharpur village under Muffasil police station began as a verbal altercation between resident Shrawan Kumar Rai and deputy mukhiya Muhammad Hasnain, but ended up claiming three lives. Rai was building a temporary conduit to drain out rainwater accumulated in front of his house, which was opposed by Hasnain. When Rai did not stop, Hasnain allegedly fired at him, killing him on the spot. Angered over the death, family members and supporters of Rai allegedly attacked and torched Hasnain’s house. Though he managed to flee, the mob thrashed Hasnain’s wife, son, daughter and nephew. A few vehicles parked outside the house were also damaged. Hasnain’s wife and nephew succumbed to their injuries, police said. Senior officials rushed to the village to control the situation, including Darbhanga zone inspector-general Ajitabh Kumar. “Three persons have lost their lives over a small issue. The deceased include Hasnain’s wife, who was thrashed and thrown into a water-filled ditch, and his nephew, who died while being taken to Darbhanga by the police for treatment,” Kumar told The Telegraph. He expressed relief that the incident did not disintegrate into a clash between two communities. “The area has no communal history and the people are aware that the incident was a fight between two families. The situation is under control and peaceful. There is no communal tension in the area,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-46
22-06-2021||India||Covid: Bihar govt to 're-verify' deaths following Patna HC rap ||The Bihar government has decided to “re-verify” Covid-19 deaths following a rap by Patna High Court for not making figures public and amid indications that the casualties could be huge after a news channel claimed there were around 75,000 deaths due to unexplained causes during the second wave of the pandemic. Asserting the need to immediately inform the State Health Society about pandemic-related deaths and showing desired sensitivity in the matter, the government has issued directions that “further information or applications about Covid-19 deaths prior to June 7 may come at the district level”, but has asked for stringent verification. “The district-level committees will have to review the received applications and documents provided with them to be sure that the death is due to Covid-19. “These committees will include the civil surgeon, assistant chief medical officer and a senior medical officer authorised by the civil surgeon,” says a letter issued by additional chief secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit on June 18 to all civil surgeons and district magistrates. The letter, a copy of which is available with The Telegraph, says that the report on the probable Covid-19 deaths by such committees will be forwarded to the State Health Society after being examined by the district magistrate. According to the letter, a three-member committee will review the forwarded reports at the state-level and provide the details about deaths back to the health society, where the list of Covid-19 deaths will be updated. Experts said that there was no harm in reviewing the applications of pandemic-related deaths, but it was not feasible or practical in a state where the health infrastructure is in a shambles, hospitals and doctors do not provide proper documents to patients, laboratory tests are not easily accessible, and a severe scarcity of doctors force people in rural areas to visit quacks. “It is for the government to decide whether its aim is to incorporate unaccounted Covid-19 deaths, or to reject the claims under the veil of verification. The latest directions seem aimed at the latter,” a civil surgeon told this newspaper on the condition of anonymity. “The letter talks about verifying documents, but quacks working in villages don’t even provide prescriptions. A majority of private hospitals do not provide a clear cause of death. They just write things like cardiac arrest, respiratory failure, cardio-respiratory or cardio-pulmonary failure or failure of other organs. So who will decide and ascertain the cause of death?” the civil surgeon asked. A senior doctor working with the state government pointed out that there were many instances in which rapid antigen tests and in a few cases even the RT-PCR test results came negative though the patient had all the symptoms of Covid-19. “Most of the Covid-19 tests done by the Bihar government have been rapid antigen ones in which 40 to 50 per cent erroneous reports come. This aspect should be considered while evaluating the suspected pandemic deaths. The government could also opt for exhuming bodies to find out whether they were wrapped as per the Covid-19 protocol. However, not much can be done with regard to bodies that have been cremated,” the senior doctor said. Bihar had revised the Covid-19 death figures from 5,478 to 9,429 on June 9 after Patna High Court had slammed the government over inconsistencies in death toll figures of Buxar district. The Nitish Kumar government had carried out a three-week audit that the high court had ordered amid allegations that the authorities were hiding the number of coronavirus infections and deaths. The high court again pulled up the state government in its order on June 18 in cases related to Covid-19 deaths. It asserted that the public had the right to know about the pandemic deaths and the state’s “reluctance to publish the number of deaths was uncalled for”, which could not be protected in any court of law. The letter by Amrit came in light of the June 18 high court order. On June 19, NDTV came out with a report indicating that nearly 75,000 people died of unexplained causes in Bihar from January to May 2021 during the second wave of Covid-19. The figures also showed a huge jump of 82,500 deaths in Bihar during this period in comparison to the same period in 2020. The figures indicate that coronavirus could be a probable cause behind the jump in the number of deaths in Bihar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-46
22-06-2021||India||Kannada row forces Centre to widen curriculum for online language-training course||The Centre was forced to widen the curriculum for an online language-training course for all its officials and all MPs on Monday evening after controversy erupted in Karnataka over the exclusion of Kannada from the original programme schedule. Janata Dal Secular leader and former chief minister H.D. Kumaraswamy had accused the BJP, which rules the country and Karnataka, of being “against Kannada” and the state Congress had joined in along with pro-Kannada outfits. With the political temperature rising through the day, the Centre included in the programme, which was to begin on Tuesday, all the 22 Indian languages recognised in the Eight Schedule and tweaked the schedule. The course, organised by the Parliamentary Research and Training Institute for Democracies of the Lok Sabha secretariat and announced last week, originally included six Indian and six foreign languages. These were Bengali, Gujarati, Marathi, Tamil, Telugu, Odia, French, Portuguese, Japanese, Russian, Spanish and German. Narayan Gambhir, additional private secretary to parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi, told The Telegraph in the evening that 16 languages had been added to the menu and additional sessions scheduled from July. On Tuesday, the programme will start with only the six foreign languages, he said. A second session will begin on July 5 covering the originally announced six Indian languages along with Kannada, Hindi, Sanskrit and Malayalam. A third session will start from July 12 and cover Assamese, Kashmiri, Sindhi, Urdu, Santhali, Nepali, Manipuri, Bodo, Dogri, Konkani, Maithili and Punjabi. “This course will help parliamentarians and officials learn any language they want,” Gambhir said. Asked why Kannada and several other Indian languages had been left out of the original programme, Gambhir said: “Perhaps there was some confusion.” Kumaraswamy congratulated all Kannadigas “who had sent out a warning”, tweeting: “This is the way we should remain united for Kannada.” Kumaraswamy had lit the fire by tweeting on Sunday night: “We must send out a clear message that they (the Centre) will be in trouble if they ignore Kannada. People should realise that the BJP is against Kannada since I have not seen a single BJP MP speak out against such neglect by the Centre.” He had added: “This is the result of sending 25 MPs (of the BJP) from our state who do not respect the Kannada language....” The controversy came at a time the Centre was intermittently facing charges of imposing Hindi on the states because of its increasing use of the language in communicating with them and its regular prods to state government departments to use more Hindi. Congress spokesperson V.S. Ugrappa too had accused the NDA government of “insulting” Kannadigas and “imposing Hindi and neglecting state languages”. Praveen Kumar, secretary of the pro-Kannada Karnataka Rakshana Vedike, had said a meeting of like-minded organisations would be held online and memorandums submitted to the deputy commissioners of all the districts. Cornered, BJP parliamentarians like Appachu Ranjan had declined comment, asking reporters to talk to Union minister Joshi, who is MP from Dharwad in Karnataka. Karnataka has over the decades witnessed several pro-Kannada agitations against perceived impositions of Hindi and, sometimes, English. Kumaraswamy was among politicians who had questioned the state-funded Hindi Divas held in September last year. “When will (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi celebrate Kannada day?” he had asked. Karnataka had seen widespread protests and roadblocks in September 2019 after Union home minister Amit Shah seemed to advocate a “one nation, one language” line, projecting Hindi as the only language that could unite the country. Several pro-Kannada organisations had got the Bangalore Metro to replace all its Hindi signboards after weeks of protests when they defaced everything written in Hindi. Since then, the boards have carried messages and signage only in Kannada and English. A senior academic who declined to be named said that elected representatives and officials would benefit by learning languages of other states and nations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-46
22-06-2021||India||Supreme Court of India to examine plea to hold board exams ||The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to examine fresh pleas seeking restoration of Class XII examinations of the Central Board of Secondary Education and the ICSE council or an option to write the exams instead of relying on internal assessment, days after the top court granted in-principle approval to the formulas suggested by the two boards to award marks to this year’s outgoing students. A bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari asked attorney-general K.K. Venugopal, representing the CBSE, and a counsel appearing for the ICSE council to place their views by Tuesday on the plea, besides suggestions for uniform assessment criteria by the two boards in awarding the marks. The court, which is dealing with a fresh batch of petitions challenging the decisions of the two boards to cancel the exam, posted the matter for further hearing to Tuesday 2pm. On June 17, the court had granted in-principle approval to the CBSE and ICSE council to declare this year’s Class XII results on the basis of internal assessment marks obtained by students of the respective boards for the last three and six years respectively in response to a PIL. On Monday, senior advocate Vikas Singh appearing for students and parents challenging cancellation of the exams insisted that they should be conducted by asking students to wear “double masks”. “It is a very important exam. If this assessment (internal marks) is followed, there will be a lot of uncertainty and more litigation,” Singh said. “Our contention is that this isn’t a market place and teachers and students can come with double masks,” the senior counsel argued. The court took on record the following suggestions made by Singh: ⚫ The students should be given the option to choose between the two options, that is, either appearing for the physical exam or opting for the criteria adopted by CBSE/ICSE. ⚫ The option to improvise the result by writing the improvement exams must be given at the outset before declaration of results. In other words, the petitioners were of the view that the students cannot be allowed to first wait for the internal assessment results and thereafter opt for the exams. ⚫ There should be uniform criteria for assessment by the CBSE and ICSE. Justice Khanwilkar, heading the bench, while referring to the plea for uniform criteria for assessment by the two boards orally observed: “These are two different dispensations. Apple can’t be compared to orange.” However, the bench asked both the CBSE and ICSE to respond to the plea by Tuesday. Another advocate Abhishekh Chaudhary, appearing for some private and compartmental students, said the decision of the CBSE to conduct exams for them instead of adopting internal assessment like that for regular students was arbitrary and unconstitutional. The counsel argued that such a policy was discriminatory and violated Article 14 of the Constitution, which prohibited discrimination between two classes of citizens. The bench agreed to consider all these issues on Tuesday. The court will also hear the plea for cancellation of Class XII board exams by various states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-46
22-06-2021||India||Covid: CBSE to announce Class XII results on July 31||The Central Board of Secondary Education on Monday told the Supreme Court it would announce the Class XII results on July 31 and hold an in-person examination for aggrieved students between August 15 and September 15 if conditions are conducive. It said it had formed a committee to deal with complaints by students unhappy with the marks awarded to them. It also provided details and clarifications about the “standardisation” methodology it would adopt to ensure the schools were not overgenerous or too stingy in evaluating their students. The CBSE had on Thursday submitted an affidavit in the apex court outlining how, with the Class XII board exams cancelled because of the pandemic, its schools would award marks to the students on the basis of their Class X boards and internal Class XI and XII exams. The court had then asked the board to provide for a dispute resolution mechanism for students aggrieved with the marks awarded, and specify the dates for declaration of results and the conduct of the optional, in-person exam. On Monday, the board said the physical examination will be conducted “only in the main subjects as and when conditions are conducive” and the marks obtained “will be treated as final for those who opt to take this examination”. Any student looking to improve their marks can take the physical exam, and so can “private/patrachar (correspondence course)/2nd-chance compartment candidates”. Standardisation On Thursday, the CBSE had clarified that the students’ results in their Class X boards and Class XI and XII exams would respectively be awarded 30 per cent, 30 per cent and 40 per cent weightage while calculating the theory marks in each subject. The practical-cum-internal assessment component would reflect the exact marks awarded under this head in Class XII. However, since the Class XI and XII marks would have been awarded by the individual schools themselves, the board had suggested a “standardisation” formula to weed out any arbitrariness. This was to be done by taking as the “reference year” the particular year out of the previous three years in which the school had performed the best in the Class XII board exams. A result committee formed by the school would then ensure that: ⚫ The average marks awarded by the school in any subject for 2020-2021 are within 5 marks above or below the average score obtained by its students in that subject in the reference year. ⚫ The average marks the school awards its students in 2020-2021 across all the subjects should not exceed the overall average marks obtained by its students in the reference year by 2. On Monday, the CBSE sought to clarify any doubts about the process, saying: ⚫ If only two years’ data for a school is available, the best performance out of two years will be the reference. If just a year’s data is available, that year will be the reference year. ⚫ If a school’s students are clearing Class XII for the first time, the CBSE will provide the past three years’ district, state and national averages of schools from the same category — private, aided, KVS, Navodaya, and the like. Based on this, the reference-year figures will be worked out. ⚫ Schools that have switched over from other boards will use their past performance under their previous boards subject to approval by the CBSE. ⚫ If any school has 10 or fewer students in any subject, it need not take into account the subject average from the reference year but only the overall average of all the subjects taken together. ⚫ The CBSE will provide the schools with the broad distribution of marks obtained by their students in each subject each year — for instance, the proportion of the schools’ students obtaining an aggregate score above 90 per cent. Once the school result committee finalises the marks on the basis of exams, it must ensure the scores largely match the broad distribution provided by the board. To make it easy for the schools, the CBSE will prepare an online system in which the schools can enter the marks awarded and check whether these conform to the historical distribution. If there’s a mismatch, the result committee must revise the marks according to a consistent and objective criterion that should be spelt out. Built-in checks for marks distribution as well as subject-wise average marks will be available in the online system. Only if the marks awarded by a school are consistent with the board policy will the CBSE portal allow them to be uploaded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-47
22-06-2021||West Bengal||TMC attacks Modi over Alapan episode, claims petulance now a state policy||The Trinamool Congress on Tuesday hit out at the BJP-led central government accusing it of trying to disturb the functioning of the West Bengal government by initiating disciplinary proceedings against Alapan Bandyopadhyay, former chief secretary of the state. The TMC also claimed that petulance has become part of state policy of the Narendra Modi government and the action against Bandyopadhyay, now working as an advisor to the chief minister, amounted to opening of a provocative chapter in federal conflicts. The BJP however, denied the charges as "baseless" and accused the Mamata Banerjee-led party of politicising the bureaucracy. "The BJP has resorted to disturb the functional affairs of the government of West Bengal to further its political agenda its humiliating defeat in the election. "It is the prime minister who sits at the helm of the DoPT, and there's no point in guessing that this is nothing but personal rage, which is desperately finding a venting point to roar," senior TMC MP and party spokesperson Sougata Ray said. The comments by the TMC came a day after the Centre initiated "major penalty proceedings" against Bandyopadhyay, amid a tug-of-war between the Union government and the Mamata Banerjee dispensation over him, which may deprive him of post-retirement benefits, partially or fully. The Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) has sent Bandyopadhyay, who retired on May 31 and is now the chief advisor to the CM, a "memorandum" mentioning the charges giving him 30 days to reply. Referring to the death of Bandyopadhyay's mother a few days back, Ray claimed that the Central government is also heartless. "They (the Centre) simply want to deprive Alapan of the benefits that he was entitled to post-retirement. After losing (the poll in) Bengal, the BJP is trying to create unnecessary tussle in the functioning of the state government. By making petulance part of state policy, Modi has opened a provocative chapter in federal conflicts," he said. The action initiated against Bandyopadhyay is inhuman, Ray claimed. "The TMC condemns it. People of West Bengal also are seeing how the central government is harassing an honest officer. People of Bengal will not tolerate such humiliation," he said. The West Bengal BJP denied the charges and claimed that it is the state's ruling party which has politicised bureaucracy. "We have nothing personal against Alapan Bandyopadhyay or anyone else. He was an all-India cadre officer, and the matter is between him and the union government. It is the TMC which has politicised the police and bureaucracy and have been using them to serve its political interests," state BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said. Bandopadhyay was set to retire on May 31, but the state had recently sought and received permission for extension of his tenure by three months as he played a crucial role in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. He was, however, handed over a transfer directive by the DoPT, shortly after a row broke out over Prime Minister Narendra Modi's post-cyclone review meeting, which the CM and the state chief secretary did not attend. The bureaucrat, instead of reporting to Delhi, chose to retire amid the Centre-state tussle. He was subsequently appointed as the CM's chief adviser. The DoPT had sent him a reminder after he failed to report in response to its May 28 order. The Union Home Ministry has also slapped a show-cause notice on Bandyopadhyay under a stringent provision of the Disaster Management Act that entails imprisonment for up to two years for abstaining from the meeting presided over by the PM. The notice said Bandyopadhyay "acted in a manner tantamount to refusing to comply with lawful directions of the central government". Bandyopadhyay had responded to the Home Ministry's notice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-16
22-06-2021||West Bengal||Narada: SC defers hearing on Mamata plea to June 25 after judge recuses himself||The Supreme Court Tuesday decided to hear on June 25 the appeals of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and the state Law Minister Moloy Ghatak against the June 9 order of the Calcutta High Court which had refused to take on record their affidavits on the CBI's transfer plea related to the Narada scam case. The appeals, initially listed before a vacation bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and Aniruddha Bose, were referred to another bench by Chief Justice N V Ramana during the day itself after Justice Bose recused from the hearing without citing any reason. A bench of Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheswari, to which the cases were referred, took up the matter in the afternoon. At outset, Justice Saran said that the matters are fresh for the bench and they needed to go through the files before the hearing. On being pointed out that earlier the top court had requested the high court to defer the hearing till it decides the appeals, the bench said that it would pass the same order urging the high court to postpone the scheduled hearing there on June 23 and wait for two more days. The bench then enquired from Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, and senior Advocates Rakesh Dwivedi and Vikas Singh, whether they will be able to conclude the arguments on Friday. The lawyers answered in the affirmative. "The Supreme Court had noted earlier on June 18 that the High Court may not take up the matter on 21 and 22. Since the matter could not be taken up today, we hope the High Court will not take up the matter on any date prior to the 25th", the bench said in the order. The top court was scheduled to hear three appeals including that of the state government challenging the high court's denial for filing of affidavits by Banerjee and Ghatak in their role on the day of arrest of four Trinamool Congress leaders on May 17 by CBI in the case. It has been alleged that the state ruling party leaders played a key role in stopping the CBI from performing its legal duty after arresting four leaders in the case. Initially, the state government and the law minister had moved the top court with their appeals and later the chief minister filed her plea against the June 9 order of the high court. The top court on June 18 had requested the high court to hear the case a day after the apex court considered the appeals of the state government and Ghatak against the order. On June 9, a five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court, hearing CBI's application for transfer of the Narada sting tape case from the special CBI court to the high court, had said it will decide later on considering the affidavits by Banerjee and Ghatak on their respective roles on the day of the arrest of four leaders in connection with the case. Senior advocates Rakesh Dwivedi and Vikas Singh, appearing for Ghatak and the state government, had said it was necessary to bring on record of the high court the affidavits as they deal with the roles of the persons concerned on May 17. The law minister was attending the cabinet meeting and was not in the court premises at the time of hearing, Dwivedi had said, adding that even the CBI officials were not there on the spot as the lawyer for the agency addressed the court virtually. The high court, which on June 9 decided to consider later the affidavits of Banerjee and Ghatak, was urged by the Solicitor General that the affidavits cannot be accepted on the ground of delay as they were filed after the completion of his arguments. The CBI, which has filed an application seeking transfer of the Narada sting tape case from the special CBI court to the high court, has made the chief minister and the law minister parties in its plea there. It had claimed that while the chief minister had sat on a dharna at the CBI office in Calcutta soon after the arrest of the four accused, Ghatak had been present at the Banshall Court premises during the virtual hearing of the case before the special CBI court there on May 17. Ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, Trinamool Congress MLA Madan Mitra and former mayor of Calcutta Sovan Chatterjee were arrested by the CBI which is investigating the Narada sting tape case on a 2017 order of the high court. The five-judge bench, comprising Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and justices I P Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Arijit Banerjee, had adjourned the hearing in the matter. The bench had granted interim bail on May 28 to the four accused. The special CBI court had granted them bail on May 17 itself, but the order was stayed by the high court, which remanded them to judicial custody. They had been placed under house arrest on May 21 by the high court, modifying its earlier order of stay on the bail. The Narada sting operation was conducted by journalist Mathew Samuel of Narada News, a web portal, in 2014 wherein some people resembling TMC ministers, MPs and MLAs were seen receiving money from representatives of a fictitious company in lieu of favours. At that time, the four arrested politicians were ministers in the Mamata Banerjee government. The sting operation was made public ahead of the 2016 assembly elections in West Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-16
22-06-2021||West Bengal||SC judge recuses himself from hearing plea of CM Mamata in Narada case||Supreme Court judge Justice Aniruddha Bose on Tuesday recused himself from hearing appeals of Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and state law minister Moloy Ghatak about their role on the day of arrest of four TMC leaders by the CBI in the Narada sting tape case. As soon as a vacation bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and Bose assembled to commence the day's proceedings, Justice Gupta said his brother judge is recusing himself from hearing these appeals. Justice Gupta, presiding over the bench, said the issue would be now placed before Chief Justice N V Ramana who may take the decision and the pleas may be listed for hearing during the day itself. The top court was scheduled to hear three appeals including that of the state government challenging the high court's denial for filing of affidavits by her and the state Law Minister in their role on the day of arrest of four Trinamool Congress leaders on May 17 by the central agency in the case. It has been alleged that the state ruling party leaders played a key role in stopping the CBI from performing its legal duty after arresting four leaders in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-17
22-06-2021||West Bengal||Centre to hold 'major penalty proceedings' against Alapan ||The Narendra Modi government has launched its third round of assault on former Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay. The Centre has decided to hold “major penalty proceedings” against Bandopadhyay, now an adviser to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, for skipping the Prime Minister’s review meeting at Kalaikunda on May 28. “Shri Alapan Bandyopadhyay, IAS (Retd.) (WB: 1987) is hereby informed that the central government proposes to hold Major Penalty Proceedings against him under Rule 8 of the All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1969,” reads a memorandum, dated June 16, sent by the Centre to Bandyopadhyay. Major penalty proceedings against an all-India service officer are drawn if a preliminary inquiry establishes beyond doubt that an act by the officer constituted a major breach of service rules, an official said. Senior IAS officers said the charges mentioned in the memorandum appeared to be serious and could rob Bandyopadhyay of retirement benefits like pension. “The tragedy here is there hasn’t been any proper inquiry.… It’s just a one-sided vilification of a senior officer as the Centre can’t do anything to the chief minister,” an officer said. The memorandum, sent by the department of personnel and training, asks Bandyopadhyay to submit a written statement defending himself within 30 days. If he so desires, he will be heard in person. The Centre has informed Bandyopadhyay that he should specifically deny or admit the charges levelled against him. Bandyopadhyay has been under attack since he and the chief minister skipped the review meeting at Kalaikunda that Modi had convened on May 28 to assess the extent of devastation in Bengal caused by Cyclone Yaas. From Kalaikunda, Bandyopadhyay and Mamata had travelled to Digha to assess the situation there and hold a meeting as East Midnapore was one of the worst-affected districts. First, in an unprecedented order on May 28 evening, Bandyopadhyay was asked to report to the DoPT in Delhi for a three-month period although the Centre had earlier cleared a state government proposal for a three-month extension to the officer as chief secretary in view of the pandemic. Then came the second blow -- after Bandyopadhyay decided against taking the extension and retired from service -- in the form of a letter asking him to explain in writing why action should not be taken against him for violating the Disaster Management Act, 2005, by skipping the Prime Minister’s review meeting. “The DoPT memorandum indicates that the Centre failed to make much headway with its plan of using the DM Act to penalise Bandyopadhyay.… So, it used the third option, threatening to hold major penalty proceedings against him,” a source said. Bandyopadhyay could not be reached for comment. Sources in Nabanna said a detailed reply would be sent to the DoPT soon. The DoPT memorandum has left senior government officials at Nabanna shocked, with several of them saying it had exposed Delhi’s desperation to take revenge on an officer for following a chief minister’s instructions. “He has already explained in writing why he had to leave the meeting with the chief minister after taking permission from the Prime Minister that day.... But the Centre appears to be in the mood to take revenge on him,” a senior official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-17
22-06-2021||West Bengal||Windamere  in Darjeeling declares lockout from July 5 ||Windamere, considered one of the best colonial hotels in the country and a landmark in Darjeeling, has declared a lockout from July 5 because of Covid-19-induced financial stress. Hotel industry is hit worst by the pandemic but Windamere which draws clients mostly from overseas has been hit harder by Covid and the subsequent ban on foreign travellers. Elizabeth Clarke, managing director of the hotel built in the 19th century, in her lockout notice said: “Due to ongoing COVID-19 pandemic since the last one and half years the Hotel Management has suffered huge financial losses and ultimately has gone into financial crisis leading to financial debt.” The place started as a cosy boarding house for bachelor English and Scottish tea planters — first building was built around the 1880s — was converted into a hotel just before the outbreak of the Second World War. Windamere Hotel is an attraction by itself carrying Darjeeling’s rich history. A glance through the names of the 38 rooms at the hotel provides an insight into its rich history. Prince Peter of Greece and Denmark had stayed at the hotel and a room at the main building is named after him. Another room is called the Princess of Siam (as Thailand was previously known) as she had stayed there. Another room is named Chogyal of Sikkim and it was at this hotel that the former king of Sikkim had met his second wife Hope Cooke. The hotel is also famous for its “Christmas Week at Windamere” from December 18 to January 1, which is being celebrated in the same way since 1939. “However, the last major foreign booking the hotel received was on December 19, 2019. Since then, our occupancy has been as low as 30 per cent on an average despite offering a special discount of almost 50 per cent,” said a source at the hotel. Tariff during normal times starts from Rs 10,000 per night. Sources said the hotel had been paying 100 per cent salaries to the 50-odd employees for the past few months but could only disburse 50 per cent of the pay in May. In her lock-out notice to the staff, Clarke said: “We have decided to go into lockout and to temporarily suspend the functioning of our Hotel business. We are contemplating to provide our hospitality services to our guests once everything becomes normal and tourists’ starts coming, particularly international tourists and we start getting the bookings.” Tourism industry veterans endorsed the concerns of the management of Windamere Hotel. “We get the highest business between April 15 and June 15 and do business of around Rs 9 crore per day during this period. We have suffered a loss of over Rs 500 crore,” said Raj Basu, an industry veteran. Bengal tourism minister Indranil Sen on Monday started a three-day tour of north Bengal to look into the concerns of the industry stakeholders. “Our government has started vaccinating tourism workers against Covid and we hope the industry will pick up by Durga Puja.” Around 10 lakh people directly or indirectly derive sustenance from the tourism industry in north Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-17
22-06-2021||West Bengal||BJP MP Saumitra Khan demands statehood for ‘Rarh Bengal’ region||Bishnupur BJP MP Saumitra Khan on Monday demanded statehood for the Rarh Bengal region before “we will be called outsiders on our own land”. “On one hand, Bengal is turning into a refuge for the Rohingya. On the other hand, Mamata Banerjee is disallowing the CAA. It won’t be late before we will be called outsiders on our own land. This is why I feel this region (Rarh) should be turned into a separate state,” said Khan. According to Khan, the districts which formed the “erstwhile Rarh Bengal” or Jungle Mahal area must be carved out as a new state. “Birbhum, Burdwan, Asansol, Purulia, Bankura, Bishnupur, Jhargarm, West and East Midnapore and a few parts of Hooghly. These are the areas which should be clubbed and granted statehood,” he said. In geographical terms, the Rarh region comprises the areas between the gangetic delta and the Chhota Nagpur plateau. Khan’s comment comes about a week after Barla publicly demanded a separate dominion status for north Bengal. Barla first made his demand through a local news portal. However in the last few days, he has been more vocal about the demand and also mentioned it at a meeting of BJP MPs and MLAs from north Bengal on Saturday. At a time state BJP leaders were busy drawing up strategies to make post-poll violence in Bengal an issue to embarrass the Mamata Banerjee government, the statehood demands from the two MPs have come as surprise for the state party unit. The BJP’s embarrassment over Barla and Khan’s comments are evident from the desperate attempts by state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh and scores of other leaders to distance themselves from these demands. “The BJP is never in favour of dividing Bengal. It has always wanted development for West Bengal as a whole. However, given the lawlessness in the state, some people might get frustrated. This frustration has probably made them put forward such demands. The BJP doesn’t support the demands as a party,” Ghosh said on Monday on the sidelines of an organisational meeting of the party in Malda. Ghosh has made several comments attempting to alienate the BJP from Barla’s comments earlier. A section within the party believes there is a possibility that the two MPs enjoy the backing of the BJP’s central leadership. These leaders also said it could be yet another ploy of the BJP top rung to divide the people of Bengal on communal lines. “Neither John Barla nor Saumitra could have spoken out of turn if they didn’t have the sanction of the party’s central leaders. The latter is referring to Rohingya Muslims and CAA. Of course, these are the best weapons of polarisation for us. All this makes us think that the central BJP leadership has a bigger role to play here,” a state BJP office-bearer said. Moreover, Barla has claimed he has already spoken to his leaders in Delhi on this issue. Khan said he would bring this topic up in Parliament and accordingly, mobilise the crowd in its favour. The Trinamul Congress has been using the comments of Barla as a weapon to launch a fresh political campaign against the BJP in north Bengal, where the ruling party has traditionally been weak. “While Trinamul has regained ground in south Bengal during the Assembly polls over the Lok Sabha elections, north Bengal still remains a difficult zone as we performed badly in districts like Alipurduar, Cooch Behar and Jalpaiguri... Barla’s demand has given us a chance to mobilise public support in our favour,” a Trinamul leader from Alipurduar said. Apart from combating Barla’s comments politically, Trinamul lodged three FIRs at three different police stations in Cooch Behar against the MP for his comments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-17
22-06-2021||West Bengal||Malda teen blackmailed elder brother for four months to stop him from reporting||Asif Mohammad, the 19-year-old youth who had allegedly killed his family members in front of his elder brother Arif, had managed to stop him from spilling the beans for four months by allegedly blackmailing him. Arif, 21, had been following his younger brother’s instructions all along and kept his mouth shut despite having full knowledge about the brutal killings of his parents, sister and grandmother. Last week, unable to sustain the pressure, he reported the four-month-old incident to Kaliachak police and led to Asif’s arrest. A senior officer said: “Asif had this tendency to bluff around and pretend that he knew much more than he actually did. He used the same trick on his elder brother and managed to stop him from reporting to the police for four months through blackmail.” Malda police are also probing Asif's year-long absence from his hometown after he cleared his class X exams, sources said. Asif Mohammad had disappeared “for a long period” after his Madhaymik examination in 2019 apparently without informing his parents anything about his destination. Alok Rajoria, superintendent of Malda police, said: “It has been found that he was in Shillong, Meghalaya, for some days. We are probing his activities during his absence and also the people he had interacted with.” The police said they were trying to ascertain the purpose behind the newly-constructed building adjoining the home. “It is a peculiar 70-feet high building spread over 2000sqft area. The upper storey has a balcony but there is no staircase. This building was connected with the main building through a tunnel,” said a police officer. The investigators said they would examine the masons and labourers involved in the construction and try to find out the thought process behind building the house which was totally planned by Asif. “We know Asif was involved in the building’s design and the masons could provide us with a clue,” said an officer. Arif, Asif’s brother, has apparently failed to throw any light on the reason to construct a building like this. Arif had blown the lid off the killing of their parents Jawad Ali, 53, and Ira Bibi, 39, sister Rima Khatun, 16, and grandmother Aleknoor Bewa, 73 on February 28. The police said Asif was in touch with Arif and was in control of the latter’s actions to ensure that he never reported the multiple killings to the police. However, Arif had failed to sustain the pressure and informed the police about the incident. The police had till now seized five 7mm pistols, 84 rounds of cartridges and 10 magazines from Asif’s friends Sabir Ali, 18 and Mohammad Mahfuz, 20, on Saturday, along with more than Rs 2 lakh in cash. Both the arms and money are believed to belong to Asif, the police said. However, the cops are yet to ascertain why Asif was keeping the cache of arms and ammunition in his possession.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-17
22-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal breaks spell of rise in active cases||Bengal on Monday snapped out of an 11-day spell of renewed rise in total active Covid-19 cases and logged less than 2,000 infections for the first time since April 5, 77 days ago. On Monday, the state reported 2,113 recoveries, 1,879 infections and 42 deaths. The total of active cases fell by 276, to 22,740. “We are back on track,” said a minister, pointing out that the daily confirmation rate, which had peaked in the second wave with nearly 33 per cent, fell to below four on Monday, to 3.93. Prior to Monday, the total of active cases had improved till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702, from the all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21. But over 11 days till Sunday, it had risen again by over 56 per cent. “All our estimates suggested this reversal, around this time. It will be a smooth ride back to a great position, over the next few weeks,” said the minister. Bengal currently has 3.44 per cent of the national total of active cases and remains eighth on the list of states with most active cases. In another major plus, the state’s recovery rate resumed its upward climb — after a 10-day reversal — and rose to 97.3 per cent. The national recovery rate is 96.46 now. Bengal’s overall mortality rate, with 17,390 deaths in total, is 1.17 per cent, while the national rate is 1.29. Of the 42 deaths reported on Monday, nine were reported from the city and 10 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst-affected districts. While Calcutta logged 171 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 295. “Over the past few weeks, we have also been able to lower the daily death count from 150-odd to less than 50,” said the minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-17
22-06-2021||West Bengal||Potholes on two highways lead to bumpy ride and commute problems||A 22km stretch of NH14 and a 25km portion of a state highway, both connecting north Bengal with the south of the state, have been lying in disrepair for a year-and-a-half, posing problems in commute between the two regions. The condition is worse for the 22km stretch of NH14 — from Birbhum’s Nalhati to Moregram — which has become potentially dangerous for commuters as it is peppered with countless potholes, some of them 3-4ft-deep. The 306km-long NH14 starts from Kharagpore in West Midnapore, and ends at Moregram in Birbhum, connecting NH12, the arterial connector for north Bengal. The road also connects Odisha as it merges with NH16 near Kharagpore. A large number of vehicles from various south Bengal districts, including Birbhum, East Burdwan, West Burdwan, Bankura and West Midnapore use NH14 to commute to and from north Bengal. Sources in the Bengal public works department (NH) said they had nothing to do with the road as the Centre provided funds for repair and had allegedly been idle with the file since last year. The PWD (NH), which maintains the national highways in Bengal, said despite submitting a plea of Rs 18 crore last year, no fund had been released by the Centre. “We sought funds from the Centre last year, with a reminder in January this year. But we are yet to get funds. We need huge funds for repair as the condition of that NH14 stretch is beyond regular patchwork,” said N.K. Singh, an executive engineer of PWD (NH). Police officers said it had become a tall task for them to handle traffic following frequent breakdown of trucks. “It has been crazy trying to handle the traffic on that NH14 stretch. There are two problems — major traffic snarls because of the breakdown of trucks or other vehicles and guarding the goods of those vehicles. Local people have already stopped using the road because of the extremely bad condition,” said a senior police officer in Birbhum. “Thousands of overloaded vehicles plying through the road is one of the factors contributing substantially to the damage,” he added. Those who used to travel in personal cars through NH14 have stopped using the road because of its condition. “Now I use local roads and take detours of about 20km, simply to reach Behrampore,” said Hiranmoy Ghosh, a physician in Rampurhat, who often goes to Behrampore to visit his family. Bangla Sanskriti Mancha, a social organisation, on Monday wrote to Union transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari and the state government, seeking immediate repair of the stretch. “There are hundreds of villages and small towns and people from those areas depend on NH14. Now they are crossing rivers at great risk for shortcuts. We want immediate repair,” said Samirul Islam, the president the Mancha. Trinamul Congress’s Bolpur MP Asit Mal met Gadkari six months ago and asked him in writing to allot funds, but in vain. “I am in Delhi. I am likely to meet Gadkari in one or two days. We don’t know why the Centre is not sanctioning money for this,” said Mal. Another way to connect to north Bengal is a state highway from Birbhum’s Futisanko, near Nanoor. The 65km stretch connects with Moregram to meet the NH12. Sources said a 25km stretch of the road, known commonly as the Badshahi Road, from Kuli to Futisanko, had become a similar nightmare for commuters. It is a key alternative road and most vehicles from south Bengal, including the Haldia port, use this road to reach north Bengal as NH14 is in a bad shape. “This road is filled with craters and potholes…. The PWD has already floated a tender and the repairs will start soon,” said Rajib Khan, the Murshidabad zilla parishad functionary responsible for public works.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-17
22-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt to increase Covid-19 beds for children to face third wave threat||Mamata Banerjee on Monday said her government would work to increase Covid-19 beds for children in the state keeping in mind the possible third wave of the pandemic. “We are trying to increase Covid-19 beds for kids as many experts said children could be affected if the third wave comes,” said the chief minister. Sources in the health department said several experts felt that children up to the age of 18 years could be affected in larger number compared to the first and second waves as they wouldn’t be vaccinated. “That does not mean children would be infected predominantly or exclusively in the third phase. But yes, the number of affected children could go up. So, it is important to develop infrastructure as a precautionary measure,” said a senior health department official. Contrary to the perception of the state government that a possible third wave might affect kids in larger number compared to the first two waves, the Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP), which is a body representing over 32,000 paediatricians across the country, said last month that any fresh surge in the epidemic was “highly unlikely” to predominantly or severely affect children. The IAP termed as baseless fears circulating on social media of a third wave hitting children hard. The IAP has said while children appear as susceptible as adults and the elderly to contract the novel coronavirus infection, 90 per cent of infections in children are mild or without symptoms. A Bengal government source said the alertness of the health department stemmed from the fact there was a paucity of beds for children at hospitals in the state. The source added that aware of the shortcomings, the government wanted to augment Covid treatment-related infrastructure at healthcare establishments for children. “A rough estimate says all hospitals have less than 10 per cent of their beds for children. This has to be increased. I hope the health department will initiate measures after the chief minister’s announcement,” said another official. A senior doctor at SSKM Hospital in Calcutta explained why a separate facility was required to be developed for children keeping the third wave in mind. “An ICU for children is completely different from the units where adults are treated. In the case of ICU for children, there should be facilities to accommodate parents of the children, too. I can say it is almost impossible to provide treatment to a child in ICU if the mother is not present,” said the doctor. A member of a Covid-related committee of the state government said it should consider vaccinating mothers of children on a priority basis. “Even if mothers of children are below 45 years of age, the state should vaccinate them considering them as a priority group. If mothers are vaccinated, she could be allowed in the ICU where the children would be admitted,” said the member. A source said they would have to race against time to develop infrastructure for children. “According to predictions of many experts, the third wave could hit the country in the next eight-12 weeks. We have to develop required infrastructure by that time,” said the source. A health department official said if vaccines were made available by the Centre, it would work with the Calcutta Municipal Corporation to vaccinate mothers of children at the earliest. “It has been seen that Calcutta remains the place that received the first blow in case of the previous waves. So, it is important to vaccinate mothers of children in Calcutta first,” the official added. But the plan depends entirely on the availability of vaccines. It is expected that the state would get around 40 lakh vaccine doses in July as the Centre promised a steady supply, said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-17
22-06-2021||West Bengal||NHRC panel to probe post-poll violence after Calcutta HC rejects government’s plea ||A special bench of Calcutta High Court on Monday declined to entertain a petition by the Bengal government, seeking a modification of its directive to the chairperson of the National Human Rights Commission to send a team to meet people who had allegedly been victims of post-poll clashes in the state and submit a report to judges by June 30. The five-member special bench headed by acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal had issued the order on June 18. The court on Monday criticised the Bengal government and the West Bengal Human Rights Commission for their “failure” in tackling the issue. Justice Harish Tandon on the bench said: “It is a matter of wonder that the state human rights commission did not receive a single complaint from any victim, while the National Human Rights Commission already has 541 allegations of post-poll violence from various parts of Bengal.” Justice Bindal said: “One-and-a-half months past the publication of poll results (on May 2) in the state…. It is really a matter of shame that incidents of violence and torture are still taking place.” Following two different public interest litigations, moved by advocates Anindya Sunder Das and Priyanka Tibrewal, the special bench had in early June first directed the state rights body to set up a committee by including a representative from itself, the State Legal Services Authority and the NHRC. But on June 18, when the case came up for the court’s scanning again, the petitioners’ lawyers had alleged that the order of the court was not adhered to properly. Hearing the allegation, the special bench directed the NHRC to set up a committee for visiting the allegedly affected areas of Bengal and file a report before the court. But moving a petition before the bench, the state government on Monday sought modification of the June 18 order as it was “delivered without giving the state the opportunity to defend itself”. The court said the case would be heard again on June 30 and asked the NHRC chairman to file the report then.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-17
22-06-2021||West Bengal||Groups of criminals clash in North 24-Parganas, cop injured ||An assistant sub-inspector of police suffered injuries when a bomb exploded during a clash between two groups of criminals at Bhatpara town in North 24-Parganas late on Sunday night. ASI Subrata Goswami was part of a police team trying to control the situation. A bomb exploded near the police officer who suffered multiple splinter injuries. He was rushed to Bhatpara state general hospital and later shifted to a nursing home in Barrackpore. Police and local sources said a clash had broken out between two gangs of criminals in areas adjacent to Railgate-29 under ward 8 of the town around 10pm on Sunday. The clash panicked local residents who called the police. The presence of cops did not deter the goons, who continued to attack each other with bombs and bullets, leading to the ASI’s injury. Personnel of the combat force of the district police later brought the situation under control and arrested Sambhu Sonar and Ram Pandit for their alleged role in the violence. The incident unleashed panic in the district’s jute belt that has been on the boil since the announcement of the Assembly poll results with incidents of armed clashes becoming a regular affair. The frequent clashes have revived memories of violence that had erupted in the belt after BJP candidate Arjun Singh had won the 2019 Lok Sabha poll. “We have to spend sleepless night on most days as goons frequently clash with each other in the area. Bombs explode throughout the night, leaving the residents here in panic. The entire belt has turned into a stockpile of bombs,” said a person who lives in Bhatpara and was part of a crowd that had blocked the Barrackpore-Kanchrapara road demanding arrest of the goons. A section of Trinamul Congress leaders is annoyed with police inaction and blames some party office-bearers for instigating the clashes. “After we lost the Barrackpore seat in 2019, we began to blame Arjun Singh for creating tension. But after the Assembly polls, Arjun’s control over the goons has largely decreased, particularly following the defeat of BJP candidates in most seats in the jute belt. Now, people will not accept that violence in the area is being orchestrated entirely by Arjun,” said a senior Trinamul leader in Naihati. However, Trinamul MLA from Jagaddal Somnath Shyam said: “Arjun has been trying to create tension for political interest.” Arjun, however, said: “People know who is creating tension. Everything will become clear if police act in a non-partisan manner.” A senior officer of Barrackpore police commissionerate said: “We had arrested a number of goons but most of them got bail because of the pandemic.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-17
22-06-2021||West Bengal||BJP leaders hold emergency meeting to keep flock together||BJP leaders held an emergency meeting in Alipurduar in an apparent move to keep their flock together after district president Ganga Prasad Sharma joined the Trinamul Congress in Calcutta on Monday. Nikhil Ranjan Dey, BJP observer for north Bengal, presided over the emergency meeting which was attended by four MLAs from Alipurduar — the fifth party MLA Manoj Tigga is in Calcutta — and Alipurduar MP John Barla. Dey said the state leaders had directed him to hold the meeting with Alipurduar district leaders. “ I will propose the names of three leaders to be selected as the next district chief.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-18
22-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: More trouble||Crisis and the Congress have become synonymous for a while now. From losing elected state governments to its principal political rival — Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka were pocketed by the Bharatiya Janata Party — to its failure to stop leaders from crossing over to the saffron camp — Jyotiraditya Scindia and, in more recent times, Jitin Prasada are prime examples — India’s Grand Old Party has been lurching from one crisis to another ever since it received — twice — resounding electoral rejections from the people in general elections. The Congress’s growing distance from power in New Delhi seems to have deepened the fault lines within its rank and file, so much so that the party now finds itself on a sticky wicket even in election-bound states where, the word is, it could retain power. Punjab is a case in point here. The farmers’ agitation against the three controversial laws passed by the Centre has had a palpable impact in this state, dimming the BJP’s prospects considerably in 2022. The Shiromani Akali Dal, a former ally of the National Democratic Alliance, is expected to bear the brunt of the collateral damage. The public disenchantment with these two outfits should have, in theory, energized the Congress to seek a second term. Except that discord and petty aspirations, the Congress’s perennial Achilles’ heel, seem to have put Amarinder Singh’s government in a spot. Mr Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu are not exactly ideal colleagues; discontent has also been brewing on account of the Congress’s organizational deficiencies, gaps between poll promises and their execution as well as legal setbacks in crucial cases. All this points to a party in a muddle in spite of its present dominance in the legislature. The blame for the state of affairs must go equally to a fractious state unit as well as an inert — weakened — high command. The absence of a full-time, engaged party president — is Rahul Gandhi even interested in the post? — has encouraged mischief-mongering. The signals emanating from Punjab can have a dispiriting effect on the Congress’s morale in other states where the party is in a position to challenge the BJP. The Congress’s chief problem is that it is beset — besotted? — with ambitious, armchair politicians who are yet to emerge as public leaders. A revival is unlikely unless influential members learn to choose the party over the perks of power.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-6
22-06-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Retail inflation figure breaches RBI limit, Apple Daily editors and executives arrested||Take note Sir — The retail inflation figure at 6.3 per cent for May 2021, breaching the limit set by the Reserve Bank of India, raises worrying questions (“Through the roof”, June 18). Considering the current economic situation in the country where the government has completely failed to control the rising prices of essential commodities, chances are that the actual figure is much higher. In any case, the everyday reality for the common people, struggling to make ends meet, is much worse than figures indicate. With inflation rates no longer under control, it is time that the RBI takes swift measures. It is expected that the prices of essential goods will keep rising in the near future. The Central government has failed in its promises of providing a better quality of life to the people of the country. Its dreams of a five trillion dollar economy seem farther away than ever before. It is essential that the government regulates the prices of at least some basic food items so that the ordinary people of India do not starve to death. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — There is no doubt that rising inflation, both retail and wholesale, can no longer be ignored. Retail inflation remained on average at above 6 per cent in 2020-21. The key factors driving up inflation now are fuel and commodity prices that are rising globally, distorted domestic tax policies as well as a higher pricing power in a clutch of items and services. The Central excise duty on petrol and diesel stands at around Rs 32-33 a litre. To this, the state governments add another Rs 18-20. The Centre and states should work out a reduction formula, forsaking short-term revenue gains, so that the common people can get some relief. It is time that the 15 per cent import duty levied on edible oils is revised to blunt the impact of global price rises as India imports more than half of its requirements. Shockingly, retail edible oil prices were up by 30.8 per cent in May. The government must also work on keeping steel and cement prices in check. While pursuing growth is important, policymakers cannot be seen as being indifferent to inflation as it can negate all efforts to revive the economy. The RBI now must face this challenge head on. N. Sadhasiva Reddy, Bangalore Freedom denied Sir — Recently, freedom of speech took another hit in Hong Kong as five editors and executives of Apple Daily were arrested for endangering national security by calling for international sanctions against Hong Kong and China. The anti-government protests that shook the region in 2019 have been largely silenced with most activists in jail or fleeing abroad. Unless the international community exerts pressure on the authorities, democracy — whatever little is left of it — will completely cease to exist in Hong Kong. Anamika Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-6
22-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: See no evil||The makers of the Indian Constitution may not have thought of reason as purely subjective. They had probably taken a democratic cast of mind for granted when they said in Article 19(2) of the Constitution that the government could impose “reasonable” restrictions on the freedom of expression in the interest of — among others — sovereignty and integrity of the country, public order, morality, defamation, incitement to an offence and so on. They did not foresee that all these could become alibis for a government that likes to present curbs on expression as reasonable. Thus the draft amendments to the Cinematograph Act, 1952 have a double shield of reasonableness. It offers a provision against piracy that the 1952 Act lacks. If implemented, it would prevent losses to the industry that are caused by this crime. That is reasonable. The far bigger amendment planned, however, is the return of “revisional powers” to the government after the Central Board of Film Certification has already certified a film. This power was struck down in 2000, when the Supreme Court, in response to the Centre’s challenge, upheld the Karnataka High Court’s 1991 ruling against the government’s revisional powers. The Supreme Court said that the concerned state government would have to maintain law and order once the relevant authority had cleared a film after considering its impact on the public. Divergent views were to be expected in a democracy; the government would have to check anyone who breached the law because they did not agree with a point of view. The court, however, also remarked that the government could pass a legislation in case “reasonable” restrictions were needed. The present government’s wish for revisional powers, therefore, must spring from such a need. For it is not democracy, but restriction of expression, that is the priority. This move is in tune with the regulations being imposed on social media and digital news. That the government dismantled the Film Certification Appellate Tribunal in April suggests that the Cinematograph Act draft amendments are part of a calculated thrust towards overall censorship. The FCAT was a forum for those film-makers who did not agree with the CBFC’s decisions. Now the government will have the last word on what people should watch and how film-makers should think. No one can accuse it of not being reasonable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-6
22-06-2021||Opinion||Right of passage: Covid and pastoral communities||India is battling a second wave of Covid-19 infections; this time it has made inroads into rural India. Pastoral communities, who have limited information about the symptoms, preventive measures, diagnosis, treatment and vaccination, are becoming silent victims. A brief by the League for Pastoral Peoples and Endogenous Livestock Development claims that pastoralists make up some one per cent of the Indian population or about 13 million people. The second wave is endangering their lives and the absence of robust data on them is worrisome. Mobility is a defining and differential feature of pastoralist livelihoods. It is significant for the survival of livestock. Since last year, the steep costs of the government’s decision to impose lockdowns paid by pastoralists have been widely discussed. These restrictions hurt not only the pastoral communities but also their livestock. Pastoralism is practiced in arid and semi-arid areas and local grazing lands are unable to cater to fodder requirements. Pastoralists unable to migrate this summer are worried that existing water and forage resources in villages are ill-equipped to feed a large number of animals; a difficulty that they are well aware of from last year’s lockdown. There are animal-derived products such as mawa that are produced locally, which are not included in official statistics. Saurashtra, Jamnagar, Rajkot and Junagadh see a major influx of pastoral communities from different parts of the state, especially from the Devbhoomi Dwarka. For eight months of the year, Maldhari families are heavily dependent on forests and other grazing lands of Jamnagar to feed their livestock; the community is entirely dependent on the income from dairy products, especially the mawa, to feed their families. Jamjodhpur taluka is traditionally known to be the hub of products like mawa and khoya. With the second wave wreaking havoc in rural areas and lockdowns being imposed, the informal market of mawa in Jamnagar has been closed for an indefinite period and the families of these nomadic pastoralists are bearing the brunt. A basic market research by Sahjeevan, an NGO working with the pastoral communities of Gujarat, claims that most of the mawa sold in the market was either transported to Surat, Vadodara or Maharashtra. The early lockdowns imposed by Maharashtra disrupted supply chains and blocked trade channels. There seems to be no light at the other side of the tunnel for pastoral households. Heera Bhai, a migratory Maldhari, asserts, “We didn’t have money to buy saag (vegetables) but after a week of desperation, I decided to sell off one of my goats and get some food for my family.” The pastoralists consider their livestock as valuable as gold. He further explains that livestock has always rescued pastoral communities in times of crisis. But they often had to sell their livestock at distressed prices. Jamjodhpur and neighbouring Kalavad host a huge non-migratory population of Maldharis from communities like Mota Bhai Bharwad and Rabaris who have come out to support the migratory families. Bhoja Bhai, aged 44 years, from Gorkhadi village, shares, “A few Bhopa Rabari families came for help, I had around a sack full of wheat and I gave it to them.” With a satisfactory grin he adds, “At least they can have rotli and dudh now.” The extensive livestock systems produce an estimated 53 per cent of India’s milk, 74 per cent of its meat and the value of the animals’ manure for nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium has been estimated at a massive 45 billion dollars a year. India’s record in being the largest producer of milk and exporter of sheep and goats worldwide is indicative that livestock and pastoralists contribute massively to the country’s economy. With opportunity costs attached to the livelihoods of pastoralists being so high, the government must facilitate their safe movement. The resilience of these communities needs to be supported and enhanced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-7
22-06-2021||Opinion||The dragon in the room||As Joe Biden rallied American allies and partners during his first overseas trip since taking on the presidency of the United States of America, China was present everywhere. From the G7 to Nato, it was China’s growing global footprint and aggression that were shaping the conversations as Western nations assessed the single most important global challenge in front of them. After downplaying the Chinese threat for decades, suddenly Western nations find that they are being overtaken by a rival in ways that they had forgotten to appraise in their ‘end of history’ moment. And, now, as Chinese power redefines geopolitics and geoeconomics, the West is responding with an alacrity that many think should have come sooner. It was earlier this year that the US, the European Union, the United Kingdom and Canada imposed coordinated sanctions on China that included travel bans, asset freezes and targeting of senior officials in Xinjiang who have been accused of serious human rights violations against Uighur Muslims. Biden has made working with allies his trademark foreign policy move and China has emerged as a focal point of action. At the Nato leaders’ summit in Brussels — this was Biden’s first Nato meeting since taking office —the Western alliance warned of the military threat posed by China, underlining its behaviour as a “systemic challenge” with its rapidly expanding nuclear arsenal, “opaque” military modernization and military cooperation with Russia. Although the Western nations have pointed out that they do not want a new Cold War with China, the dangers of China “coming closer” to Nato in military and technological terms have led to a perceptible shift in attitude. The communiqué issued by Nato members is explicit about Chinese ambitions and behaviour posing “systemic challenges to the rules-based international order and to areas relevant to Alliance security”. The G7 summit in the UK this month witnessed the inception of a more comprehensive approach to the China challenge. Urging China to “respect human rights and fundamental freedoms” and calling for a transparent investigation of the origins of Covid-19, the G7 leaders issued a statement that not only challenged Beijing on the persecution of Uighur minorities and the repression of the pro-democracy movement in Hong Kong but also underscored the “importance of peace and stability” across the Taiwan Strait. This resulted in a swift pushback from Chinese officials who accused the G7 of “baseless accusations” and demanded that they “stop slandering China, stop interfering in China’s internal affairs, and stop harming China’s interests”. Perhaps the most significant outcome at the G7 summit was the adoption of the US-backed ‘Build Back Better World’ plan to support lower- and middle-income countries in building high quality infrastructure. It took a long time for the West to recognize the need for an alternative to China’s ambitious Belt and Road Initiative and that China has already stolen a march on it in this domain. In their joint statement, the G7 leaders underlined that they would offer a “values-driven, high-standard and transparent” partnership to the developing world on infrastructure and connectivity. The funding is still to be finalized, but it is clear that Washington is fully behind this proposal and will push its allies into doing their bit. As challenges have mounted for China on the BRI front, this is an opportune moment for the West to come up with a robust alternative with its partners. The opacity of China’s lending through the BRI has raised hackles around the world, with Beijing being charged with pursuing a highly aggressive foreign policy in the garb of investment lending. China’s leverage on the developing world has increased in proportion to debt levels and the unsustainability of the loans it has extended. China’s ‘debt trap’ model of development cooperation has been under scrutiny for some time now but the developing world has complained about the lack of alternatives. Major powers have been missing in action despite a $40-trillion infrastructure gap in the developing world. The idea of an India-Japan led Asia-Africa Growth Corridor looked very promising, but it has failed to take off. The Donald Trump administration had launched the ‘Blue Dot Network’ in 2019 to boost private sector-led infrastructure development in the Indo-Pacific, but it excluded direct financing of projects. The summit of Quad leaders in March had discussed the shared challenge of quality infrastructure investment and, more recently, the US and the UK asked democratic countries to come up with an alternative to China’s BRI. Now with the G7 coming up with an infrastructure aid programme to rival the BRI, there are hopes that those nations that have signed on to BRI under duress will be able to get a better deal. India, one of the foremost critics of the BRI, can now take some credit in shaping the global discourse on the Chinese model of connectivity and development cooperation. With its Western partners, now New Delhi can hope to shape an alternative to Chinese predatory practices and push back against Beijing’s economic agenda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-7
22-06-2021||Opinion||Verse as mirror||The writer and critic, Suresh Joshi (1921-1986), was one of the most important figures of modern Gujarati literature. Of all his Gujarati contemporaries, Joshi was the most deeply engaged with world literature and the most radically experimental in his writing. By the time he died in 1986, he had created a remarkable legacy, having opened up Gujarati letters to the complex winds of international, post-modern and post-structuralist writing and philosophy. One of the last major lectures given by Joshi was in Bombay in 1984 and, fortunately, a video recording survives online. In the space of one hour and sixteen minutes, Joshi effortlessly unfurls his vast reading and the acute processing of his erudition. Without any bombast or showing off, Joshi sits on the stage and chats with his audience, softly, often humorously, but without letting the listener off the hook for even a moment with his supple, poetic, yet absolutely lucid, Gujarati, his speech also laced with Sanskrit and English. Broadly, the theme of the lecture is the rapidly changing nature of human interaction and the place of literature in that exchange. To explore this, Joshi ropes in diverse sources, from the Upanishads to Rilke and Beckett, from the poets, Narsinh Mehta and Mirabai, to Stephen Spender listening to a performance of Tagore’s Post Office (Dakghar) on Radio Moscow as bullets fly around him during the Spanish Civil War, from James Thurber to Peter Weiss, from Kurukshetra to the Treblinka death camp. Running through the lecture is a gently articulated but merciless criticism of Gujarati writing that avoids engaging with the serious subjects of the day. At one point, Joshi likens the producers of this writing to clueless children who have understood nothing of the life around them. Also taking the Gujarati press to task, he talks of the journalists’ penchant for sensationalizing every news item. Joshi points out the prevalence of pretend sanskar and the widespread shallowness of so much theatre, art and music before coming back to fiction and poetry that shy away from saying anything that is unpalatable to a popular readership or is questioning of authority. It’s particularly instructive to listen to this talk now in the context of the tremors set off by the poem, “Shav-vahini Ganga”, by the Gujarati poet, Parul Khakhar. By all reports, Khakhar was someone well-recognized for her skilful, light verses in Gujarati geet and ghazal, which were very far from post-modern explorations or politically-engaged poetry. No one expected her virtuosity to be deployed to express rage and disgust towards the current political heroes of numerous middle-class Gujaratis. The fourteen short lines by Khakhar have become a cannonball of Gujarati script. They begin thus: “In unison, the corpses cry out/ ‘All is great, all is lekker!’/ O Leader! In your Ram Rajya/ There’s a new hearse/ The corpse-carrying Ganga.” The poem is written in the traditional marasiya form, a lament of rage at the loss of a loved one. In Gujarati, the addressee throughout is “Raj”, which would nominally translate to ‘King’ or ‘Lord’ (in the sense of a feudal aristocrat) but here it’s worth unpacking the address: “O Big Man! Your burning grounds are over-full/ Your kindling piles now ash/ Potentate! We’re out of pall-bearers/ Out of mourners, we’re out of tears./ The Death Detail dances at every door/ O Ruler! In your Stiff-lipped Reich/ The Cadaver River Ganga.” Khakhar freely uses Punjabi with the direct reference to “Sab changa si” just as she references Billa-Ranga, both of which rhyme with Ganga, but in English one is obliged to transcreate: “O Chief! Your chimneys belch, begging for respite, a break/ Our bangles are smashed, our hearts pulped by ache./ The fiddlers play while watching the blaze —/ The gang of two celebrating Good Days/ O Duce! In your Model Dominion/ Flows the body-clogged Ganga.” In his 1984 talk, Suresh Joshi brings up things that now seem eerily prescient: he mourns the shrinking of language and vocabulary and its corollary — the shrinking of thought and empathy; he speaks of those ‘victors’ who want to keep people subservient, who “snatch language from people”; he speaks of Kundera’s warning of the tank of Russian language trampling over the Czech language and connects it directly to what he calls “Hindi Imperialism” trying to trample other Indian languages; he scoffs at the people trying to claim that the Taj Mahal was originally a Hindu monument just as he laughs at those who claim that everything already existed in “Praachin Bharat”: “Yes it was all there, all the different kinds of paap [sin] in the Mahabharat — we haven’t been able to emulate them all yet.” In an obvious reference to Orwell in 1984, he speaks of the writer’s need to speak up and the dangers of mutely living in fear. Joshi refers to the deal offered by the powers that be to the writer: “We’ll recognize you, fete and felicitate you, but on one condition that as a writer you should not speak about anything remotely serious or political.” In response to the trolling and vicious attacks she has faced from the BJP-RSS and its puppet minions since “Shav-vahini Ganga” went viral internationally, Khakhar has written another poem, “Tare Bolvanu Nahi (You are Not to Speak)”, the second stanza of which goes: “You are hereby commanded:/ Cut out your tongue; leave it behind/ Even you will be hailed/— as long as you don’t speak.” Suresh Joshi would have been saddened at how accurate his predictions have proved to be when he warned that if we in India continued like this we would enter an Upanishadic dark age; “We are literally on the verge of it,” he says in his talk, before imagining a Gujarat where it would become a crime for a writer to have read Kafka. But despite all of this, he would have been heartened by the resonance Khakhar finds from readers in different languages when, in “Shav-vahini Ganga”, she writes: “Someone with a spine come and say it: ‘my wannabe Emperor is naked.’” (Translations of the poems are by Ruchir Joshi)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-7
22-06-2021||Jharkhand||Driving licence renewals from Wednesday in Dhanbad||Dhanbad’s district transport department, on orders from Jharkhand Transport Commissioner Kiran Pasi, has from Tuesday begun preparations to restart work on issuing and renewing driving licenses after a gap of more than two months. The work was suspended all across the state, including Dhanbad, from April 16 due to aggravated Covid conditions. Around 2,500 applications are pending with the Dhanbad District Transport Office due the suspension. Majority of these applications belonged to driving license renewal work. Confirming the development, District Transport officer of Dhanbad Om Prakash Yadav said, “We will restart the licence work from tomorrow (Wednesday) and necessary preparations in this regard have already been launched from today (Tuesday).” “As we are already short-staffed at the district transport office, all staff will work as we can easily follow the social distancing norms with the limited staff presence,” said Yadav. All necessary Covid protocols, including adhering to social distance norms, regular sanitisation of hands and driving license trial grounds have to be carried out. As per the detailed instructions issued by Pasi,slot booking for the license seekers is to be carried out daily, based on the capacity of the driving license trail ground. Triveni Sao, an applicant for driving license, said, “I had applied for my driving license four months ago but due to the suspension I faced a lot of problem” “I went to the district transport office today to come to know that the issuance work will resume from tomorrow and I am happy I will be able to drive my car without any fear of being caught by the police,” he added. Echoing sentiments Gopal Singh, a resident of Hirapur, seeking renewal of his license since the last three months, said, “I am waiting for the renewal of license which is set to expire by the end of July and was worried due to suspension. Now, I am feeling a bit relaxed after coming to know that license renewal work will resume from tomorrow.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-14
22-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand cabinet nod to declaring black fungus as epidemic||Jharkhand joined the list of states that have declared mucormycosis, or black fungus, as an epidemic with the Hemant Soren cabinet putting its seal of approval on the decision considering the rising number of cases occurring among Covid patients. As per the health department, till Tuesday, Jharkhand has recorded 136 cases of black fungus of which 82 are confirmed and the rest suspected. As many as 26 people have died due to the deadly disease while 52 have been cured. At least seven out of 24 districts are currently classified in the red category considering the prevalence of black fungus. Cabinet coordination secretary Vandana Dadel said, “Today (Tuesday), the state cabinet has officially given its nod to declare black fungus as an epidemic which means it will now be part of the disease notified under the Epidemic Act. All public and private hospitals are mandated to provide daily reports of new cases to the state government and stick to the prescribed treatment protocols and other regulations.” Amid the brutal second wave of Covid-19 in April and May, India began witnessing a rare fungal infection among Covid-19 patients, which experts dubbed as a side effect of prolonged use of steroids. In Jharkhand, the first few cases began surfacing at the end of April, and since then, there has been a steady rise in numbers. As many as 15 decisions were taken at Tuesday's cabinet meeting headed by Hemant. Among them are the state government's nod to direct recruitment of eight sportspersons, a one-time extension of government health workers who were due to retire in March next year by six months, formation of statutes on minimum qualification for appointment of teachers and other academic staff in colleges and universities, allotment of 200 acresof land to Patratu Vidyut Urja Nigam Limited (PVUNL), a joint venture of NTPC and the state government, for setting up a 4,000 mega watt power plant at Patratu in Ramgarh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-14
22-06-2021||Jharkhand||British-era office demolished to make way for vending zone in Jamshedpur ||Local civic authorities used an earthmover to demolish an old, dilapidated British-era tehsil office on Dimna Road in Mango on Tuesday to make space for a vending zone. The vending zone will be meant for hawkers who would be displaced soon from the central verge of Dimna Road, the gateway to the steel city, as a part of beautification drive, sources in the Mango Notified Area Committee (MNAC) said.    Civic body officials came to the spot close to Munshi Mohalla along with the earthmover and started the demolition work which continued for half an hour. The work had to be stopped mid-way as some shopkeepers who used to use the dilapidated Tehsil office building called in a few local leaders of BJP for stopping the demolition drive. Civic officials on the spot said construction of a dedicated vendor's zone has become necessary to prevent frequent mishaps on the busy Dimna Road primarily caused by vendors. MNAC special officer Deepak Sahay said, with Tata Steel subsidiaryJusco, the civic authority has plans to beautify the 3.5km central verge connecting Mango Chowk to Dimna Chowk on NH-33.  "Currently, the central verge (or median) is encroached by vendors and  unauthorised persons. We have started an eviction drive. Some stretches of the median have been already been freed of encroachers while the encroachment on the remaining portion of the median would be cleared soon," he said. All vendors would be accommodated at the new vending zone that will come up at the tehsil office, Sahay said. The civic body has sought funds from the state urban development department for barricading Dimna Road's central verge, which is currently encroached upon by vegetable and other vendors, to plant bougainvillea and other flowering plants. The civic body has plans to create a joggers' track on the central verge. Notably, the water pipelines of Jusco from the Dimna reservoir pass through the Dimna Road which witnesses heavy traffic - more than 50,000 two-wheelers, autos, cars, trucks and trailers - every day. Plans are afoot for proper illumination and installation of a couple of fountains on the median of the nearly 3.5km road which also hosts several schools, departmental stores, hotels, restaurants, banks and other business establishments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-14
22-06-2021||Jharkhand||Two of family in Dhanbad die due to electrocution||Two persons of a family at Pasidhaura slum in the Gopalichak area under Putki police station died due to electrocution on Tuesday morning while switching on a television set. The incident took place at around 10 am when 34-year-old Gudiya Devi switched on the television set lying over an iron box and suffered electrocution. Her father-in-law Chamar Pasi (70) also faced the same fate when he rushed to save her but came in contact with electricity. Local residents and neighbours came to know about the incident when Guriya Devi’s six-year-old daughter Pari Kumari came out of the house and informed them that her mother and grandfather were lying unconscious on the floor. Vinod Pasi, a nephew of Chamar Pasi, said that Guriya Devi’s husband Prakash Pasi, was away at Chennai to work as a migrant labourer. “We were ourselves afraid of the incident and first informed the electricity department. We entered the house after the power supply was snapped and then informed police, who recovered the bodies and sent them for post-mortem,” said Pasi. He further informed that the mudhouse of Chamar Pasi was affected due to damp conditions caused due to continuous rains of the last five days. The iron box on which the TV set was kept was lying close to one of the affected walls, causing the current to flow into the television set. Sanjeev Tiwari, officer-in-charge of Putki Police station said, “Prima facie it seems that both persons died due to electrocution but we sent the dead bodies for post-mortem, which will throw light on the cause of the death.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-14
22-06-2021||Jharkhand|| Jharkhand to get 38 PSA oxygen plants under PM-Cares fund||At least 38 pressure swing absorption (PSA) oxygen plants will be set up across the 24 districts of Jharkhand under the PM-Cares fund in a bid to ensure sufficient supply of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) to patients in need of breathing support either due to Covid-19 or any other ailment, health officials said on Tuesday. This time around, the Centre has categorically mentioned in its communique to the state that the Jharkhand government will have to appoint at least two technical persons for each PSA plant and one nodal officer for the each of the hospitals benefitting from them in a bid to avert technical glitches, which earlier marred the Centre's efforts of providing free ventilators to states under the PM-Cares fund. Several states, including Jharkhand, had complained about defunct ventilators and lack of assistance from the Centre in troubleshooting during the second wave of Covid-19 earlier this year. “Each of the 24 districts will get at least one PSA plant under the PM-Cares fund in Jharkhand. We have received the final list from the Centre and the work for setting up the plants will begin soon,” said Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer for Information, Education and Communication (IEC) wing of the health department. The Centre, under its PM-Cares fund initiative, will be providing 1,215 PSA oxygen plants to states and Union territories across India and Jharkhand has been assured 38 plants under this scheme. As per details shared by the health department, at least three PSA plants each will be set up in Ranchi, East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Bokaro. Two each will come up in Dhanbad, Deoghar, Dumka, Giridih, Latehar and Hazaribagh, while one PSA plant will be set up in each of the remaining 14 districts in the state. The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) will ensure the site preparation and installation of at least 29 of the 38 PSA plants, while the Central Medical Services Society (CMSS) and HLL Infra Services Limited (HITES) will work for the site preparation and installation of four and five PSA plants respectively. Nodal officers and technical staff appointed for the PSA plants will undergo special training conducted by the Centre and work as point persons for the PSA monitoring system of the Centre, officials said. The plants will only start functioning after a clearance from nodal officers and technical persons appointed for the task, officials said, adding that this practice would help in troubleshooting. The PSA monitoring team of the Centre will directly be in touch with the point persons for the different PSA plants. Several states, including Jharkhand, faced an acute crisis of medical oxygen during the second wave of Covid-19, which wreaked havoc across India. Lack of logistics emerged as one of the greatest challenges for the country for movement of oxygen from one state to another, and the delay in the process led to several deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-14
22-06-2021||Jharkhand||High alert in Chandil over entry of elephants from Bengal ||The Chandil forests of Seraikela-Kharsawan district is on high alert over the entry of elephants from neighbouring Bengal after three of them slipped into the range late on Monday night with some more following suit. With paddy farming in Chandil sub-division round the corner, foresters are aware that elephants from Bengal would soon make their presence felt and put life of people and at risk. “Farmers have started preparing for paddy farming. This would provide enough fodder to the jumbos from Bengal who amble to our forest pockets every year. We need to be alert to prevent any untoward incidents,” said Chandil forest range officer Ashok Kumar. Speaking to The Telegraph Online, he confirmed three elephants from Bengal had already arrived. “We have a team of 75 people who are engaged in driving away the elephants. We engage village youths on daily wages for the job. The youths accompany us by carrying mashals (torches) and drums. Besides a forest patrol vehicle, we also hire four-wheelers for this risky job,” the range officer added. According to him, they would also avail of the services of elephant driving teams from Bankura in Bengal. “Depending on the situation, we would like to call experts from Bankura. Two separate teams from Bengal successfully shepherded the elephants last year,”Kumar said. The Chandil range office has already distributed crackers among villagers with instructions to only burst them when elephants are spotted near their homes. “Unnecessary bursting of crackers irrirates elephants and leads them to attack humans and homes. We are seriously working to minimise man-elephant conflict in our forest range,” he added. The range officer said the tusker which had been destroying homes from some days had moved towards the Chandil dam. “The jumbo, who remains aloof from the herd, is enjoying his bath at the dam. The elephant is no longer targeting homes and would leave the forest range once dam water recedes,” Kumar said. According to him, a herd of about 15 elephants that was stationed at the Chandil forest range had moved to Tamar (near Ranchi). “The herd had come from Tamar and has now left our forest range,” he added. The Chandil forest range is the favourite of elephants from Tamar, Seraikela-Kharsawan and neighbouring Bengal. The herds often slip into the range to damage standing paddy, destroy homes and wipe out food. Kumar said elephants were roving animals. “At the best, we can make preparations to minimise their entry into villages and farmland. However, it is a tough and risky task,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-14
22-06-2021||Jharkhand||Vacant coal town shelter home becomes dump yard ||A three-storey shelter home for rescued children, including child labourers and victims of trafficking, constructed more than three years ago on the campus of the regional employment office of Dhanbad has turned into a garbage dump yard after lying vacant for years. Lack of coordination between different government departments including the labour, employment & training department; building division and social welfare department is said to be the primary reason for the present pitiable state of affairs of the department. Government security agencies like the railway protection force, state police and also labour department officials are facing problems in providing temporary accommodation to rescued children. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, Shankar Rawani, a well-known child right activist of Dhanbad who is also the president of NGO Jharkhand Gramin Vikash Trust said, “We have written to the district administration and government several times demanding handing over of the shelter home several times earlier but no response is in sight.” Rawani while highlighting the problem being faced in providing shelter to rescued children said, “Due to lack of shelter homes in the district, altogether 25 child labourers of Jamatara, Deoghar, Madhupur, Narayanpur and Tundi rescued on December 21 and 22 from two different bakery units were kept in a government residential school of Hirapur for two to three days until their parents arrived from the respective places to take them back.” Echoing his sentiments, Kumar Madhurendra Singh, former president of Bartand Chamber of Commerce and a member of Child Line said, “As per the laid norms, any child recovered by the police or other law enforcement agency whose address or family members are not known can’t be kept at childline office for more than 24 hours and thus are usually referred to Bokaro based shelter home.” The construction work for the shelter home in Dhanbad began six years ago as per a proposal of former deputy commissioner of Dhanbad, Prashant Kumar. As per the original plan, the shelter home meant for primary rehabilitation consisted of a study room, computer room, individual care room, vocational training room and a health care centre among other amenities. Contacted, Rakesh Sinha, Assistant Labour Commissioner, said, “We have written to the district social welfare department for taking charge of the centre several times and are awaiting their response as the shelter homes are usually operated by the social welfare department.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-14
22-06-2021||Jharkhand||Train to Punjab resumes journey from steel city after 15 months||The Tatanagar -Amritsar Jallianwala Bagh Special Express train  resumed journey after 15 months, when it left the Tatanagar railway station on Monday night. The bi-weekly special train was flagged off at 9.10 pm by Jamshedpur MP Bidyut Baran Mahato in presence of senior railway officials of Tatanagar. The train had stopped operation in March last year because of the Covid-19 pandemic and resumed its journey with 340 passengers, while around  70 per cent of berths remained empty. Members of Sikh community were happy over the restoration of the bi-weekly train. "The restoration of the train will immensely benefit those travelling to Amritsar and other parts of Punjab. We are thankful to the railways for the restoration of the train," said Satnam Singh Gambhir, a senior functionary of All India Sikh Students Federation. Addressing the flagging off ceremony Jamshedpur MP Bidyut Baran Mahato thanked the authorities of South Eastern Railway. "We are making efforts to ensure restoration of trains , which had stopped operation due to the pandemic, for various other destinations. Talks are on with the Railway Board and South Eastern Railway authorities for resuming the train service between Tatanagar and Buxar (in Bihar)  soon," he said. The 08103 / 08104  Tatanagar-Amritsar  Jallianwala Bagh Special  train will leave Tatanagar every Monday and Wednesday at 9.10 pm. The train will reach Amritsar at 6.30 am on the third day. The train leaving Tatanagar on Monday will reach Amritsar on Wednesday while the train leaving Tatanagar on Wednesday will reach Amritsar on Friday. In the opposite direction, 08104 Amritsar-Tatanagar Jallianwala Bagh Special will leave  Amritsar every Wednesday and Friday w.e.f June 23 at 12.45 pm. The train will arrive at Tatanagar at 9.10 pm, the next day after a journey of about 32 hours. The train with four AC-3 Tier, 11 sleeper class and four general second class (Reserved) coaches, will have stoppages at Purulia, Bokaro Steel City, Gomoh, Koderma, Gaya, Rafiganj, Anugraha Narayan Road, Dehri on Sone, Sasaram, Bhabua Road, Pt. Deen Dayal Upadhyaya, Varanasi, Shahganj, Faizabad, Lucknow, Bareilly, Moradabad, Laksar, Roorkee, Saharanpur, Yamunanagar Jagadhri, Ambala Cant, Ludhiana, Jalandhar City and Beas stations between the two destinations - Tatanagar and Amritsar. Chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway, Sanjay Ghosh said the bi-weekly train will have fully reserved accommodation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-14
22-06-2021||Jharkhand||State's active Covid caseload falls below 1,500||About twice as many Covid recoveries as fresh cases of infection brought the active caseload of Covid-19 in Jharkhand below 1500 on Monday, while one patient, a resident of Hazaribag, died in the state, taking the Covid toll to 5100, figures released by the state health department highlighted. Jharkhand on Monday reported 122 fresh cases of Coronavirus infection against 228 Covid recoveries which brought the active caseload to 1489, a bulletin from the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. At least three districts – Lohardaga, Pakur and Koderma – did not report fresh Covid cases on the day, while the active caseload in Ranchi, the worst-affected district in Jharkhand, dropped to 475 as at least 20 patients recovered here against six fresh cases of Covid-19. None of the 24 districts in the state reported a spike of more than 20 cases. East Singhbhum reporting a spike of 16 cases, the highest among the districts, the NHM stated in its bulletin. At least 24 recoveries against the 16 fresh cases brought the active caseload in East Singhbhum down to 167, the second highest among Jharkhand districts. As per NHM data, at least 14 districts, including Dhanbad, Bokaro and Dhanbad, reported a single-digit-spike in Covid cases on the day. The state on Monday tested swab samples of 50,725 residents and around 0.3 per cent of them were found infected by coronavirus. As per government data, over 3.44 lakh people have contracted Covid-19 in Jharkhand so far and 98.08 per cent of them have recovered from the disease. However, 1.47 per cent of the patients could not survive. The growth rate of infection in Jharkhand, as per NHM data, was 0.04 per cent against the national average of 0.15 per cent. The doubling rate of cases in the state jumped to 1915.37 days against the national doubling rate of 478.33 days. The state also reported one fresh case of Covid-induced Mucormycosis in the past 48 hours, which took the total number of Mucormycosis cases in Jharkhand to 135. As per government data, as many as 82 of these cases were confirmed and 53 were suspected. The state, however, did not report casualties due to black fungus on the day, keeping the toll in the state to 26. So far, 53 Mucormycosis patients have recovered from the fungal infection in Jharkhand. Jharkhand administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 79,308 residents, while the second jab was administered to 17,624 beneficiaries, a separate report from NHM stated. Over 60,000 of the residents who received their first jab on Monday were younger than 45 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-14
22-06-2021||Jharkhand||Cyclone Yaas-hit families in Jharkhand stare at starvation ||A survey by Khadya Suraksha Jan Adhikar Manch in Jharkhand’s West Singhbhum district has painted a grim picture of tribals battling starvation after being battered by Cyclone Yaas on May 27. The survey done in June among 104 affected families in nine blocks (out of a total of 18 blocks) of West Singhbhum has found several families forced to stay under tree shed in rainy season after houses were completely damaged in the thunderstorm and they do not have finances to repair the houses themselves, some have their food grains damaged while some took loans to repair their houses. “It is nearly a month since the Cyclone Yaas affected us but the state government is yet to take any step for immediate assistance of the affected families. “The situation has been further worsened as even social security schemes like green ration cards have not reached several families. We presented our survey findings to the West Singhbhum deputy commissioner (Ananya Mittal) on Friday and were assured of remedial measures at the earliest,” said Sanjeev Pradhan, a member of the Manch (a coalition of organisations espousing cause of food and social security). The survey points out that 10 per cent of the total 104 families do not have green ration cards while several of them are yet to get benefits of social security pensions. Nearly 10 per cent of the families do not have bank accounts, around 19 per cent of the families do not have proper food grains to last for two weeks. None of the affected families claim to have received any assistance from the district administration as part of compensation after the cyclone. “We have only surveyed a handful of families in a few blocks of the district. There will be thousands of families affected by the cyclone and we have asked the deputy commissioner to provide dry rations and food items and adequate compensation. The deceased family should at least get Rs 4 lakh while those whose houses have been completely damaged should get Rs 50,000 and those whose houses have been partially damaged should immediately get Rs 20,000 and all the affected families should be linked to social security schemes. “The administration should survey and assess the damage and make the compensation amounts public,” said Siraj Dutta, a Ranchi-based food rights activist and member of the Manch. State disaster management department secretary Amitabh Kaushal said that an assessment report has been sought from all the 24 districts. “Assessment of damages due to the cyclone has already been sought from all the districts and we have received the reports from nearly 19 districts and will be getting the remaining districts report in a day or two. Soon after getting the report we would be allocating compensation to the affected families in various districts,” said Kaushal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
22-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Offline vaccination begins in Dhanbad||Dhanbad: The offline registration and vaccination for the 18 to 45 age group began in Dhanbad from Monday at 52 centres. The special drive to vaccinate 10 thousand persons a day is being carried out across 11 centres of Dhanbad block, eight each of Jharia and Nirsa, seven of Baghmara, six each at Govindpur and Baliapur; four of Tundi and two of Topchanchi block. Though, chaotic situation was witnessed at some of the centres due to large of number of prospective beneficiaries reaching the centres, the district health department has reserved 5 thousand vaccines for onsite registration while rest 5 thousand were meant for those who came through on-line booking. District Reproductive and Child Health Officer of Dhanbad, Dr Vikash Rana said, “We began the onsite (offline) vaccination drive of 18 to 45 years of age group today in ditrict with a total target of vaccination of  10 thousand  persons (five thousand each for online and offline vaccination) today and will be carrying out three thousand (1500 onsite and 1500 online) vaccinations tomorrow”. “All the beneficiaries were provided Covishield today and tomorrow also we will be providing same vaccines,” said Rana. “Those who took Covaxin on the first two days of launching of online vaccination drive of 18 to 45 years of age on May 14 and May 15 and were waiting for the second dose can also take the second dose on June 22, 23 by visiting such centre where they took the first dose,” further said Rana. “It took less than one hour during the morning to complete the entire process and though there was bit chaotic situation outside the centre with large number of people reaching at the centre but overall the arrangement were good” said Saket Kumar (30), an interior designer of Babudih area who took the vaccine today through the onsite registration and vaccination process at Zila School Babudih Centre along with his wife Neha Gupta (28) said. (Praduman Choubey) Hazaribagh: The rare Himalayan flower Brahma Kamal has bloomed at the house of a retired metals and minerals trading corporation of India surprising botanists and local residents at Koderma. Resident of ward-23, Ramdayal Singh and his wife Asha Devi are the happiest to see the flowers which blooms at night. In Himalayas, they grow at an height of 4500m. It is also the state flower of Uttrakhand. Sources said its a rare plant and not only famous for beautiful flowers but also for their significant importance in traditional medicine. Asha said her husband was posted in Bangalore and saw the brahma kamal plant for the first time there in a rented house. After retirement, when he left the place, he brought a leaf of this plant in 2013 to his Telaiya home where they grew the plant giving the best care. In 2017, the first flower bloomed which made them happier and feel lucky to have it. Botany teacher at Vinoba Bhave University, Avinash Kumar termed this as a rare phenomena. "I haven't heard about this flower in the state before. This flower blooms at an altitude but due to lockdown, pollution level came down with nature showing something wonderful in this way," he added. Kumar said through such wonders, nature want to give message to take care of greenery and to save the earth from pollution. The Brahma Kamal botanical name is Saussurea Obvallata (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
