23-06-2021||Calcutta||Emphasis on marks obtained in school exams for final scores makes students more serious in class||The cancellation of board exams and the emphasis on marks obtained in school exams for calculating final scores have made students more serious about classes, assignments and assessments, teachers of several schools said. The atmosphere in online class has changed, too, many teachers have reported. Probably goaded by parents, students appear more attentive. Schools have also ratcheted up the pressure — the student’s video must be on all the time, no entry five minutes after class starts, a student has to respond immediately when his or her name is called out or will be marked absent, parents are being alerted via email if their ward is absent. Such norms had been in place in many schools since the beginning of online classes but the manner of implementation has changed. Students and teachers have realised that online classes are here to stay, it is no longer a stop-gap arrangement till in-person classes resume, a principal said. Senior students across boards till last year would focus on one year-end exam or the board exam at the end of two years, but this time teachers have noticed a change in their approach since the beginning of the session. Teachers have noticed that students are trying to stick to deadlines for projects or assignments. Some of them attributed this change to the scrapping of the board exams. Several schools have unit tests or short tests for continuous evaluation. “Senior students tend to take these tests lightly and even last year, on the online platform we saw students in Classes IX and some in Class X doing so. But this year, they are more serious about meeting deadlines,” said Jessica Gomes Surana, principal, Loreto Convent Entally. The jump from Class X to XI is steep in terms of academic content but students tend to take it easy. “Usually, in the first half they are still gearing up but this year they are already serious,” said Gomes. School heads feel teachers have also become more “vigilant” and students are barely being given allowances for being absent. “Vigilance has been doubled from our end. Just as students have realised that school classes/exams would carry more weight, we have become more cautious about maintaining attendance and how classes are being conducted,” said Anjana Saha, principal, Mahadevi Birla World Academy. “Even last year, we thought that physical classes would resume by the end of the session and boards would be held on campus, but this year, there is no end in sight. As a school, we also have to have more structure and a foolproof system if school marks are to carry that much more weightage on the final scores,” Saha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
23-06-2021||Calcutta||ICU occupancy contradicts decline in number of Covid cases||The number of new Covid cases has dropped sharply but at several hospitals the percentage of critical patients is higher than those in the general ward, said doctors and officials of healthcare facilities. On Tuesday, June 22, Bengal reported 1,852 Covid cases and 47 deaths. According to the state health department data, 9.67 per cent of the total Covid beds were occupied. One month back, on May 22, 18,863 new cases were detected in the state and there were 154 deaths. On that day, 37.58 per cent of the Covid beds were occupied. Doctors and officials of several hospitals said although the bed occupancy had come down drastically along with fresh cases, the percentage of critical patients was high. They cited several reasons for this - including the emergence of a mutated strain that possibly causes more severe disease and better knowledge of the virus, which is enabling doctors to prolong the fight. At the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, 55 per cent of the 59 Covid patients were in the ICU on Tuesday, said an official of the hospital. One month back, the hospital had 233 patients and half of them were in the critical care unit. Woodlands Hospital would have three times more patients in the general ward compared with the critical care unit during the first wave and also in the initial phase of the second wave. “But now the ratio has reversed. For every general bed patient, there are almost two patients in the ICU,” said Rupali Basu, the managing director of the hospital. On Tuesday, the hospital had 19 Covid patients in the ICU and 13 in the general ward. Peerless Hospital has 15 patients in the critical care unit and a similar number in the general ward. One month back, the hospital had 175 Covid patients, of whom 42 were in the ICU. AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria had 14 patients in the ICU and 18 in the general ward on Monday. A couple of weeks back, the number of patients in the general ward was much higher than the ICU, said an official. He said the number of patients in the general ward was going down as people were getting discharged but the ICU occupancy was not improving. Doctors said there could be several factors behind the trend. “This time the severity of the virus was much more, leading to a higher number of people getting affected. So naturally more ICU beds were full. Also, critical patients are staying in hospital for a longer period than last year,” said Ajoy Krishna Sarkar, the head of the critical care unit at Peerless Hospital. “The virus is causing more damage to the lungs, and also secondary infections. Also, we understand the pathogenesis of the disease better and can intervene at the right time in the right manner. So despite the severity, the fight with the disease could be prolonged this time with better management,” said Sarkar. Soutik Panda, a critical care consultant at Woodlands Hospital, said a major factor for more criticality was the unique characteristic of the mutated strain of the virus. “Last time, the pulmonary system of a Covid patient would be badly affected usually after seven to eight days and the oxygen demand would go up from day 10 or 12. But this time, the pulmonary system was getting affected much earlier. In many cases we found the system was getting severely damaged barely two to three days after having symptoms,” said Panda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
23-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid-hit run into insurance hurdle in Calcutta||○ I am a Covid warrior doctor trying to serve the nation relentlessly and it’s really disappointing that in that process, if I get infected and admitted (to hospital) then also I have to pay such a huge amount of (Rs) 40,000-plus... from my own pocket in spite of having an insurance where from I never also had any previous claim. Please do reconsider my case. This was an appeal to a government insurance company early this month from a doctor who is originally from Calcutta, now based in Delhi. The doctor was admitted to a private hospital in Delhi with Covid. ○ Kindly note, though Covid-19 positive, since patient is mild symptomatic, patient can well be managed under home isolation or quarantine. Hence cashless denied. A private hospital in Calcutta got this message in May after it sent the treatment details of a 53-year-old man admitted with Covid to a private insurance company for reimbursement. Health insurance companies denying claims for cashless admission or reimbursing an amount much less than the insured sum is nothing new, but the problem felt much worse during the second wave of Covid-19 infections when people needed health cover more than ever before. The long stay at hospital meant huge bills for many patients, and the denial of cashless claims or release of an amount much less than the sum assured is only compounding the agony of the families. Several hospitals said they were facing problems as many patients’ relatives were blaming them and getting into arguments when the claims were being denied. Metro spoke to hospitals and insurance officials and they have their reasons and explanations for people not getting reimbursed. But ultimately, it is the patient who suffers. Consumers suffer Sandip Bhunia, an executive at a private firm in Calcutta, had got admitted to a private hospital in July 2020 after testing positive for Covid-19. He had a health insurance policy with a private company, under which he was entitled to get a daily allowance of Rs 10,000 for four days when he was admitted to hospital. “I had claimed the amount through an online application in August last year and attached the documents. There was no reply from the insurance company and so, I started sending them mails from October,” said Bhunia. “In February, I had the due date for paying this year’s premium. I told my insurance agent that the company has not yet paid my claim but he told me not to worry. So, I paid my premium,” he said. “After months, they sought my Covid-positive report and some other documents, in one of which it was mentioned that I was having statin (a drug to lower the cholesterol level). The insurance company rejected my claim saying that I had a pre-existing disease while I had taken the policy. I had submitted all documents of my medical conditions while taking the policy,” said Bhunia. A doctor based in Calcutta was not given full reimbursement by a public sector health insurance company on the grounds that his bed charges were more than what he was eligible for. But in his mail to the insurance company, the doctor wrote that he stayed in a general bed and “nothing close to fancy or even HDU or suite or single cabin”. The insurance company also did not reimburse charges for visits by the resident medical officers and dieti-cians during his stay at the hospital, the doctor wrote in his mail. A 37-year-old woman who was admitted to a private hospital in Calcutta with Covid was denied a cashless facility. “On scrutiny of the available medical documents, it is observed that the patient is clinically stable with overall fair general condition. The evaluation of her respiratory system did not reveal any medically significant findings. Going by the advisory of the ministry of health and family welfare the clinical picture can be categorised as mild Covid case and it requires primarily isolation at Covid care centre with medical counselling. In clinically mild cases, following the medical advice with proper isolation has been established as an adequate regimen to recover from the contagion without necessitating hospitalisation. The ministry of health and family welfare has advised hospitalisation only in moderate to severe cases,” the insurance company wrote as explanation. What hospitals say Several private hospitals said they were seeing many applications for cashless facilities for Covid patients being denied or patients being given minimal reimbursements. “Claims of many patients are being denied on the grounds that they had mild symptoms and did not need admission at a hospital. The insurance companies are citing government advisories. But there are many aged patients with comorbidites whose conditions can get worse staying at home,” said Chandramouli Bhattacharya, a consultant in tropical medicine and infectious diseases. “I have seen many cases where a person with mild Covid was discharged from the hospital after two or three days because their oxygen saturation level was normal and they didn’t run a temperature. But after a few days, they got readmitted with fever and falling oxygen saturation,” said Bhattacharya. Hospital officials said the problem of settling claims was not so much with surgeries and procedures for which there are packages. “In such cases, the claims are settled without much hassle. But the problem is acute in settling claims for medical treatments where there are no such packages. For Covid, patients need medical care and often a long stay in an ICU, which makes the bill high,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Naryana Health, which has four hospitals in Calcutta, Howrah and North 24-Parganas. Also, the costs incurred on oxygen, masks and other items are non-admissible. An official of another private hospital said a big problem was the reimbursement for bed charges. Usually, an insurance company allows one per cent of the sum insured for general beds and two per cent for critical care beds. “This has been the norm for decades but bed charges actually go up by 10 to 15 per cent every year as hospitals cover rising operational costs. But in most cases the insured amount remains static. So, the gap between actual bed charge and the reimbursed amount is increasing,” said Sudipta Mitra, chief executive, Peerless Hospital. On an average, at Calcutta’s big private hospitals, general bed charges vary between Rs 2,500 and Rs 4,000 a day. The critical care beds range between Rs 8,000 and Rs 15,000 daily. So, a person with an insured amount of Rs 1 lakh would not get more than Rs 1,000 per day for general beds and Rs 2,000 for critical care beds. Insurance companies Several insurance companies said they “follow rules” and that hospitals often don’t send all documents, which creates confusion. Some of them said the problem was more acute in Calcutta because many people had comparatively less amounts as sum assured. A recent survey by National Insurance Company revealed that 40 per cent of its policy-holders had insured amounts between Rs 50,000 and Rs 1 lakh. “In most policies, the premium goes up by 30 to 40 per cent after a person turns 50 or 55. So, this is detrimental to many having large sums insured,” said Saurav Kariwala, assistant manager (health), National Insurance Company Ltd, Calcutta. He also blamed the hospitals for differential charging. “Same investigations cost more if the patient is admitted in higher bed categories at many private hospitals. Why should we reimburse a higher amount for the same investigations?” Kariwala asked. Regarding Covid treatment, an official of a private insurance company said those who had taken the Corona Kavach policy got maximum reimbursements because under it, there was no cap on bed charges. Officials said in the past couple of years, the insurance industry has grown as more people took policies or enhanced the sum insured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
23-06-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine for all aged 18 or above at seven Calcutta centres||Seven Covid vaccination centres in Calcutta, five of them run by the civic body, have started accepting bookings for inoculation of anyone who is 18 or older, officials said on Monday. The other Calcutta Municipal Corporation-run centres are vaccinating only priority groups in the 18-44 category and everyone above 45. The seven centres that will administer the jab to all in the 18-44 segment are alloting slots through the WhatsApp chatbot launched by the CMC and the health department. The CMC-run centres among the seven are at St Xavier’s College on Park Street, Bidhan Sishu Udyan in Ultadanga, Roxy cinema in Esplanade, South City International School on Prince Anwar Shah Road and Quest Mall on Syed Amir Ali Avenue. The other two centres, at SSKM Hospital and Sambhunath Pandit Hospital, are managed by the health department. “We will offer vaccines to everyone who is 18 or older and those who will turn 18 this year at seven centres in Calcutta. The bookings will be through the WhatsApp chatbot. There will be no restriction - even those who do not belong to any priority group in the 18-44 segment can book a slot,” said an official of the state e-governance mission team that has designed and is managing the chatbot. “These centres will administer vaccines only to those who have booked appointments through the WhatsApp chatbot.” To initiate the process of booking a slot through the chatbot, one has to type “Hi” and WhatsApp it to 8335999000. The official said all slots except the ones at Quest Mall were booked till Saturday. “We have plans to open bookings for next week on Saturday or Sunday at 10am,” the official said. The number of people each site will vaccinate will depend on the availability of doses. Usually, Quest Mall has 100 slots, Roxy cinema 400 slots, St Xavier’s College 200 slots, South City International School 800 slots, Bidhan Sishu Udyan 400 slots and SSKM and Sambhunath Pandit Hospitals have 500 slots each daily. The seven centres stand out because all other state government hospitals and the Covid vaccination centres run by the CMC are vaccinating only the priority groups in the 18-44 segment. There is no restriction on those who are 45 or older. Vegetable and fish sellers, drivers and conductors of buses and domestic help are among those who belong to priority groups. “We are not able to open vaccination to everyone who is 18 or above because there is not enough supply of doses,” Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the CMC’s board of administrators, had said on Monday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-14
23-06-2021||Calcutta||NIT Durgapur alumni raise funds for canteen staff||About 100 families whose income depended on students who lived in hostels on the NIT Durgapur premises have been on the brink of penury since the students went home because of the pandemic. Mostly contractual workers in the canteens, they would  do jobs like cooking or helping in the kitchen. Their employers stopped payment the day their work stopped. The National Institute of Technology (NIT), Durgapur, had asked students to vacate the hostels in March 2020 as a precaution against Covid. The institute’s alumni raised Rs 5.75 lakh over the past two months and distributed it to 98 people last week. Debajyoti Saha, who served food in the hall IX canteen and earn Rs 9,500 on an average before the pandemic, tried several odd jobs, but in vain. “I had to quit a job as a security guard because the agency suspended payment. A factory where I tried to work was shut down because of poor business. I don’t have resources to pay for the tuition of my son who is in Class X and am struggling to afford the medical expenses of my mother,’’ said Saha, 48, who had been working at the hall IX canteen since 2004. Saha’s colleague from hall IX, Raj Kumar Ghosh, tried to survive the crisis by working as a ticket collector on private buses and as a helper to a mason, but did not succeed. “Since masonry cannot be learnt overnight, I used to carry the bricks and worked as a help. That work soon came to an end. Then I took up the job of a ticket collector on private buses that operate between Durgapur and Burdwan. But as the services were stalled with the renewed surge of cases, I lost the job,” said Ghosh, 43. Nilesh Mallick, who had graduated from the institute in 2011 and stayed as a boarder at hall IX, said when the alumni found out about the plight of the canteen workers, they decided to do extend help. “As we stayed away from home, they took care of us. So, once my batchmates got to know of their plight, they started the drive to take care of those who used to take care of us,’’ Mallick told Metro. He works at a tech farm in Pune and is currently working from his home in Durgapur. A campaign called Sahojatri (Co-travellers) was launched on Facebook to raise funds. “Rs 5,000 was given to each of the 98 canteen workers last week. We have not been able to reach three others. The amount will be given for two more months,’’ said Mallick.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-14
23-06-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta school provides fleet of five buses to ferry people to vaccination centres ||A city school has provided its fleet of five buses to ferry people to vaccination centres in the absence of public transport. Swarnim International School said several companies were trying to make arrangements to get their employees vaccinated but did not have vehicles to take them to these centres. “We offered our buses to the public to help them reach the vaccination centres in a safe way,” said Swati Sarawagi, the director of Swarnim International School in Sonarpur. In the last two weeks, about 1,100 people have used this service to reach the vaccination centres from their doorstep. Since schools are shut since March last year because of Covid, buses have been lying idle across campuses. “We want our children to come back to school at the earliest and for that we must fight the pandemic together,” said Sarawagi in support of this endeavour. Young Indians (YI), the youth wing of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), has partnered with the school in this initiative. “The school administration has been supportive and it has helped with our workforce vaccination drive,” said Arpit Dhandhania, who chairs YI- Calcutta chapter. The buses would pick up people from their homes and drop them back after vaccination. “It saves people  the hassle of arranging for transport or paying hefty rents for cars,” a school official said. The school hopes that this would encourage other schools to take a similar initiative. “We have only five buses but there are schools with a much larger fleet. Those could be put to use now,” the official said. Since schools are shut since March last year, buses have been lying idle across campuses. The maintenance of the buses, which are not running regularly, is also a concern. At a time when in-person classes are suspended and there is no certainty when schools will reopen, several schools in the city are putting their campuses to other use during the pandemic. Schools have set up safe homes for Covid patients on their premises to ease pressure on hospitals and provide treatment to patients with mild symptoms. Schools have also allowed hospitals to operate vaccination centres from their campuses so that the hospitals could vaccinate more people. Besides, school campuses give the hospitals more space to administer the jabs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-14
23-06-2021||Calcutta||Job racket with fake IDs busted in Calcutta, 4 youths arrested||Four youths have been arrested for allegedly running a job racket. They had created fake email IDs in the name of the general manager of Metro Railway, police said. The city police had received a complaint in February from the office of the general manager and found that at least two fake email IDs were being used to dupe job aspirants. “Metro officials had come across multiple candidates who had turned up with fake appointment letters. On being asked, they showed the purported official email IDs from where they had received the letters,” said an officer. After a prolonged surveillance of the mobile numbers used by the accused, the police zeroed in on a man from Ranaghat in Nadia district. A team raided his house early on Tuesday and arrested him. Three others were arrested from different areas of Ranaghat. The accused are Sanjay Das, 21, Subhendu Ghosh, 25, Amit Pal, 25, and Abhijit Debnath, 20. The four have been remanded in police custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-14
23-06-2021||Calcutta||Hyena killed on Purulia road||A hyena was killed apparently after being hit by a car on a road that cuts through a forested terrain in Purulia early on Monday. The incident took place in Jhalda block, around 60km from Purulia town and over 300km from Calcutta. “The hyena, an adult female, was found by some residents lying on the road, writhing in pain and bleeding heavily from the mouth. She was taken to a hospital where she died. The vets pointed to heavy internal haemorrhage,” said Debasish Sharma, the divisional forest officer of Purulia. Forest officers are coordinating with the local police to try and track down the vehicle that hit the animal. But even if traced, the owner or the driver of the vehicle cannot be prosecuted for an accidental hit-and-run case, said forest officials. In India, hyenas are found in the semi-arid and dry fringe forests of Purulia, West Midnapore and Jhargram in Bengal, the Deccan plateau, Rajasthan and Gujarat. Hyenas in Bengal have not been studied enough. The extent of their distribution is largely anecdotal. A study to assess the habitat and distribution of hyenas, wolves and some other animals, started in 2019 by the Zoological Survey of India, has not yet been published. The hyenas found in India are mostly striped hyenas. “Striped hyenas are smaller and more solitary creatures than spotted hyenas of Africa. They are much more docile, mostly spending the days in burrows and coming out at night,” said a researcher with the Wildlife Institute of India. Sharma, the DFO, said hyenas had been sighted even a month ago in the forests of Jhalda and Garpanchkot in Purulia. “They are solitary and nocturnal. The hyena that died was possibly hit between 3am and 4am. She was probably returning to her burrow after spending the night outside,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-14
23-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Three wards of Kamarhati Municipality declared as micro-containment zones||Three wards of Kamarhati Municipality, on the northern fringes of the city, have been declared as micro-containment zones by the board of administrators. The move followed an alert from the health department that these pockets were recording multiple Covid cases. The three wards cover Jatin Das Nagar, to the east of BT Road in Belgharia, and parts of Nowdapara. “There won’t be any restrictions on the movement of residents,” said Gopal Saha, the chairman of the board of administrators. “The focus will be on sanitisation and adherence to Covid protocols,” said Saha. Similar zones will soon be set up across several other municipalities in North 24-Parganas, an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-14
23-06-2021||Business||Centre eases voice BPO norms to make India global outsourcing hub||To cement India's position as a preferred global outsourcing destination, the government on Wednesday liberalised guidelines for voice-based BPOs removing the distinction between domestic and international units as well as permitting interconnectivity between all types of OSP centres. Broadly, the rules would allow global companies, say an airline, with a voice-based centre in India to now serve global and domestic customers with common telecom resources, something that required dedicated, separate infrastructure previously. Moreover, the restrictions on data interconnectivity between any BPO (business process outsourcing) centre of the same company, a group company or any unrelated company has been done away with, allowing for massive flexibility in resource management for BPO operations. The connectivity norms have also been eased for remote call centre agents, in any location, to link with customers. All in all, the measures would lead to major cost savings and significantly improve utilisation for BPOs, positioning India as a favourable hub for IT-enabled service operations. "In order to encourage our BPO industry, OSP guidelines that were liberalised in November 2020 have been simplified even further, offering greater ease of business and regulatory clarity. This will further reduce compliance burden and help our tech industry," Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted. While OSPs will have to self-regulate their operations and there is no requirement to submit reports to the telecom department on a routine basis, players will have to maintain call data record, usage data record and system log for all customer calls for a stipulated period, and abide by data security norms. These liberalised guidelines for other service providers (OSPs) would benefit BPO organisations giving voice-based services, in India and abroad. Simply put, OSPs are entities providing application services, IT-enabled services, call centre services or any kind of outsourcing services using telecom resources. The distinction between domestic and international OSPs has been removed. A BPO centre with common telecom resources will now be able to serve customers located worldwide, including in India. With the removal of the distinction between domestic and international OSP centres, the interconnectivity between all types of such centres is now permitted, according to the new guidelines. "Remote agents of OSP can now connect directly with the centralised EPABX/ EPABX of the OSP/ EPABX of the customer using any technology including broadband over wireline/ wireless", an official statement said. It added that there will be not restriction for data interconnectivity between any centres of the same company or the group company or other company. This would allow increased flexibility in sub-contracting of work by BPO to smaller players. Electronic Private Automatic Branch Exchange (EPABX) of the players can be located anywhere in the world. Companies apart from utilising EPABX services of the telecom service providers can also locate their EPABX at third party data centres in India, it said. "The guidelines issued today are revolutionary in nature and will make India a favourable destination for expansion of voice-related BPO centres," Communications Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said in a briefing. India's IT-BPO industry stood at USD 37.6 billion (about Rs 2.8 lakh crore) in 2019-20 providing employment to lakhs of youths in the country. The Indian BPO industry has the "extraordinary potential" to rise to upto USD 55.5 billion (Rs 3.9 lakh crore) by 2025, the minister said. The business process management industry's revenues grew to USD 38.5 billion in 2020-21 from USD 37.6 billion in 2019-20, overcoming the backdrop of pandemic. "This was largely possible due to the industry's ability to work remotely and majorly enabled by the Government of India's relaxations of work from home requirements under the OSP regime, first temporarily, in March 2020 and then complete reforms under the new guidelines in November 2020," the official release said. In November last year, the government had announced simplified guidelines for BPOs and ITeS companies to reduce the compliance burden on them and to facilitate 'Work From Home' and 'Work From Anywhere' framework. The changed rules for OSPs at that time had sought to create a friendly regime for 'Work from Home' and 'Work from Anywhere', and had also removed frequent reporting obligations for such companies. The move had been dubbed significant by the industry which was asking for relaxations for 'Work From Home' to continue on a permanent basis, as the sector hoped to slowly move towards a blended working model, amid COVID-19 triggered 'new normal'. A study by industry body NASSCOM has found that over 72 per cent of the respondents surveyed were highly satisfied with the past OSP reforms. As many as 95 per cent of the respondent said it helped in reducing the compliance burden and cost of doing business in India, and an overwhelming majority felt it will help in making IT services more competitive globally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-11
23-06-2021||Business||Centre will actively pursue cases against economic offenders: Nirmala||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday said the government will actively pursue cases against economic offenders to bring back defrauded money of banks. The remark came soon after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) said the Debts Recovery Tribunal (DRT) has sold shares worth over Rs 5,800 crore of United Breweries Limited (UBL) that were earlier attached under the anti-money laundering law as part of an alleged bank fraud probe against fugitive liquor baron Vijay Mallya. "Fugitives & economic offenders will be actively pursued; their properties attached & dues recovered. #PSBs have already recovered Rs 1357 Cr by selling such shares. A total of Rs 9041.5 Cr shall be realised by banks through sale of such attached assets" the Finance Minister said in a tweet. According to ED, Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi have defrauded public sector banks by siphoning off the funds through their companies which resulted in total loss of Rs 22,585.83 crore to the lenders. The latest sale proceeds, as per the agency, would take the total value of recovery to Rs 9,041.5 crore, or 40 per cent of the over Rs 22,000 crore allegedly defrauded by the trio. The three, who fled overseas as probes against them gathered pace, are being investigated by central investigative agencies such as the ED and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) after they were alleged to have cheated banks. These frauds have been categorised as among the country's biggest criminal loan heists till date. The ED gave the low-down on these two cases -- the estimated Rs 13,000 crore fraud allegedly carried out by diamond trader Nirav Modi, his uncle Mehul Choksi and others in the Brady House branch of PNB in Mumbai, and the about Rs 9,000 crore Kingfisher Airlines fraud triggered by Mallya -- in a statement issued here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-11
23-06-2021||Business||Sensex drops 283 points to close at 52,306||Equity benchmark Sensex gave up early gains and tumbled 283 points on Wednesday following losses in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, HDFC and ICICI Bank. The 30-share BSE index ended 282.63 points or 0.54 per cent lower at 52,306.08. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty declined 85.80 points or 0.54 per cent to 15,686.95. Kotak Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by L&T, Tata Steel, HDFC, TCS, Reliance Industries, HCL Tech and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, Maruti, Titan, Bajaj Finserv and M&M were among the gainers. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended with gains, while Seoul was in the red. Equities in Europe were largely trading with losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.84 per cent higher at USD 75.44 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-11
23-06-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 100 points in early trade on Wednesday, tracking gains in index-heavyweights Infosys, HUL and Maruti, amid a positive trend in global equities.  The 30-share BSE index was trading 145.45 points or 0.28 per cent higher at 52,734.16 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 49.70 points or 0.32 per cent to 15,822.45.  IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 1 per cent, followed by Maruti, Titan, Tata Steel, HUL and Infosys.  On the other hand, Kotak Bank, Asian Paints, UltraTech Cement and HCL Tech were among the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex settled 14.25 points or 0.03 per cent higher at 52,588.71, and Nifty rose 26.25 points or 0.17 per cent to close at 15,772.75  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,027.94 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data.  According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities continue to look good as of now. Indian markets witnessed brisk recovery this week so far led by improved prospects of economic rebound and sustained recovery in corporate earnings.  US markets extended gains as the Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell's testimony offered comfort to investors, said Modi.  "Powell reiterated his view that recent jump in inflation would prove transitory and stated that Fed will do everything to support the economy as long as it takes to complete the recovery process. He further stated that the Central Bank would be patient before scaling back its soft monetary policy.  "This certainly has given some confidence that a reversal in policy rates or a bond buying programme is not going to happen soon. Further statements of Fed staffers will be watched out in coming days, which have been mixed so far," he noted.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.60 per cent higher at USD 75.26 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-11
23-06-2021||Business||Webinar on money tips in a Covid world||It has been a wild, gut-wrenching ride for investors since the pandemic first broke in March 2020. First, there was that numbing dive into a despairing abyss and then the euphoric leap back to the top. But do investors have the stomach for such a volatile churn? Can they protect their wealth and still ensure reasonable returns? Those are just the sort of questions that Deepak Jain, head of sales — retail & institutional business at Edelweiss Asset Management Company, and Shibu Das, director, Fine Advice Pvt Ltd, will seek to answer at the webinar on Thursday. They will try and explain how and why you shouldn’t lose your shirt — and your sangfroid — when picking your way through a pandemic-battered economic wasteland. The focus will be on retaining your cool and cutting through the noise while pursuing long-term investment strategies. Knee-jerk reactions and huddling with the crowd doesn’t create alpha or wealth. Certainly, roaring bull markets don’t last a lifetime nor do crashing bear markets! Over time, investors who focus on their long-term goals have a better chance of withstanding rocky market phases. The pain of losing wealth usually outweighs the joys of raking in the notional moolah. When is the best time to place your bets; how important is it to seek financial advice; and most importantly how long should you stay invested in a mutual fund and what sort of goals can you realistically set for yourself: Jain and Das will be ready to field every curve ball you throw at them in the interactive Q&A at the end of the session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-12
23-06-2021||Business||Covid: Pfizer in final stages of an agreement with India to supply vaccines||Pfizer is in the final stages of an agreement with the Indian government to supply Covid-19 vaccines to the country, CEO Albert Bourla said on Tuesday. Speaking at the 15th edition of the India-US Bio Pharma and Healthcare Summit which was organised by the US-India Chamber of Commerce, Bourla also disclosed that the US pharma giant has made a specific plan for mid- and low-income countries. These nations that include India, will receive at least two billion of such doses, of which one billion will be supplied in the current calendar year. His statements come at a time the government is looking to speed up the vaccination process in the country. Pfizer has reportedly sought indemnity protection against prosecution or lawsuits arising from any adverse effects for people taking its vaccine. “My hope is that very soon we will finalise the approval of the product by the Indian health care authorities and the agreement with the government so that we can also start sending vaccines, on our side,” Bourla said. He, however, added that a significant local manufacturing of vaccines being done at the Serum Institute of India will provide the “backbone of vaccinating” in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-12
23-06-2021||Business||Hindustan Unilever adds 30 per cent more capacity in supply chain||FMCG major HUL has added 30 per cent more capacity in its supply chain, making it more flexible and agile, while adding alternative sources in order to meet the challenges in case of a third wave of Covid-19, its chairman and managing Director Sanjiv Mehta said on Tuesday. Addressing the company’s 88th annual general meeting virtually, Mehta expressed optimism that the rural markets will continue to be strong despite the second wave of the pandemic impacting the hinterlands. With commodity prices increasing, the company is keeping a close eye on the situation and going for calibrated price hikes so as to avoid impacting consumers in a big way, he added. Replying to a shareholder’s query on the preparedness of the company in case of a third wave of the pandemic, Mehta said, “Now we have made the supply chain much more agile, we have taken a number of initiatives to improve efficiency. We have added flexibility in our supply chain by adding 30 per cent more capacity, and we aim to preserve resilience through alternative sourcing.” “We also continue to invest in technological capabilities, and we have invested in creating a very safe environment for our workforce through tiered protocols,” he added. HUL’s supply chain is undergoing a massive transformation across the verticals and the company is digitising upstream sourcing network which allows optimisation of cost, Mehta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-12
23-06-2021||Business||Tamil Nadu economic advisory council given freedom to pick up issues and submit suggestions||The high-powered economic advisory council to Tamil Nadu chief minister M.K. Stalin have been given the freedom to pick up issues and submit their suggestions to the chief minister. “It is different from many such panels in several ways. It is not a paid position, but an honorary one. Unlike such panels which are mandated for a specific issue and tasked to give a report, the EAC would identify issues and submit its suggestions. The state can also refer issues and seek suggestions,” state finance minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan told The Telegraph. “Essentially, the goal is not to make reports but to keep the system working efficiently with the best resources and inputs we can avail with their help whenever required,” Rajan said. “The tenure is for five years and would work in an unconventional manner ... meet in person or virtually, decide its own operational modalities.” The panel comprises Nobel Laureate Esther Duflo and former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan. It also has Arvind Subramanian, former chief economic adviser at the Centre, and Jean Dreze, welfare economist and social scientist. The fifth member is S. Narayan, former union finance secretary and former economic adviser to PM Narendra Modi. By opting for two macroeconomists (Rajan and Subramanian) and two social economists (Dreze and Duflo) and a former bureaucrat, analysts said the panel aims to strike a right balance to bring about growth that touches all segments of society, Thiaga Rajan, or PTR as he is better known, is an alumnus of the MIT Sloan School of Management. He has worked with global financial institutions such as Standard Chartered and Lehman Brothers. Tamil Nadu’s outstanding liabilities rose by 124 per cent to Rs 5.12 lakh crore in 2021 (BE) from Rs 2.28 lakh crore in 2016, RBI data shows. The state government aims to bring down the overall debt burden of the state. Thiaga Rajan “expects the fiscal deficit for the current fiscal to be Rs 90,000 crore due to the second wave. During the budget in July, some of the steps to deal with the fiscal situation would be outlined”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-12
23-06-2021||Business||Kesoram Industries issues notice of suspension of work in loss-making rayon unit||Covid has taken a toll on debt-laden Kesoram Industries, forcing the flagship of the Basant Kumar Birla Group to issue a notice of suspension of work in its loss-making rayon unit. The decision, which will affect around 2,500 workers employed in the unit, was taken as demand collapsed during the second wave of the pandemic. The plant, based at Kuntighat in Hooghly district of Bengal, makes textile intermediaries which find uses mostly in Gujarat and Maharashtra, where the textile sector is mostly concentrated. “Demand has collapsed. We have run up huge inventories. The operations cannot be sustained any more,” an official of the company said. In the notice to the bourses, the company blamed the restrictions on the movement of non-essential goods during the regional lockdowns for the collapse. The business of the unit does not fall under the essential category. Bengal, like many other states, had clamped down on the movement of inter- and intra-state trucks, except essential items, to control the pandemic. The curb was put in place from May 15 and it will continue to be there till June 30, if not extended further. Kesoram operates the business under the wholly owned subsidiary Cygnet Industries. The subsidiary, which also makes transparent paper, had posted a profit before loss of Rs 34.48 crore and a turnover of Rs 237.56 crore in 2020-21. It was established in 1959 and transferred to Cygnet in 2016. The official said it had sustained the operation despite heavy losses last year but the parent could not continue to support any more. “Private equity investors, who has recently provided debt to the company, would baulk at the prospect of supporting a loss making unit for long,” a source privy to the development suggested. Kesoram had raised Rs 2,200 crore from a clutch of international and domestic investors such as Goldman Sachs and Edelweiss to retire debt of Indian banks and build working capital to operate the cement business. Continuous losses of the subsidiary may alter the mathematics which PE investors worked on to extend loan to Kesoram, albeit at a very high interest cost.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-12
23-06-2021||Business||I-T: higher tax for those who don't file returns ||The income tax department on Tuesday said its new utility — developed to help TDS deductors and TCS collectors identify non-filers or specified persons on whom a higher rate of tax will be levied from July 1 — will help ease compliance burden. Post July, non-filers of income tax returns for the past two financial years would be subjected to higher rate of tax deducted at source (TDS) and tax collected at source (TCS) if such a deduction was Rs 50,000 or more in each of those two years. The provision was introduced in the 2021 Budget. The collectors would be required to check on the functionality of the PAN of the vendor from whom TDS is to be deducted or TCS to be collected, only at the beginning of the financial year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-12
23-06-2021||Business||Nirmala Sitharaman asks Infosys to fix all issues on new income tax portal||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday asked Infosys to fix all issues on the new income tax portal immediately, while the software major said at least five technical glitches, including viewing past ITRs and e-proceedings, are expected to be resolved within a week. As numerous glitches have continued to mar the functioning of the new e-filing portal for two weeks since its launch on June 7, the finance ministry had called Infosys — the vendor which developed the site — for a meeting to hear out stakeholder concerns and suggest remedial measures for fixing the issues. The ministry had received more than 700 emails from stakeholders detailing over 2,000 issues, including 90 unique issues/problems with the new portal. “Issues such as e-proceedings, Form 15CA/15CB (used for remittances), TDS statements, DSC (Digital Signature Certificate), viewing of past ITRs are expected to be resolved in about a week. It was also decided that the timelines mentioned by Infosys to redress the issues would be placed in the public domain in due course,” the statement issued by the income tax department said. PAN-Aadhaar link Advocate Narayan Jain, chairman of the DTPA Representation Committee, has urged the finance minister to extend the date for PAN-Aadhaar linking by a minimum of three months in view of the ongoing pandemic. Section 139AA requires that income tax permanent account number be linked with the Aadhar of the taxpayer within June 30, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-12
23-06-2021||Business||National Company Law Tribunal approves resolution plan for Jet Airways||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on Tuesday approved the resolution plan for Jet Airways submitted by a consortium of UK-based Kalrock Capital Partners and Murari Lal Jalan. While London-based Kalrock is an alternative investment fund, UAE-based Jalan has a Calcutta background. He began his career in the 1980s in his family’s paper trading business in the city before shifting to Dubai. The resolution plan has been approved with a caveat. The tribunal has given the new owners 90 days to approach the directorate-general of civil aviation (DGCA) for the restoration of the airline slots. The aviation regulator has already farmed these out to IndiGo and SpiceJet and has said that these cannot be re-allocated to Jet. The DGCA in an affidavit told the tribunal Jet does not qualify for the grant of slots on the basis of historic precedence and the allocation would be based on the regulator’s guidelines. “It is submitted that there can’t be any automatic revival of approvals granted to Jet Airways and re-instatement of slots, which were with Jet Airways and the same would be as per the extant guidelines and regulations/rules,” the DGCA had said in the affidavit . The tribunal said the historic rights will not be available to Jet but has urged the government to ensure that the resolution plan doesn’t come apart because of the regulator’s intransigence on slot allocation. The tribunal added that if the DGCA does not allot slots in 90 days, the consortium can come back to it and seek an extension. Though there is some degree of uncertainty on whether Jet will get back its slots, there are reports of the combine getting an assurance from around 30 airports of slots. After it suspended operations in April 2019, Jet Airways’ lenders led by the State Bank of India initiated the insolvency proceedings in June 2019. It was in October 2020 that the committee of creditors (CoC) approved the resolution plan submitted by the consortium. The stock markets reacted positively to the announcement with the shares of the now defunct airline being locked in at the 5 per cent upper circuit. On the BSE, it ended at Rs 99.45 on Tuesday. “The consortium maintains its stand that it wants to work alongside the ministry of civil aviation, the DGCA and all its competitors to put Jet Airways back in the skies. ” Our team will study the written order once issued by the Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) and we will provide a detailed response on the next steps subsequently,’’ the Jalan-Kalrock consortium said. The airline’s resolution professional Ashish Chhawchharia told PTI that Jet could be back in the skies by the end of this year if everything goes well. Jet Airways owes Rs 7,453 crore to its financial creditors and Rs 6,658 crore to its operational creditors and more than Rs 359 crore to workmen & employees, among others. Owner-watch Kalrock according to its website is an alternative investment adviser, largely active in verticals such as real estate, venture capital and special situations. In an interview to BloombergQuint in October last year, Manoj Narender Madnani, a board member at Kalrock, had said it would keep Jet Airways as a full service airline and not convert it into a budget carrier. Madnani also disclosed that they had identified candidates for the senior leadership team of the airline, which will be a mix of Indian and foreign aviation industry executives. Jalan, on the other hand, moved from paper trading in Calcutta to photo imaging and in 2003, acquired Kanoi Paper. He then moved into other sectors such as real estate and healthcare. Jalan later shifted to Dubai where he pursued the real estate business and made his presence felt in new regions such as Uzbekistan apart from the UAE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-12
23-06-2021||India||J&K: Farooq Abdullah holds talks with National Conference leaders||National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah on Wednesday held consultations with his party leaders from Jammu over the Centre's invite to mainstream political parties in the union territory for talks.  The NC leaders from the Jammu region said they stand for a single Jammu and Kashmir by maintaining its unity and integrity and by respecting the wishes and aspirations of its people.  The delegation was led by NC's provincial president for Jammu Devender Singh Rana.  Speaking to reporters outside Abdullah's residence, Rana said, "Our only stand is a single J-K, to maintain its unity and integrity and respecting the wishes and aspirations of the people of J-K."  He said dialogue and inclusiveness is an important and vital essence of democracy.  "Any dialogue that can take us out of this morass and which will lead to the welfare of the state of J-K and its people, we are all for it," he said.  Fourteen leaders from Jammu and Kashmir, including Abdullah, have been invited to the meeting on Thursday to be chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the future course of action for the union territory.  The meeting is the first such exercise since the Centre announced the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir's special status under Article 370 of the Constitution and its bifurcation into union territories on August 5, 2019.  Rana said the party leaders from Jammu have reposed faith in Abdullah as he is not only the president of the NC but also the tallest leader of J-K.  "He (Abdullah) has assured us that he will represent us and the people of J-K with his wisdom and he alone and alone can take this dialogue forward for welfare of the people of J-K and anything that is for the welfare of the people of J-K, he said.  Rana said as far as the pluralistic Jammu is concerned, it has its own aspirations and its own desires.  "We are for singular J-K, have always stood for the unity of J-K and equitable justice to all regions and sub-regions of J-K and we will always hold the aspirations of all the people of J-K as much as for Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh, he said.  Asked if the leader from Jammu region want dialogue with Pakistan as was pitched by PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Tuesday, Rana said he will not get into the intricacies .  "Abdullah is going for a dialogue, it is a dialogue with the PM of India and it is an inclusive dialogue and we are very hopeful that it will lead to the betterment of the state of J-K, peace, progress and prosperity of J-K.  "We are for J-K, for the people of J-K. We are not here for any power politics, we are here for the people of J-K and we will always stand for the people of J-K, for their welfare, their growth, their development, he said.  Asked if they expected the PM's meeting will pave the way for holding Assembly elections in the Union Territory, Rana said everything is not about elections.  "Right now, we are at the crossroads of history in J-K and dialogue is the only way forward. There is no reason to sabotage the dialogue. We are going with an open mind. Abdullah is the tallest of the tall leaders of J-K...whether somebody likes it or not, he is the best person suited to represent J-K and represent the aspirations of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh, he said.  He added that the NC president has assured them that all three regions will be represented by him equitably and properly.  Rana also said the people want that the aspirations of Jammu and Kashmir as well as Ladakh should be respected.  Asked if he wanted the restoration of statehood with special status, he said, Who does not want the state and of course, our own identity, our job protections and land protections."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-40
23-06-2021||India||ADR releases report on electoral trusts 2019-20||The BJP received Rs 276.45 crore or 76.17 per cent of total donations given to all political parties from electoral trusts in 2019-20, according to a report by poll rights group ADR (Association for Democratic Reforms). The BJP was followed by the Congress which received Rs 58 crore or 15.98 per cent of total donations received by all parties from all seven electoral trusts, it said.  The report that analysed contribution reports of electoral trusts for financial year 2019-20 said top donors to the electoral trusts included JSW, Apollo Tyres, Indiabulls, Delhi International Airport and DLF groups.  JSW Steel Ltd. contributed the highest amount worth Rs 39.10 crore among all donors of electoral trusts, followed by Apollo Tyres Ltd. with Rs 30 crore and Indiabulls Infraestate Ltd which contributed Rs 25 crore to various trusts.  Eighteen individuals contributed to electoral trusts in 2019-20. Ten individuals contributed Rs 2.87 crore to Prudent Electoral Trust, four individuals contributed Rs 5.50 lakhs to Small Donations Electoral Trust and four individuals gave a total of Rs 1 lakh to Swadeshi Electoral Trust, the report said.  "BJP received Rs 276.45 crore or 76.17 per cent of the total donations received by all political parties from electoral trusts followed by Congress which received Rs 58 crore or 15.98 per cent of the total donations received by all parties from all seven electoral Trusts. Other 12 political parties including AAP, SHS, SP, Yuva Jan Jagriti Party, Jannayak Party, JDU, JMM, LJP, SAD, INLD, JKNC and RLD received a total of Rs 25.4652 crore collectively," the report said. The Election Commission had circulated guidelines for submission of contribution reports of electoral trusts to submit an annual report containing details of contributions received by the electoral trusts and disbursed by them to political parties in the interest of transparency. These guidelines were issued to seven electoral trusts formed after January 2013 -- Satya Electoral Trust, Pratinidhi Electoral Trust, People's Electoral Trust, Progressive Electoral Trust, Janhit Electoral Trust, Bajaj Electoral Trust and Janpragati Electoral Trust. Fourteen out of the 21 electoral trusts, registered with the Central Board of Direct Taxes, submitted their contribution details in 2019-20 to the EC of which only seven declared to have received any donations during that year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-41
23-06-2021||India||Air India to resume India-UAE flights from June 24 onwards||India's national carrier Air India will resume its flight operations from UAE Thursday onwards, weeks after the nation had suspended incoming flights from India due to the surge in coronavirus cases, an official statement said on Wednesday.  Effective June 24, 2021 (10:00am) all Air India flights will operate from Terminal-1 of Dubai International Airport (DXB). All passengers booked to travel on or after June 24 are requested to report at Dubai Terminal-1, Air India said in a statement here.  All passengers booked to travel on or after June 24 are requested to report at Dubai Terminal-1.  Meanwhile Air India Express flights scheduled to depart from Dubai will continue to operate from Dubai Terminal-2.  On April 24, the UAE's General Authority of Civil Aviation and the National Emergency, Crisis and Disaster Management Authority (NCEMA) announced that entry from India will be suspended for all incoming flights on national and foreign carriers due to the surge in the cases of coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-41
23-06-2021||India||Vaccine: High drama during parliamentary panel, BJP MPs walk out||A parliamentary panel meeting on the issue of vaccine development witnessed high drama on Wednesday as several BJP MPs walked out of it asserting that this is not the appropriate time to discuss the vaccine policy, sources said. Scientific Advisor to the government K Vijaya Raghavan, ICMR DG VK Bhargava and Secretary in the Department of Biotechnology Renu Swarup were among those who deposed before the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Science and Technology. The meeting was chaired by Congress MP Jairam Ramesh on the agenda of vaccine development for Covid-19 and genetic sequencing of coronavirus and its variants. When several opposition MPs expressed their desire to ask questions about the Centre's vaccination policy such as increasing the gap between two doses, the BJP MPs strongly opposed it and few of them even demanded postponement of the meeting and walked out, the sources said. The BJP MPs were of the opinion that as the vaccine drive is going on in the country, this is not the appropriate time to raise such issues which may hamper the vaccination process, the sources said. Panel chairman Ramesh underlined that the meeting should be held according to its agenda, they said. When a BJP MP stuck to the demand for postponement of the meeting, and wanted a vote on it, Ramesh categorically refused it saying that standing committee meetings are conducted through consensus. Ramesh was of the view that there would be no voting, even if it would be his last meeting as chairman, according to the sources. The Opposition MPs asserted that they also have the right to question as they are answerable to people as parliamentarians, they said. The sources said the drama lasted for about an hour after which top officials were called to depose before the meeting. During the meeting, all members applauded the scientific community for their role amid the pandemic, the sources said. Later, Ramesh in a tweet termed all the reports claiming that PM-CARES was mentioned in the meeting as false and said it was not mentioned even once in 150 minutes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-41
23-06-2021||India||Amarinder meets 3-member AICC panel, discusses poll promises in Punjab||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh Tuesday met a three-member AICC panel set up to end factionalism and strengthen the party in the state ahead of next year's assembly elections and discussed the progress made on poll promises. Singh met the panel's chairman Mallikarjun Kharge at his Parliament House office of the Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha. AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and former MP J P Aggarwal, who are the other members of the panel, were also present during the over three-hour meeting. Singh is learnt to have discussed how to strengthen the party in Punjab and present a united Congress ahead of the assembly polls. Sources said the panel also worked out a schedule for fulfilling the remaining poll promises made in Punjab and discussed the plan with the chief minister. The panel has been entrusted with the task of readying the Congress for the next year's assembly elections in Punjab. Singh is also learnt to have discussed the latest public utterances made by his former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, who is at loggerheads with him. This is the second occasion in recent times that Singh has met the panel. He had earlier met its members at the AICC headquarters, before submission of the panel report. Meanwhile, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi is also learnt to have stepped in and is meeting some key leaders of the Congress from Punjab, including some sitting MPs, legislators and ministers. Gandhi will be meeting some other leaders from Punjab on Wednesday, including PCC chief Sunil Jakhar. Kharge has also said that all issues will be resolved amicably and the Congress will fight next year's assembly polls under the leadership of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. The panel members have taken note of Sidhu's recent interviews and have expressed "displeasure" over his outbursts. They are of the view that all party matters should be discussed in the party forum and not in public. Rawat is learnt to have apprised the party leadership about the recent outbursts of Sidhu, the sources said. The panel was formed to resolve issues of factionalism in the Punjab Congress and present a united face of the party. Among the issues pending include revamping the party and cabinet, besides rehabilitation of former Punjab minister Sidhu. Sidhu, who is eyeing the PCC chief post, is not willing to join Singh's cabinet again, which he quit it in 2019 following differences with the chief minister after his portfolio was changed. The panel in its report to party chief Sonia Gandhi has suggested that elections should be held under the charge of Singh and Sidhu may be suitably accommodated. Meanwhile, chief minister Amarinder Singh also met senior party leader Ambika Soni at her residence here. Soni has been unwell for some time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-41
23-06-2021||India||Covid: Spike in Maharashtra as cases rise to 10,066||After a gap of seven days, Maharashtra on Wednesday crossed the 10,000 single-day case mark and reported 10,066 Covid-19 infections, taking its tally to 59,97,587, said the state health department. The state on June 16 had reported 10,107 cases and since then, the daily count has remained below 10,000. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday expressed concern over statewide daily cases not remaining below 7,000-8,000 on a consistent basis. With 163 more deaths, the fatality count increased to 1,19,303, the health department said. Out of them, 109 deaths occurred in the last 48 hours and 54 in the last week. Deaths that took place more than a week's ago are being added in the cumulative tally as part of a data reconciliation exercise. Under the exercise, 345 previously unreported deaths were added to the overall toll figure, the department said in a report. The state's COVID-19 recovery rate is 95.93 per cent, while the case fatality rate is 1.99 per cent, the report said. As many as 11,032 patients were discharged during the day, taking the number of recovered cases to 57,53,290 and leaving the state with 1,21,859 active cases, the department said. There are 5,92,108 people in home quarantine and 4,223 in institutional quarantine, the report said. With 2,41,801 more tests in the last 24 hours, the cumulative figure of samples examined for coronavirus reached 4,01,28,355, it said. According to the statement, Mumbai city reported 864 new cases and 23 deaths, taking its infection tally to 7,21,963 and the toll to 15,338. In the Mumbai division, comprising the city and its satellite towns, there were 2,515 new cases and 36 deaths. This took the cumulative caseload in the region to 15,81,638 and the deaths to 31,503, it said. The Nashik division reported 703 cases and six deaths, the health department said. The Pune division recorded 2,423 cases and 34 deaths, of which 17 came from Satara district alone, the statement said. The Kolhapur division reported 3,617 cases and 68 deaths, of which rural parts of Kolhapur and Sangli registered 20 and 23, respectively. Kolhapur city added 14 deaths. The Aurangabad division registered 160 new infections and one death, while the Latur division added 332 cases and eight fatalities, the statement said. The Akola division reported 178 cases and two deaths, while the Nagpur division registered 138 cases and eight deaths, the statement said. Maharashtra's coronavirus figures are as follows: Positive cases 59,97,587; new cases 10,066; deaths 1,19,303; recoveries 57,53,290; active cases 1,21,859; total tests so far 4,01,28,355.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-41
23-06-2021||India||High drama at Parliamentary Panel over vaccine policy ||A parliamentary panel meeting on the issue of vaccine development witnessed high drama on Wednesday as several BJP MPs walked out of it asserting that this is not the appropriate time to discuss the vaccine policy, sources said. Scientific Advisor to the government K Vijaya Raghavan, ICMR DG VK Bhargava and Secretary in the Department of Biotechnology Renu Swarup were among those who deposed before the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Science and Technology. The meeting was chaired by Congress MP Jairam Ramesh on the agenda of vaccine development for COVID-19 and genetic sequencing of coronavirus and its variants. When several opposition MPs expressed their desire to ask questions about the Centre's vaccination policy such as increasing the gap between two doses, the BJP MPs strongly opposed it and few of them even demanded postponement of the meeting and walked out, the sources said. The BJP MPs were of the opinion that as the vaccine drive is going on in the country, this is not the appropriate time to raise such issues which may hamper the vaccination process, the sources said. Panel chairman Ramesh underlined that the meeting should be held according to its agenda, they said. When a BJP MP stuck to the demand for postponement of the meeting, and wanted a vote on it, Ramesh categorically refused it saying that standing committee meetings are conducted through consensus. Ramesh was of the view that there would be no voting, even if it would be his last meeting as chairman, according to the sources. The Opposition MPs asserted that they also have the right to question as they are answerable to people as parliamentarians, they said. The sources said the drama lasted for about an hour after which top officials were called to depose before the meeting. During the meeting, all members applauded the scientific community for their role amid the pandemic, the sources said. Later, Ramesh in a tweet termed all the reports claiming that PM-CARES was mentioned in the meeting as false and said it was not mentioned even once in 150 minutes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-41
23-06-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi 'captain' of Congress in Uttar Pradesh: Salman Khurshid||Senior Congress leader Salman Khurshid has said it is up to AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to decide the manner in which she will present herself to the voters in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, but asserted that she is a "great face" and the "captain" leading the party's charge in the state. He also asserted that the Congress will emerge as the principal challenger to the BJP before the Assembly elections and Priyanka Gandhi is determined to ensure that the party fights the polls with all its might. In an interview with PTI, Khurshid said the Congress would not keep waiting for alliances but was determined to fight the polls hard with everything "we have got". Asked if Priyanka Gandhi was the party's best bet to be the chief ministerial face, the former Union minister said, "I am not going to answer that till such time as she does not give us an indication. But she is a wonderful, great face." "All you have to do is to put the picture of (UP Chief Minister) Yogi (Adityanath) in front of you and Priyanka Gandhi's picture and you won't need to ask any more questions," said Khurshid, who is the chief of the party's manifesto committee for the state. But the manner in which she will present herself, offer herself to the voters in UP will be her decision, he stressed. "I hope that she will take a decision and let us know. As far as we are concerned she is the captain and she is leading us," Khurshid said of the Congress general secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh. On the Congress still not being the principal challenger in UP despite efforts by Priyanka Gandhi, Khurshid admitted that the party was not the principal challenger as of now but expressed confidence that it would be before the polls in 2022. He asserted that the party is going to fight the assembly elections "real hard", highlighting that Priyanka Gandhi is determined to ensure that the party fights with all its might in the polls. On whether the Congress has the capacity to go it alone, Khurshid asked if there is any alliance on the cards, and added that "nobody has specifically talked to us about an alliance as I understand". There is no point in hypotheticals being discussed, the 68-year-old leader said. Pressed further on whether the party has the bandwidth to go it alone in the assembly polls, Khurshid said the party would have to fight on its own but added a caveat on alliances -- if something happens and leadership takes a call then it may be different. "But let us not forget the last time we fought in an alliance we did not do well. I am not even sure if the two who got into the alliance -- the Congress and the Samajwadi Party -- have figured out why they did not do well. We did not spend any time on that at all," Khurshid said. He said that for any alliance to happen with anybody, its ground rules must be known as to what might or might not work. "So if someone wants to talk about alliances, I think we will have to first figure this out. Do alliances work in UP, can they work in UP? What was lacking in the last alliance and what we need to do?" he said. Khurshid, however, added that all this will not hold the party back on preparing itself for the polls. "So we are preparing ourselves for the job (elections), we are not going to keep waiting, we are not going to be expecting, we are not going to have any excuses. Everyday we have to work towards the elections and we will work towards the election," he said. "We are determined to fight it hard, we are determined to fight it with everything we have got," the senior Congress leader asserted. The Congress won just seven seats while its alliance partner Samajwadi Party (SP) bagged 47 seats in the 403-member assembly in the 2017 Assembly polls. The BJP won a thumping mandate with 312 seats and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) bagged 19 seats. SP supremo Akhilesh Yadav, during an interview last week, had said his party will not enter into any alliance with big parties and will go together in the election with smaller parties. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-41
23-06-2021||India||UK High Court rejects Nirav Modi's extradition plea||Wanted diamond merchant Nirav Modi, whose extradition to India was ordered in April by UK Home Secretary Priti Patel in the estimated USD 2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case, has lost the first stage of his extradition appeal in the High Court here. The appeal was before a High Court judge for a decision on the papers submitted for the appeal to determine if there are any grounds for an appeal against the Home Secretary's decision or the Westminster Magistrates Court February ruling in favour of Nirav Modi's extradition to India to face charges of fraud and money laundering. A High Court official confirmed that the permission to appeal was "rejected on paper" on Tuesday, which leaves the 50-year-old jeweller with a chance to make his case at a brief oral hearing in the High Court with a renewed leave to appeal application for a judge to determine if it can proceed to a full appeal hearing. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-41
23-06-2021||India||Prashant Kishor and Sharad Pawar meet again||Political strategist Prashant Kishor met Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar in New Delhi on Wednesday, a day after leaders of eight opposition parties gathered at Pawar's residence and discussed various issues facing the country. According to sources, the closed-door discussions between Kishor and Pawar, held at the latter's residence in Delhi, lasted for about an hour. This was their third meeting within a fortnight. Kishor, who was instrumental in the thumping victory of the Trinamool Congress in the West Bengal Assembly polls, had met Pawar over lunch at his residence in Mumbai on June 11. He again called on the NCP chief at his residence in Delhi on Monday. These meetings with Pawar has fuelled speculations about the possibility of opposition parties coming together to form a third front against the BJP. Pawar on Tuesday hosted a meeting of the leaders of eight Opposition parties including the Trinamool Congress, the Samajwadi Party, the Aam Aadmi Party, the Rashtriya Lok Dal and the Left at his residence in Delhi. However, leaders who took part in that discussions asserted that it was a "non-political" meeting of like-minded individuals by Rashtriya Manch that was floated by former finance minister and TMC vice-president Yashwant Sinha along with others. Before the opposition leaders' meeting on Tuesday, Pawar also chaired NCP's national executive meeting the same day and had "a detailed discussion" with his party leaders on its "future policies", its role in the next Lok Sabha polls and current national issues." The opposition party leaders' meet at Pawar's residence was attended by National Conference's leader Omar Abdullah, SP's Ghanshyam Tiwari, RLD president Jayant Chaudhary, Sushil Gupta from the AAP, Binoy Viswam from the CPI, Nilotpal Basu from CPI-M and TMC vice-president Yashwant Sinha among others. Former Congress leader Sanjay Jha and Janata Dal-United's (JD-U) ex-leader Pavan Verma also participated in the meeting. Besides politicians, several eminent personalities such as Javed Akhtar, former ambassador KC Singh and Justice (retd) A P Shah were also present at Tuesday's meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-41
23-06-2021||India||Ramdev challenges FIRs over his remarks on allopathy at SC||Yoga televangelist Ramdev has moved the Supreme Court to appeal for a stay on the police cases against him for his comments on allopathy and sought to club the FIRs across the country together and transfer them to Delhi. Ramdev’s comments on the efficacy of allopathic medicines gained a controversial spotlight in May, drawing the ire of the medical fraternity, when the country was battling the second wave of Covid-19. A controversy had erupted after he was heard questioning some of the medicines being used to treat the coronavirus infection and saying that "lakhs have died from taking allopathic medicines for Covid-19". "Lakhs of people have died because of allopathic medicines, far more than those who died because they did not get treatment or oxygen," he was heard saying in a widely shared video. He even called allopathic medicines stupid, which angered doctors all over the country. The remarks were met with vociferous protests, following which Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan asked him to withdraw the "extremely unfortunate" statement. The next day, Ramdev was forced to withdraw a statement. However, several doctors' associations across the country filed complaints against him with the police, based on which multiple cases were lodged. In a U-turn, however, the yoga guru earlier this month called doctors the "envoys of God" and vowed to get vaccinated, while urging others to do the same.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-41
23-06-2021||India||India reports around 40 cases of Delta plus variant: Centre||Around 40 cases of the Delta plus variant, classified as a variant of concern (VOC), have been detected sporadically in Maharashtra, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. Delta variant as well as all Delta sub-lineages including Delta plus are classified as VOC, it said. "As of now among the samples sequenced (45000+) in India, Delta plus variant -- AY.1 --has been observed sporadically in Maharashtra, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh, with around 40 cases identified so far and no significant increase in prevalence," the ministry said in its statement. These three states have been advised to strengthen surveillance and take appropriate public health measures. “After the report of AY.1 by the Public Health England (PHE) on June 11, retrospective analysis of samples revealed the first occurrence of this lineage from a sample collected from Maharashtra. The sample was collected on April 5. “As of June 18, 205 sequences of AY.1 lineage were detected worldwide, with the USA and the UK having over half of the known cases,” the statement said. INSACOG had recently identified a viral variant (delta, B.1.617.2). This viral variant has also been seen in nine other countries of the world. INSACOG is an Indian consortium of 28 labs, established by the Government of India to carry out genome sequencing of the virus causing the Covid-19 pandemic. “The World Health Organisation has introduced a classification as VOC (variant of concern) and VOI (variant of interest), with the evolution of several variants around the globe. “Delta variant as well as all Delta sub-lineages including Delta Plus are classified as VOC,” the statement said. The Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia (INSACOG)reported the evolution of Delta plus variant (B.1.617.2) + K417N lineage of SARS-CoV2 called B.1.617.2.1/ AY.1. “The Delta plus variant B.1.617.2.1/ (AY.1) is characterized by the K417N mutation in spike protein,” the statement said. “The spike protein aids the virus to gain receptor-mediated entry into human cells. K417N corresponds to the change of amino acid lysine (K) to asparagine (N) at the 417th position of spike protein. There are other Delta plus variants with other mutations. “The AY.1 is the most well-known, but these are not identical. A second clade found in sequences uploaded to GISAID from the USA, is now designated AY.2, but is not seen in India yet,” the statement said. "All Delta sub-lineages are treated as a variant of concern VOC, although properties of AY.1 are still being investigated. Currently, the variant frequency of AY.1 is low in India. Cases with AY.1 have been mostly reported from nine countries of Europe, Asia and America," the ministry statement stated. The SARS-CoV-2 virus causing Covid-19 disease is mutating continuously with an increase in the number of infections both across the world and in India. Mutations help the virus to become either more transmissible or more virulent or both. With time these mutations known as Variants of Interest (VOI) increase in frequency in the selected population and are considered then as VOC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-42
23-06-2021||India||BJP will lose Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, says Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday expressed confidence that the BJP will lose the upcoming Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. In an interview with ndtv.com, he also revealed that his party will not contest the polls with major parties, and instead would go for like-minded smaller parties for alliance. "My experience with big parties is not good, I will not get into any alliance with them," Akhilesh told ndtv.com, without naming Mayawati's Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Congress. The Samajwadi Party is targeting 300 of the 403 Assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh, he further said. "The BJP is going to lose the upcoming UP elections... they failed the people of UP in the biggest test of their leadership. The government is still hiding the true Covid deaths," he SP chief said in the interview. On being asked about the controversial comments he made on Covid-19 vaccines, the leader vowed to take his jab only after the poor of the state were fully inoculated free of cost. "I had only refused to take the vaccine initially because it had not completed all the trials," Akhilesh said on concerns that he had initially fuelled vaccine hesitancy by refusing to take it and labelling Bharat Biotech's Covaxin as the "BJP vaccine". The leader also refuted claims that the SP was not visible on the ground ahead of the state's Assembly polls. "We have held training camps across UP. When the farmer's protest began our karyakartas showed support. I myself wanted to go to Kannauj but was not allowed to leave my house... you can't just show what the BJP wants to project," the former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh asserted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-42
23-06-2021||India||40 per cent loss in Mallya, PNB fraud cases realised, informs ED||About 40 per cent of the money lost by banks in alleged frauds perpetrated by fugitive businessmen Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi and Vijay Mallya has been recovered so far, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) said after the sale of attached shares worth over Rs 5,800 crore on Wednesday. According to the agency, the latest sale proceeds take the total value of recovery to Rs 9,041.5 crore, or 40 per cent of the over Rs 22,000 crore allegedly defrauded by the trio. Commenting on the development, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman tweeted, "Fugitives & economic offenders will be actively pursued; their properties attached & dues recovered." The three, who fled overseas as probe against them gathered pace, are being investigated by central investigative agencies such as the ED and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) after they were alleged to have cheated banks, and these frauds have been categorised as among the country's biggest criminal loan heist till date. The central agency gave the low-down on these two cases -- the estimated Rs 13,000 crore fraud allegedly carried out by diamond trader Nirav Modi, his uncle Mehul Choksi and others in the Brady House branch of PNB in Mumbai and the about Rs 9,000 crore Kingfisher Airlines fraud triggered by Mallya -- in a statement issued here. It said the three "defrauded" public sector banks by siphoning off the funds through their companies which resulted in total loss of over Rs 22,000 crore (Rs 22,585.83 crore in definite numbers) to a clutch of banks. The ED, empowered to probe such cases under criminal sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), went on to attach and seize total assets worth Rs 18,170.02 crore in these two cases that included Rs 969 crore worth of properties "located" abroad. "The quantum of the attached and seized assets represent 80.45 per cent of the total bank loss of Rs 22,585.83 crore," the ED said. On Wednesday, out of these attached assets, the Debts Recovery Tribunal (DRT) on behalf of an SBI-led consortium that lent money to Mallya sold fresh shares worth Rs 5,824.50 crore of United Breweries Limited (UBL), the agency said. The DRT action came after the ED transferred the shares worth about Rs 6,624 crore of UBL attached by it to the SBI-led consortium on the directions of a special PMLA court that is hearing these cases in Mumbai. "Further realisation of Rs 800 crore by sale of these shares is expected by June 25," it added. The banks have earlier "recovered" Rs 1,357 crore by a similar sale of shares in the case against Mallya and his now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines, the ED said. Another Rs 1,060 crore worth of assets were "restituted" to the banks earlier in the probe against Nirav Modi, they said. As of date, the ED said, assets worth Rs 9,041.5 crore, "representing 40 per cent of the total loss to the banks, have been handed over to public sector banks." "Thus, the banks shall be realising total amount of Rs 9,041.5 crore through sale of a part of assets attached/seized by ED under the PMLA," it said. In addition, official sources said, Rs 329.67 crore has been realised in the government exchequer after Modi's assets were confiscated in July last year after the 50-year-old diamantaire was declared a fugitive economic offender by a special court in Mumbai. The ED said the probe has "irrevocably proved" that the three used dummy entities controlled by them for rotation and siphoning off the funds provided by the banks. "The investigators had to pierce through the multi-layered corporate veil to find these assets that were held in exclusive possession." "It was a myriad web of domestic and international transactions and stashing of assets abroad," a senior officer said. The ED also got repatriated to the country assets like gold and diamond jewellery (of Modi and Choksi firms) from abroad to ensure they are not disposed of and are available to the banks and the government exchequer for seizure. The agency said "a substantial part of these assets were held in the names of dummy entities, trusts, third persons, relatives of these accused and these entities were proxy of the three accused to hold these assets." It said the extradition of Mallya (65) "has been ordered by the Westminster Magistrates Court and confirmed by the UK High Court." "Since Mallya has been denied permission to file an appeal in the UK Supreme Court, his extradition to India has become final," it added. It said Modi too has lost his extradition plea and has been in a London jail for the last 2.3 years. Choksi (62) had mysteriously gone missing on May 23 from Antigua and Barbuda, where he has been staying since 2018 as a citizen, and later surfaced in neighbouring Dominica from where India is trying to get him deported.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-42
23-06-2021||India||Privacy policy: HC refuses to stay CCI notice to Facebook, WhatsApp||The Delhi High Court has refused to stay the Competition Commission of India (CCI) notice asking Facebook and WhatsApp to furnish certain information in relation to a probe ordered by it into the instant messaging app's new privacy policy. A vacation bench of Justices Anup Jairam Bhambhani and Jasmeet Singh said an application seeking stay of further steps in the investigation already stands filed in which notice was issued to the Director General of CCI in which no interim relief was given by the division bench on May 6 and is listed for consideration on July 9. "We also find that there is substantial overlap, in fact near identity, as between the prayers made in (earlier application) and those made in the present application. For the foregoing reason, we do not consider it appropriate to stay the operation of impugned notice dated June 8, at this stage," the bench said in its order passed on June 21 and made available on Wednesday. The case relates to the appeals of Facebook and WhatsApp against a single judge order dismissing their pleas against the probe CCI ordered into the instant messaging app's new privacy policy. The high court had earlier issued notices on the appeals and asked the Centre to respond to it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-42
23-06-2021||India||India's total Covid tally crosses 3 crore mark||India's total tally of COVID-19 cases crossed the three crore mark with one crore infections being added in 50 days. The total tally mounted to 3,00,28,709 with 50,848 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 3,90,660 with 1,358 fresh fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. India' total COVID-19 infections had surpassed the one crore mark on December 19 after which it took around 136 days to cross the two crore mark on May 4. According to the data published at 7 am, India administered 54.24 lakh vaccine doses in the last 24 hours taking the cumulative doses to 29.46 crore. The active cases further declined to 6,43,194 comprising 2.14 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.56 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A net decline of 19,327 cases has been recorded in the COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 19,01,056 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 39,59,73,198. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.67 per cent . It has been less than five per cent for 16 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 3.12 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 41st consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,89,94,855, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.30 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 1,358 new fatalities include 482 from Maharashtra, 194 from Tamil Nadu, 141 from Kerala and 139 from Karnataka. A total of 3,90,660 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,18,795 from Maharashtra, 34,164 from Karnataka, 31,580 from Tamil Nadu, 24,933 from Delhi, 22,282 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,437 from West Bengal, 15,888 from Punjab and 13,402 from Chhattisgarh. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-42
23-06-2021||India||BJP-ruled states accused of holding back vaccines to make Monday record possible||A political row has erupted over whether the national record set by the Centre in administering 8.6 million Covid-19 shots in a single day on Monday was a publicity stunt aimed at boosting the image of the government’s controversy-ridden vaccine drive that has been plagued by shortages. Critics charge that BJP-ruled states went slow in giving jabs in the days beforehand to allow for the massive surge in the number of jabs delivered. The shots were the most given in a single day since the Covid immunisation programme began in January. The Centre has said the stellar vaccination performance was due to regaining control of vaccine procurement from the states and Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted on Monday, “Well done India!” Madhya Pradesh was the most glaring example of the alleged holding back of vaccine doses by BJP-governed states in order to create the one-day record, Opposition politicians say. They point to data on the Union government’s CoWin vaccination site that they say is clear evidence. “Clearly, yesterday (Monday) was a pre-planned image-booster. Today (Tue Jun insday) we have not sustained that level (of vaccinations). We simply have to sustain at least 80 lakhs a day for the next four-five months,” said senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh. Some experts say that the country needs to administer as many as one crore doses a day to shield people from new Covid-19 outbreaks. Madhya Pradesh administered 16.9 lakh jabs on Monday, the most in the country. The next day, though, on Tuesday, health authorities in the state administered a record low of just 4,536 shots, according to the CoWin portal. Before administering the 16.9 lakh vaccines on Monday, Madhya Pradesh gave just 692 inoculations on Sunday. In fact, the number of shots being delivered by Madhya Pradesh had been declining precipitously in the state for several days before the record tally. Rajesh Bhushan, secretary, ministry of health, told reporters on Tuesday that Monday’s numbers are sustainable but added a crucial rider “when vaccines and capacity is available.” He said Monday’s performance was thanks to “coordinated planning between the states and the Centre” and that it was “expected to continue.” On Tuesday, health authorities nationwide administered 51 lakh doses, considerably above its average so far this month of 35 lakh doses. Speaking Monday to Doordarshan, government adviser Vinod Kumar Paul said India has the capacity to administer 12.5 million doses a day and intends to give jabs to at least 10 million people daily. He said vaccine supply shortages were a thing of the past as the government anticipated having between 200 to 220 million doses in July. Paul’s projected number of vaccines is considerably higher than previous government statements. India has around 120 million doses available this month, an increase from 75 million in May, and had said it expected that some 135 million doses would be available in July. After the devastating second Covid-19 wave, experts see a fast vaccine rollout as vital to averting even worse coronavirus outbreaks. The record number of vaccine doses administered Monday came on the first day of the government’s new inoculation strategy in which the Central Government provided free vaccines against Covid to adults across states. Another BJP-ruled state Karnataka administered the second-biggest number of vaccinations on Monday -- 11.21 lakh doses. It had given just 68,172 jabs on Sunday. The day following Monday’s big number of jabs it delivered 3.8 lakh shots. High numbers of vaccinations administered were reported by BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Haryana. Uttar Pradesh administered 7.25 lakh doses on Monday, following up with 7.41 lakh doses on Tuesday -- well above its average daily administration of around 4 lakh doses. But the number of vaccinations in opposition-ruled states like Punjab, Jharkhand and Delhi were far lower Monday.  On Tuesday, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri slammed Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for low vaccination numbers in the national capital the previous day. “On a day when India vaccinated more than 84 lakh people, Delhi administered only 76,259 out of more than 11 lakh doses available. Why?" The Delhi government has accused the Centre of not making available a sufficient number of vaccines. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had claimed Monday that the 86.16 lakh vaccine doses administered was the “highest single day coverage” across the globe. But according to a report in Nature which appeared on June 9, China had been vaccinating two crore (20 million) people daily for more than a week. Maharashtra, meanwhile, gave 383,495 vaccine doses Monday and followed that number by administering 5.48 lakh doses Tuesday. India has given around 290 million doses of vaccines so far. Around 3.8 per cent of the population is fully vaccinated, while less than 20 per cent of people have received at least one dose. If one takes the adult population of those aged 18 and above, though, the full vaccine coverage would represent 5.5 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-42
23-06-2021||India||India, US air combat exercise in the Indian Ocean region||India will take pa­rt in a two-day air combat exercise with the US in the Indian Ocean region from Wednesday amid China’s aggressive military behaviour in the In­do-Pacific, South China Sea and along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh. Sources in the defence mi­nistry said the exercise was an indication of the growing congruence in defence and military partnership between the two countries. “As a strategic outreach exe­rcise with the defence forc­es of friendly foreign countries in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR), Indian Air Force will participate in operational engagements with the US Navy in an exercise to be carried out wi­th Ronald Reagan Carrier Str­i­ke Group (CSG) on June 23 and 24, 2021,” said a media statement of the defence ministry. The CSG is currently deployed in the Indian Ocean. The exercise will see the IAF forces operate from bases under four operational comm­a­­nds and will include Jag­uars and Su-30 MKI fighters, AWACS (airborne warning and control system), AEW&C (airborne early warning and control) system and air-to-air refueller aircraft. The CSG is expected to field F-18 fighters and E-2C Hawkeye AEW&C aircraft. The exercise will be carried out south of Thiruvananthapuram, on the western seaboard, over the two days. This engagement with the US CSG offers one more opportunity to undertake joint operations in the maritime domain with a friendly foreign power, the statement said. “The exercise with the US CSG will focus on multiple areas including enhancing aspects of interoperability, nuances of international integrated maritime SAR (search and rescue) operations and exchange of best practices in the maritime airpower domain,” it said. In March, the navies of India and the US had participated in a two-day exercise in the eastern Indian Ocean region, reflecting the growing congruence in their defence and military partnership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-42
23-06-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi releases white paper on Centre’s Covid management||Rahul Gandhi said on Tuesday that 90 per cent of those who died during the Covid-19 second wave could have been saved had the Narendra Modi government acted on reports warning of an oxygen crisis. The Congress MP demanded adequate compensation to the families of victims. Responding to a question about the government’s submission in the Supreme Court that cited shortage of funds, Rahul told a virtual media conference:  “I think the Centre is making Rs 4 lakh crore from taxes on diesel and petrol every year. It is taking money out of the pockets of people who have lost family members. So, I don’t understand why the government can’t put some money back into their pockets. It is not a question of some free gift that the government is giving; these families require this money, India requires these families to have money.” Rahul added: “If they have lost a family member who used to be an earning member, what are they supposed to do? So, I am 100 per cent for a Covid compensation fund. I feel that there is no shortage of money because the government is taking money from people every day from petrol and diesel — Rs 4 lakh crore they have taken.” He recalled the Congress’s demand for financial assistance, contending that Covid-19 was not merely a health crisis but also an economic and social phenomenon. The Congress released a white paper on Tuesday on the government’s Covid management, which too insisted on compensation to the families who lost their members to the virus. The white paper said: “Provide ex-gratia relief of at least Rs 4 lakh for all Covid-19 related deaths under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Implement relief measures, including a minimum income support scheme for the poor and most vulnerable, continue free food supplies to the poor, reduce excise taxes on petrol and diesel, grant wage subsidies to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), increase budgetary support to the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme and provide relief for the urban poor.” Although Rahul insisted that the purpose of the white paper was not finger-pointing, he said the government must understand what went wrong and learn from the mistakes, and this document would act as a valuable input. Underscoring that the government didn’t take preventive steps before the second wave for which millions of people suffered, he said the third wave was inevitable and the country should be prepared for it. He said vaccination was the only solution and it should not be taken as a one-day event or a publicity gimmick. In response to a question about the good work done by the government and the Prime Minister appearing to choke on tears while talking about Covid deaths that demonstrated his sincerity, the Congress leader said: “The needless deaths could have been prevented. The doctors and the experts believe most people died because of oxygen crisis. The Prime Minister’s tears cannot wipe the tears of the families who faced death. They know the Prime Minister didn’t help when they were struggling. The Prime Minister didn’t take oxygen supply seriously. His focus was different, he was busy fighting the election in Bengal.” On a question about an instruction from the government to institutions to display messages thanking Modi for free vaccines through banners and posters, Rahul recalled the futile taali-thaali (clapping and beating utensils) exercise and said: “The Prime Minister was into marketing since the beginning. He claimed to have vanquished Covid and went for vaccine diplomacy when the country was suffering.” The white paper offered exhaustive details of the government’s failures since the beginning, arguing that the pandemic could have been managed better. Alleging that the mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic has been independent India’s gravest governance failure, the white paper pointed out that the Modi government ignored early warnings from experts and Opposition leaders and failed to learn from the lessons and response models of other countries which had been hit by the epidemic. Contending that “hubris” and “political avarice” led the government to a disastrous path, the document said: “The government should have communicated better, acted on warnings of epidemiologists and virologists, decentralised resources, and empowered local authorities to arrest the spread of the virus.” The white paper demanded: “Ensure that all Indians receive free vaccination in the shortest possible time frame. Collaborate with vaccine manufacturers, raw material suppliers, and foreign governments to ensure a steady supply of raw materials and vaccines for India. Invoke compulsory licence provisions under the Patents Act, 1970, to ramp up domestic vaccine production. Allocate vaccines to states based on a transparent, justifiable formula, centred on evidence, equity and particular local requirements. Make accurate vaccine-related and Covid-19 related data publicly available in a transparent manner.” It added: “Implement political and administrative measures including a national level, all-party committee to review measures to contain the pandemic, to improve coordination with state governments, and to collaborate with civil society. Decentralise decision-making, management of critical resources and transfer funds to the district level to organise essential health services, from primary to tertiary care, and address regional imbalances. Prepare for possible third and future waves by heeding expert advice, scaling up testing significantly (especially in rural areas), and pooling human resources at the state and district levels.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-42
23-06-2021||India||Vaccine: Petition in Supreme Court assailing Centre's policy to allocate 25% jabs to private hospitals||Two citizens on Tuesday moved the Supreme Court assailing the Centre’s policy to allocate 25 per cent vaccines out of the total procurement to private hospitals and said, if not withdrawn, this would render the present vaccination campaign “incomplete, inequitable, inefficient and opaque” and create a wide chasm between the rich and the poor. The joint petition filed by John Brittas, Rajya Sabha MP and journalist from Kerala who was media adviser to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in his first term when the state’s Covid management had made headlines worldwide, and R. Ramakumar, professor at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai, cited extensive data and submitted that vaccine prices in the country are higher than even in the US. The petition, in the form of an intervention application in the ongoing suo motu monitoring of the Covid situation by the top court, also raised questions about the government’s ostensible objective of vaccinating the entire country’s population by December 31, 2021, pointing out that only 3.5 per cent had been fully immunised according to the data in mid-June. In a stinging rebuke on June 2, the apex court had described as “prima facie arbitrary and irrational” the Centre’s policy of limiting free Covid vaccination only to those aged 45 and above. Subsequently, on June 8, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a change in the policy. Under the new policy, the Centre will procure 75 per cent of the vaccines for free immunisation of all adults at government centres while the remaining 25 per cent has been set aside for private hospitals for paid doses. The petitioners, seeking a directive to the Centre to take over 100 per cent procurement of the vaccines, have raised the following contentions through their advocate Resmitha R. Chandran: Selling 25 per cent of the total monthly production of vaccines to the private sector will in effect create reservation for the rich and urban population because, according to the 2011 Indian Census Data and National Household Surveys (DHS/NFHS 2005-06 and UNICEF CES 2009), the private sector’s contribution to overall vaccination coverage has been only 4.7 per cent for tuberculosis (Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG)), 3.5 per cent for measles, 2.3 per cent for diphtheria-pertussis-tetanus (DPT3) and 7.6 per cent for polio (OPV3). Also, the private sector’s role has been limited primarily to the high-income states. Therefore, the opportunity to the vaccine manufacturers to sell 25 per cent of the total monthly production of vaccines to private sector hospitals will, in effect, result in a reservation of doses for the rich and urban population, and is perverse in design. This is in gross violation of the principles of social and economic justice and equality of status and opportunity embedded in the Constitution of India. According to the health ministry’s data on June 4, the Centre provided 1.29 crore doses to private hospitals in May but only 22 lakh doses or 17.05 per cent were used. “High predatory prices at private hospitals in comparison to government-run hospitals and vaccine hesitancy will continue to cause low vaccination at private healthcare institutes. Until the last person in the country is vaccinated, there is a continuing risk of the coronavirus, with all possible mutations, looming upon each person of this country like the sword of Damocles and violating the most important fundamental right to life guaranteed by the Constitution of India,” the petition said. The petition said the Centre had issued an Office Memorandum dated June 6 fixing the price caps at Rs 1200 + 60 (GST) + 150 (service taxes) for Covaxin; Rs 600 + 30 (GST) + 150 (service taxes) for Covishield; and Rs 948 + 47 (GST) + 150 (service taxes) for Sputnik V. The memorandum said the price of vaccine doses can be modified in future if the manufacturer declares a changed price. “Therefore a person availing two doses has to pay Rs 2,820 for Covaxin, Rs 1,560 if he avails Covishield and Rs 2,290 for Sputnik. This is in clear disadvantage to the people of India and to the excessive advantage for the vaccine manufacturers to create excessive profits,” the petition said. A vaccine developed in India by Indian scientists and sponsored by the government and manufactured by an Indian company is now more expensive than most of the American vaccines, the petition said. Covid-19 being a pandemic and a national disaster, the Government of India can regulate the pricing and availability of the vaccines under Sections 92 & 100 of the Patents Act and Section 2 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, read with Section 188 of Indian Penal Code, the petition said. The petitioner expressed scepticism over the Centre’s stated objective of vaccinating 100 crore persons above the age of 18 years, requiring about 200 crore doses, by December 2021. “Even though the Government has expressed its intention to vaccinate the entire population with two doses by December 2021... the guidelines of the Press Information Bureau dated 14/06/2021 reveals that as on that date there are only 4.91 crores of people in the country who have received both the doses of vaccine. “With hardly 6.5 months remaining to reach the targeted deadline of 31st December, 2021, only 3.51% of the population got both doses of vaccines and the revised guidelines do not speak about any action plan to expedite the process,” the petitioners contended. It was pointed out that the revised guidelines do not speak about vaccines for children and the preparedness of the government in the event of a third wave of Covid-19. According to the petitioners, unless the Centre takes over 100 per cent procurement and makes doses available to all through private and public hospitals through a proper regulatory authority under the top court’s monitoring, the Covid vaccination policy would “continue to remain incomplete, inequitable, inefficient and opaque”. “Therefore the immediate intervention of this Hon’ble Court is inevitable in making the vaccines accessible & available for all the people in India through a transparent procedure and thereby to enhance the trust of the people in their safety in the system,” the petition said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-42
23-06-2021||India||Supreme Court approves plans for issuing Class XII results||The Supreme Court on Tuesday granted its final stamp of approval to the CBSE and the CISCE for announcing this year’s results of Class XII students on the basis of their internal assessments. The court also recorded an  undertaking from attorney-general K.K. Venugopal that the University Grants Commission (UGC) would issue a directive to ensure entrance exams and counselling for competitive courses would commence only after declaration of the two boards’ results. On June 17, the top court had granted in-principle approval to the boards’ formulas. But the court wanted to hear a batch of petitioners, who advocated exams in the physical mode, before ratifying the processes proposed by the CBSE and the CISCE (which conducts ISC board exams) to declare this year’s Class XII board results without the final board exams because of the pandemic. On  Tuesday, a bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari declined to entertain the batch of separate petitioners that contended any evaluation without exams would be  arbitrary and irrational. The apex court said the two councils, being independent and autonomous boards, had taken a decision to cancel the exam this year on the recommendation made by experts. It will  not interfere with the conscious decision taken on the academic front, the bench said. The bench said the two boards had also decided to give an option to the students to take physical exams later if they were not satisfied with the marks awarded internally. The bench rejected arguments of senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for some aggrieved students, an individual teacher Anshul Gupta and others that when several other exams related to the IITs, the National Defence Academy and certain state boards had been held, there was no reason for the CBSE and the CISCE to cancel their exams. While the CBSE had said it would declare the final results by July 31, the ICSE said it would do so by July 20. The apex court  rejected a plea of the petitioners that results of the internal assessments and the optional improvement exams be declared on the same day. “We are of the considered view that it would result in denial of options to the students and delay the declaration of results indefinitely. There would be uncertainty till the exams are actually conducted and results declared. On the other hand, if the students are allowed to accept internal assessment… and despite declaration of results they can still appear for improvisation. Suffice it would be to say it would not be possible to accept Mr Singh’s suggestion,” said Justice Khanwilkar, heading the bench. The attorney-general, who was assisting the court in the matter, and solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, representing the CBSE, assured the court that the “results committee” of the court would ensure that individual schools do not manipulate the internal marks to favour their pupils. Venugopal said the respective result committees had been entrusted with the job of closely monitoring the schools, including the registers maintained by them relating to the internal marks, so as to prevent any manipulation. “In view of the above, we find no reasons to interfere with the schemes announced by the CBSE and CISCE as there are other sets of students who are supporting it and do not want to interfere with the fair and reasonable scheme that takes into account concerns of all sets of students and their interests,” the bench said. The bench, while dealing with another set of petitions seeking cancellation of board exams by various states, warned Andhra Pradesh that the state would be held responsible if even one student  got infected with Covid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-42
23-06-2021||India||J&K: 24-year-old man lynched by Cow vigilantes in Rajouri||The 24-year-old sole breadwinner of a family headed by a paralytic was allegedly lynched by suspected cow vigilantes in Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri district on Monday night. Cow vigilantes have been striking at will in the Jammu region and are mostly targeting members of the minority nomadic Gujjar and Bakarwal communities who rear cattle, goats and sheep. It was the first death in the attacks by cow vigilantes in Jammu this year. Residents said Asif Ahmad Dar of Rajdhani Thanamandi in Rajouri was attacked with stones while he was on his way home in a vehicle. “The vehicle was stopped by cow vigilantes at Muradpur village.  Asif was hit with stones and he later died at the hospital,” Rajdhani sarpanch Abdul Gafoor Dar told The Telegraph. Gafoor Dar said the driver was also thrashed but he survived. “Based on the report of the driver, the assailants have been identified and a case has been registered against them,” Gafoor Dar said. A purported video showing Asif battling for his life in a hospital has been shared widely on social media. The video showed his face with multiple injuries and his eye bulging out. “Ajaz Dar… was brutally beaten to death by communal murderers while he was taking a buffalo to his home. Another family lost its only beloved son to this new norm in India,” tweeted Jammu activist Saima Choudhary. Gafoor Dar said Asif’s parents are ailing. “He has three sisters and was the sole breadwinner. His father is paralytic and his mother has kidney ailment,” he said. Police said they have registered a case and started investigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-43
23-06-2021||India||Health officials point at attempted orchestration of ‘record’ vaccine count||India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign on Tuesday logged 5.34 million doses, a 39 per cent decline from Monday’s record 8.8 million that senior health officials have described as an orchestrated feat made possible through advance dose data, state support and public participation. Health experts said they are not surprised at Tuesday’s number —  5,340,550 doses administered up to 11pm — as a target of over 8 million daily doses would require a much higher vaccine production capacity than the current estimated 4 to 5 million. Health officials and vaccination policy advisers have said the 8.8 million doses recorded on Monday was not a “sudden episode” but the outcome of a planned exercise intended to demonstrate India’s capacity to administer a large quantum of daily doses. “The response was well beyond our expectations — it was a demonstration of our capacity to conduct a synchronised orchestrated programme,” said Vinod Paul, chair of the national expert panel guiding the country’s Covid-19 vaccination policy. An analysis by the Union health ministry has shown that 5.6 million (64 per cent) of the 8.8 million doses administered on Monday were given to people in rural areas. More than 90 per cent of the doses went through government vaccination centres, Paul said. “We’ve established we can deliver vaccines across rural areas through the public health system, although we do expect the private sector to continue expanding its own role in the programme.” Paul said India has conducted massive vaccination drives in the past. “During our efforts to eradicate polio, we used to vaccinate over 70 million children in a single day, then reach another 100 million in mop-up rounds over a week,” he said. Vaccination advisers have said that Monday’s record was a milestone towards the goal of delivering 10 million Covid-19 vaccine doses daily. The sharp rise on Monday — after an average of 3.2 million daily doses from June 1 to 20 — has triggered speculation in some circles whether the government had timed the feat to occur on the first day of new vaccination rules where the Centre offered free vaccines to all those aged 18 years or older. A dip in daily doses observed in Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka among other states has prompted some to ask whether the Centre had organised the record on Monday by intentionally slowing the pace of inoculations in BJP-ruled states in the preceding days. But independent health experts observing the vaccination campaign for weeks have said there does not appear to be a clear pattern — for instance, Andhra Pradesh and Punjab also showed dips in preceding days while Uttar Pradesh had shown a slow rise through June. An observed pattern does not necessarily establish cause and effect, said Rijo John, a health economist at the Rajagiri College of Social Sciences in Kochi. “But this would have required an inventory build-up and people willing to be vaccinated.” “At this point in time, I don’t see administering 8 million daily doses sustainable over a long period. Our vaccine production capacity is currently between 4 and 5 million doses per day although this has been projected to rise in July or August and beyond,” John said. The Centre had told the Supreme Court last month that the Serum Institute produces 65 million doses of Covishield per month and Bharat Biotech produces monthly 20 million doses of Covaxin, although both companies are ramping up production capacities. Health officials have said that they expect higher production and the entry of new vaccines between August and December to facilitate an accelerated vaccination campaign that would enable India to inoculate nearly its entire eligible population by the year-end or early 2022.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-43
23-06-2021||India||Covid: Top health official caution against reopening schools||Decisions about reopening schools need to be taken with great caution and only with the confidence that a large fraction of the population is protected either through vaccinations or natural infections, a top health official said on Tuesday. Schools provide opportunities for the coronavirus to spread through medium or large gatherings and could contribute to growth of infections, said Vinod Paul, a senior paediatrician, member of Niti Aayog, the government’s apex think tank and a key adviser to the Centre on Covid-19. “We should take that risk only when we are better protected, the virus is suppressed, and we are able to sit at a distance,” Paul said, underscoring that India’s second Covid-19 wave is shrinking only through the restrictions and discipline imposed by states across the country. “It is not easy to take a decision to open schools at this point,” Paul said, while calling for continued precautions and vigilance by health authorities, governments and the public across the country amid speculation about a possible third wave. Paul said a third wave is “not inevitable” and whether and where a future surge occurs would hinge on the actions and responses of people and the system. “There are countries where even the second wave has not occurred. If we do what is required and do not indulge in irresponsible behaviour, outbreaks should not occur.” India’s number of active Covid-19 cases has gone down from a peak of over 3.7 million in early May to about 645,000 patients on Tuesday after a near steady decline. The epidemic has shrunk and is under control in 553 districts where the fraction testing positive among those tested has fallen to an ideal below 5 per cent. Paul said in such circumstances, there are responsibilities for the system and for individuals. The system, he said, should focus on making available diagnostic tests, isolating patients and providing treatment to those who require it, and tracing contacts, while people need to adopt personal precautions and avoid crowds and seek out vaccinations. Infectious disease specialists have estimated that when about 70 per cent of the population is protected through vaccinations or natural infections, the virus will be unable to cause outbreaks, although a trickle of cases will continue. Sections of public health experts believe such cautionary messages should have been iterated in much stronger tones during January and early February ahead of the planned election rallies and the Kumbh Mela that many experts suspect contributed to the spread of the virus. While Paul and other health officials during those months did issue calls for caution and the Union health ministry had on March 21 warned that the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar (Uttarakhand) could contribute to a surge in cases, experts believe those messages remained largely unheeded. Paul said the elderly who have been fully vaccinated may venture out with caution for outdoor walks but need to, like all other people, continue to avoid crowds. “In a calibrated manner, yes, they could go out into open spaces,” he said. The health ministry had last year issued guidelines urging the elderly to confine themselves at home except for essential work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-43
23-06-2021||India||Punjab: AAP keen on welcoming dissident Navjot Singh Sidhu||The Aam Aadmi Party is keen on welcoming dissident Punjab Congressman Navjot Singh Sidhu to its fold. But the party, which leads the Opposition in the state, is also content with merely watching the motormouth former cricketer damage prospects of the ruling Congress. AAP’s national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday visited Punjab and declared that the party’s chief ministerial candidate would be a Sikh, while evading a question on Sidhu joining the AAP. He also inducted a former IPS officer into the party and met dissident Akali and BJP leaders. A Twitter handle seen as a party mouthpiece tweeted a screenshot of Sidhu following Kejriwal’s online media conference. An AAP source told The Telegraph: “We hope to attract Sidhu by next year, just before the polls. After (AAP rebel MLA Sukhpal) Khaira returned to the Congress (earlier this month), Sidhu has competition within the Congress. We hope to be a catalyst to their fight, which would encourage Sidhu to leave the Congress. Even if he forms his own party, we will support him.” Sidhu and chief minister Amarinder Singh were in Delhi on Tuesday for mediation by the Congress high command. Amarinder has alleged that Sidhu is joining the AAP — a charge he has denied. The AAP has never attacked Sidhu even after failed talks with him to join the party after he quit the BJP in 2016. Former AAP leader and senior journalist Ashutosh dismissed speculation of Sidhu joining the AAP. “I don’t think it is a possibility as Arvind can’t handle Sidhu. He (Arvind) will not do an experiment like this.… One can’t predict what Sidhu will say or do,” he told this newspaper. “He left the 1996 England tour, saying the team management did not treat him well. After quitting the BJP, he once held talks till 5am with the AAP before the 2017 polls but eventually joined the Congress. Had he remained within the Congress without these outbursts, he would have been an ideal chief ministerial candidate the next time. “If he joins the AAP he may well take away the entire state unit with him if he splits. Arvind’s warm responses to queries on Sidhu are probably an attempt to create confusion for the Congress,” he said. In the 2017 Assembly polls, the Shiromani Akali Dal faced anti-incumbency of a decade and got 25.24 per cent of the total vote share and 15 out of 117 seats. The AAP got 23.72 per cent and 20 seats. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the Akalis got 27.45 per cent votes in the state and won two out of 13 seats. The AAP polled 7.38 per cent and won a single seat. The Akalis were aligned with the BJP in both elections. This time it has tied up with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) instead and said it will make a Dalit deputy chief minister if it wins. “At their worst anti-incumbency, the Akalis did better than the AAP. The AAP has only lost votes. They don’t have a social bloc, a chief ministerial candidate or party structure and they are faction-ridden. They can’t convert the sympathy they had to votes.… AAP needs to find a leader,” the former AAP leader and journalist added.Veteran columnist and professor of political science at Panjab University, Ashutosh Kumar, explained that Sidhu is the AAP’s necessity and the party could bear his quirks for its own survival. “This crisis in the Congress is a godsend for the AAP... which seeks to gain the disgruntled Akali vote bank of landed Jat Sikhs (a community that Sidhu also belongs to), that is leading the farm agitation and is looking for an alternative,” he said. “Kejriwal shunned Sidhu in 2017 because of his tendency for autonomy. But right now, he could be a trump card for the AAP that has suffered many splits, here. Remember, Yogendra Yadav and Prashant Bhushan were removed from the AAP only after the 2015 Delhi assembly polls. The party can manage Sidhu too,” Kumar added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-43
23-06-2021||India||Gehlot's defiance in including Pilot loyalists breeds headache for Cong||The irreconcilable differences between Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu have created much noise but what has emerged as a bigger headache for the Congress central leadership is the defiance of Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot against the efforts to accommodate Sachin Pilot loyalists. Insiders revealed that Gehlot has stopped paying heed to the suggestions of the central leadership on this and doesn’t even respond to general secretary in-charge Ajay Maken. This has happened despite party president Sonia Gandhi taking it upon herself to resolve the crisis in Rajasthan as it was threatening to slip out of control yet again. A formula to accommodate Pilot supporters has already been worked out but the central leadership has not been able to execute it because of Gehlot’s defiance. As discontent started manifesting again because the Pilot camp felt betrayed, arguing that the promises made last year when they revolted were not fulfilled, the central leadership swung into action to resolve the issue. Pilot was offered the post of national general secretary but he refused to accept any assignment till his supporters were suitably adjusted. Sources said Priyanka Gandhi, general secretary in-charge of organisation K.C. Venugopal and Maken prepared a compromise formula and asked Gehlot to accommodate some of the Pilot supporters in the ministry and the organisation. But Gehlot, unhappy with the proposal, declared that he will not meet anybody for a month. The excuse was doctor’s advice as some 40 people in his office and security had been infected with Covid. Gehlot has been since then holding meetings through videoconference, delaying any possibility of a cabinet expansion. Sources said both Sonia and Rahul Gandhi have interpreted this as defiance and asked Maken to get the compromise formula implemented as soon as possible. Party leaders pointed out that Amarinder has appeared before the committee set up by Sonia to resolve the differences in Punjab twice within a fortnight and also demonstrated readiness to accommodate Sidhu but Gehlot has not shown any interest in resolving the crisis. Amarinder has also shown the maturity of not responding to Sidhu’s repeated attacks, keeping the party’s larger interest in mind. Sidhu has refused to relent, insisting that he won’t give up till the issues he raised were addressed satisfactorily. His main charge is that the chief minister is soft on the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Badal family. While the turmoil in party-ruled states is doubtless a reflection on the weak central leadership and an effective crisis management system in the Congress, Rajasthan is certain to erupt again if issues aren’t resolved soon. The bitterness has increased so much that one MLA told The Telegraph over the phone from Jaipur: “The gossip in Rajasthan is that Gehlot listens more to Vasundhara Raje than Sonia Gandhi. The axis is troubling the BJP as well. The chief minister branded us as defectors and BJP stooges when we rebelled last year but he has himself been sending negative vibes to the high command.” He added: “The wife of poet Kumar Vishwash who abused Rahul and even contested from Amethi has been made a Rajasthan Public Service Commission member with a minister of state rank. The daughter of Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankar has been made the information commissioner. But Congress MLAs cannot be made ministers. What message is Gehlot sending?” Focus on these petty details suggests the differences are both personal as well as political and cannot be resolved amicably. But Gehlot’s seniority and stature is not allowing any tough action, intensifying unease within the Pilot camp. While the leadership crisis at the top has certainly emboldened state leaders to behave irresponsibly, the inability of veterans to accommodate the aspirations of younger leaders has also created a major problem for the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-43
23-06-2021||India||Kashmir: Gupkar alliance to attend Modi's all-party meeting||The five-party alliance fighting for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status on Tuesday agreed to join an all-party meeting on Kashmir that Prime Minister Narendra Modi plans to hold in Delhi on Thursday. The alliance decided it will tell the Centre that the August 5, 2019, move was wrong, illegal and unconstitutional, and nothing short of Jammu and Kashmir’s restoration was acceptable to them. On August 5, 2019, the Modi government had diluted Article 370 and bifurcated the state into the two Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. The Centre has followed it up with laws, like allowing outsiders to own property here, which are seen aimed at changing the Muslim majority character of the erstwhile state. For the first time after the move, the central government last week extended an invitation for talks to 14 leaders from key parties across Jammu and Kashmir, including three former chief ministers Farooq Abdullah, Mehbooba Mufti and Omar Abdullah. They are part of the five-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD). The invitation is seen as an admission of failure of the Centre’s jackboot tactics that vilified the same leaders as members of the “Gupkar Gang”, corrupt, dynasts and anti-national. The parties have since held consultations to discuss the invite. The leaders of the alliance met on Tuesday to announce the decision. “The invitation has come from the Prime Minister and we are participating in the meet. We hope to put forward our stand before the Prime Minister and the home minister,” Farooq, who heads the alliance, told reporters after the meet. “You know our stand and there is no need to repeat it. Whatever the stand was, is still there and will remain,” he said. People’s Democratic Party president Mehbooba appeared more belligerent while narrating what they will tell the Prime Minister. “We will talk on what was snatched from us and (will tell them) that it was wrong, illegal and unconstitutional. Without it, the Jammu and Kashmir issue, the situation in Jammu and Kashmir and peace in the whole region cannot be restored,” she said. Speculation is rife that the Centre wants to offer restoration of statehood and discuss the redrawing of constituencies and an Assembly election. Some reports claim that even statehood is off the table and the leaders will simply be asked to ratify its future decisions, including redrawing of constituencies, that the Centre wants should tilt the balance in favour of Hindu majority areas of Jammu. Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami of the CPM, which is part of the alliance, said they are not aware of the Centre’s agenda as no agenda was fixed. “We have no information whether they have an agenda, but we will reiterate the stand of the PAGD in that big forum and before the big leadership,” Tarigami, the spokesperson for the alliance, said. “We have got the opportunity. We have to go there as advocates of people. We will plead the case of people of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh, the guarantees (about Article 370) we had under the Constitution, we will go with an appeal for their protection. “We are not going to lend our signatures to their agenda. We will go to see what is the suggestion of the Prime Minister of India. If it is in our interests, in the interests of people of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh, we will say yes. If it is not in our interests, we will unhesitatingly say no. Let there be no misunderstanding….,” he said. “We will not ask for stars but will ask for what was ours and should remain ours,” he added. Awami National Conference senior vice-president Muzaffar Shah, also a part of the alliance, said there could be no compromise on Articles 370 and 35A. Mehbooba regretted that the invitation was not followed by confidence-building measures such as releasing Kashmiris who are languishing in jails. She said the non-Kashmiri detainees were released during the pandemic. “If they really wanted to reach out to people of J&K and us, those they humiliated for two long years, they should have done it, but that does not mean that we are against dialogue.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-43
23-06-2021||India||Adityanath visits deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya for the first time||Yogi Adityanath visited the residence of deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on Tuesday for the first time since taking over as chief minister of Uttar Pradesh in March 2017. Observers believe that Adityanath is trying to buy peace with Maurya, who had said last week that the central leadership of the BJP would choose the next chief minister of Uttar Pradesh. “It is the central leadership of the BJP which takes decisions on such issues. They will decide the chief minister after the 2022 Assembly election results are announced,” Maurya had told reporters, when asked whether Adityanath would be the chief minister again. Maurya is considered a rival of Adityanath. He was the state BJP president when the party won in 2017. The central leadership had chosen Adityanath for the post of chief minister. “The residence of Maurya is barely 20 metres from the gate of Adityanath’s official residence. But the chief minister didn’t go there ever, not even during the wedding ceremony of Maurya’s son last month. As we all know, Maurya wanted to become chief minister in 2017 but Amit Shah, the then national president of the BJP, had chosen Adityanath. Obviously, Maurya is still not happy,” said a BJP leader who didn’t want to be named. Samajwadi Party spokesperson Sunil Sajan said: “There is a war going on between the chief minister and deputy chief minister and the people of the state are suffering. While the people were dying during the second wave of Covid-19, these two leaders were busy in fighting with each other for the post of the chief minister.” The BJP leader added: “We have been asked to say that the chief minister had gone there to bless the newly wed couple. The chief minister was there for about 35 minutes and took some snacks. We have heard from our sources that some senior organisational leaders had asked the chief minister to meet Maurya at his residence and resolve the contentious issues between them before it is too late for 2022 Assembly elections.” RSS leaders Krishna Gopal and Dattatreya Hosabale were also seen coming out of the residence of the deputy chief minister after Adityanath. B.L. Santhosh, BJP national general secretary, and Radha Mohan Singh, the party’s national vice-president, are in Lucknow since Monday and are holding meetings with the organisational leaders of different wings of the RSS and the BJP to chalk out their strategy for the Assembly polls. Labour and employment minister Swam Prasad Maurya had said on Monday: “The central leadership of the BJP will decide the next chief minister. It may be Adityanath but it may also happen that somebody else would be chosen for the job.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-43
23-06-2021||India||Lakshadweep: Kerala High Court restores meat to midday meal||Kerala High Court on Tuesday ordered the Lakshadweep administration to restore the old midday meal menu in schools which had beef and chicken and stayed the auction of cows from the dairy farms that were shut down recently. The division bench comprising Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chaly issued the order on Tuesday on a PIL filed by lawyer Ajmal Ahmed, a native of Lakshadweep. “The division bench ordered the administration to continue with the old menu which had beef and chicken. The stay on auctioning of cows will be in force until further orders,” Ahmed told The Telegraph. In one of his controversial moves after taking over as the administrator of Lakshadweep, Praful Khoda Patel had replaced beef and chicken from the midday meal menu for schoolchildren with fish and eggs. In another contentious move, the administration had ordered the auction of 76 heads of cattle, including 44 milch cows, eight bulls and rest of them calves and heifers. But the plan had failed with the islanders boycotting the auction leaving the administration to look after the cattle. The new administrator also decided to shut down the diary farms on Lakshadweep and pave the way for Gujarat-based Amul to distribute its products in the isles. While the appellate jurisdiction of Lakshadweep has always been with Kerala High Court, recent reports suggested there was a plan to move it to Karnataka High Court. But Lakshadweep collector S. Asker Ali has denied that there was any move to shift the jurisdiction to Karnataka. Apart from Malayalam being a main language other than Mahal and Jeseri in Lakshadweep, the islanders have strong cultural and familial ties with Kerala.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-43
23-06-2021||India||Covid: Bihar campaign to vaccinate 6 crore people in 6 months||The Bihar government launched a programme on Monday aiming to vaccinate six crore people in six months in a bid to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. The scheme will become fully operational from July 1. “We are launching a plan to vaccinate six crore people in six months. Vaccination does not mean giving a single dose. It means giving both doses to the people. “Vaccinating six crore people in six months is not a small task. We have started today and we have to achieve the aim in any condition,” chief minister Nitish Kumar said after inaugurating the programme. Bihar has a population of over 12 crore, but the pace of vaccination has been very slow. Of late, the drive has been facing resistance from people in the rural areas. Around 89 per cent of the population in the state resides in villages. The latest figures provided by the government reveals that 1.16 crore people in the state have received the first shot of Covid-19 vaccine, while 22.05 lakh have taken both the doses so far. “Experts are talking about the arrival of a third wave of the coronavirus pandemic. Some say it will come in six to eight weeks, some say it will arrive in November or earlier. We need to take vaccines and be ready to face it, even if it comes. I pray with folded hands to the people to be alert and ready. The government, on its part, is doing everything possible,” Nitish said. He also said that all efforts are being made to ensure that people who have taken the first dose, also take the second one. He directed the senior officials to publicise the need for taking both doses. Nitish asserted that he has asked the officials to conduct 1.5 lakh Covid-19 tests daily, but the figure has gone up to a maximum of 1.4 lakh. Pointing out how so many people suddenly fell ill during the second wave of the pandemic and there was a shortage of oxygen across the country unlike the first wave, the chief minister thanked the Centre and Prime Minister Narendra Modi for providing vaccines, as well as alerting about the future possibilities. Education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary, health minister Mangal Pandey and senior officials were present at the launch. “We will take the help of boat ambulances, mobile hospitals, ANM (auxiliary nurse midwife) sisters and all other facilities to achieve our aim of vaccinating six crore people in six months. “Altogether 839 ‘tika express’ (a mobile van which carries healthcare workers to far-flung areas to administer vaccines) are already functioning across the state,” Pandey said. Meanwhile, Nitish also chaired a meeting of the crisis management group and decided to further relax the restrictions imposed in the wake of the pandemic. Parks and gardens across the state have been allowed to open from 6am to noon from Tuesday. They were closed in April when Covid-19 infections shot up. Government and private offices can also function with 100 per cent attendance from Tuesday instead of 50 per cent allowed so far. Shops and business establishments can now open till 7pm instead of 6pm, while night curfew will be begin from 9pm instead of 7pm and continue till 5am. According to government data, Bihar has registered 7.2 crore Covid-19 infections and 9,550 deaths. There are presently 3,188 active cases in the state. The positivity rate has now dropped to 0.3 per cent while the recovery rate stands at 98.23 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-43
23-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata wants byelections in Bengal soon, will ask Modi||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday that she would ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi to instruct the Election Commission to hold byelections in the Bengal soon, indicating that she was keen to complete the constitutional necessity of being elected to the state Assembly well before the six-month deadline given that the second wave of Covid cases was on the decline. Mamata had lost to Suvendu Adhikary from Nandigram in the Assembly polls. Though the deadline for her re-election ends on November 5, Mamata is keen that byelections be held in Bengal immediately before the state is witness to what experts fear could be a third wave of the pandemic. “We are waiting. We have heard the central poll panel is waiting for the Prime Minister’s nod,” Mamata said at the state administrative headquarters on Wednesday. “I will request the Prime Minister to give the go-ahead.” Mamata said elections could be held within a span of seven days, keeping the pandemic in mind. “When the elections started (the first phase on March 27) we had a 2-3 per cent infection rate. By the eighth phase, the infection rate had climbed to 32 per cent. Elections can be held at 32 per cent and not at one per cent?” Mamata asked. The chief minister had blamed the spike in Bengal’s Covid cases, which climbed to more than 20,000 a day in May, on the prolonged election schedule and packed campaign meetings. Bypolls will have to be held in Bhowanipore, Khardah (the winning candidate Kajal Sinha died from Covid before the results were declared), Shantipur and Dinhata (where two BJP MPs contested and won but have resigned to retain their respective Lok Sabha seats). Elections were deferred in the seats of Shamsergunj and Jangipur following the deaths of two candidates before polling. Trinamul veteran and state agriculture minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, who had won from Bhowanipore, resigned as MLA on May 21 to make way for Mamata to contest from her old constituency. Chattopadhyay is expected to be fielded from Khardah. While the outcome of the Bhowanipore polls holds zero doubt in the mind of the Trinamul top brass, unlike in Nandigram which was fiercely contested, a letter from state Congress president Adhir Chowdhury to interim Congress chief Sonia Gandhi has raised eyebrows. Earlier this month, he had opined that the Congress should not field a nominee against Mamata in Bhowanipore. The Congress had fought the elections in alliance with the Left Front and the Indian Secular Front and failed to secure any seat for the first time in the history of Bengal elections. Congress had fielded candidates from Bhowanipore in 2016 and 2021 when it fought the polls in alliance with the Left. Sonia is yet to respond to Chowdhury’s request. But neither the Congress nor the Left have called off the alliance. The CPM, which admitted in its recent state committee meeting that the party had failed to give a strong anti-BJP message, is waiting to hear from its alliance partner. “We cannot give up the political space to the Trinamul and BJP. This is what both the parties would like. At the same time, we don’t want the alliance to be in jeopardy. We will wait for the Congress to announce its decision,” said a CPM state committee member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-15
23-06-2021||West Bengal||Joint Entrance examination in Bengal on July 17||The West Bengal Joint Entrance Examination (WBJEE) will be conducted on 17th July, the WBJEE Board on Wednesday announced. The Board also said that there would be no change in the time-table of the examination. The results will be declared before August 14th, the Board said, adding that the counselling process will be done in three phases and will be completed before September 15. The examination was postponed considering the Covid situation, said Malayendu Saha. In this regard, the board said, the transport system is expected to improve by mid-July. So it was decided to take the test at that time. The test will be taken on Saturday as there will be transportation problem on Sunday. The board said the test would be taken in compliance with the restrictions of the Covid situation. Social distancing will be adhered to. 20 candidates will be placed in each room. In that case, the number of students will be further reduced. A bench will have one or at most two. 92,695 students will be taking the exam this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-15
23-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal assembly speaker complains to Om Birla about 'excessive interference' of Governor||Bengal Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee has complained to his Lok Sabha counterpart Om Birla about the "excessive interference" of Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar in matters related to parliamentary democracy and functioning of the House. Banerjee complained to Birla about Dhankhar during the virtual All India Speakers' Conference on Tuesday. "I told the Lok Sabha speaker about the excessive interference of Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar in parliamentary democracy and the functioning of the Assembly. "Despite being passed by the Assembly, several bills are lying with the governor as he has not signed them. This is unprecedented in the history of West Bengal's parliamentary democracy. Such a thing has never happened before," Banerjee told PTI. Dhankhar, who shares a strained relationship with the TMC government, is yet to react to the development. "We have been saying this for a long time that the present governor is acting as the mouthpiece of a specific political party. He is not only interfering in the functioning of the state of affairs but is also maligning the West Bengal government," senior TMC leader and MLA Tapas Roy said. However, the West Bengal unit of the BJP came out in support of the governor and claimed that he has exposed the truth. "The TMC is angry with the governor as he has exposed the lawless situation in the state. There have been complaints against him earlier, but all of them were baseless," BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh said. The TMC government and Dhankhar have been sharing an acrimonious relation since he assumed office in July 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-15
23-06-2021||West Bengal||Centre sanctions Rs 5 crore for Darjeeling Himalayan Railway workshop||The Centre has sanctioned Rs 5 crore for the repair of Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR) Tindharia locomotive workshop, located about 20km from Kurseong in Darjeeling district. The DHR was declared a world heritage site by the Unesco in 1999. The workshop — established in 1915 — is used to repair the heritage steam engines. “A sum of Rs 5 crore has been sanctioned to revamp the heritage Tindharia workshop by the ministry of railways,” said Raju Bista, BJP MP of Darjeeling. “The workshop has very old machines which are of incalculable value.” The workshop has around 90 workers and is an important cog for the economy of this tiny hamlet in the district. On Monday, Bista visited the railway hospital at Tindharia, accompanied by A.K. Mishra, director of the DHR, and donated an oxygen concentrator, oximeters, PPE kits and mask to the 20-bedded facility. Sources said the hospital established in 1940s was not fully functional. Bista assured local people that he would take up the hospital issue to Union railway minister Piyush Goyal and demand upgradation of the facility.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-15
23-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 1,852 cases and 47 deaths||Bengal on Tuesday reported the second consecutive day of a drop in total active Covid-19 cases which fell by 232 to 22,508. On Tuesday, the state reported 2,037 recoveries, 1,852 infections and 47 deaths. The daily positive confirmation rate, which had peaked in the second wave with nearly 33 per cent, fell to 3.61 on Tuesday. “We have to get the total of active cases below 10,000 again. The number of new infections found daily also has to fall to below 1,000,” said a minister. “We are hoping these two days are not an aberration, but the beginning of a lasting trend that finally gets us to the other side of the second wave’s fallout,” he added. The total of active cases had improved till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702, from the all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21. But over 11 days till Sunday, it had risen again by over 56 per cent, before starting to fall again over these two days. Bengal currently has 3.52 per cent of the national total of active cases and remains eighth on the list of states with most active cases. Of the 47 deaths reported on Tuesday, 11 were in Calcutta and 15 in North 24-Parganas, the two worst-affected districts. Calcutta logged 172 infections and North 24-Parganas 207. The state’s recovery rate rose to 97.31 per cent. The national recovery rate is 96.53 now. Bengal’s overall mortality rate, with 17,437 deaths in total, is 1.17 per cent, while the national rate is 1.3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-15
23-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee orders internal inquiry into skill training cost||Mamata Banerjee has ordered an internal inquiry into the expenditure incurred by the technical education and skill development department in imparting training to youths over the past few years. “During a meeting of the department at Nabanna yesterday (Monday), the chief minister said she had got an impression that there were some discrepancies in the expenditure incurred by the department for imparting skill training to youths. The chief minister has ordered an internal inquiry. The finance department is likely to conduct the probe,” said a senior official present at the meeting. Sources said Mamata’s decision held significance as it gave a clear hint that she was determined to ensure that no corruption allegation was levelled against her government in its third term. According to officials present at Monday’s meeting, Mamata pointed out she had received complaints that some expenditures had been incurred without the finance department’s prior approval. There were also complaints that some training programmes were not conducted but funds had been released for the same. “The chief minister was worried because this would hurt the prospect of the youths in the state, particularly when she has taken job creation seriously,” said a source aware of the development. According to sources in the state government, skill development training programmes are held for nearly 6 lakh youths in the state every year with an aim to make them suitable for industries. “Professional agencies are hired for these programmes... There are complaints that funds are often misused in the name of training,” said an official. The state spends nearly Rs 100 crore for imparting training to the youths annually, said sources. “The central government also shoulders some expenditure depending on the nature of training programmes. But predominantly, the state shoulders the burden of the training programmes under Utkarsha Bangla programme,” said another official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-16
23-06-2021||West Bengal||Reopening of Jalpaiguri tea auction centre ‘not viable’||Union ministry of commerce and industry has said the Tea Board of India was of the opinion that reopening of the Jalpaiguri tea auction centre was “not viable” because of alleged infrastructure lacunae at the facility and inadequate supply of the brew for the sale. Stakeholders of the north Bengal tea sector said the reasons were factually incorrect, while the Trinamul Congress seized the opportunity to attack the BJP government at the Centre for its alleged step-motherly attitude towards the region. The ministry has sent the communication to the north Bengal tea auction committee that runs the centre. The bad news for the industry came through a letter dated June 9 and sent by Bijendra Singh, section officer, ministry of commerce and industry, to Purjojit Bakshi Gupta, the vice-chairman of the tea auction centre. The letter mentioned that the issue of reopening the centre had been considered in consultation with the Tea Board but was considered unviable. “The Tea Board has also informed that the matter has been thoroughly examined by them and the Board is of the opinion that opening of Jalpaiguri Auction Centre is not viable at present and will not add any value to the tea trade,” the letter states. The Jalpaiguri centre was opened in 2005 but has remained defunct since 2015. The ministry has cited a number of reasons — which tea auction committee members allege are factually wrong — for the decision. The ministry said in the letter that the Tea Board had informed “that Jalpaiguri physical tea auction centre lacks certain infrastructural facilities” and became “non-operational essentially due to non-availability of tea for auction”. The ministry hasn’t, however, specified the lacunae in infrastructure facilities. Another reason cited by the ministry is the presence of an auction centre in Siliguri, about 45km away. “Further, the Jalapaiguri centre is located in proximity to the Siliguri e-auction centre, which handles about 140 million kgs of tea per year and caters to the entire North Bengal region including Jalpaiguri,” the letter states. There has always been a simmering undercurrent over facilities in Jalpaiguri and Siliguri. Against this background, the ministry has suggested that the Siliguri e-auction centre “can be expanded” to handle higher volumes. “As tea auctions are being held through an online platform, revival of the physical auction centre of Jalpaiguri may not add any value,” stated Singh. Purjojit issued a point-wise rebuttal stating that the ministry was stating wrong facts to close the auction centre. The vice-chairman of the auction centre said that M.G.K Bhanu, former Tea Board chairman, had visited the auction centre in Jalpaiguri in May 2012 “and had appreciated the infrastructure”. “He had also inaugurated an e-auction facility here. We are shocked by the content of the letter from the official of the Union ministry,” said Purjojit. Auction committee members also said a total of 77,573 kg of tea had been auctioned off at the Jalpaiguri centre between January and September 2015. Over the years, there has been a demand that all CTC tea be sold from Jalpaiguri while leaf tea could be traded from Siliguri to ensure optimum utilisation of both the centres. The closure of the auction centre would impact the local economy as several warehouses, blending and packaging units and hotels used to thrive on of the facility. The central government’s decision, several tea industry insiders said, has exposed New Delhi’s apathy towards the tea sector in general despite “tall claims” by senior Union ministers. Krishna Kalyani, vice-chairman, West Bengal Tea Directorate, has threatened to resort to a movement against the Union ministry’s decision. “BJP leaders want division of state alleging lack of development in north Bengal but their government is stalling development in our region. If the decision is not reversed, we will resort to agitation,” said Kalyani, who is also the Jalpaiguri district president of Trinamul. Another Trinamul leader said: “In 2016, the then Union minister of state for commerce and industry, Nirmala Sitharaman, had talked about opening seven closed gardens in the region but nothing has happened. Former Darjeeling MP S.S. Ahluwalia had also talked about creating a separate ministry for tea but that remained confined to election speeches.” Jalpaiguri BJP MP Jayanta Roy said: “I am unaware of any such letter from the Union government. I want the tea auction centre to function here and I will contact the ministry concerned.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-16
23-06-2021||West Bengal||One more BJP leader resigns in Alipurduar ||Samrat Dey, BJP state committee member and observer of Darjeeling district during the last Assembly elections, resigned from the party on Tuesday and alleged that money had been exchanged for party tickets during the polls. Dey emailed his resignation to state BJP president Dilip Ghosh. The resignation is seen as another jolt to the saffron party following its debacle in the polls. Accusing the BJP of “deviating from party ideology”, Dey on Tuesday said: “Prior to the Assembly polls, candidates were given party tickets in lieu of money. This is why I have decided to quit the party.” The leader, however, did not go into the specifics of the money-for-ticket allegation. Dey occupied important positions in the BJP. Apart from being a core member of the party, he was also the state secretary of the party’s youth wing. “During the 2019 parliamentary elections, he was an observer for Cooch Behar district,” said a BJP source. The development has come after BJP Alipurduar district president Ganga Prasad Sharma joined the Trinamul Congress on Monday. Five district leaders followed Sharma to Trinamul. On Tuesday, Bhushan Modak, vice-president of the Alipurduar district committee, was appointed as the BJP’s district convener following Sharma’s exit. Told about Dey’s resignation and the allegation raised by him, the new convener said: “I have no idea of the party tickets in exchange of money. We are a national party and Samrat’s exit will not affect the BJP in the district.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-16
23-06-2021||West Bengal||Malda murders: Dark Net used for body upkeep tips, say cops||Police suspect Asif Mohammad had learned the procedure of human body preservation from the Dark Net that he had used for family members allegedly killed by him in Malda four months ago. An investigator said despite being buried four months back, the bodies dug out of the trenches inside the house were neither emitting stench nor as decomposed as they should have been under the given set of circumstances. “He may have learned ways of body preservation from the Dark Net,” said an officer. Police are almost convinced that the 19-year-old had used a heavy dose of sedatives to make his parents, grandmother and sister unconscious after which he had tied them up and buried them inside the trenches. The police said Asif himself was addicted to strong tranquilisers and suspected to have used the same for overpowering his family members. On February 28, Asif had allegedly killed parents Jawad Ali, 53,and Ira Bibi, 39, sister Rima Khatun, 16, and grandmother Aleknoor Bewa, 73. His elder brother Arif said an attempt had also been made on his life but he had escaped. The police found the materials used for building a coffin were kept in Asif’s friends’ home in Malda. “Asif insisted they keep the materials for the coffin like plywood and marble as he told them the family was soon shifting base from Gurutola village to Calcutta,” an officer said. On Tuesday, both Asif and Arif were taken to their residence to reconstruct the crime scene and Arif’s escape. “The probe is in the right direction even though we cannot disclose all details right away,” said Alok Rajoria, SP, Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-16
23-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee govt sets target of connecting rural households with piped water supply by March, 2022||The Mamata Banerjee government has set itself a target of connecting 1 crore rural households with piped supply of water by March, 2022 in an attempt to make up for the time lost because of the state’s dilemma in joining the Centre’s Jal Jeevan Mission. “We have set up a target of reaching 1 crore households in the rural areas of the state with pipeline water by the end of the ongoing financial year. We know that the target is stiff, but we will try to achieve the target,” said a senior government official. Sources said the ruling ruling party in the state is trying to ensure that the BJP cannot take the opportunity of pulling up the ruling party for delay in implementing public welfare schemes. “The BJP had already made the pipeline water supply an issue ahead of the Assembly polls. The ruling party has sensed that if the facility cannot be extended to a majority of people ahead of 2024 elections, the BJP can use it as a campaign tool,” said a source. The Narendra Modi-led central government had launched the Jal Jeevan Mission scheme after coming back to power in 2019 with an aim to supply water through pipes to about 18 crore rural households across the country. In Bengal, a total of 2 crore rural households were supposed to be connected with pipeline water by 2024. The state government did not join the scheme initially as it stipulated that 10 percent of the project cost would have to be borne by the beneficiaries. The centre would share 50 percent of the project cost and the state was supposed to shoulder the remaining 40 percent cost. Nabanna had proposed that the state would be allowed to shoulder the 10 percent cost instead of the beneficiaries. The Centre finally accepted the proposal and the state joined the scheme in September, 2020, after nine months since the project was launched nationwide. “The delay has left an impact on the progress of the project in Bengal. Only about 18 lakh connections were given in the 2020-21 financial year while the actual target was 45 lakh. This year, our original target is to give 45 lakh connections, but we have set the target to 1 crore,” said a senior government official. Sources in the government said that the top brass of the government knows that achieving the target of 1 crore connections is tough to achieve in a financial year. But the target has been set considering that if the PHE department can give connections to 70 lakh households this year, it would be easy to achieve the target of giving connections to all the rural households before the end of 2023. "When we had joined the scheme, our target was to give new connections to 1.4 crore households as the state had already connected 60 lakh households with pipeline water supply. If we can give one core connection by March 2022, we can achieve the target easily by December 2023," said another official. A minister said that the government is focusing on the government from now on considering that safe drinking water could be a major issue ahead of the 2024 poll.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-16
23-06-2021||West Bengal||Absconding TMC Youth Congress leader sets rider for return||Trinamul Youth Congress leader Vinay Mishra, the main accused in coal smuggling and cattle trafficking cases and an absconder, has agreed to come to India if the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate assure him that they would not arrest him on his arrival here. Earlier this month, Vinay’s counsel had told Calcutta High Court that his client had taken citizenship of Vanuatu, an island nation on the Pacific Ocean, in 2018 and asked if an Indian court could try his case. Appearing for Vinay in the high court on Tuesday, advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi informed Justice Subhasish Dasgupta about his client’s desire to come back to India with a rider that he should not be arrested by the central investigating agencies. Singhvi made the mention while moving a petition seeking quashing of proceedings drawn against Vinay by the CBI. The CBI had on Monday told the high court that Vinay would not be arrested if he returned to the country by July 12. According to a source in the CBI, the main intention of the investigating agency is to know the names of influential persons who are involved in coal smuggling and cattle trafficking. The judge fixed the matter for hearing on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-16
23-06-2021||West Bengal||Four Bengal fishermen go missing in Arabian Sea||Four fishermen, who had travelled from Kakdwip in South 24-Parganas to Beypore in Kerala for better income, remain untraced since May 5 after their trawler went missing in the Arabian Sea and their family members now hope the Bengal government will help them get information about their kin. A family member of one of the missing fishermen said among the four were three brothers who had travelled 2,340km to work in Kerala for a better living. He added the last time the four had spoken to their family members was on May 5, the day they ventured into the Arabian Sea for fishing on board trawler Ajmer Shah. A source in Kakdwip said while the three brothers — Shukdeb Das, 45, Santiram Das, 35, and Sushanta Das, 28 — had gone to Beypore in Kerala’s Kozhikode district from Ganesh Nagari, Rajib Das, 32, had his home in Kalinagar. The source added that all the four were sole breadwinners for their respective families. The trawler had 15 fishermen, 11 of whom were from Tamil Nadu. On Monday, the family members of the missing fishermen approached the Kakdwip police station for help. They requested the police to help them get information about the four fishermen. “Since May 5, we have been repeatedly trying to communicate with the fishermen but failed to reach them. We thought they were fishing in deep sea and hence remained unreachable. A few days ago, another fisherman from the area, who is in Kerala, told us that the trawler our family members were onboard had gone missing. We don’t know whether they are alive or if they have sailed into the territory of a neighbouring nation. We finally informed the local police to seek the help of the administration,” said Mamoni Das, a relative of the Das brothers. “All the three brothers are married and we don’t know what awaits their families. We hope the state government will help them,” said Mamoni. On learning about the missing fishermen, Trinamul MLA from Kakdwip and former Sunderbans affairs minister Manturam Pakhira called on their family members. “Accompanied by senior police officers, I called on the families of the four fishermen on Monday evening. We have assured them of help and requested the administration to get in touch with the Kerala government,” Pakhira said. Sunderbans affairs minister Bankim Hazra also said he would communicate with state secretariat to get information about the missing fishermen. “I am unaware of the incident and will immediately communicate with my office to get information about the migrant fishermen,” said Hazra. The incident of the four fishermen going missing has revealed that the fisheries department did not have any record about those who leave for other states to earn a living. An official in the fisheries department said no less than 40,000 fishermen migrate to Kerala every year for better income. “It is true fishermen go to Kerala but we have no such record about their count as they do not inform anyone when they migrate,” said Jayanta Pradhan, the assistant director of fisheries (marine) in South 24-Parganas. Fishermen associations in Bengal said the urge to travel to Kerala was for two reasons — first, they get better paid in the southern state and second, jobs have dried up here. In Bengal, fishermen usually earn Rs 2,000 per week and also get a small share of their catch. However, in Kerala the amount is around Rs 4,000 per week. “While at the end of a fishing season, we earn around Rs 40,000-Rs 50,000 in Bengal, in Kerala, the income range between Rs 70,000 and Rs 1 lakh for the same period,” said a fisherman in Digha. A member of a fishermen association admitted that job opportunities had become less in Bengal after a large number of trawler owners were pushed out the trade because of the spike in price of diesel and low yield of fish. “The drop in the production of hilsa and rise in the price of diesel have hit our trade in the past two years. Small fish traders have suffered badly and they are not ready to burn their savings to venture into the sea. This has forced fishermen to head to southern states,” said Satinath Patra, a secretary of the Sunderban Samudrik Matsyojibi Shramik Union.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-16
23-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal health department releases 2,000 beds after drop in active cases||The Bengal health department has released around 2,000 beds for Covid-19 at 16 private hospitals across the state as number of active patients came down substantially over the past week and the existing infrastructure at government-run healthcare facilities is lying unused. “There were 2,416 beds for Covid patients at 29 private hospitals in the state. In an order on Monday evening, the state government has released 1,951 such beds at 16 hospitals,” said a senior health department official. “In the order, however, it is noted that the government might take over those beds and hospitals again with a notice of three days,” he added. In the peak of the second wave when the daily positive confirmation rate had reached close to 33 per cent, the government took over a large number of private hospitals and nursing homes in Calcutta and elsewhere in the state to quickly augment capacity for treatment of Covid patients. “If you look at the daily report of Covid-19 across the state, many districts have been reporting very few cases. In some cases (such as Murshidabad and Purulia), the number of new infections detected in a day has come down to single digits,” said an official. Overall, the state’s total of active cases has come down from the second wave peak of 1.32 lakh on May 21 to 22,000-odd now. With it, the bed occupancy at Covid hospitals came down from nearly 38 per cent on May 21 to less than 10. “So, retaining all the infrastructure and engaging our officials and staff is not needed for now. We can use the available human resources for vaccination instead, for instance,” he added. The 16 private hospitals whose Covid beds were completely released are in nine districts of Birbhum, East Burdwan, West Burdwan, North Dinajpur, South 24-Parganas, North 24-Parganas, Nadia, East Midnapore and West Midnapore. The number of beds requisitioned has been reduced at three private hospitals in Calcutta too. In Birbhum, only 35 fresh Covid cases were reported on Monday and only six persons were admitted to the government hospital in Suri. In East Burdwan, only two patients are currently hospitalised. “There is an additional cost to engage private hospitals and more importantly to post doctors and other staff there as they can be used for other work. If there are no patients, then there is no need for these additional hospital beds right now. However, we can’t guarantee the cases will not rise next week,” said a senior official in East Burdwan. The state government has asked districts to ensure pipeline-based oxygen supply or oxygen generating plants at every government-run Covid hospital before the possible third wave. Bankura district magistrate K. Radhika Aiyar said: “There are four Covid hospitals in our district and one in Barjora already has an oxygen plant. We will install an oxygen plant at the remaining three facilities as soon as possible.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-16
23-06-2021||North East||Covid: Eight oxygen plants in North East with Japan, UNDP aid||Three civil hospitals in Meghalaya were on Tuesday equipped with oxygen-generation plants with support extended by the government of Japan and the UNDP to help treat critically ill Covid-19 patients. Japan and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) have been supporting India’s response to the pandemic since June 2020 by “strengthening” the health and social protection systems, most importantly reviving livelihoods, targeting the most vulnerable population. Union minister Jitendra Singh had said in May that Japan and the UNDP would help set up the eight oxygen-generation plants in the Northeast, three of which were in Meghalaya and the remaining five in Tripura and Nagaland. The eight oxygen plants have the capacity to serve approximately 1,300 beds. Each plant produces up to 800 litres of oxygen per minute. Launching the oxygen plant in Tura on Tuesday, Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma thanked the UNDP, the people of Japan and the government of Japan for “contributing to this crisis management” and enabling Meghalaya to fight Covid in a “stronger” way. “The relationship between Japan and India has been grown from strength to strength.… In crisis like these, the true nature of our relationship comes out. This help only confirms and strengthens the relationship of Japan and India,” Sangma said, thanking the Prime Ministers of both the countries. Meghalaya health minister A. L. Hek inaugurated Nongpoh Civil Hospital oxygen plant and MLA W. Shylla inaugurated the Jowai MCH Hospital plant. “As a good friend and partner of India, Japan is very happy to strengthen the capacity of health facilities in Meghalaya in partnership with the UNDP. We hope that our contribution will help save more lives,” Satoshi Suzuki, Japan’s ambassador said. Shoko Noda, UNDP Resident Representative in India, said the UN’s development agency stands committed to support the government of India with support from donors, development partners and UN sister agencies. “I am happy that our several months of effort to procure, build capacity of hospital staff and set the plants up and running has come to fruition. Together, we can better prepare for future crises,” said Noda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-1
23-06-2021||North East||Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti organises open essay contest on ‘The dream of developing Assam’ ||Peasant group KMSS on Thursday announced a prize money essay competition on how to turn Assam into the country’s number one state — a move aimed at knowing much more than just the views of the general public. The Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS) organised open essay contest on the topic ‘The dream of developing Assam’ as the most developed state in India is being held in the memory of its Chah Shramik Mukti Sangram Samiti (CSMSS)’s founder general secretary Muktinath Gowala, who died on June 21 in 2017. The winner and runners-up of the contest being held in three languages — Assamese, English and Bengali — will be richer by Rs 1 lakh and Rs 50,000 respectively. Those interested can send their entries online (kmssassam05@gmail.com) or to the KMSS office at Gandhib Basti here by July 31. The result will be declared within a month. However, there is much more to the essay contest if one were to go by the statements made by the KMSS which is organising the contest with the support of its frontal organisations, including CSMSS, Nari Mukti Sangram Samiti and Chatra Mukti Sangram Samiti. “Every organisation/party wants to see Assam developed. Everyone has a strategy but we want to involve the entire state, how they want to go about it and what are their hopes and aspirations. The essay gives a voice to the people of Assam to be part of this development dream. We want to see Assam as the number one state,” KMSS joint general secretary Mukut Deka told The Telegraph. CSMSS in-charge general secretary Dipak R. Das saidthe essay contest is being held in memory of Muktinath Gowala because he led the fight for minimum daily wage of Rs 351 a day and land patta for tea garden workers in 2012, the year the frontal organisation was formed. “Both the Congress and BJP treat the tea community as vote bank. BJP hiked the daily wage by Rs 50 but after the polls reduced the hike to Rs 38. We want proper development of the community,” Das said. Deka’s statement has to be seen in the backdrop of the May 10 announcement Himanta Biswa Sarma just after taking charge as the chief minister it was his aim to see Assam among the top five Indian states in the next five years. Formed in 2005, the KMSS is the force behind the regional party — Raijor Dal — formed just before the March-April. “Through the essay contest it has set the bar higher than the ruling BJP. Why should we settle for anything less than number one?” asked a Raijor Dal leader Rasel Ahmed. By deciding to hold the essay contest in name of the promising deceased tea community leader, the KMSS was also “trying to expand” its base among the community which plays a decisive role in the state’s electoral politics. The Congress’ freefall in the tea belt has opened an opening and KMSS is trying to seize the opportunity by actively espousing its cause. “Every organisation, political or apolitical, wants to grow. It is good that KMSS is trying to expand its base,” Ahmed said, his reaction suggesting there was more to the essay contest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-1
23-06-2021||North East||Mizoram minister announces Rs 1 lakh prize for parents with the highest number of children||Mizoram’s sports minister Robert Romawia Royte has announced a cash prize of Rs 1 lakh to a living parent with the highest number of children in his Assembly constituency. The first-time MLA from Aizawl East-2 said the intention behind the move announced on Sunday (coinciding with Father’s Day) was to encourage the growth of population among Mizo communities, the move coming at a time when neighbouring Assam is pushing for a two-child norm to check population. The ruling Mizo National Front (MNF) MLA has already activated the municipal wards and seven councils in his constituency to identify the father or mother with the highest number of children so that he can give away the cash award this month itself. “It is a personal initiative to boost the population of Mizo communities. Mizoram’s density of population is 52 per cent per sq km compared to the national average of 382 per sq km — the lowest  in the country after Arunachal Pradesh (17 per sq km). I believe population is a potential asset,” Royte told The Telegraph when asked why he wants Mizo communities to have more children. Mizoram’s population, according to the 2011 census, is 10,97,206 living in an area spread over 21,081 sq km. It has 0.09 per cent of India’s population of  1,21,08,54,977. Royte, who is also the “president & proud owner” of  the Aizawl Football Club, said the Church, NGOs, civil society and student organisations such as the influential Young Mizo Association were all advocating large families. “ Mizos are appreciative of the initiative of the Church and NGOs for population growth which is inevitable for our survival and development. Falling population rate among Mizos is a cause of serious concern.  I believe with a viable economic policy we can convert population into asset for sustainable development,” Royte said. The minister also said the two-child norm policy being pursued by several states to control population growth may not work among smaller communities and in areas with low birth rate. “What is good for UP may not be good for Mizoram. We need to be flexible in our approach. We need a flexible policy instead of a uniform policy,” Royte said. The minister said he was aware of the two-child norm being pushed by the Assam government. “As I said earlier, we need to pursue a policy which is best suited to each state,” Royte said. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Saturday said his government would go for phase-wise and gradual implementation of its two-child policy for receiving  benefits under specific schemes funded by the state. Sarma had on June 10 spoken about his government’s intention to control population growth, particularly among the minority community, identifying increasing numbers as the root causes of problems such as poverty, unemployment and encroachment. Under the plan, those with more than two children might not be considered for state government benefits. The Assam Assembly had in 2017 adopted the Population and Women Empowerment Policy of Assam. In 2019, the cabinet headed by then chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal adopted the two-child norm for government jobs and to initiate action against those with permanent jobs going for a third child.  The measures were supposed to become effective from January 1, 2021. The Centre had said in the Supreme Court last year that its family welfare programme was voluntary in nature,  enabling "couples to decide the size of their family and adopt the family planning methods best suited to them according to their choice without any compulsion".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-1
23-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Data death||The scale of the Covid-19 crisis in India has been unprecedented in several ways. Aggravating the problem is the acute lack of data on the actual death toll. In the light of this, it is heartening that the Patna High Court has reprimanded the Bihar government, once again, for its failure to maintain accurate records of births and deaths during the pandemic and sharply criticized its reluctance to publish the number of deaths. The court upheld the people’s right to information; a right that has been steadily eroded through — deliberate? — obfuscation of ground realities. Data from Bihar showed that close to 75,000 people died of unexplained causes in the first five months of 2021 — a figure that is almost 10 times Bihar’s official pandemic death numbers. The Civil Registration System found that in Karnataka the number of ‘excess deaths’ since the start of the pandemic in India was nearly six times the official reported figure for Covid-19 deaths. In the midst of reports of major discrepancies in numbers in several states — Jharkhand, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh reportedly find themselves on this dubious list — the Centre has told the Supreme Court that all deaths caused by the coronavirus, no matter where they take place, will be certified as Covid deaths. While these steps are welcome, the larger problem they aim to address must be contextualized given the gross under-reporting of the loss of lives to the virus. The collation of accurate data is crucial; as the apex court has pointed out, the death certificates of Covid patients must reflect the fact that they succumbed to the disease so that their family members are able to claim compensation in the future. However, there is also a need for a detailed blueprint on devising and implementing solutions — for instance, tracking the virulence of newer strains of the virus — on the basis of reliable information. While data dashboards, as suggested by some experts, hold out scope for district authorities to monitor the state of the pandemic and control newer surges in time, these resources, too, suffer from gaps. In November last year, the dashboard maintained by the National Centre for Disease Control featured the age distribution of a mere 35 per cent of India’s cases at the time. At the root of the problem lies an entrenched institutional nervousness with the idea of transparency. This was evident last year when the Centre told Parliament that it had no data on the deaths of migrants during the lockdown; the same aversion to transparency has been witnessed in the administrative responses to citizens’ distress during the second wave. The compilation of data will have little meaning without the administrative will to put it to meaningful use.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-6
23-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Table beckons||The Centre’s decision to — at long last — kindle the process of political engagement in Kashmir is welcome. The intent is unmistakable: no less than the prime minister is expected to convene a meeting tomorrow that would be attended by Kashmir’s major political stakeholders, including the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, a coalition of six parties, which has confirmed its participation. The PAGD’s response is magnanimous. After monumental disruptions were introduced by the Narendra Modi government in 2019 — Jammu and Kashmir was stripped of statehood and its special provisions, the Valley put under a security blanket, speedy internet services denied to its populations — leaders of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party began discrediting Kashmir’s political leadership. Numerous leaders were incarcerated, and their legacies demonized. The BJP’s strategy was to first create a vacuum by discrediting Kashmir’s political constituency and then try and fill that space through such radical interventions as floating supine outfits or creating an alternative tier of governance through the District Development Council. These objectionable experiments faltered because the political legitimacy of the BJP’s adversaries remained intact, forcing Mr Modi and his wise men to eat crow. The present outreach needs to be read in this context. It remains to be seen whether the Centre can reclaim the moral high ground that it willingly ceded almost two years ago. The PAGD is also confronting its own challenges. There seems to be general consensus among its constituents to press for the restoration of Kashmir’s statehood but it is not clear whether its members can achieve similar concurrence on the resurrection of Article 370, which remains a highly emotive issue. Mr Modi would do well not to exploit the gaps, if any, in the alliance because New Delhi needs to negotiate two tricky issues itself: a contentious delimitation exercise and the holding of assembly elections. The Centre must also be mindful of the possibility that success in Kashmir, even if it were to be incremental, could yield diplomatic capital in its future engagements with Islamabad. In fact, a breakthrough in these talks can generate momentum in the dialogue with Pakistan that remains stalled. Given the rapidly changing geostrategic situation in Afghanistan and an inflamed border with China, stability on India’s western border is of critical importance. That stability could well be predicated on the outcome of the political dialogue in Kashmir.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-6
23-06-2021||Opinion||Ghoramara: A life beyond bare existence||Last year, around this time, in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan, I had written in this column that crises bring us to crossroads where the choice is between doing things that were not considered earlier or were thought to be impossible, and trying to get back to the ‘before’. Every attempt to try and get back to the state we were in ‘before’ is a waste of the opportunities presented by a serious crisis. The Telegraph on June 11 reported an attempt to do something different in the aftermath of Cyclone Yaas, supposedly a first. It seems that the state government of West Bengal has set in motion a process of rehabilitating hundreds of families that are perennially exposed to the vagaries of nature, starting with 35 families of Ghoramara island. State-facilitated movement away from Ghoramara on earlier occasions have not necessarily resulted in positive outcomes. What is the aim of these relocation attempts? Bare existence in a somewhat less vulnerable location? Can the serious crisis not be used as an opportunity to move people from bare existence to a wholesome life where one lives up to one’s potential and prosperity? For over a decade, my colleagues and I have been advocating an induced but organic movement of people out of harm’s way. The idea may be gaining currency but often it has been misinterpreted as being akin to development/conservation-induced resettlement, leading to irreconcilable loss of an entire lifeworld of the resettled. While moving people away from a particular ecology, landscape and set of livelihoods does bring about a loss of relating to and inhabiting a landscape, as well as the loss of old and new skills, knowledge systems, socio-cultural and religious cosmologies, this sense of loss can be made bearable or even eliminated depending upon how the movement of people out of harm’s way is induced. Moving away under duress and against one’s wishes causes an acute sense of loss, and communities and households under such circumstances are worse off. One only needs to speak to adult victims of the Partition to ascertain the sense of loss and the poorer outcomes of such displacement. However, moving out of harm’s way can be positive provided the movement is not abrupt and those who need to move are in a position to monetize their assets, decide when they want to move, and where they want to go. Moving the vulnerable from Ghoramara to Sagar can address the vulnerability to cyclones minimally given the vastness of low pressure weather systems and the proximity of the two islands. This resettlement can only help the people to barely exist. The people of the Sunderbans deserve more than rehabilitation, and the state can and should do better under the current dispensation with a renewed mandate. Rehabilitation, at most, will restore them to the ‘before’ state which is not something to aspire to. What could be the reason for preferring status quo over substantial improvement and prosperity? Maintaining status quo in the Sunderbans is not necessarily the cheaper option; just to upgrade the embankment and provide basic permanent housing would cost 2.25 times of the local GDP. This, however, would not address the many other long-standing risks and hazards that the residents of the Sunderbans face. These risks and hazards emanate from tidal asymmetry and interrupted sediment dispersal mechanisms. Pre-monsoon Bay of Bengal cyclones are intensifying because of enhanced large-scale monsoon circulation associated with local atmospheric warming; climate models project continued warming. Since the Bay of Bengal is landlocked with densely populated coastlines, tropical cyclones here are among the most destructive. The north Indian Ocean, including the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal, accounts for about 6 per cent of the global tropical cyclones. Cyclone frequency in this region varies between one and three in the pre-monsoon (March-May) period, and between two and five in the post-monsoon (October-December) season. It is unsurprising that the Sunderbans or parts of it were affected in May 2020 and again in May 2021. During the previous decade, the cyclones, Sidr and Aila, struck the region in a span of 19 months. Owing to the lay of the land, premature land reclamation and persistence with the colonial policy blunder since Independence, the agrarian economy of the region, and the general lack of development, the impact of hydrometeorological events are severe in terms of loss of livelihoods and assets. Human suffering in the absence of large-scale interventions as in New Orleans and the Netherlands will recur since large-scale interventions in the region are unlikely in view of the Unesco world heritage sites. The people of Ghoramara and elsewhere in the Indian Sunderbans need to be able to exercise the choice of where they want to go and when they want to go, if they want to go. How such choice could be exercised will need another column.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-6
23-06-2021||Opinion||Hollow edifice||Sometimes, the major battles of our time get caught in coteries and clubs and float adrift from the democratic imagination. The debate around the Central Vista project is one such event. How does one conceptualize it? It is, after all, a debate about a building. Perhaps we need to go beyond an architect to a philosopher. Martin Heidegger, the German philosopher, established a relation among building, dwelling and thinking. Buildings, Heidegger argued, transcend materiality. They are forms of living that have to be seen iconically. A building like the Parliament or even an annexe to it speaks history, invokes memory. The Central Vista has to be seen as an unravelling of democracy, as a symbolic celebration of difference, as a metaphor for imaginative debate. Oddly, when Bimal Patel, the architect, invoked his discussion of the building, all that Narendra Modi talked about was ‘functionalism’. It is strange to have a prime minister who does not know the difference between Parliament and plumbing and, worse, to have a technocrat carrying out his premises unquestioningly. Both seem indifferent to the fact that a public building of that order has not been subject to public discussion. It is as strange as arguing for a future where we see a Parliament behave indifferently to the people. Worse, Patel reduced the debate to a technical answer to a technical question. The Central Vista budget and everything else is presented as a fait accompli. If a building cannot be a dwelling in a representative sense, how can democracy be a way of life and living? This is the real issue that confronts the Central Vista. Modi sees it as if it is another sculpture like the Sardar Patel statue. He has no sense of building as an embodiment of tradition or conversation. All he sees is the monumentality of power. The word, Lutyens, itself should have signalled the prelude to a different debate. Lutyens represented the imperialism of the city, the Haussmannic grids of centralization that the architect first built as frames to control the crowds after the Paris Commune. Baron Haussmann wanted an architecture of control and centralization, not community and conversation. Modi, for all his use of Lutyens in the folklore of his critique of the Congress, endorses Lutyens in his mentality in a way that no predecessor has. In his heart of hearts, he is not a populist but a hegemonist, desperate for control. The sociologist, Patrick Geddes, a critic of Lutyens, showed that the mechanistic architecture of Lutyens had neither a sense of tradition nor of memory. There is an egotism to architectural power, an indifference to the margins, that Modi-Patel find seductive. This is a Parliament that does not want to listen to the people or to history because it is convinced that it needs to make history tone-deaf to democracy. Modi and Patel represent two ways of indifference to democracy. Patel follows empty protocols; Modi treats protest as empty irritants. The Modi who raved and ranted as a critic while in the Opposition seems indifferent to criticism. We have to raise a second set of questions here. Modi, who has repeatedly emasculated dissent or imprisoned it, cannot be a mere monograph in urban planning; he has to become part of the folklore of democracy, be subject to popular critique the way Sanjay Gandhi and Jagmohan were during the days of the Emergency. Technocracy can fail scholarship no matter how immaculate but what technocracy can’t fail is democracy. For Modi, Parliament could well be an extension of Madame Tussauds where people are embodied in wax and democracy as memory. A space has to come alive to fight Modi who has embalmed democracy. Probably the biggest casualty of the Central Vista debates is memory. I am not talking of memory as history, but as orality, as lived memory embodied in crowds walking public spaces, responding to the symbols of governance. A walk around Janpath was a way of consuming democracy, of sustaining democracy through the orality of storytelling. The Central Vista is more a collection of offices, a secretariat rather than a part of a parliamentary performance. It is as if the public, the crowd, the rhythms of citizenship, the folklore of democracy have no meaning for this regime. The historian, Narayan Gupta, has repeatedly emphasized the power of space and place for memory. One wishes governance absorbed a bit of that wisdom. It is great scholarship and intuitively democratic. Once one forgets that a city is a mnemonic of democratic events, a regime has lost its legitimacy. The Central Vista is a sign of the times. It signals the new Parliament of indifference, shockingly abstract from debate, difference, and people. Yet, in a deep way, the power of dissenting scholarship reasserts itself and one has to celebrate the dissenting imaginations. This dissent, in fact, now has to be read differently. Critics show that there is unity among Modi’s authoritarianism, his indifference to the margins and to the ideas of dissent and scholarship. The Central Vista then becomes a variant of authoritarian decision-making. The Gujarat riots had shown how a majority could dismiss the margins. The Citizenship (Amendment) Act displayed the contempt for the refugee as citizen. Lakshadweep demonstrates how development as authoritarianism can dismiss the fate of the tribe as a critical issue. The Central Vista adds to this the sense that Modi wants a monolithic Parliament, a democracy without debate. When dissent lapses into silence and memory, the only obstacle to authoritarianism fades away. Be it minority, refugee, tribe or dissenter, our regime has no place for them. Shiv Visvanathan is an academic associated with Compost Heap, a network pursuing alternative imaginations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-6
23-06-2021||Jharkhand||Five IIT-ISM students win third prize at international competition||A group of five B Tech third year mining engineering students of IIT- ISM have earned laurels for the institute and country by securing third position in Student Design Competition (SDC)-2021 of American Rock Mechanics Association (ARMA), the results of which were declared on Wednesday. The first prize of the event went to the team of National University of Engineering of Lima (Peru) while the second prize was won by Universite Laval of Quebec, Canada. The IIT-ISM team titled, Team Stabilizers, of Madhav Singhal, Amara Venkata Sai Srujan, Battula Sreeshma, Anjali Atreyi and Nimmangada Sravani, made the design of a metal mine as part of the competition competed with 167 participants across the globe at the initial webinar for the competition held on April 9. Only 40 teams of 29 universities from 17 countries could register for the competition of which 21 teams could submit their entries. Out of these 21 teams, six were selected after the first round for the presentation of their design and finally IIT-ISM team secured the third prize. Though, the official result is yet to be published on the website but  Gang Han, Incoming President of American Rock Mechanics Association (ARMA)  has posted the result of his Linkedin account https://www.linkedin.com/posts/gang-han-b6596a5_rockmechanics-geomechanics-activity-6813269031076843520-M1Rm/. S.K. Sinha, a faculty member of Mining Engineering department of IIT-ISM, who mentored the participating students for the competition said, “All the participants were given the same problem of making the design of slope of mine or metallic ore deposit  suffering from the problem of water seepage.” “The challenge before the team was to develope the deepest and safest mine by developing stable slope to extract ore in most economical manner and we are happy that our team won the third prize,” said Sinha. “It is a great achievement of IIT-ISM as for the first time the students of university won the prize at such an international level competition,” said A.K. Mishra, Head of the Department of Mining Engineering of IIT-ISM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-12
23-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand extends Covid-imposed restrictions till July 1||The Jharkhand government notified the extension of the ongoing partial lockdown by another week on Wednesday, stating that all restrictions and relaxations mentioned in its earlier order would continue to remain in force. Following the extension, the partial shutdown, or health safety week, that was to end on June 24, will be in force till 6 am of July 1. This also means that the state will observe the third edition of the a complete weekend lockdown between the evening of June 26 (Saturday) and early morning on June 28 (Monday). The order signed by chief secretary Sukhdev Singh read, “The provisions of order number 207 dated June 16 related to observance of Swasthya Suraksha Saptah in the context of Covid-19 shall stand extended from 6am on June 24 till 6am on July 1.” Chief minister Hemant Soren, while speaking to reporters outside Project Building on Wednesday evening, said the state government was  evaluating the situation cautiously before allowing more relaxations. “Cases are coming down but there are apprehensions of another wave. We don’t know if it will come or not, but we are making our own preparations. It is important to not allow any opportunity for the virus to rear its head again. Hence, we all have to be cautious and follow covid appropriate behavior," he said. While all major markets and business establishments have been allowed to function till 4 pm, inter and intra-state buses are still not allowed to ply. Restaurants can offer take-away only and cinema halls are still closed. Bus operators, who have been demanding that they be allowed to offer services, appeled to the state government last week, citing heavy losses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-12
23-06-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi tops in health & nutrition reforms under Niti Aayog project||Ranchi has emerged as the best performing district in terms of health and nutrition and bagged the third position in overall performance under the Aspirational District Programme (ADS) of Niti Aayog, which aims to improve the ease of living in 112 most underdeveloped districts of India. According to the latest annual report 2020-21 released by Niti Aayog recently, Simdega, another Jharkhand district, bagged the fourth position in overall performance and eight in health and nutrition under the ADS programme. Simdega also bagged the fourth position in Financial Inclusion & Skill Development. Palamau bagged the fourth position among the 112 aspirational districts in terms of agriculture & water resources. However, no Jharkhand district managed to make it to the list of top 10 best performing districts in terms of education under the programme. According to the official website of Niti Ayog, Health & Nutrition, Education, Agriculture & Water Resources, Financial Inclusion & Skill Development, and Basic Infrastructure are the programme’s core areas of focus. After several rounds of consultations with various stakeholders, 49 key performance indicators have been chosen to measure progress of the districts. “Districts are prodded and encouraged to first catch-up with the best district within their state, and subsequently aspire to become one of the best in the country, by competing with, and learning from, other districts,” Niti Aayog’s website states. The Niti Aayog, as per its annual report, sanctioned comprehensive projects to reduce anaemia and malnutrition in five Jharkhand districts and equip schools with smart classrooms in 19 districts of the tribal state. Launched in January 2018 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the ADP has been lauded by several foreign organisations, including the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), which recently stated that the ADP should serve as “best practice” for other countries where regional disparities in development status persist for many reasons. At least 19 of 24 districts in Jharkhand – all affected by Left Wing Extremism (LWE) – are among the 112 districts selected for the programme. As per a report submitted by the Niti Aayog to UNDP, most of the 112 districts selected for the ADP were underdeveloped and some affected by LWE. In the past one year, the Jharkhand government launched several programmes to combat malnutrition in the state. The government launched the mobile malnutrition treatment van project to address the nutritional needs of children and also increased the number of institutional deliveries, a step towards better health of pregnant women and newborns, officials said. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), if the prevalence of anaemia in a population is 40 per cent or higher it is categorized as a severe public health problem. National Family Health Survey (NFHS) highlights that around 70 per cent of children in the age bracket of 6-59 months, 62.6 per cent of pregnant women and 65.2 per cent of women in the reproductive age are anaemic in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-12
23-06-2021||Jharkhand||National award winning Seraikela archer mulls quitting sport||Promising young archer from Seraikela-Kharsawan, Anil Lohar, is mulling to quit the game which has earned him laurels in the state and national circuit. A tattered bow, insufficient arrows and lack of support from the state government are reasons enough to make him disillusioned and think of quitting archery. The 24-year-old finds no scope to progress without a compound bow. He was very optimistic that competing in the globally-accepted compound division of archery would help him progress and someday land a job. Former chief minister and Archery Association of India president ,Arjun Munda, had made a recommendation to the state government to provide a compound bow to Lohar last year, However, the government is yet to act on the recommendation. "I was very optimistic when Mundaji recommended my name for the bow. But it has been almost a year and nothing has moved forward. I am very disappointed and am thinking of quitting archery. What is the use of continuing when there is no support from the government. I am jobless and have a family to feed," Lohar, a resident of Pinderabera village in Gamharia block, 35 km from Jamshedpur, said. Lohar told The Telegraph Online that he seldom goes for practice nowadays and was concentrating on selling chicken. "Condition of my Indian round bow (traditional bamboo bow) is in  poor condition. and arrows are also insufficient. I cannot afford to buy a sophisticated compound bow on my own. I am somehow keeping my wife and two infants afloat," he added. A compound bow costs around Rs 2.5 lakh. Lohar is selling chickens in areas surrounding his village. However, the income is not enough to sustain his family. “I have no other option than to sell chickens even though I am facing problems in sustaining my family. The state government should help out sportspersons who have won medals in national and international competitions. It should encourage sportspersons," Lohar, who claimed gold in the Indian round section (shooting with traditional bows and arrows) in the senior national archery championship in Cuttack in March 2019, said. He received a cash award of Rs 75,000 for this feat but that money has since exhausted. Though union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda could not be contacted, Seraikela-Kharsawan District  Archery Association secretary Sumant Mohanty said the government was least concerned about the plight of sportspersons. “We are aware of the problems faced by Lohar. He (Lohar) is a promising archer and has the ability to make progress in compound division. A compound bow would do a world of good to him. Lohar is facing monetary problems. We would ask him not to quit archery. We need a promising archer like him,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-12
23-06-2021||Jharkhand||Tokyo Olympics 2020: Dhanbad players show support for Team India||As the world celebrated International Olympics day on Wednesday, more than 100 coal town players associated with the 32 sports association affiliated to Dhanbad district Olympic association, extended support to team India for the upcoming Tokyo Olympics. The players participated in a signature campaign launched as part of a week- long drive at a prominent market complex, Ozone Galleria of Dhanbad. The sportsmen belonging to different district level  sports association including  athletics, rugby, football, basketball, lawn tennis, gymnastics, ludo, tug of war, netball, softball, kabaddi, kho Kho, thang ta, muay thai, shooting and archery put their signatures in a standi bearing photographs of the Indian team, took a selfie with it and uploaded it on social media. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Ranjit Keshri, general  secretary of Dhanbad District Olympic Association, said, “Owing to Covid protocols of social distancing, we have called sportsmen affiliated to different association in batch wise manner but the enthusiasm among them was palpable as they were very excited ever since we informed them about the signature campaign, a couple of days ago.” “The signature campaign will continue till June 30,” said Keshri and added that the signature campaign is open for all besides the players. “We are also organising an online essay writing competition on the topic ‘Olympic Movement in India’ in which the participants are required to write a 100 line essay and we have already received 130 entries from different sports association members so far,” he said. “The essay competition will continue till June 30 and we will felicitate the winners during the first week of July” said Keshri. Julie Kumari , an 18-year-old Lawn Bowls player of Dhanbad, who represented the bronze medal winning Jharkhand team in the triple event along with Unnati Priya and Chhoti Kumar in the Khelo India Youth Games held in Guwahati, also took part in the signature campaign. “We wished great success for Team India in Tokyo Olympics by participating in the signature campaign today and at the same time also pray to god to normalise the Covid situation so that the sporting activities which are lying suspended can resume as early as possible,” said Julie. Unnati Priya, another Lawn Bowls player who also participated in the signature campaign said, “The Indian team representing us in the Tokyo Olympics has great potential and we are hopeful that they will bring laurels for the country.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-13
23-06-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town bus operators on the verge of ruin ||More than one thousand staff members of around 250 buses operating from Dhanbad are on the brink of starvation due to continuation of lockdown for more than two months and resultant lack of salaries for them due to non operation of buses. The cleaners and conductors are being compelled to work at construction sites and others are forced to take debts from moneylenders to make arrangements for food grains. Talking to the Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Ranjit Malakar, a conductor of Jai Maa Gauri travels, said,“I used to earn around Rs 12,000 per month and somehow managed the expenses of five family members, including me, my wife and three college-going sons and had no savings at all and the sudden lockdown has deprived us our sole source of sustenance.” “We had faced the worst days during the nine months of closure of last year from March 20, 2020 to November 7, 2020 and even after the reopening the passenger flow was very thin affecting our income so majority of drivers, conductors and cleaners are mired into debts,” said Malakar and questioned the logic of lack of permission for buses when trains for the same destinations have already been launched. “We make rounds of the bus depot of Dhanbad at Bartand every day hoping for the resumption of permission of buses but return with despair on our faces,” said Malakar. Shailendra Kumar Pathak, a driver of Shiv Ganga Travels said, “Having taken too much loans during the last year of lockdown we have just started paying back our debts when the second lockdown came and now we are facing difficulty in even getting  food grains from the grocers due to non payment of earlier dues.” “Majority of us, including me, have not paid the school fee of the children and repeated reminders are coming from the school to strike off the name of our children,” said Pathak. A native resident of Bhojpur district of Bihar, Pathak who lives at a rented house in Dhanbad has not paid his house rent for the last three months. Anjani Singh, a conductor of another bus travel agency said, “The bus operators are also not in a position to pay the salaries of the staff as the burden of the permit charges, road tax and fitness charges continue to be levied by the government even during the closure period.” Sunil Singh, Joint secretary of Dhanbad Bus owner’s Association who is also the owner of Sunil Delux Transport which operates 20 buses between Dhanbad and different neighbouring areas of Bengal including Purulia, Asasol, Burnpur etc said,“We ourselves are in huge debt of payment of permit charges, road tax etc despite lack of any income as even before the lockdown of Jharkhand our bus operation to Bengal is lying suspended and thus we are not in position to pay our staff.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-13
23-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand CII wing donates Covid equipment to East Singhbhum ||The Jharkhand State Council of the Confederation of Indian Industry on Wednesday donated five oxygen concentrators of 10 litres each and 25 pulse oximeters to the East Singhbhum district administration. An oxygen concentrator is a medical device that concentrates oxygen from ambient air. It helps in the treatment of Covid-19 patients while pulse oximeter helps in measuring the oxygen saturation level of the blood. The medical equipment was handed over by Vijay Bhuller, state head, CII Jharkhand to deputy commissioner of East Singhbhum, Suraj Kumar. "We need to be very cautious and follow Covid appropriate behaviour strictly as well as get vaccinated to carry on with our livelihoods and put growth back on track. Also there is an urgent need to augment the healthcare infrastructure in the state and this was the best time for CII to step in and help, "said Bhuller, the senior CII functionary. A number of initiatives have been undertaken by CII, CII Foundation, and Young Indians (Yi), the youth wing of CII to provide relief to those impacted by the second wave of Covid-19. It included procurement and deployment of medical equipment such as oxygen cylinders, O2 concentrators, ventilators, etc. in hospitals. Healthcare infrastructure support by setting up additional Covid-care centres, expanding Covid-ICUs, setting up Tele-ICUs, operationalising vaccination centres and installing oxygen pipelines. Apart from this CII also undertook distribution of relief material such as food and ration kits, hygiene kits such as masks, sanitisers etc. According to Bhuller, CII has also been supporting and assisting industry members to address issues arising out of various measures at the state and district level that impact their operations. Notably, the second wave of Covid -19 has put tremendous strain on healthcare infrastructure as the number of patients rose rapidly. Hospital beds, oxygen cylinders, ventilators and other necessary medical equipment and facilities were in short supply and people were often travelling great distances in the hope of getting medical support. While the Centre and the state government was taking several steps to increase and strengthen existing healthcare infrastructure, CII, CII Foundation, and its affiliates stepped in to augment existing Covid-care facilities. The industry body has been proactively engaging to catalyze the private sector and industry initiative to complement and supplement the government in combating the second wave of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-13
23-06-2021||Jharkhand||Youth shoots man, lynched by angry villagers||A 30-year-old youth was lynched by a group of villagers shortly after he had shot dead a 40-year-old man in West Singhbhum district about 90 km away from here on Tuesday evening. The incident took place at Gara Rajbasa village under Pandrasali thana outpost in Chaibasa muffasil thana area. The man who was shot dead was identified as Sideu Banra, younger brother of Sangi Banra, the Khuntpani panchayat samity member and the man who was lynched was identified as Sangi Das also known as Lambu, both residents of Gara Rajbasa village. West Singhbhum SP, Ajay Limit, said the incident took place while Sideu was playing cards along with five others at a place near the village market. "As Sideu was busy playing cards along with five other villagers, Lambu arrived there and sat there for a while. Incidentally, an altercation broke out between Lambu and Sideu. In the spur of the moment, Lambu fished out a country-pistol from his waist and fired a shot at Sideu from close range, causing the latter to fall down instantly. Having shot Sideu, Lambu tried to flee the spot, but those present there caught him up and thrashed him to death, "said the West Singhbhum SP to The Telegraph Online. Linda said as the Pandrasali thana outpost was about four km away from the spot, a police party reached the scene in about half-an-hour and rushed both the victims to Chaibasa Sadar Hospital, about 30 kms away from Gara Rajbasa. The doctors on emergency duty declared both the victims dead. The senior police officer said that they are yet to ascertain the content that led Lambu to open fire on Sideu. "Those who were playing cards with Sideu are tight-lipped about what had gone wrong between the two that prompted Lambu to open fire, "said Linda. He stated that they are trying to identify those involved in the lynching. The police have recovered the pistol that was used in Sideu's murder. According to sources in the Gara Rajbasa village, Lambu had a sketchy background and worked in Madhya Pradesh but had returned to his village after lockdown was imposed there in April. Sideu was a civil contractor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-13
23-06-2021||Jharkhand||Cyclonic circulation over Bihar triggers showers across Jharkhand||Formation of a fresh cyclonic circulation over neighbouring Bihar triggered light to moderate rain in several parts of Jharkhand since Tuesday night. According to weathermen, the cyclonic circulation formed over southwest Bihar and adjoining southeast Uttar Pradesh. It extended upto 5.8km above the  mean sea level.  A trough was also stretched from the cyclonic circulation to south Chhattisgarh across Jharkhand between 3.1km and 5.8km above the mean sea level. The cyclonic circulation resulted in light to moderate showers in several places including Jamshedpur, Bokaro, Ranchi, Deoghar and Garhwa on Wednesday. There was heavy rain in Simdega, Ramgarh and Palamau districts. Kurdeg in Simdega district recorded the highest rainfall of 73.2mm while Ramgarh recorded heavy rain of 63.4 mm. Manatu and several other places in Palamau region recorded rainfall of over 55 mm last night. Met data revealed that Ranchi recorded around 30 mm of rain while the Met observatory at Jamtara recorded 25 mm of rain. Hazaribagh, Bokaro, Giridih, Gumla and several other places in the Kolhan region recorded light rains. IMD's Ranchi Met Centre has forecast a generally cloudy sky with light to moderate rain and thunder at several places in the state during the next 24 hours. It also predicted heavy rainfall at isolated places over north-east and western Jharkhand during the next 24 hours. There will be no significant change in maximum temperatures during the next four to five days. For the second consecutive day on Wednesday most places in the state recorded maximum temperatures between 30 and 34 degree Celsius. As of Wednesday, the surplus rain of Jharkhand stood at 89 per cent. Against a normal of 127.9 mm, the state has so far received 241.3 mm, an excess of 89 per cent. All 24 districts of Jharkhand have so far received more rain the usual.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-13
23-06-2021||Jharkhand||4 Jharkhand Congress MLAs take their grievances to Delhi||A group of four disgruntled Congress MLAs from Jharkhand is camping in Delhi to meet the central leadership and air their grievances, primarily about the delay in constituting the working committee of the state party. On Wednesday morning, MLAs  Irfan Ansari (Jamtara), Rajesh Kachchap (Khijri), Mamta Devi (Ramgarh) and Umashankar Akela (Barhi) met Congress national general secretary K.C. Venugopal to discuss various issues for about 45 minutes. They also met Jharkhand affair’s in-charge R.P.N. Singh on Tuesday night with a host of demands. Ansari and Co. have have made their grievances public at a time when the  Congress, which is a part of the JMM-led ruling alliance government in Jharkhand, is also grappling with organisational issues in other states where it is in power. Ansari, who is a co-working president of the state Congress, said, “We are here to meet our central leaders to discuss ways to strengthen our party in the state. Honestly, things aren’t good with the party at the state level and the majority of workers feel neglected. Something has to be done to address these glaring issues.” Another MLA, on the condition of anonymity, cited their issues. “The Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee, kind of apex working committee, is still to be constituted for at least four years now. 20-point programme committee for smooth coordination with alliance partners and the government at district and state levels aren’t fully constituted and functional. There is no proper democracy left within the party leading to different kinds of factionalism. In the long run, it will dent the party,” said an MLA. The MLA added, “Before the assembly election, party announced one man- one post policy. However, it is still to be applied as the state president (Rameshwar Oraon) is also occupying ministerial berth in the state cabinet. What about other deserving people?.” Notably, one of the ministerial berths out of the 12 member cabinet is still empty, for which many are lobbying hard. But the alliance partners are still to reach to any consensus as both JMM and Congress have been staking claims on it. Congress sources in Ranchi maintained that MLAs are also trying several pressure tactics to grab positions in government owned boards and corporations. Of the four MLAs, Ansari is known to be the most critical voice against the state leadership and is trying to forge a coalition of dissenters within the party. It is because during 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Ansari and his father Furkan Ansari, a veteran Congressman was upset after the latter was denied ticket to contest from Godda parliamentary seat. The seat went to now-defunct JVM-P as part of the deal with the alliance partners. But JVM-P’s Pradeep Yadav, who fought from Godda ultimately lost to BJP giving more strength to Ansaris to criticize state Congress leadership. Later, former president Ajoy Kumar resigned from the post after LS polls owing to increasing bickering within the party. After Congress came to power in alliance with JMM and RJD post 2019 assembly polls, Irfan reportedly lobbied hard for ministerial berth but met with raw deal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-13
23-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs 110 fresh Covid cases, two casualties in a day||At least four Jharkhand districts – Saraikela, Khunti, Dumka and Chatra – did not report fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, while none of the remaining 20 districts reported a spike of more than 20 cases on the day, figures released by the health department highlighted. The active caseload in the state dropped to 1417 on the day as at least 180 Covid patients recovered from the infection while 110 fresh cases of Coronavirus surfaced in the state, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. However, two more Jharkhand residents, one each from East Singhbhum and Gumla, died of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the Covid toll in the state to 5102, the NHM further stated in its daily Covid bulletin. The state on Tuesday tested swab samples of 1,30,310 residents as a part of a special Covid testing drive and less than 0.1 per cent of them were found infected by Coronavirus. As per government data, over 3.44 lakh people have been affected by Covid-19 in the state so far and 98.10 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive. On Tuesday, Dhanbad reported the highest spike of 17 cases against 15 recoveries, while East Singhbhum reported a spike of 14 cases against 26 recoveries. At least 13 people were found infected by the lethal virus in Ranchi and 26 Covid patients recovered here, bringing the active caseload in the capital down to 462. By the end of Tuesday, only two districts – Ranchi and East Singhbhum – had an active caseload of more than 100. At least 14 recoveries against 10 fresh cases of infection brought the active caseload in Hazaribag below the 100-mark on Tuesday. As per NHM data, as many as 98 people were battling Covid-19 in Hazaribag. The active caseload in East Singhbhum was 155. The growth rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand also dropped to 0.03 per cent on Tuesday against the national average of 0.13 per cent. The doubling rate of cases, on the other hand, crossed the 2000-day-mark in the state on Tuesday against the national doubling rate of 530 days, the NHM bulletin stated. Meanwhile, one more suspected case of Covid-induced Mucormycosis surfaced in Jharkhand on Tuesday, taking the total count of suspected cases in the state to 54. So far, 82 confirmed cases of black fungus have been reported in the state and at least 26 patients have died while 52 have recovered, highlights government data. The state on Tuesday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 93,393 residents and more than 74,000 of them were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years, a separate report from NHM stated. The second jab of the vaccine was administered to 18823 beneficiaries on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-13
23-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand extends services of 60 doctors to tide over immediate crisis ||The Jharkhand government has decided to extend the services of 60 doctors for another six months in view of the acute shortage of healthcare personnel at a time when the country is battling a pandemic. At a Cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday evening, it was decided that 60 doctors, who are set to retire by March 2022, would continue to be on government rolls for six months more. The one-time extension order applies to both teaching and non-teaching cadres. Sources in the government specified that those retiring between May 2021 and September 2021 can now work till March 2022. Similarly, those retiring between October 2021 and March 2022, will also get an extension of six months from the date of their retirement. As per health department records, of the 2,316 sanctioned posts of doctors in the non-teaching cadre, only 1,597 posts are filled.  Of these, 44 doctors were set to retiring by March next year. In the teaching cadre, only 285 of 591 sanctioned posts are filled. Of these, doctors occupying 15 of these posts were due to retire at various points of time till March 2022. Most of these doctors are posted at various medical colleges of the state. A senior professor of the medicine department of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) welcomed the Jharkhand Cabinet decision. "I am due to retire in December. But now, I can serve for an additional six months. It is a prudent decision of the government as paucity of manpower is difficult to address overnight, especially during a pandemic,” he said. The doctor also highlighted a problem that everyone knows of but is seldom addressed seriously. Few doctors are willing to serve in areas aware from towns and cities. As a result, despite several recruitment drives, Jharkhand is unable to hire enough doctors. "As a result, the state is facing issues in the delivery of healthcare in remote districts," he added. As many as 15 decisions were taken at Tuesday's cabinet meeting headed by Hemant. Among them are the state government's nod to the direct recruitment of eight sportspersons, formation of statutes on minimum qualification for appointment of teachers and other academic staff in colleges and universities, allotment of 200 acres of land to Patratu Vidyut Urja Nigam Limited (PVUNL), a joint venture of NTPC and the state government, for setting up a 4,000 MW power plant at Patratu in Ramgarh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-13
23-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Ranchi Rath Yatra unlikely to be held this time too||The over three-century old Rath Yatra (chariot festival) of Jagannathpur in Ranchi is unlikely to be held this time too, like last year. Though no official announcements have been made till now and the ongoing partial lockdown may be relaxed further, if not totally withdrawn, by July 12 when the festival is scheduled to be held, people feel that the administration, considering the present situation, may not allow taking out a procession with the deities on the chariot, let alone organising the fair that had become a part of the festivity for the past 300 years. “We have requested for a meeting with chief minister Hemant Soren for discussing the matter and expecting to hear from his office soon,” Chandrakant Raipat, the secretary of the temple management committee, said on Monday, adding the final decision would be taken after that. The presiding deities — Lord Jagannath and his siblings, brother Balabhadra or Balaram and sister Subhadra — are placed on the chariot and taken to their Mausi Bari about half a kilometre away every year and a large fair, along the route and beyond, is also held that draws a huge number of devotees. But the 330-year old tradition was broken last year when the administration did not allow the festivities due to the Covid situation prevailing then and instead asked the temple authorities to perform the rituals with limited people inside the temple complex. As such, the rath did not move and no fair was organised last year and only the rituals were performed by a limited number of priests in the presence of a few committee members within the closed complex. Many wonder if it will be the same this time too as even the Jagannath temple in Puri will also organise the Rath Yatra without devotees this year. “I think performing the rituals will be allowed as it was done last year but we are in favour of taking out the deities to Mausi Bari,” said someone close to the temple authorities who did not want to be identified. They were also in favour of taking preventive measures for arresting the spread of Covid-19 and would arrange an alternative vehicle for the deities, he further said, adding that taking the deities to Mausi Bari was a part of both the ritual and tradition. The Jagannathpur Temple  was built by local ruler Aini Nath Shahdeo. According to legend, Shahdeo was about to set out for Puri but could not make it as he faced certain obstructions. When the king became depressed, the Lord, it is believed, himself instructed him, in a dream, to build a temple in Ranchi and worship him there. Thus, the ruler completed the temple construction on a hillock at the present Jagannathpur area. Rath Yatra and a fair started there in 1691 and continued uninterrupted since then. The temple later developed a crack and was renovated about 25 years ago. “We are not aware if Rath Yatra was ever interrupted here,” Raipat said, adding the situation was different these two years when even the Puri event had to be cancelled last year. The tribals, who were in a majority in the area that time, patronised the event. Though Ranchi grew enormously with passage of time and the mela started looking more like an urban affair, the tribals still visit it in large number as do others from the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-13
23-06-2021||Jharkhand||Cop clears waterlogged road in Dumka||A young police officer in Dumka district of Jharkhand has gone the extra mile in resolving a civic problem beyond his mandated responsibilities. Shyamal Mandal, 26, officer-in-charge of Kathitund police station, around 25km from the district headquarters, used a shovel to create a passage to drain out ankle-deep water on the main road in the local market on Wednesday morning. “It was nothing great. I usually go for patrolling in civvies in the morning. A particular stretch of the Kathitund Main Road was waterlogged after overnight rain creating problem for the traders and masses. I discussed with the traders and arranged for a shovel to cut a small passage so that the water could flow into the nearby drain. Though it was not in my line of duty but I had this urge to help,” said Mandal, who graduated in history honours in 2015 and is from the 2018 cadre of the Jharkhand Staff Selection Commission (JSSC). The traders were happy and pleasantly surprised by the officer’s work. “The act has created a change in our mindset about the men in uniform. We usually looked down upon Kathitund cops for being hand-in-glove with illegal stone-crushing unit operators and other negative activities. But this was a nice surprise to see the head of the police station trying to sort out a civic problem on his own. The police official also arranged for a JCB (excavator) and stone chips to fill the potholes on the road caused by the waterlogging,” said Suvidya Kumar, a grocery shop owner in Kathitund market. The act also earned praise from seven-time Shikaripara MLA and senior JMM leader Nalin Soren. “Usually police officials advise residents to approach the road construction department or civic authorities (the mukhiya since the area falls under a panchayat) to sort out the issue or they themselves ask the civic authorities to repair the roads. It is a rare thing to see an officer-in-charge of a police station carry out road work. I would certainly write to the Dumka superintendent of police Amber Lakra to felicitate the young officer. I will also write to the road construction department to arrange for repair of the road at the earliest,” said Soren. Several attempts to contact the Dumka SP failed to elicit a response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-13
23-06-2021||Jharkhand||Infant with rare birth defect cured in Jamshedpur||A paediatric surgery team of a private hospital in Jamshedpur gave a new lease of life to an infant detected with congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH), a rare birth defect. “Usually CDH is detected immediately after birth but here the child had history of multiple hospital admissions since birth and has been treated for repeated pneumonia episodes. The disease is very rare to for a seven-month-old,” said Dr Soumyo Ghosh, the paediatric and neo-natal surgeon, who led the surgery at Dr Abhishek Child Care and Maternity Hospital. “The occurrence of the disease is around 3 per 10,000 live births,” Dr Ghosh said. CDH is a defect in an unborn baby’s diaphragm, the muscle that divides the chest cavity and abdominal cavity. CDH occurs when the diaphragm does not close the right way during the baby’s development and abdominal organs push through the defect into the chest cavity. This can occur on the left or right side, but left is more common. The organs that come up into the chest can press on the lungs and can result in a condition in which the lungs remain small and underdeveloped, also called pulmonary hypoplasia. Some babies with CDH also develop conditions affecting their heart, liver, intestines and nervous system development. CDH is not usually inherited, and its cause is not known. It is seen during a routine prenatal ultrasound in the first or second trimester.  In Jharkhand, the case rate of CDH is around two cases in one year. “Father Neel Mohan Pradhan from Gamharia in Seraikela-Kharsawan district was not from an affluent background. The baby was admitted on June 8 with complaints of vomiting and not tolerating feed. After proper examination and investigation, the baby was detected to have CHD, which is a life threatening condition needing surgical treatment,” said Dr Ghosh. The paediatric team led by Dr Ghosh along with general surgeon Dr Abhijit Kundu, paediatric critical care expert Dr P.L. Rath, paediatrician Dr Abhishek Kumar and paediatric cardiologist Dr Pankaj Gupta did the surgery on June 10. Following the surgery, the baby was placed to paediatric ICU for 72 hours. “After the surgery the baby recovered well and was discharged on June 17 and is under regular follow-up,” said Dr Ghosh. According to sources, the cost of similar surgeries in private hospitals in Metro cities would have cost anywhere between Rs 3 to Rs 4 lakh. But it was done at the hospital for around Rs 1 lakh out of which nearly Rs 30,000 was waived off due to financial condition of the parents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-14
