24-06-2021||Calcutta||Road repair suggestions for Calcutta Municipal Corporation ||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has drawn up a list of 132 roads that are riddled with potholes and need immediate repairs. Immediate repairs in Calcutta means patchwork repair that does not last beyond a few spells of rain. Some of Calcutta's busiest roads are in bad shape, including SP Mukherjee Road, Harish Mukherjee Road, Ultadanga Main Road, AJC Bose Road and Cossipore Road. The Park Circus seven-point crossing is in poor shape, too. The gaping potholes suggest the roads were not built in a manner to withstand the type of rain the city gets, engineers said. The water that had accumulated on some stretches seeped in because of irregularities in the process of compaction of materials that form the sub-base, the layer just beneath the road surface. “The middle layer of the road, the sub-base, is very crucial. In most cases, irregular compaction in this layer results in subsidence,” said Partha Ghosh, of the construction engineering department of Jadavpur University. “If this layer is not built properly, there won’t be regular distribution of vehicle load. As a result, there will be a settlement or depression. This can happen in any season.” When water accumulates in these settlements during the monsoon, it begins to seep into the layer just beneath the road surface. This happens because bitumen is not waterproof. Once water seeps into the middle layer of a road, it breaks the bond between different components of this layer. “When vehicle load is transferred from the top, this bond gets broken further and the components start to segregate,” said an engineer. This results in the level beneath the top getting exposed, leading to development of craters. Once there is a crater on a road surface, the adjoining area becomes “distressed” and the road surface continues to weaken. To ensure there is no depression on a road surface, the middle layer should be carefully done with sand, gravel and stone dust. “The soil of Calcutta is soft and when the drainage system adjoining a road surface is not well maintained, accumulation of rain water becomes inevitable,” said Subhajit Sarawasti of JU, who specialises in geotechnical engineering. “Any patchwork on a relatively moist surface doesn’t last.” “Patchwork repairs on some stretches have begun by covering the potholes with brick pieces. A layer of bitumen from our hot mix plant will then be put on the top,” an official in the CMC’s roads department said. Experts said instead of using brick and bitumen, it would be better if these potholes are repaired with quick-setting cement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
24-06-2021||Calcutta||Man arrested for operating Covid-19 jab camp posing as IAS officer||A man who allegedly impersonated an IAS officer attached to the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and organised several “Covid vaccination camps” over the past fortnight without the health department’s approval was arrested on Tuesday. Jadavpur MP Mimi Chakraborty was among the 200 who took shots at a camp organised by the accused, identified as Debanjan Deb, 28, in Kasba on Tuesday. Police are trying to find out whether the shots administered at the camps organised by Deb were of Covid vaccines. None of those who got “inoculated” at the camp on Tuesday got a certificate or any acknowledgement from the government, which has raised suspicion about the authenticity of the shots, officers said. An officer who has examined the “vaccine vials” said there was no mention of manufacture or expiry dates on some of them. Deb has purportedly come up with multiple versions about the source of the doses. He is said to have told the police that he procured a part of the doses from someone in the state health department and the rest from the Bagree market, a wholesale hub in Burrabazar. Deputy commissioner (south suburban division) Rashid Munir Khan said samples of the liquid that was administered on Tuesday had been sent for tests. The chairperson of the CMC’s board of administrators, Firhad Hakim, said the camp organised by Deb did not have the mandatory clearance of the state health department. “It (the camp) did not have any clearance from the health department. The corporation was also not aware of anything like this,” Hakim said. According to the government rule, if a private organisation wants to hold a vaccination camp, it can contact the local municipal body or tie up with a private hospital that is licensed to administer vaccines, a health department official said. “The organisation has to fill in a form mentioning details of the venue…. The form is sent to the health department. The CoWIN registration details of the aspirants also have to be shared beforehand, based on which the municipal body or the private hospital carries vaccines to the spot,” the official said. Deb is believed to have conducted several camps and the shots were given for free. At the same Kasba venue, a camp was conducted on June 10 and 11. Deb, who allegedly org-anised the camps under the banner of his NGO, had invited MP Mimi Chakraborty on Tuesday. “A person who had introduced himself as an IAS officer invited me to a camp where transgenders and physically challenged people would be vaccinated. I agreed to attend to encourage everyone to get vaccinated. In fact I took the shot myself. When I asked for the certificate, I was told that I would receive it in a few days. I got suspicious and alerted the police,” said actor-MP Chakraborty. The police said they had come across people who claimed Deb had arranged the Russian-made Covid vaccine, Sputnik V, at one of the camps. Hakim said the CMC had sought from the police a list of all people who had got shots at the camps organised by Deb. CMC officials will visit their homes to check on them. A vehicle with a blue beacon and the national emblem has been seized from Deb’s possession. Deb is said to have told the police that he has a master’s in genetics and was posing as an IAS officer to “please” his father, who was a deputy excise collector and wanted his son to be a bureaucrat. The police suspect Deb used to organise the “vaccination camps” to catch potential targets for other frauds. “He runs a full-fledged office with 12 to 15 employees and pays them salaries of up to Rs 35,000. Without any income it is impossible to maintain so many staff,” said an officer of Kasba police station. Hakim said he had requested the state health department to start an online portal where private bodies willing to organise Covid vaccination camps will have to register. “The information should be available to the local civic body and the police to prevent recurrence of anything like this,” Hakim said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
24-06-2021||Calcutta||Private vaccination centres receive dosage allotments but cannot make payments||Over 200 private vaccination centres in Bengal, most of them small units, were finally allotted doses but they were not sure when they would get the consignments because a central norm stood in their way of paying for the jabs till Wednesday night. The state government had asked all private healthcare units to submit their demands for June and July, which it would send to the vaccine manufacturers through the Centre. The state government received the allocation list for June on Monday and sent it to the vaccination centres on Tuesday. “We had submitted a demand for around 16.5 lakh doses of Covishield and about 3.6 lakh doses of Covaxin for the private units for June. But the Centre has sanctioned only around 8.4 lakh doses of Covishield and no Covaxin for June,” a senior official of the state health department said on Wednesday. Some private hospitals have received approvals for July, too, but the number of doses has not been specified, officials of the hospitals said. However, even after receiving the allotments, the private centres could not make payments. “An official of the Union health ministry has told us that the immunisation officer of every district has to approve and identify the vaccination centres and the exact allotments. Only after that will the vaccination centres be allowed to pay the manufacturers through the health ministry portal. We expect the issue to be resolved by Thursday night,” said the state health department official. The Sun Hospital in Burdwan has received an allotment of 2,000 doses of Covishield for June. “We had been trying to get the doses but there was no response from the manufacturers. But we are unable to make the payment now, despite the allotment,” said Sk Alhajuddin, the owner of the nursing home and also chairman of Progressive Nursing Homes and Hospitals Association. According to the health department official, the state government had sent the demands on June 15 and had to make several requests to the Centre for the allotments. The Telegraph has reported that many private hospitals and diagnostic centres that cannot afford to order doses in bulk were not able to procure doses after the Centre made it mandatory for private centres to purchase vaccines directly from manufacturers from May 1. “The state government’s initiative will help private hospitals procure more doses. Till now, we were procuring doses centrally, through our headquarters, but now it can be done locally as well. We have received an allotment for 9,500 doses of Covishield for June,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, which runs the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. Narayan Memorial Hospital in Behala has been informed that it will get Covaxin and Sputnik V in July. “But the list does not mention the number of doses. We are waiting for it,” said Suparna Sengupta, the CEO of the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
24-06-2021||Calcutta||West Bengal Joint Entrance Exam to be held in-person on July 17, results by Aug 14||The state joint entrance examinations will be held in-person on July 17 for admission to undergraduate courses in engineering, pharmacy and architecture institutes across Bengal. The Bengal JEE board said they had no option but to conduct in-person exams because the AICTE — the apex body that regulates engineering education in the country — has stipulated that engineering aspirants have to write an entrance test, pen-and-paper or online, to pursue a BTech programme. The results will be published by August 14. A three-phased centralised online counselling will be held by September 15. The Class X and XII board exams had earlier been cancelled because of the renewed surge in Covid cases. “We will hold the exam in-person because of the digital divide,” JEE board chairman Malayendu Saha said. Compared with the higher secondary exams, much fewer students write the state JEE. Saha said: “Although Class XII students appear in the test, (the state) JEE will be written by 92,695 candidates. About 10 lakh candidates were to write the (Bengal) HS examinations. Since the number (of JEE examinees) is much lesser, we hope all safety protocols will be adhered to while conducting the test.” The state JEE had earlier been scheduled for July 11. “The candidates were given multiple options so they could be assigned centres near home to write the test. Accordingly, they have been allotted centres. So we will be able to conduct the exams,” Saha said. Since the allocation process is over, centres can no longer be changed, JEE board registrar Dibyendu Kar said. “The candidates will benefit if the state government allows resumption of public transport,” Saha said. The engineering entrance exams will be held at 274 centres. Booklets on safety measures will be distributed to those who will be in charge of the centres. “An elaborate counselling schedule has been drawn up for the convenience of the aspirants. Over the past few years, engineering aspirants were leaving the state to pursue engineering. We earnestly appeal to them that they fully utilise our infrastructure and resources,” he said. The Telegraph had in November reported that as many as 20,000 of the 34,000-odd engineering seats had remained vacant after admission through centralised counselling by the JEE board. On Wednesday, the JEE board announced that it would hold 11 other entrance exams, including the undergraduate admission tests of Presidency University.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
24-06-2021||Calcutta||Blockade at Sonarpur station seeking resumption of trains||Close to 1,000 people, most of them daily commuters in the Sealdah South suburban section, squatted on railway tracks and platforms at Sonarpur for over four hours on Wednesday morning. They had two demands — resumption of local trains as early as possible and they be allowed to board the staff special trains till the services resume. The suburban railway services have been suspended since May 6 to check the second wave of Covid-19. The special trains are meant for railway staff and other essential service providers designated by the state government. A city doctor said the resumption of local trains risked an increase in the number of cases, especially since many passengers from suburbs were still not vaccinated. “If possible, the full fleet should be run to avoid overcrowding to the extent possible,” said the doctor. Wednesday morning’s protest was not an isolated one, said railway officials. The special trains are running packed and Railway Protection Force personnel are having a tough time keeping “unauthorised passengers” off them, they said. “Unauthorised passengers” refer to the large number of people who used to come from southern and northern suburbs on local trains every day to the city to work as masons, plumbers, vegetable sellers, daily wage earners, domestic help and hawkers. The agitation started around 7.30am at Sonarpur station on Wednesday. A Sealdah-bound special train from Canning was stuck for hours as were several other special trains at stations like Diamond Harbour and Baruipur. The blockade was lifted a little before noon after the RPF and GRP personnel persuaded the protesters to submit their demands in writing so that they could be forwarded to the respective authorities in the railways and the state government. “I would have joined the agitation if I was there,” said Bina Dhara, a resident of Khurigachhi, around 6km from Sonarpur station. Dhara, who worked as a domestic help in four houses at Jodhpur Park, used to travel to Dhakuria from Sonarpur. She lost all four jobs after the train services were suspended. A mother of a teenage girl, Dhara now works at a couple of homes in Sonarpur town. “I used to earn Rs 9,500 in Calcutta. Here, I get only Rs 4,500. My husband is ailing and he does not earn anything. Our livelihood is dependent on local trains,” said Dhara. Before the pandemic, the Howrah and Sealdah divisions, which saw around 400 and 900 daily local trains, respectively, accounted for a passenger volume of close to 30 lakh daily. Now, around 80 and 250 special trains run every day in the Howrah and Sealdah suburban sections, respectively, said officials. The Sealdah South suburban section has been witnessing the maximum number of skirmishes between people demanding to get on special trains and men in uniform stopping them. “Stations like Diamond Harbour, Canning, Baruipur and Sonarpur used to have thousands of daily passengers to Sealdah. These are the places where there is the maximum rush to get on a train,” said an RPF officer in the Sealdah section.“We are allowing only people with monthly passes issued by the state government. Stopped from boarding the trains, there is a common refrain — please provide us with livelihood opportunities then. We don’t know what to say,” said the officer. An official in the Howrah division said the situation was similar on the Howrah-Burdwan and Howrah-Bandel stretches. Prakash Dey, a Bandel resident who works at a pharmacy on Brabourne Road, has got a pass that allows him to board a train to Howrah every day.  “It is saddening to see people like me not being allowed on trains. They are trying hard to earn a livelihood,” he said. A senior official of the Sealdah division said the number of special trains had been increased by 50 in the past week. “We will further increase the number of special trains if need be. But for the resumption of local trains, the nod has to come from the state government,” he said. An official in the Bengal administration said “overcrowded local trains were fertile grounds for a surge in Covid cases”. “We had stopped the trains to check the spread of the virus. Now that the numbers have come down, we will review the situation and take a call on the next step,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
24-06-2021||Calcutta||One arrested for robbery at three buildings in Salt Lake||A man was arrested from Ghutiari Sharif in South 24-Parganas on Wednesday for allegedly stealing laptops, computer peripherals, silverware and cash from three adjacent buildings in Salt Lake’s CG Block on Monday morning. An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said Javed Laskar, 25, from Jibantala in South 24-Parganas, had broken into an web development office on the ground floor of house No. 241 in CG Block. “Eighteen monitors and computer peripherals were stolen,” said Deepak Joshi, the owner of the company that operates from the house. Laskar then allegedly made his way to CG 243, which houses a dental clinic on the ground floor. There, too, he broke the lock on the front gate of the clinic and stole a laptop and a tablet. Rudradeb Sanyal, the owner of the clinic, said there was a CCTV camera inside but Laskar spotted it and took away the hard disk. “The clinic was completely ransacked,” he said. Laskar’s alleged final stop was CG 240, where he used a rod to enter the house from the rear. Surendra Bansal, the owner of the house, said his domestic help woke him up around 4.30am after hearing some noise. “We went out and saw at least two men. One was holding a rod. Before we could realise what was going on, the men pushed my help and fled. A handbag containing Rs 19,000 is missing,” said Bansal. Sanyal, Bansal and Joshi lodged complaints with Bidhannagar East police station on Monday. “We scanned CCTV footage from other buildings. The men fled in an e-rickhshaw. We are trying to track other members of the gang,” said the officer. Laskar was produced in a Salt Lake court on Wednesday and was sent to four days’ police custody. The string of thefts have left residents of the township jittery. “The police must increase patrolling,” said Kumar Shankar Sadhu, of the Bidhannagar Salt Lake Residents' Welfare Society. A senior officer of Bidhannagar commissionerate said they had increased patrolling especially during early morning and dusk.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
24-06-2021||Calcutta||Jadavpur University VC Suranjan Das’s term extended by 2 years||The higher education department on Wednesday extended the tenure of Jadavpur University vice-chancellor Suranjan Das by two years or till he turns 70, whichever is earlier. The first extension of Das’s tenure — issued on June 23, 2019, after the Assembly passed a Bill to raise the retirement age of VCs from 65 to 70 —was till Wednesday. The retirement age of VCs was increased so that institutes can retain experienced academics, an official in the education department said. “The university secured outstanding ranking in the National Institutional Ranking Framework during Das’s tenure. He organised a fundraiser during the pandemic to help students hit by the digital divide. We want to retain an academic like him,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
24-06-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s University conducts Covid-19 vaccination drive||St Xavier’s University, New Town, and St Xavier’s University Kolkata Alumni Association (SXUKAA) organised a vaccination drive on the university campus on Wednesday. Vice-chancellor Felix Raj said 225 beneficiaries, including Jesuit priests, university employees, security personnel, construction workers and residents of the neighbourhood got their jabs on the campus. “More such drives will be conducted,” the VC said. The event was organised in collaboration with the state department of health and family welfare.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
24-06-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 393 points amid firm global cues||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 393 points on Thursday, tracking gains in Infosys, TCS and HDFC Bank amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 392.92 points or 0.75 per cent higher at 52,699. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 103.50 points or 0.66 per cent to 15,790.45. Infosys was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 3 per cent, followed by TCS, Tech Mahindra, HCL Tech and Asian Paints. On the other hand, Reliance Industries, Bharti Airtel, PowerGrid and SBI were among the laggards. According to Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, benchmarks recovered sharply mainly led by sharp rebound in financials and IT. Improved prospects of sustained earnings recovery and recent weakness in rupee also augur well for IT stocks, he said, adding that favourable cues from global markets also aided sentiments. Further, RIL AGM was in focus today in second half of the session, and investors seemed to be in a profit booking mode, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with gains. Equities in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.16 per cent higher at USD 75.31 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-10
24-06-2021||Business||Mukhesh Ambani reveals JioPhone Next, world’s cheapest smartphone||Reliance Industries Chairman Mukesh Ambani on Thursday announced 'JioPhone Next', a power-packed affordable smartphone that has been jointly developed by Jio and tech titan Google. JioPhone Next will be available from September 10, and will be the most affordable smartphone globally, Ambani said while addressing RIL's annual general meeting. The "extremely affordable" smartphone will have cutting-edge features, including voice assistant and language translation, among others, he said. He further said Reliance Jio will use Google Cloud for 5G. Last year, Google had announced an investment of Rs 33,737 crore for a 7.7 per cent stake in Reliance Industries' technology venture Jio Platforms. The tech giant had also teamed up on technology initiatives, including development of affordable smartphones for the price-sensitive, tech-savvy Indian market. Among the other announcements made during the convention was Saudi Aramco chairman and head of the Kingdom's cash-rich wealth fund PIF, Yasir Othman Al-Rumayyan joining the board of Reliance Industries as an independent director in a precursor to a USD 15 billion deal. Ambani, who had two years back disclosed talks to sell a 20 per cent stake in the company's oil-to-chemical (O2C) unit to Saudi Aramco, announced the appointment of Al-Rumayyan at the company's annual meeting of shareholders. Harvard educated, Al-Rumayyan, 51, will replace Yogendra P Trivedi, 92, who has expressed desire to retire, Ambani said at the company's annual shareholder meeting. On the sale of 20 per cent stake in the O2C business, he said the deal is likely to conclude this year. "We look forward to welcoming Saudi Aramco as a strategic partner in our O2C business," he said. Ambani also announced a Rs 75,000 crore investment in setting up four 'Giga' factories to make solar photovoltaic cells, green hydrogen, batteries and fuel cells over the next three years. He said Reliance will set up 100 GW of solar power generating capacity. "We plan to build four Giga Factories to manufacture and integrate all critical components of the new energy ecosystem: solar photovoltaic module factory, energy storage battery factory, electrolyser factory, fuel cell factory," Ambani said. These four factories will involve an investment of Rs 60,000 crore. "We will invest an additional Rs 15,000 crore in the value chain, partnerships and future technologies, including upstream and downstream industries. Thus, our overall investment in the new energy business will be Rs 75,000 crore in 3 years," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-10
24-06-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking gains in index majors Infosys, TCS and HDFC Bank amid heavy foreign fund inflow.  The 30-share BSE index was trading 216.23 points or 0.41 per cent higher at 52,522.31 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 59.95 points or 0.38 per cent to 15,746.90.  TCS was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 1 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, L&T, Infosys, UltraTech Cement, ICICI Bank, SBI and Axis Bank.  On the other hand, Titan, NTPC, Bajaj Auto and Reliance Industries were among the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex index ended 282.63 points or 0.54 per cent lower at 52,306.08, while Nifty declined 85.80 points or 0.54 per cent to 15,686.95.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 3,156.53 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data.  According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities look to be modestly good as of now. Sharp contraction in daily caseload and ramp-up in vaccination programmes offer comfort to the market.  "We believe expectations of a sharp improvement in high-frequency key economic indicators from the current month supported by ease in business curbs in various states should continue to offer support to corporate earnings," he added.  US equities traded sideways and ended mixed on Wednesday after two days of back-to-back gains.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the red.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.12 per cent higher at USD 75.28 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-10
24-06-2021||Business||Amit Mitra suggests ‘course correction’ to steer functioning of GST Council||Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra has suggested a ‘course correction’ to steer the functioning of the GST Council and bring back a ‘consensual atmosphere’ instead of the ‘acrimonious’ undercurrent which has engulfed this top federal decision-making body of indirect tax. In a letter written to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Mitra noted how the GST regime is going through a ‘dangerous time’ with the shortfall in tax collection and fraudulent transactions hitting a peak. He called for the need to ‘rebuild trust and faith’ among diverse political constituents who are part of the Council. “What pains me most is that the GST Council meetings have become acrimonious, vexing and almost toxic with erosion of mutual trust that had held fast between states and the Centre since the inception of the GST Council,” Mitra wrote in his latest letter to Sitharaman. The Bengal FM cited many past instances when the chair of the council, which is constitutionally filled by the Union FM, yielded to suggestions from even a single state and in return, states agreed to central proposals despite their reservations. “But I am afraid that arriving at such consensus, even for simple matters, have become elusive,” Mitra wrote, adding that “…an undercurrent has emerged in the recent times that while the chair hears the submissions of all the states very patiently, there is a predetermined conclusion with which the government of India, aided by its top bureaucrats, comes to the GST Council meetings.” While Mitra did not name anyone, his examples suggested that Sitharaman’s predecessor Arun Jaitley used to be more patient with Council constituents and worked to build consensus. Compensation balloons The Centre may have to arrange Rs 74,398 crore to compensate the states on account of a shortfall in GST collection in 2020-21. This amount would be payable to the states by factoring in a 3 per cent negative growth during 2020-21, and over and above the Rs 1,10,000 crore borrowed by the Centre and transferred back to back to the states to meet the shortfall in the compensation cess pool. The cess collection in the last fiscal stood at Rs 91,000 crore. Bengal is expected to get Rs 3,850 crore from the outstanding payment from the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-10
24-06-2021||Business||DHFL committee of creditors vote against proposal to raise payouts||The committee of creditors (CoC) of Dewan Housing Finance Ltd (DHFL) has voted against a proposal to raise payouts made to fixed deposit holders and non-convertible debenture (NCDs) investors. If the proposal was accepted, the recovery for fixed deposit holders would have gone up to around 41 per cent from 23 per cent of their total claim earlier. The CoC voted on the proposal after the National Company Law Tribunal suggested it on June 7 when it approved the Piramal group’s resolution plan for the housing finance company. The fixed deposit holders had submitted claims of Rs 5,299 crore of which Rs 1,240 crore was accepted. They would have recovered an additional amount of around Rs 1,000 crore had the lenders cleared this proposal. “Considering the number of small investors and senior citizens who have to meet higher expenses, especially in this pandemic situation, and  other essential needs... we are of the view that they should get a fair, increased share money out of the resolution plan,” the division bench of Justice Ravikumar Duraisamy and Justice H P Chaturvedi had observed in their June 7 order. The tribunal, therefore, proposed that with regard to the distribution among various creditors such as fixed deposit holders, NCD holders, small investors, Employees Provident Fund Trust, the CoC should look at increasing the payments to them. Sources said around 89.19 per cent of the creditors voted against the proposal. The lenders had also put to vote payment of an additional sum of around Rs 500 crore to unsecured NCD holders and the entire admitted claim of Rs 39 crore made by the Army Group Insurance Fund. These proposals were also turned down by the financial creditors. In January this year, the CoC had voted in favour of selling DHFL to the Piramal group under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-11
24-06-2021||Business||Vaccination rebate on air fares||Take the jab, get a discount! From flight tickets to burgers to fixed deposit rates, consumers are flooded with such offers that double up as a sales promotion as the economy limps back to recovery after the second-wave restrictions are gradually lifted. Budget carrier IndiGo is offering a discount of up to 10 per cent to vaccinated individuals, including those who have got the first dose. This discount will be available from Wednesday. It will be calculated on the basic fare. “This offer will not only strengthen their resolve towards vaccination, but also ensure that they can travel safely at affordable fares with IndiGo,” Sanjay Kumar, chief strategy & revenue officer of IndiGo, said. The airline clarified that limited inventory is available under the offer and, therefore, the discounts are subject to availability. This offer cannot be clubbed with any other offer, scheme or promotion. Aviation analysts said carriers have price bands to play with and the discount would be within that to attract passengers as the unlocking of the restrictions have provided an opportunity for increased movement. It is likely that other carriers could come up with counter-offers as airlines across the board have been hit by the pandemic. Uco Bank has announced that it is offering 30 basis points, or 0.30 per cent, higher interest on fixed deposits of 999 days for applicants who have received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. The Central Bank of India’s Immune India Deposit Scheme offers an additional 25 basis points for FD with a maturity period of 1,111 days. Senior citizens who have got vaccinated will get 0.50 per cent higher interest rate on fixed deposits. Godrej Appliances is offering extended warranty for its products for individuals who have taken at least one dose of the vaccine. McDonald’s India (north and east) has launched the “We Care” initiative on its mobile application that allows vaccinated customers to access special deals like a 20 per cent discount on a minimum order of Rs 500.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-11
24-06-2021||Business||Nirav Modi loses first stage of extradition appeal in London court||Nirav Modi has lost the first stage of his extradition appeal in a London court just over two months after the wanted diamond merchant’s extradition to India was ordered by UK home secretary Priti Patel in the estimated $2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case. The case was before a high court judge for a decision “on the papers” submitted to determine if there are any grounds for an appeal against the home secretary’s decision on April 16 or the Westminster Magistrates Court’s February ruling in favour of Modi’s extradition to India to face charges of fraud and money laundering. A high court official confirmed that the permission to appeal was “rejected on paper” on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-11
24-06-2021||Business||ED recovers 40% of money laundered by Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi and Vijay Mallya||The enforcement directorate (ED) on Wednesday said they have recovered 40 per cent of the money, which is Rs 9,0141.5 crore, allegedly laundered by Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi and Vijay Mallya even as the Centre has fired blanks in its recent attempts to bring back Choksi from the Carribean, which involved sending a special plane from India all the way to Dominica. The ED’s announcement is being seen as an attempt to cover up the government’s embarrassment over its failure to promptly extradite Mehul Choksi from Dominica after his alleged abduction from neighbouring Antigua where he is a citizen. While the names of Modi and Choksi allegedly figure in the Rs 13,500-crore scam at PNB, Mallya owes around Rs 9,000 crore to more than a dozen banks. According to the agency, the trio have siphoned off funds through their companies which resulted in a total loss of Rs 22,585.83 crore to the lenders. The ED said that after the FIRs were filed by the CBI against the trio, it took swift action and seized assets worth Rs 18,170.02 crore, including Rs 969 crore in foreign countries. The sum represents 80.45 per cent of the total bank losses. Tax pacts The Cabinet on Wednesday approved an agreement between India and the Carribean nations Saint Vincent and the Grenadines for the exchange of tax information and assistance in collection. The pact is a unique arrangement which will allow representatives from the two nations to enter each other’s territory to interview individuals and examine records for tax purposes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-11
24-06-2021||Business||Guenter Butschek to step down as Tata Motors MD and CEO||Tata Motors on Wednesday said Guenter Butschek will step down as its MD and CEO with effect from June 30. He will, however, continue as a consultant to the company till the end of this fiscal year. The auto major also said it has elevated Girish Wagh as executive director with effect from July 1, 2021. Wagh heads the company’s commercial vehicle operations. In a late night statement, the auto major noted that Butschek, who had informed the company about his desire to relocate to Germany at the end of the contract for personal reasons, will be stepping down from his role as CEO and MD from June 30, 2021. “I would like to thank Guenter for leading Tata Motors successfully over the last five years and creating a strong foundation for the future. I look forward to his continued inputs as a consultant to the company,” Tata Motors chairman N. Chandrasekaran said. Butschek, the former Airbus chief operating officer, had joined Tata Motors as managing director and chief executive of local operations in 2016, filling up the positions left vacant after the death of Karl Slym in January 2014. Since then, he has been on a mission to turn around the bleeding domestic business of the home-grown auto major. Tata Motors’ domestic business has successfully transitioned to a business unit structure, with the commercial vehicles division headed by Wagh and the passenger vehicle division headed by Shailesh Chandra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-11
24-06-2021||Business||Eveready's Burman family want professionals to run the company||The Burman family, which owns Dabur's and is the largest shareholder in Eveready, wants professionals to run the Calcutta-based dry cell battery maker and is open to the idea of raising its stake “at the right price”. The Burmans, who have close to a 20 per cent stake in Eveready, suggested that a team of professionals, headed by a chief executive, should be hired to manage the affairs of the Calcutta-based company. “All we want is that the company should be run professionally. This will benefit all shareholders, large and small,” Mohit Burman, vice-chairman of Dabur India Ltd, told The Telegraph. Amritanshu Khaitan, who belongs to the promoter family of Eveready, is now the managing director. Khaitans now hold only a 4.77 per cent stake in Eveready. Aditya Khaitan, uncle of Amritanshu, is the non-executive chairman. Burman, who spearheads the family’s investments to myriad ventures is mindful of the efforts put in by the present management, including in cleaning up the balance sheet. The battery maker posted a stellar performance operationally in the last fiscal, clocking an 86 per cent growth in operating EBDITA, which stood at Rs 224.7 crore. However, the company ended the fiscal year with a net loss of Rs 309.13 crore on the back of a provision of Rs 629.7 crore, which was linked to financial assistance extended to group firms over the years. “Our view is that the board and company should take a prudent view. If the money is not recoverable, it should be written off, which they have (done) now. The company should try and recover this money through all ways and means available,” Burman added. Asked to comment on the performance of EIL in 2020-21, he underlined how difficult the past year has been. “I think performance on an operation profitability basis has been good given that this was an exceptional year in more ways than one.” However, he maintained Eveready should be run by professionals. Asked if this means hiring a professional CEO, Burman said, “Yes, (a) professional team should be running every company.” The Burmans themselves follow a hands-off style of management where the family members sit on the board but leave the executive role to an outsider who is a professional. The flagship of the family, Dabur India, is a case in point. Even though four members of the family are on the board, it is managed by a professional who is an outsider. Burman Family Holdings, the strategic investment platform of the family, also lets businesses where it invested to be managed by a team of professionals. Some of the notable investments by Burman Family Holdings are Aviva Life Insurance and  Universal Sompo General Insurance. Eveready is not listed under the holdings portfolio, though. Even though the Burmans have made no bones that they want a professional team to run Eveready, cleaning up the balance sheet is likely to make the company more attractive. “A clean up is always good and investors should get a clear and accurate picture about the company’s business and finances,” Burman said, adding that the Burman family would consider buying more shares at the “right price”. The Burman family, which traces its roots to Bengal, invested in Eveready  at an average price of  Rs 80-100. The stock closed at Rs 311.7 on the BSE on Wednesday. “We are satisfied with our investments. We are long term holders,” he said. However, the Calcutta-born industrialist said the family has “no plans” to join the board of Eveready “at the moment”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-11
24-06-2021||India||Maharashtra's Covid-19 infection tally crosses 60 lakh with 9,844 new cases||With the addition of 9,844 new COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra on Thursday, the state's cumulative infection count crossed the grim milestone of 60 lakh, while 197 patients succumbed to the infection, the health department said. The state's total caseload now stands at 60,07,431, said the health department in a statement. With 197 more deaths, the fatality count reached 1,19,859 (which included 359 'old' deaths), it report said. Out of it, 149 deaths occurred in the last 48 hours and 48 in the last week, the department said. Deaths that took place more than a week's ago are being added to the toll as part of a data reconciliation exercise. Under this exercise, 359 previously unreported deaths were added to the toll figure, the statement said. Maharashtra has taken 11 days to add one lakh cases to its tally - which is the slowest pace after the second coronavirus wave hit the state in March. The state had crossed the 59-lakh case mark on June 13. The state's COVID-19 recovery rate is now at 95.93 per cent, while the case fatality rate has increased and reached 2 per cent, the statement said. The state saw the discharge of 9,371 patients in the last 24 hours, pushing the number of recoveries to 57,62,661, it said. The number of active cases stands at 1,21,767, the health department said. There are 5,32,453 people in home quarantine and 4,166 in institutional quarantine, the statement said. With 2,32,578 coronavirus tests in the last 24 hours, the cumulative figure of samples examined so far reached 4,03,60,931, it said. According to the statement, Mumbai city reported 773 new cases and 10 deaths, taking its infection tally to 7,22,736 and the toll to 15,348. In the Mumbai division, comprising the city and its satellite towns, there were 2,312 cases and 47 deaths, of which 31 were added by Raigad district alone. This took the cumulative caseload in the region to 15,83,950 and the death toll to 31,581, it said. The Nashik division reported 748 cases and 12 deaths, the health department said. The Pune division recorded 2,465 infections and 40 fatalities, of which 26 came from Satara district alone, the statement said. The Kolhapur division reported 3,516 new cases and 74 deaths, of which rural parts of Kolhapur accounted for 22 fatalities followed by 16 from Ratnagiri. Kolhapur city added 14 fresh deaths. The Aurangabad division registered 232 new infections and 11 deaths, while the Latur division added 302 cases and six fatalities, the statement said. The Akola division reported 168 cases and five deaths, while the Nagpur division registered 101 infections and two fatalities, it said. Maharashtra's coronavirus figures are as follows: Positive cases 60,07,431; new cases 9,844; deaths 1,19,859; recoveries 57,62,661; active cases 1,21,767; total tests so far 4,03,60,931.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-38
24-06-2021||India||Twitter chief gets relief from Karnataka HC in Ghaziabad case||In a relief to Twitter India head Manish Maheshwari, the Karnataka High Court on Thursday restrained Ghaziabad police, which has summoned him in connection with a probe related to the assault of an elderly Muslim man there, from initiating coercive action against him. The single bench of Justice G Narender said the police can examine Maheshwari through virtual mode. "If the police desire to examine the petitioner (Manish Maheshwari), they may do so through virtual mode," the court said. "If the matter requires consideration, we list it on June 29.In the meanwhile restraining the respondents from initiating any coercive action against the petitioner," the court maintained. "It is case of petitioner that he has replied to notice under section 160 of CrPC to join through virtual mode.The respondent (Ghaziabad police) taking objection to the request has turned around and issued notice under section 41(A) virtually putting him in shoes of accused," it observed. Appearing on behalf of Maheshwari, advocate C V Nagesh said someone had posted a video on the Twitter platform alleging that a Muslim was forced to chant 'Jai Sri Ram' and 'Vande Mataram'. When he refused, his beard was cut. Subsequently a notice under section 161 of the CrPC was issued to Maheshwari by email and responding to it, he said he would be ready to appear virtually. Soon the police issued a notice under section 41(A) asking him to appear in person within 24 hours to travel from Bengaluru to Ghaziabad, which was not possible for Maheshwhari, Nagesh told the court. The court maintained that the petitioner is an employee of Twitter Communication India Private Limited handling marketing and sales and not a member of board of directors to be responsible for uploading of the alleged video based on which the FIR was registered. The Twitter India Managing Director, who lives in Bengaluru in Karnataka, was issued notice by the Ghaziabad Police on June 21 and asked to report at its Loni Border police station at 10.30 am on Thursday to get his statement recorded in the case, officials at Ghaziabad said. "He (Maheshwari) is not coming today," Ghaziabad Senior Superintendent of Police Amit Pathak earlier told PTI. Pathak said the Ghaziabad Police has learnt that the Twitter India MD has given a representation in Karnataka High Court in connection with the case and a decision on that is pending. The Ghaziabad Police had on June 15 booked Twitter Inc, Twitter Communications India, news website The Wire, journalists Mohammed Zubair and Rana Ayyub, besides Congress leaders Salman Nizami, Maskoor Usmani, Shama Mohamed and writer Saba Naqvi. They were booked over the circulation of a video in which the elderly man, Abdul Shamad Saifi, claims he was allegedly thrashed by some young men who also asked him to chant 'Jai Shri Ram' on June 5. The police claim the video was shared to cause communal unrest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-38
24-06-2021||India||PM's J&K outreach: promise of Assembly polls after delimitation exercise||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday told a group of leaders from Jammu and Kashmir that assembly elections there will be held after the completion of the ongoing delimitation exercise, People's Conference leader Muzaffar Hussain Baig said after a crucial meeting to chalk out the future course of action in the union territory. During the three-and-a-half-hour-long meeting, almost all the 14 leaders from Jammu and Kashmir demanded that its statehood, which was removed in August 2019, should be restored, he said. According to official sources, the main focus of the meeting was to strengthen the democratic process and the prime minister said that the government was fully committed to it. This is the first interaction between the central leadership and the mainstream parties since August 5, 2019, when the Centre revoked Jammu and Kashmir's special status under Article 370 of the Constitution and bifurcated it into union territories, Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. Modi stressed that holding Assembly elections, just like the successful conduct of the District Development Council polls, is a priority and that the polls can happen soon after the delimitation exercise, the sources said, adding that by and large, most participants expressed willingness for it. The prime minister stressed that an atmosphere of safety and security needs to be ensured for all sections of society in Jammu and Kashmir and he wanted to remove Dilli ki Duri as well as Dil Ki Duri (distance from Delhi as well as the distance of heart), according to the sources. "The meeting was very cordial and very positive, very dignified. We all agreed that we must work for democracy. The prime minister has assured that he will do everything to make Jammu and Kashmir a zone of peace rather than a zone of conflict," Baig told reporters after the meeting. Baig said the government side conveyed that the assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir will be held after the completion of the ongoing delimitation process. "We were conveyed that the delimitation process will be completed first and thereafter a call will be taken on holding the Assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir," he said. However, he said, no time frame has been given on holding the polls. "Almost everyone at the meeting raised the demand for restoration of the statehood of Jammu and Kashmir," he said, adding the prime minister carefully listened to every issue raised by the political leaders. Almost after an hour of the meeting being over, Modi said that Thursday's meeting was an important step towards making Jammu and Kashmir progressive. "Today’s meeting with political leaders from Jammu and Kashmir is an important step in the ongoing efforts towards a developed and progressive J&K, where all-round growth is furthered," Modi tweeted. "Our priority is to strengthen grassroots democracy in J&K. Delimitation has to happen at a quick pace so that polls can happen and J&K gets an elected Government that gives strength to J&K’s development trajectory," he said in another tweet. The prime minister added, "Our democracy’s biggest strength is the ability to sit across a table and exchange views. I told the leaders of J&K that it is the people, specially the youth who have to provide political leadership to J&K, and ensure their aspirations are duly fulfilled." Union Home Minister Amit Shah said the delimitation exercise and holding of peaceful elections in Jammu and Kashmir are important milestones in restoring statehood as promised in Parliament. "We are committed to ensure all round development of J&K. The future of Jammu and Kashmir was discussed and the delimitation exercise and peaceful elections are important milestones in restoring statehood as promised in Parliament," Shah said in a tweet. He said Thursday's meeting on Jammu and Kashmir was held in a very cordial environment. "Everyone expressed their commitment to democracy and the Constitution. It was stressed to strengthen the democratic process in Jammu and Kashmir," Shah said in another tweet. The four former chief ministers of the erstwhile state who participated in the discussions were Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah of the National Conference, Congress' Ghulam Nabi Azad and PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti. Four former deputy chief ministers were in attendance too - Congress' Tara Chand, People's Conference leader Muzaffar Hussain Baig and BJP's Nirmal Singh and Kavinder Gupta. CPI-M leader Mohammed Yusuf Tarigami, Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP) chief Altaf Bukhari, Sajjad Lone of the People's Conference, J-K Congress head G A Mir, BJP's Ravinder Raina and Panthers Party leader Bhim Singh also formed part of the delegation. Amit Shah, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Sinha, and Minister of State in PMO Jitendra Singh were in attendance too. Today's dialogue came seven months after the District Development Council (DDC) elections in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-38
24-06-2021||India||Board exams: Education minister to answer students' queries on June 25 through social media||Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhiryal 'Nishank' will interact with students through social media on Friday and answer queries related to class 10 and 12 board exams, which were cancelled in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Nishank, who is in the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) undergoing treatment for post-Covid complications, said students have been sending him messages with their queries and apprehensions. "Dear students, I am constantly receiving a lot of your messages and information. Also, you have expressed concern about my health. For this, I would like to express my thanks to all of you and say that I am feeling healthy now. "Some of your apprehensions have also been expressed in your messages. But was unable to communicate with you due to this ongoing treatment in the hospital. If you have any other query related to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) exams then you can send me on Twitter, Facebook, or also by mail," he said in a series of tweets. The Union minister informed that he will answer the queries of students on June 25 at 4 pm through social media. The exams for both class 10 and 12 were cancelled by the CBSE in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The board has announced its alternative assessment policy for both the classes. While schools have been asked to submit class 10 marks till June 30, the deadline for schools to compile class 12 marks is July 15. According to the policy for class 12 results, decided by a 13-member panel set up by the board, the theory paper evaluation formula of 30 per cent weightage will be given to class 10 marks, 30 per cent to class 11 marks and 40 per cent weightage to class 12 marks obtained in unit test/mid-term/pre-board examinations. The CBSE scheme further elaborated that for class 10, the 30 per cent marks based on average theory component of best three performing subjects out of main five subjects will be taken. According to the evaluation criteria announced for class 10 students, while 20 marks for each subject will be for internal assessment as every year, 80 marks will be calculated on basis of the students' performance in various tests or exams throughout the year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-38
24-06-2021||India||Ayesha Sulthana let off by Lakshadweep Police over sedition charges||Filmmaker Ayesha Sulthana, facing allegations of sedition in Lakshadweep, was let off by the Lakshadweep police on Thursday after interrogation. Sulthana was interrogated by the Kavaratti police on Sunday, Wednesday and Thursday in connection with the case registered on the basis of a complaint filed by a BJP leader in the Islands. Emerging from the police station, Kavaratti, after nearly a three-hour long interrogation, Sulthana said, "Everything is over. I am told that I can go back to Kochi. I will reach Kochi tomorrow or a day after." The allegation is that the filmmaker, while participating in a debate telecast by a Malayalam news channel on June 7, had said the Centre used biological weapons against the people of Lakshadweep. Ahead of appearing for Thursday's probe, Sulthana said during the nearly eight-hour long questioning on Wednesday, the police had asked whether she had any contacts abroad. "They checked my WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook accounts. They were searching whether I have any links with foreign countries," she said in a video circulated to the media. Earlier on Sunday, she was questioned for three hours. She appeared before the police after the Kerala High Court granted her interim anticipatory bail for a week, while reserving orders on her advance bail plea. It had directed her to comply with the notice issued by the Kavaratti police to appear before them for interrogation on June 20 in connection with the sedition case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-39
24-06-2021||India||HC to hear Goa govt's appeal against Tarun Tejpal's acquittal on July 29||The Goa bench of the Bombay High Court on Thursday adjourned till July 29 an appeal filed by the Goa government against the acquittal of journalist Tarun Tejpal in a 2013 rape case. A division bench of Justices M S Sonak and M S Jawalkar allowed the government to amend their appeal and serve a copy of the same along with all related documents to Tejpal. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for Tejpal, told the bench they would require some time to prepare. The bench then said it would hear the appeal on July 29. It directed the government to amend their petition within one week and serve a copy of the same in one week thereafter. On May 21, Sessions Judge Kshama Joshi acquitted Tejpal, the former editor-in-chief of the Tehelka magazine, in the case where he was accused of sexually assaulting his then colleague in a lift of a five-star hotel in Goa in November 2013 when they were attending an event. The trial court had in its judgement questioned the victim's conduct, holding that she did not exhibit any kind of normative behaviour such as trauma and shock, which a victim of sexual assault might plausibly show.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-39
24-06-2021||India||Single dose of Pfizer, AstraZeneca jab offers 60 per cent protection, finds Lancet study||A single dose of Pfizer or AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine offers around 60 per cent protection against infection from SARS-CoV-2 in adults aged 65 years and above, according to a study published in The Lancet Infectious Diseases. To obtain real-world data on the effectiveness of these vaccines in care homes, the researchers from the University College London (UCL) in the UK used data from the VIVALDI study. That research investigated SARS-CoV-2 transmission, infection outcomes, and immunity in residents and staff in long-term care facilities in England for adults aged 65 years and older since June 2020. This analysis included long-term care facility residents undergoing routine asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 testing between December 8, 2020 -- the date the first vaccine was administered in the study cohort -- and March 15, 2021 using national testing data linked within the COVID-19 Datastore. This study was completed before the emergence of the Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 now dominating in the UK. The researchers estimated the reduced risk of PCR-positive infection at 0-6 days, 7-13 days, 14-20 days, 21-27 days, 28-34 days, 35-48 days, and 49 days and beyond after vaccination. This was compared with unvaccinated residents, adjusting for age, sex, previous infection, local SARS-CoV-2 incidence, long-term care facility bed capacity, and clustering by long-term care facility. The analysis included 10,412 care home residents aged 65 years and older from 310 facilities, with a median age of 86 years, of whom 70 per cent were female and 1,155 residents (11 per cent) had evidence of previous SARS-CoV-2 infection. A total of 9,160 (88 per cent) residents received at least one vaccine dose during the study period, of whom 6,138 (67 per cent) received AstraZeneca and 3,022 (33 per cent) received Pfizer. Between December 8, 2020, and March 15, this year, there were 36,352 PCR tests carried out, with 1,335 PCR-positive infections detected -- 713 in unvaccinated residents and 612 in vaccinated residents. The risk of infection was 56 per cent lower in vaccinated residents after 28 to 34 days, and 62 per cent lower at 35-48 days. Similar effect sizes at 35-48 days were seen for the AstraZeneca vaccine (68 per cent reduced risk of infection) and the Pfizer vaccine (65 per cent reduced risk). "Single-dose vaccination with either the AstraZeneca or the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine reduces the risk of SARS-CoV-2 in older residents in long-term care facilities, the researchers said. "Our findings suggest that vaccination also has an effect on SARS-CoV-2 transmissibility by reducing the total number of infections in residents, as well as their infectivity," they said. The protective effect of a single dose of vaccination is evident from 4 weeks to at least 7 weeks after vaccination, which provides some evidence to support extension of the interval between doses beyond three weeks, the researchers said. However, even beyond four weeks, a single vaccine dose does not eliminate infection risk, highlighting the continued importance of non-pharmaceutical measures to control transmission within long-term care facilities. "Further work is required to evaluate the effectiveness of the second dose of the vaccine, and the effect of vaccination on transmission," the researchers said. "This knowledge will be critical to inform policy decisions regarding revaccination schedules in this vulnerable population and the disease control measures needed in the short, medium, and long term to protect long-term care facilities from future waves of SARS-CoV-2 infection," they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-39
24-06-2021||India||Sonia asks Congress workers to ensure increase in vaccination pace||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Thursday said the party must play an active role in ensuring full COVID-19 vaccination coverage and address vaccine hesitancy wherever evident. She also said that the country needs to prepare for the possible third wave and take proactive measures so that children are spared this calamity. Addressing a meeting of party general secretaries and in-charges of AICC in various states, she called upon party leaders and workers to continue to put pressure on the union government to ensure that the daily rate of vaccination trebles so that 75 per cent of the population gets fully vaccinated by end of this year. Her comments come in the wake of the BJP accusing the Congress of aiding vaccine hesitancy. "On the pandemic, let me say that it is absolutely essential that our party plays an active role in ensuring full vaccination coverage. At the national level, the daily rate of vaccination has to treble so that 75 per cent of our population gets fully vaccinated by end of this year," she said. "No doubt, this is dependent entirely on the adequacy of vaccine supply.We must continue to put pressure on the Union government which has, at our Party's insistence, finally taken on the responsibility for this. At the same time, we have to ensure that registration takes place, that vaccine hesitancy wherever evident is overcome and vaccine wastage is minimised," she said addressing the party leaders virtually. Quoting experts, she said they are talking of a possible third wave in a few months from now and some have pointed to the vulnerability of children in the coming months. "This too requires our urgent attention and we must take proactive measures so that they are spared this calamity.We have to take steps to be better prepared if and when this strikes," she said. Gandhi said the second wave of coronavirus in the past four months has been devastating for lakhs of families and we must learn from this traumatic experience so that we do not have to experience it yet again. Talking about the white paper on Covid management brought out by the Congress, she said it is being translated in other languages. It is very detailed and needs to be disseminated widely. I hope this gets done urgently, she told the leaders. Referring to the rise in fuel prices, the Congress chief said it is causing an intolerable burden on people and agitations have been organised to highlight how it is hurting farmers and millions of families. Apart from fuel, the prices of many other essential commodities like pulses and edible oils too have skyrocketed causing widespread distress, she noted. "This price rise is taking place at a time when livelihoods are being lost in unprecedented numbers, when there is mounting unemployment and when economic recovery is not a reality," she said. Appreciating the relief work carried out by party workers cross the country during the pandemic, she said that this has been done in the Congress Party's finest traditions of community service. "We must continue our effort. The control rooms will continue to function. The helplines too. Emergency services like ambulances and essential medicines should continue to be provided," Gandhi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-39
24-06-2021||India||Supreme Court directs states to ready Class 12 assessment scheme within 10 days||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed the state boards to declare internal assessment results of Class 12 examination by July 31, making it clear that there can't be a "fit-all" scheme and each board was autonomous and free to formulate its own evaluation method for students. Stating that it will not pass any direction for having a uniform scheme for assessment across the country, the apex court directed the state boards to ensure that scheme be formulated at the earliest and not later than 10 days from Thursday. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari observed that each board will have to evolve their own scheme. "We direct the boards to ensure that the scheme be formulated at the earliest and not later than 10 days from today and also declare the internal assessment results by July 31, 2021, like the timeline specified for CBSE and CISCE," the bench said in its order. The top court was hearing a plea, which has sought directions to states to not hold board examinations in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. "We make it clear that each board may formulate their own scheme. However, we further make it clear that we are not endorsing the correctness and validity of scheme that will be formulated by the concerned board..," the bench said. During the hearing conducted through video-conferencing, the bench was told by an advocate appearing in the matter that state boards that have cancelled the class 12 examinations amid the pandemic may be asked to have a uniform scheme for assessing students. "That may not be acceptable because every state board has their own scheme. It cannot be uniform. We are not going to direct for uniform scheme. Each board will have to evolve their own scheme," the bench said, adding that each board is different and autonomous. It said each state boards have experts to advise them and there cannot be a uniform all India scheme for this. "There cannot be a fit-all scheme," the bench observed, adding, "We have made it clear that each board is autonomous and they will have their own scheme ." The counsel appearing for Haryana school education board told the bench that the petitioner is seeking a uniform formula for assessment. "That we have already made it clear that each board can have their own scheme," the bench said. The apex court noted in its order that state of Assam has filed an affidavit stating that examinations for class 10 and 12 have been cancelled and scheme is being formulated by the board for internal assessment of marks. "That be done expeditiously. In addition, the scheme must provide for a mechanism for redressal of grievance of students after the declaration of results as done by the CBSE and CISCE," the bench said. The top court also noted that National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) has cancelled the board examinations and is in the process of formulating the scheme for assessment. The apex court was earlier informed by the Assam and Tripura governments that they have cancelled their state boards of Class 12 exam due to the pandemic. On June 17, the top court was informed that out of 28 states, six states have already conducted the board exams, 18 states have cancelled them, but four states (Assam, Punjab, Tripura and Andhra Pradesh) have not cancelled them as of now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-39
24-06-2021||India||Patient bitten by rat in civic hospital dies in Mumbai||A 24-year-old patient, who was bitten by a rat near his eye at a civic-run hospital in suburban Ghatkopar, has died at the medical facility, BMC officials said. The patient was suffering from alcohol-related liver disease and was in a very critical condition since the day of his admission in the Rajawadi Hospital, they said, adding that he died on Wednesday. On Tuesday, a relative of the patient alleged that a rat had bitten near his eye, when he was admitted to the ICU of the hospital, prompting Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar to order a probe into the matter. The hospital management had confirmed the rat bite incident, but said injuries were "superficial" and the patient's eye was not affected. According to the officials, the patient was brought to the hospital in an unconscious state. On Tuesday, reacting to the rat bite incident, the hospital's Dean Dr Vidya Thakur had said they have taken some rodent repellent measures and will take utmost care to avoid such incidents. BJP Lok Sabha member from Mumbai North East Manoj Kotak on Tuesday hit out at the Shiv Sena-ruled Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) over the rat bite incident. "The BMC is said to be Asia's largest civic corporation, but it does not have enough measures to protect patients from mice. The family at the receiving end is in shock," said Kotak, whose constituency covers Ghatkopar, where the hospital is located.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-39
24-06-2021||India||Two forest officers suspended over elephant death in Chhattisgarh||Two forest department employees were suspended and three officials shifted out of Surajpur in connection with the death of a wild elephant in the Chhattisgarh district, an official said on Thursday. State Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (PCCF) Rakesh Chaturvedi took the action against the five forest personnel on Wednesday for their alleged negligence in discharging their duties and not taking immediate and effective steps in the case of the jumbo's death, the public relations department official here said. On June 11, an elephant was found dead in a forest near Darhora village under Pratappur forest range of Surajpur. A preliminary probe into the incident indicated the animal had been struck by lightning. As per forest officials, the decomposed carcass of the elephant kept lying at the spot for seven-eight days. Chhattisgarh Forest and Climate Change Minister Mohammad Akbar had directed officials to take stern action into the incident. According to the official, forest guard Vijay Kumar Kujur and beat guard Maan Singh were suspended. Besides, Surajpur's Divisional Forest Officer Duleshwar Prasad Sahu was shunted out and attached to the PCCF's office in Atalnagar Nava Raipur, while sub-divisional forest officer (Pratappur) B K Lakra and forest ranger (Pratappur) Premchand Mishra were attached to the office of Ambikapur's chief conservator of forest. Surajpur, located over 300 km away from the capital Raipur, falls under the Surguja forest circle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-39
24-06-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi appears before Surat court in defamation case||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi appeared before a magistrate's court in Surat on Thursday to record his final statement in a criminal defamation suit filed by a Gujarat MLA over the former's remark on the "Modi surname". BJP legislator from Surat Purnesh Modi had filed a complaint against Gandhi in April 2019 under IPC Sections 499 and 500, that deal with defamation. A week back, Surat's Chief Judicial Magistrate A N Dave directed Gandhi to remain present in the court on June 24 to record his final statement in the case. In his complaint, the MLA had alleged that Gandhi defamed the entire Modi community by saying "How come all the thieves have Modi as the common surname?" while addressing a poll rally in 2019. During the election rally held at Kolar in Karnataka on April 13, 2019, Gandhi had reportedly asked, "Nirav Modi, Lalit Modi, Narendra Modi...how come they all have Modi as the common surname. How come all the thieves have Modi as the common surname?" Rahul Gandhi was the Congress president when he had made this remark. Gandhi earlier appeared before the court in October 2019 and pleaded not guilty for his comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-39
24-06-2021||India||J&K political leaders' meeting with PM Modi underway||In the government's first outreach to Jammu and Kashmir's political leadership in almost two years, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday held a crucial meeting with 14 leaders, including four former chief ministers, to chalk out the future course of action in the union territory. The prime minister, accompanied by Union Home Minister Amit Shah, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Sinha, received the leaders from eight parties, including the National Conference, the PDP, the BJP and the Congress, at his residence. This is the first interaction between the Central leadership and the mainstream parties since August 5, 2019, when the Centre revoked Jammu and Kashmir's special status under Article 370 and bifurcated it into two union territories, Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. Minister of State in PMO Jitendra Singh, Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister P K Mishra and Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla were among those who attended the meeting. The four former chief ministers of the erstwhile state who participated in the discussions were Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah of the National Conference, Congress' Ghulam Nabi Azad and PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti. Four former deputy chief ministers were in attendance too Congress' Tara Chand, People's Conference leader Muzaffar Hussain Baig and BJP's Nirmal Singh and Kavinder Gupta. CPI-M leader Mohammed Yusuf Tarigami, Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP) chief Altaf Bukhari, Sajjad Lone of the People's Conference, J-K Congress head G A Mir, BJP's Ravinder Raina and Panthers Party leader Bhim Singh also formed part of the delegation. "I will keep my agenda in the meeting and then talk to you," Farooq Abdullah said before the meeting started. Asked about PDP chief Mehbooba's comments that India should initiate dialogue with Pakistan, the NC leader said, "Mehbooba ji is the president of her party. She has the right to speak. I have my own. I don't want to bring in Pakistan. I am going to talk to our own prime minister." "If India can talk to the Taliban in Doha (Qatar), why not Pakistan," Mehbooba had said earlier. With no agenda announced for the meeting, the leaders from Jammu and Kashmir said they have come with an open mind. "We have not been given an agenda. We will be attending the meeting to know what the Centre is offering," said Tarigami, who is also spokesperson of the six-party People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) that was formed in the aftermath of the August 2019 decisions. Officials said the Centre is keen on holding assembly elections in the union territory as early as possible, maybe in December this year or March 2022 after the Delimitation Commission headed by Justice (retd) Ranjana Desai completes its task of redrawing constituencies in the next few months. The Commission was granted one year's extension in March this year. BJP's Jammu and Kashmir unit president Raina said Thursday's interaction convened by the prime minister is in accordance with the wishes of heads of various political parties who have been seeking time from him for a long time. The meeting seems to be the result of the back-channel talks held with all the parties from the union territory to chart out a roadmap. The Union Home Minister, while tabling the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Bill 2019 in Parliament, had given an assurance that the Centre would grant full statehood to Jammu and Kashmir at an appropriate time. Today's dialogue comes seven months after the District Development Council (DDC) elections in Jammu and Kashmir. The PAGD had surged ahead of the BJP and its allies, including the JKAP, by bagging 110 seats out of 280 with the National Conference emerging stronger with 67 seats within the alliance. The BJP was the single largest party with 75 seats. Jammu and Kashmir's political mainstream, especially those with a strong base in the Valley, has been critical of successive administrations of the union territory for allegedly neglecting the demands of the people. It has raised questions on development initiatives since August 2019. Several leaders, including the Abdullahs and Mehbooba, were detained after the August 2019 decisions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-39
24-06-2021||India||India records 54,069 fresh Covid cases, 1,321 casualties in a day||India reported 54,069 new cases of COVID-19 in a day which took the infection tally to 3,00,82,778 while 1,321 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 3,91,981, according to the Union Health Ministry data on Thursday. The number of active cases has declined to 6,27,057 and is 2.08 per cent of the total infections. The national COVID-19 recovery rate has also improved to 96.61 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A net decline of 16,137 cases in the COVID-19 caseload has been recorded in a day. According to the inoculation data published at 7 am, India administered 64.89 lakh vaccine doses in a day taking the cumulative number of jabs given so far to 30.16 crore. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.91 per cent. It has been less than 5 per cent for 17 days in a row. The weekly positivity rate has also declined to 3.04 per cent, the ministry said. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 42nd consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from COVID-19 surged to 2,90,63,740, while the case fatality rate was at 1.30 per cent, it said. On Wednesday, 18,59,469 tests were conducted in the country for the detection of COVID-19, taking the total number of tests carried out so far to 39,78,32,667. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore total COVID-19 cases on May 4 this year and 3 crore on June 23. The 1,321 fatalities include 508 from Maharashtra, 166 from Tamil Nadu, 150 from Kerala and 123 from Karnataka. Of the total 3,91,981 deaths reported so far in the country, Maharashtra accounted for 1,19,303, Karnataka 34,287, Tamil Nadu 31,746, Delhi 24,940, Uttar Pradesh 22,336, West Bengal 17,475, Punjab 15,923 and Chhattisgarh 13,407. The health ministry has stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths reported so far have occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-39
24-06-2021||India||Kunal Kamra's video essay leaves uncomfortable blanks for Modi||Kunal Kamra, who has made mincemeat of those in power with his devastating jokes, has stopped laughing. But that’s no cause for comfort for Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The following are excerpts from a video guest essay in The New York Times in which Kamra articulates his opinion. The essay appeared in the Opinion Video section, whose director and executive producer is Adam B. Ellick, who has produced  Pulitzer-  and Emmy-winning video journalism. Kamra’s words are interspersed with heart-rending images that marked the Covid second wave in India and snatches of speeches by Modi. ⚫ Prime Minister Narendra Damodardas Modi, blatantly lying (on Modi declaring victory over the coronavirus in January 2021) ⚫ My name is Kunal Kamra, I am a stand-up comedian from India, and this is where even I stop laughing. ⚫ My people are needlessly dying. Our government has blood on its hands. ⚫ No world leader can compete with Modi…. And Boy, he can act! ⚫ So when Modi declared Covid was over in January, there was a small problem, Covid forgot to follow his instructions. ⚫ In May, Modi gleefully attended super-spreader election rallies in West Bengal. ⚫ Denialism is everywhere, particularly at the top. ⚫ Now to top it all, Modi botched up our vaccine rollout, which is ironic because guess who produces 60 per cent of the world’s vaccines…. ⚫ We live in an out-and-out lie, but our government is a master of one domain — attacking its critics. ⚫ Even I, as a comedian, am struggling to satirise this absurdity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-40
24-06-2021||India||Delhi riots: Justice Lokur castigates cops for mishandling of activists||The former Supreme Court judge, Justice Madan B. Lokur, has castigated Delhi police for “violating every canon of natural justice and fair play” in dealing with student anti-CAA activists Devangana Kalita, Natasha Narwal and Asif Iqbal Tanha, who were recently freed on bail. Justice Lokur told The Telegraph on Wednesday that the manner in which multiple FIRs were lodged against the accused, and the way Devangana was arrested from a virtual courtroom on May 24 last year, were unheard of in Indian judicial history. “Except as witnessed in the Amitabh Bachchan starrer Shahenshah (where the villain gets ‘accidentally’ hanged to death inside a courtroom),” he added, drawing on Bollywood to emphasise the absurdity of the situation. Devangana, arrested on May 23 last year, had been granted bail during an online hearing on May 24 when she was immediately arrested in another case. Justice Lokur also highlighted how the prosecution had given the accused copies of the 19,000-page chargesheet in pen drives even though they could not access computers in jail. “Clearly and obviously, the dice was heavily loaded against the three accused.... They had to fight the bail application with their hands virtually tied behind their back against an ‘armed’ prosecution,” said Justice Lokur, who had written an opinion article on the issue in the news portal The Wire on Tuesday. The retired judge, known for his liberal views on constitutional rights, had last September openly spoken out at a webinar against the State’s crackdown on dissent. He had deplored how free speech was being tackled with an “iron hand” and thousands, including young students, who had spoken out against the government were being jailed and accused of sedition — a charge once invoked against freedom fighters. On Wednesday, Justice Lokur criticised the Delhi police for adding case after case against the three students to keep them in jail. All three had been arrested in May last year and charged with inciting the February 2020 Delhi riots through their participation in protests against the new citizen regime. But every time the police suspected they might receive bail, they implicated the students in fresh cases, including one under the anti-terror law Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, which makes bail tough to secure. Eventually, they received bail from Delhi High Court on June 15 but were freed only on June 17 evening after the police stalled their release citing technicalities. “In our Constitution, a peaceful protest is called a peaceable assembly and without arms. It’s a fundamental right guaranteed under Article 19(1)(b) of our Constitution,” Justice Lokur said. “Except Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), there is no law that places any reasonable restriction or prohibits, in the interest of the sovereignty and integrity of India or public order, peaceable assembly without arms.” Justice Lokur underlined that on September 17 last year, the trial judge had passed the first order for the three students to be given a copy of the chargesheet each — a statutory right for every accused under Section 207 of the CrPC. But, he noted, the prosecution gave the trio pen drives although they could not access computers in jail. He wondered whether it was possible for any accused to read such a massive document over the computer, anyway. On September 19, while explaining why a physical copy was not provided to them, the prosecution told the trial court the chargesheet had thousands of pages and there were 15 accused in the case in all. Printing copies for the accused would therefore be costly and would need a few approvals — including a financial sanction — it argued. The prosecution did not explain why the sanction had not been taken despite the defendants’ right to life and liberty being involved. Besides, the court order applied only to Devangana, Natasha and Asif, not all 15 accused. The trial court rejected the police contention and passed a fresh direction for a physical copy of the chargesheet to be given to the accused. Yet the police kept stalling, Justice Lokur said. “On October 21, 2020, the prosecution submitted before the trial judge that it needed government sanction of funds for supplying hard copies of the chargesheet to the accused. This submission was made one month after the trial judge had passed an order for supply of the chargesheet,” Justice Lokur said. He said the prosecution’s contention was “absurd”. Justice Lokur complimented the trial judge for having rightly rejected the prosecution’s plea by holding that “once the chargesheet has been filed by the investigating agency, as voluminous as it is... a copy of it has to be provided in hard copy to every accused....” “They may require sanction of funds for the said purpose; however, they were supposed to act promptly,” the trial judge had said. The trial judge had then directed, for the third time, that a physical copy of the chargesheet be provided to every accused before the next date of hearing “without fail”. Justice Lokur said with a tinge of sarcasm: “Photocopying 17,000 or 19,000 pages and getting financial sanction may be a hassle for the prosecution, but depriving a citizen of his or her constitutional right to liberty does not seem to be a problem.” Justice Lokur recalled how Delhi police had brought environment activist Disha Ravi — arrested in connection with a toolkit document linked to the farmers’ protest — from Bangalore to Delhi by a special chartered plane. “Did the police have the financial sanction for the train or plane journey? Then why raise such a bogey in the case of these three accused?” Justice Lokur asked. He said the supply of a physical copy of the chargesheet had become a “prestige issue”. But, “as a continuation of its caprice”, the prosecution challenged the orders of the trial judge by filing a petition in Delhi High Court. The high court entertained the plea on November 4 and passed an order on November 10 staying trial in the case. After several adjournments, the prosecution told the high court on March 23 this year that hard copies of the chargesheet were ready and the accused were at liberty to collect them from the trial court on March 25. So, a chargesheet filed on September 16, 2020, was made available to the accused only on March 25, 2021, after a gap of six months. All the while the accused were clueless on the actual charges against them, Justice Lokur said. By then, the police had filed two supplementary chargesheets — on November 22, 2020, and on March 1, 2021 — to try and keep the accused in jail. The police tactic was to hold on to the trio indefinitely by arguing their custody was necessary till all the suspects in the case had been arrested and all the evidence collected, Justice Lokur said. As is routinely done, the three students could have been allowed bail by segregating their case from that of the absconding accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-40
24-06-2021||India||Kerala: 25 lakh payoff allegation in the garb of temple prasadam on BJP||First, it was the Ram temple in Ayodhya. Now, it is the “prasadam” elsewhere. The BJP that has lived off motifs associated with organised Hinduism is running into a fresh accusation of biting that holy hand that had been feeding the party. A sum of Rs 25 lakh allegedly disguised as temple prasadam and delivered in a cloth bag with “a banana peeking out of it” is the latest poll payoffs charge against Kerala BJP president K. Surendran, with an RSS leader’s name too thrown in. Surendran already faces investigation in two other Assembly election-related bribery cases, while the state BJP has also been dragged into a money-laundering case suspected to be linked to the April 6 polls. The new controversy comes amid allegations that at least one person related to a BJP leader had made a killing by buying and selling land within a few months to the trust entrusted with the task of building the Ram temple in Ayodhya. In Kerala, Praseetha Azhikode, treasurer of the aggrieved BJP ally Janadhipathya Rashtriya Party, told a TV channel on Wednesday that Wayanad district BJP general secretary Prashanth Malavayal had on March 26 delivered Rs 25 lakh to the now suspended JRP chief C.K. Janu. Janu had weeks earlier dumped the Left and joined the NDA. An audiotape of an alleged phone conversation between Praseetha and Surendran, leaked on Tuesday night, had earlier shown the male voice saying he had “arranged... to give 25 for your party’s needs”. The male voice suggested RSS functionary and state BJP organising secretary M. Ganesh would organise the delivery. Praseetha has said the tape and the conversation are genuine but Surendran has denied the bribery allegation while remaining silent whether the voice on the tape was his. Ganesh forms a triumvirate in the state BJP along with Surendran and junior foreign minister V. Muraleedharan. Praseetha said the money was paid at a homestay in Wayanad where she, Janu and a few other JRP leaders had put up. “He (Malavayal) came to our room on seeing media people in Janu’s room, which was directly opposite. He had a cloth bag with a banana peeking out of it,” Praseetha told the Mathrubhumi TV channel. “When I asked him, he said it was from a puja conducted for the candidate (Janu, who was the NDA nominee from Sultan Bathery, Wayanad).” Praseetha said Malavayal had refused to give the banana to a JRP leader who had asked for it, saying it was to be handed over to Janu since the ritual had been conducted in her name. “Janu came into our room within five minutes. He (Malavayal) spoke to her for two minutes, handed over the bag and left. Janu took it and gave it to Vineetha (her aide) who then took the bag to her (Janu’s) room,” Praseetha said. Surendran dismissed the allegation. “What disclosure are you talking about? Don’t you have any other news to give? It’s as if something adhbhudham (strange) has happened,” he told reporters. “What’s going on is false propaganda. The police are (anyway) investigating,” he added, alluding to the two other cases against him. An audiotape of another alleged phone conversation between Praseetha and Surendran had earlier been leaked on June 2, in which the male voice agreed to pay Janu Rs 10 lakh to join the NDA. Praseetha had acknowledged the veracity of that tape too and said the money had been paid in the first week of March at a Thiruvananthapuram hotel during a visit to the city by Union home minister Amit Shah. Surendran has said that tape was edited. An FIR was lodged on the Rs 10-lakh bribery charge and the JRP suspended Janu. Another FIR accuses Surendran of paying Rs 2.5 lakh to his Bahujan Samaj Parity rival K. Sundara to withdraw his nomination papers from Manjeshwar, Kasaragod. In the audio clip leaked on Tuesday night, the male voice asks why Janu hadn’t returned Ganesh’s call. “Yes, I had arranged for it yesterday. Ganeshji may have called after figuring out how and where it should be delivered. You got it? I have told (him) to give 25 (lakh) for your party’s needs,” it says. “The local unit will decide everything else. I have told them to give 25. Please tell C.K. Janu to return the call.” The female voice replies she doesn’t know whether Janu has spoken to Ganesh. The male voice asks whether Janu doesn’t know who Ganesh is. “When Ganeshji called she said she would call back. Didn’t she know who Ganeshji is? Not only that, I cannot handle such things,” the man says, apparently alluding to the purported money handover. In her TV interview, Praseetha said the Ganesh referred to was indeed the state BJP organising secretary. “He (a reference to Surendran) is clearly saying (in the audio clip) that it is organising secretary Ganesh. He is making it clear that Janu perhaps didn’t know Ganesh,” Praseetha said. “Ganesh called C.K. Janu but (she) perhaps didn’t answer the call, being busy with election work. Otherwise, she didn’t know Ganesh’s number. That’s why Surendran called me to ask Janu to answer calls since the 25 (lakh) for the party was ready.” Several BJP leaders have been questioned in a money-laundering case registered in Kodakara, Thrissur, after a probe into a highway robbery led the police to believe the BJP-RSS was ferrying Rs 3.5 crore in cash three days before the election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-40
24-06-2021||India||J&K: Tell-all criteria for govt job aspirants in the valley||Prime Minister Narendra Modi may be meeting Jammu and Kashmir’s top politicians in Delhi on Thursday in a political overture, but any association with these leaders might well ruin educated Kashmiri youths’ chances of landing any government job here. Government job aspirants in Jammu and Kashmir will now be required to submit even the minutest details about their lives, including their and their families’ past or present involvement with any political organisation or participation in political activity. Although the order does not clarify whether the candidates can be denied jobs because of their or their families’ past activities, a veteran bureaucrat said getting jobs will be tougher now. A senior lawyer called the amendment unconstitutional. Job seekers must also mention their membership of any charity or cultural organisation, past mobile numbers, car numbers and social media accounts, and even provide details of their in-laws and their children if they are studying abroad. All this information is to be provided by candidates who have been selected, and will be verified by the CID. Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha’s administration has amended the Jammu and Kashmir Civil Services (Verification of Character and Antecedents) Instructions, 1997, under which appointment orders are issued. The amendment was published on the government website on Tuesday. The order is unambiguous that any “wrong” information provided by the candidate, and any “adverse report” from the verifiers, will lead to the appointment being terminated. Earlier, the job seekers had to reveal any association with militants or separatists. Now they must disclose details of their — or their close relatives’ — membership of any political organisation (including pro-India parties) or participation in any political activity. They must also fill in details of their membership of, or association with, any banned outfit like the Jamaat-e-Islami, if any, and even their membership of any club, society, association, trust, charity or similar organisation. Job seekers who have stayed for at least a year in any foreign country, including Pakistan, or in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir after turning 18 must give particulars of all the places they have visited there. The candidates must also give details of all their foreign trips in the past five years, the purposes of the visits and details of the hosts they had stayed with. They must provide details of their education from the age of 15, mobile numbers used in the past five years, registration number of vehicles owned or used, their email and social media or web-based portal accounts, and information about their in-laws. “They have to give details of children studying/living/working abroad along with the details of (the) course being pursued with details of college/university, employer details and residential address,” the order reads. Advocate-general D.C. Raina and the commissioner secretary-general, administration department, Manoj Kumar Dwivedi, did not respond to calls and text messages from this newspaper. Additional advocate-general Bashir Ahmad Dar said he had no information about the service rules. A former IAS officer who has held senior positions in the government said the order was “unprecedented” and a “360-degree kind of verification” that would make it extremely difficult for people to get government jobs. “Political activity is not a crime. It (the conditions) will be unfair on anybody who, suppose, engaged in any activity 10 years back and has since reformed,” the former bureaucrat, who requested anonymity, said. “I don’t know whether such activities will be held against him and whether any safeguards are available. I think they (job aspirants) will be extremely demoralised.” High court Bar association spokesperson G.N. Shaheen said the government, police and the CID would be free to deny jobs to anybody because of their or their families’ associations even if the order left the matter unclear. “Earlier, they would deny jobs because of people’s association with the Hurriyat. Now, any association with even the National Conference or the People’s Democratic Party can cost them a job,” he said. “This order is unconstitutional and violates the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution. Suppose I’m not associated with any political party but my father is. Should I be punished for that? It’s not permissible.” The order says the verification must not take more than two months but if there’s an “adverse report”, the “appointment shall automatically stand cancelled without any notice”. “The furnishing of false information or suppression of any factual information in the attestation form would entail disqualification, and is likely to render the candidate unfit for employment under the government,” it further reads.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-40
24-06-2021||India||ADR releases study on electoral trusts in 2019-20||The BJP had received over 76 per cent of all donations made through electoral trusts in 2019-20, a study by poll watchdog Association for Democratic Reforms has found. These trusts are non-profits through which companies and individuals can contribute to political parties indirectly and lobby as a collective of contributors. The Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party are a distant second and third, respectively. Of the 21 registered trusts, only seven have declared receiving contributions during 2019-20, totalling almost Rs 363.52 crore. “The BJP received Rs 276.45 crore or 76.17 per cent of the total donations received by all political parties from electoral trusts followed by the INC (Congress) which received Rs 58 crore or 15.98 per cent,” the NGO’s report said. The AAP received Rs 11.27 crore. The ADR report added: “JSW Steel Ltd contributed the highest amount worth Rs 39.10 crore amongst all donors of the electoral trusts, followed by Apollo Tyres Ltd with Rs 30 crore and Delhi International Airport Ltd which contributed Rs 25 crore, to various trusts…. Prudent Electoral Trust donated Rs 217.75 crore to the BJP, in contrast to Rs 67.25 crore contributed in FY 2018-19, while Jankalyan Electoral Trust donated Rs 45.95 crore of its total income to the BJP,” the report says. Prudent’s major stakeholders are the GMR Group, Bharti Airtel, DLF and Apollo Tyres. JSW backs Jankalyan. The AAP received funds only from Prudent. The Calcutta-based MP Birla Group-controlled “Paribartan Electoral Trust declared a donation of Rs 3 crore to a party/parties through electoral bonds. This is the first time that an electoral trust has declared giving donation to a political party/parties using the mode of electoral bonds and the party name(s) is not declared. This practice is against the spirit of the Electoral Trusts Scheme, 2013, and Rule 17CA of the Income Tax Rules, 1962, which make it mandatory for trusts to furnish each and every detail about the donor contributing to the trust,” the ADR report observes. The report said the “details of donors to these 6 electoral trusts remain unknown, thereby leading to speculation on whether donations to these trusts were only a means of getting tax exemption or a way to convert black money stashed in tax havens to white money in India”. “Therefore, details of donors to these electoral trusts, which were formed before the CBDT rules came into existence, should also be disclosed. Also, the same rules which apply to those trusts formed after 31st January, 2013, should also apply to the above mentioned trusts so as to improve transparency,” the report said. The NGO added: “All corporates should make details of their political contributions available in the public domain through their websites (in annual reports or in a dedicated page) for increasing transparency in political financing.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-40
24-06-2021||India||Bihar: Lalu Prasad's return plan buoys Opposition Grand Alliance||Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad, who is currently in New Delhi, will return to Bihar soon, his younger son Tejashwi said on Wednesday, spreading cheer in the Opposition Grand Alliance. “At present there is a need to take much care of Laluji’s health. This is also the time of Covid. He is currently under the supervision of doctors and we are in touch with them. He could return to Patna very soon… after a few days,” Tejashwi, RJD leader and former deputy chief minister, told mediapersons at Patna airport after arriving from New Delhi on Wednesday. Tejashwi had been in the national capital for the last two months, having gone there soon after his father was released on bail while being treated at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) under incarceration. “Neta ke saath hum beta bhi hain (I am a leader as well as a son),” Tejashwi said, when asked about his absence from the political scene during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.Lalu served close to four years in prison in Ranchi before getting bail in the fodder scam cases and has been away from Bihar for over three years. The last time he was here was on parole to attend his eldest son Tej Pratap Yadav’s wedding in May 2018. Leaders of the Grand Alliance said that the return of the RJD chief would boost their enthusiasm and rock the boat of the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA). “Laluji’s return to Bihar will change the condition and direction of politics in the state. The NDA government is not comfortable numerically in the Legislative Assembly. Moreover, its constituent parties — the BJP, chief minister Nitish Kumar’s JDU (Janata Dal United), HAMS (Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular) and Vikassheel Insan Party — are constantly bickering with each other,” RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary told The Telegraph. The Congress expressed happiness and said that Lalu’s arrival in Bihar will give impetus to the Opposition. “Laluji is the tallest leader of Bihar. His party has more MLAs than any other party in the Assembly. His return to the state will make the RJD more active, give momentum to the Opposition and widen its role. We are happy that he is coming back,” Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra told this newspaper. Mishra asserted that the NDA was going to implode in the state due to its internal conflicts and dissatisfaction among the constituent parties. “We are going to see a new political equation in the state within a couple of months. Only 12 MLAs are needed to dispose of the present ruling dispensation. Some are even in touch with our Grand Alliance,” Mishra said. The NDA scraped through in the 2020 Assembly elections with a thin majority. At present it has 126 MLAs and a support of an independent MLA taking the tally up to 127 in the 243-member House. The BJP has 74 MLAs, JDU 44, while the HAMS and VIP have four legislators each in the Assembly. On the other hand, the Opposition Grand Alliance has 110 MLAs. The RJD leads with 75 MLAs, the Congress has 19, the CPI-ML 12, while the CPI and CPM have two each. Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM has five MLAs and is not attached to any of the alliances in the state. One seat in the House is vacant. Numerically, any party or alliance having 122 legislators can form the government. However, in reality, even a shift of five or six MLAs from the NDA could lead to turmoil in the Nitish-led government. Tejashwi attacked Nitish for turning a blind eye towards inflation and unemployment in Bihar. He also blamed the chief minister for engineering a revolt in the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP). Asked about LJP founder and former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan’s son Chirag, Tejashwi said: “Laluji once made Ram Vilas Paswan a member of the Rajya Sabha when he had no MLA or MP with him. My brother Chirag has to decide whether he wants to stay with M.S. Golwalkar of the RSS and his book Bunch of Thoughts, or with Babasaheb Bhim Rao Ambedkar who gave us the Constitution of India.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-40
24-06-2021||India||Cong blames govt of being obsessed with Modi’s image-building ||The Congress believes the government is still obsessed with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s image-building instead of taking the vaccination drive seriously as manifested in the exceptional hype created around the decision to give free shots and the over 80 lakh doses administered on Monday. Rahul Gandhi tweeted on Wednesday: “Our country is not secured unless big vaccination drive is carried out in a sustained manner. It is sad that the central government hasn’t been able to go beyond a PR event.” The Modi government is in overdrive on a “thank-you Prime Minister” mission, trying to present the accomplishment of giving 80 lakh (8 million) doses in a day as an unparalleled event. Big hoardings and banners have been put across the national capital thanking the Prime Minister for announcing free vaccines for all and conducting the special drive on June 21. Huge amounts of money were spent by the BJP-ruled states in putting up advertisements thanking the Prime Minister. While China has been constantly vaccinating over 17 million people daily, India is placed at 93rd rank in the world in terms of the fully vaccinated percentage of population. This is not very encouraging as India is the biggest manufacturer of vaccines in the world. The government has promised to complete the exercise by the year-end but the number of daily doses dipped sharply after the June 21 figure. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra highlighted this in a tweet: “Delta plus variant has already arrived. Only 3.6 per cent population has been fully vaccinated so far. But the Prime Minister is playing the role of event manager. After patting their back for high doses, vaccination fell by over 40 per cent the very next day. The formula for propaganda of record vaccination: In Madhya Pradesh, doses on June 20 — 692; on June 21 — 16.91 lakh; June 22 — 4,825. High dose given one day for event and then a huge fall. At least 80 to 90 lakh doses will be required to be given everyday to complete the target by December.” Former finance minister P. Chidambaram also tweeted: “Look at the numbers for MP (Madhya Pradesh), Karnataka and Haryana on Sunday to Tuesday. BJP governments pulling a rabbit out of a hat! Pure magic for a day! Watch UP (Uttar Pradesh) and Gujarat numbers for a few more days. I am appalled that eminent doctors attribute Monday’s record to ‘planning’. The plan was to ‘doctor’ the numbers on Monday.” Former Union minister Jairam Ramesh also recalled how BJP veteran and Modi’s mentor L.K. Advani described the Prime Minister as the “best event manager”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-40
24-06-2021||India||Covid: India detects 40 cases of the Delta variant ||India has detected 40 cases of a coronavirus variant called Delta plus that possesses multiple worrisome mutations linked to high transmissibility and immune evasion, triggering an alert to three states and efforts to determine whether it has impacted disease severity. The cases in Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala — although in limited numbers — have prompted the Union health ministry to ask the three states to enhance public health measures to curb any further spread of the variant. Scientists sequencing coronavirus genomes have spotted the Delta plus samples in Ratnagiri and Jalgaon in Maharashtra, Palakkad and Pathanamthitta in Kerala, and Bhopal and Shivpuri in Madhya Pradesh, the health ministry said. The Delta plus variant has additional mutations to those in the so-called Delta variant — also designated as B.1.617.2 — a highly transmissible variant that was first detected in India and has spread to nearly 80 countries. The Delta variant is replacing other circulating variants in parts of the UK and the US. “The Delta plus should be watched carefully — there are too few sequences to say anything about its public health implications at this time,” said Shahid Jameel, a senior virologist and director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University. “The coming together of a key mutation from another variant of concern in the Delta variant should be a cause for concern but not panic,” Jameel said. “We need to understand whether the effects of the mutations are neutral, additive, or bigger than the sum of the parts.” A national scientific consortium sequencing the coronavirus has told the health ministry that the Delta plus variant appears to have increased transmissibility, stronger binding to receptors of lung cells and resistance to monoclonal antibodies — designer proteins used to treat Covid-19. But what those mutations mean for the epidemic and disease is still unclear. “There is no clinical, epidemiological, or laboratory data yet on the Delta plus,” said Gagandeep Kang, a professor of clinical microbiology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. The Delta plus variant has also been found among sequences sampled in China, Japan, Nepal, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Switzerland, the UK and the US. As on June 18, 205 cases have been documented, more than half of them in the UK and the US, the health ministry said. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in letters to chief secretaries in the three states, has urged “containment measures, enhanced testing, tracking and vaccination in districts and clusters where the Delta plus is found”. Bhushan has also asked the states to send adequate samples of positive people to designated sequencing laboratories to enable researchers to probe the patterns of infection spread and try to correlate them with the clinical outcome of patients. Public health experts say the containment measures remain the same irrespective of the variant, but the urgency is enhanced when highly transmissible variants are in circulation as they can spread and trigger large outbreaks within days to weeks. While microbiologists in Pune, examining samples from central Maharashtra, had recognised the Delta variant as a possible source of concern by mid-February, some public health experts have said, those early alerts had not generated the intensity of response they should have from the Centre. It was only after India’s second Covid-19 wave was well underway that the National Centre for Disease Control said the Delta variant had played a primary role in the surge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-40
24-06-2021||India||Covid: Battle over mass vaccination programme escalates in Odisha||The war between the BJP and the Biju Janata Dal over the mass vaccination programme launched by the Centre since Monday has intensified in Odisha with both the parties accusing each other of trying to extract political mileage out of the drive. While the BJP has alleged that the BJD was trying to appropriate undue credit for the programme by putting up chief minister Naveen Patnaik’s exclusive posters at the vaccination centres, some of which were torn by its workers, the BJD has attacked the saffron party for indulging in “cheap politics” over the issue. Even BJD’s national spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sasmit Patra and BJP national spokesperson Aparajita Sarangi, who is the BJP MP from Bhubaneswar, on Wednesday entered into a twitter war on the issue. “Central Government, whether its polio, BCG, measles, DPT, Hepatitis, Vitamin A. When did it become a State program, except now that it was forced upon the States & subsequently withdrawn. Hon’ble CM’s message has been put out across state calling for using Masks and COVID appropriate behaviour, it is nothing about vaccination. It is petty and shameful to do politics out of this. I am afraid you may be insecure about your political relevance and doing this narrow minded politics. However, thanks for wearing masks off late,” tweeted Patra. Equally caustic was Sarangi’s tweet that said, “Odisha failed to procure vaccines, it sought Central Government’s support. Our PM Narendra Modi has come to the rescue of @CMO_Odisha. Basic courtesy demands that PM Modi’s photos with CM’s photo are put up at all vaccination points by state government. Height of insecurity and narrow mindedness!” The BJD has hit back saying that success of the vaccination programme and rise in the popularity of the chief minister had unnerved the BJP, which was behaving in a vengeful manner. The party said that the Centre was not doing any favour to the state by sending vaccines. It was only doing what it was supposed to do. The BJP workers for the last consecutive two days had created ruckus at various vaccination centres in Balasore, Dhenkanal, Berhampur and Angul protesting against the absence of posters of Modi and presence of only Naveen’s poster. There were reports of party activists tearing up posters of the chief minister at vaccination centres. A BJP worker had torn off the inaugural ribbon at a vaccination centre just before the inauguration of the programme at the Gandhi Smruti Bhavan in Balasore. “The Odisha government is in the habit of taking the credit by hijacking the different welfare schemes of the Central government,” Union minister Pratap Sarangi tweeted. He further tweeted, “Projecting the COVID vaccination programme of the central government as its own and hijacking the same by putting only the photograph of the chief minister pointing to cheap politics.” Ganjam district BJD president Ramesh Chandra Chyaupatnaik told The Telegraph, “Under the federal principle, the Centre collects taxes from the states and it’s their job to provide vaccines to the state. It is unfortunate that the BJP is indulging in this kind of behaviour. They should remember that the Prime Minister had himself praised Naveen Babu over the successful vaccination programme.  They are getting jealous and want to create a controversy out of nothing to get political mileage.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-40
24-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata seeks Modi’s intervention for WHO approval to Covaxin||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his intervention for early approval of Covaxin by the World Health Organisation, without which people having taken the Bharat Biotech jab may face problems travelling abroad. The chief minister, in her letter, stated that her government has been "receiving both Covishield and Covaxin" from the very beginning. Even the private sector in the state has procured and administered both the vaccines, she said. "A large number of students from all over the country travel abroad every year for higher studies and many of them have got themselves vaccinated with Covaxin. "They came to learn later on that their vaccination certificate is not valid abroad. These students are now in a fix regarding their next course of action and their career is at stake," Mamata wrote to Modi on Thursday. Many countries are allowing the entry of only those people who have taken WHO-approved vaccines, she noted. "It is learnt that Covaxin is still not approved by WHO and it is not possible to travel abroad as many countries are allowing only those people who are fully vaccinated with WHO-approved vaccines. "Hence, I request for your kind intervention so that an early approval is received for Covaxin from WHO so that students do not face any problem. This will also benefit people travelling abroad for job, education, business and any other purposes as well," she added. Mamata had on Wednesday asked Chief Secretary HK Dwidevi to write to the Union Health Secretary and Cabinet Secretary on this matter. She had also urged the Centre to take steps to ensure that people inoculated with Covaxin do not face any restriction during their overseas travel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-13
24-06-2021||West Bengal||Pending bypolls and Amit Mitra, Bengal has a minister problem||The Mamata Banerjee government’s task in hand concerns not only the the dwindling finances of Bengal, but also manage the man entrusted to keep money matters in order. Trinamul Congress insiders say time is running out for Amit Mitra to continue as minister with the bypolls not being announced yet. Add to this is his own reluctance to contest elections and Bengal could well be left without a finance minister. According to sources,  if efforts to get  Mitra into the Assembly does not work out, he might be offered an advisory role with Mamata herself retaining the portfolio. Also, Mitra may have his own plans too. “He could become an adviser. There is a possibility that he might take  up a teaching role in the United States. He was in academics, and he knows  people there. The stress of managing the finances of a state like Bengal is affecting his health,” said a source in the state finance department. For almost a year, state finance minister Amit Mitra, a PhD in economics from Duke University, has not been seen in public except for video conferences he attends from time to time, mostly with Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. Mitra is most likely to skip the presentation of his 11th state budget, which is likely to be held in the first week of July. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had presented the vote-on-account for this year before the election, as Mitra had declared his reluctance to step out of his flat at Ironside Road on health grounds amidst the raging Covid pandemic. Partha Chatterjee, the state industries and parliamentary affairs minister, could be the choice to present the budget for the financial year 2021-22. Trinamul sources said the chief minister herself was not keen on repeating her performance from last February. “The decision has not been finalised yet. Partha da is likely to present the budget,” said a Trinamul source. Mitra’s health concerns were what had prompted Mamata to drop him from the candidate’s list for the Assembly polls. Trinamul sources said Mitra was under pressure to continue as finance minister till an alternative  arrangement could be made. “Mamata di was reluctant to let him go. Under the current circumstances with state earnings depleting and rising debt, only an astute brain like Mitra’s could have helped navigate the murky waters of finances,” said a Trinamul source. Data available with the Reserve Bank of India and as per budget estimates for 2021, the outstanding liabilities of Bengal is  around Rs 4.9lakh crore. Much before Mamata made it to the seat of administrative power in Bengal, she had roped in Mitra as the chairman of the Public Private Partnership Committee of the Railways, when she headed the ministry in the Manmohan Singh government. Mitra, who was once secretary general of FICCI (Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry) had also helped prepare a Vision 2020 report for the Railways. In due course, she announced that Mitra would be the finance minister in her government. That has been the arrangement for the last 10 years. According to the rules, Mitra has to get elected to the Assembly within six months. Though byelections are waiting to be held, Mitra is not being considered for a return to the state Assembly. Mamata’s nominee for the Khardah assembly seat Kajal Sinha fell to Covid after the polls were held. The state agriculture minister Sobhandeb Chatopadhyay, who has resigned from Bhowanipore to facilitate Mamata’s entry to the Assembly, is expecting to contest from Khardah. “Sobhandeb has started preparing for the polls. It is just a matter of time as soon as the election commission announces the date,” said a Trinamul leader. The chief minister’s initial plan to revive the legislative council is unlikely to fructify by November, which would have allowed Mitra to retain his ministership. In the 294-member legislative Assembly, the legislative council cannot have  more than 98 members. The process, however, is not in Mamata’s hand. Under Article 169 of the Constitution, the creation of a Vidhan Parishad bill for the state, any state, would have to be passed in the Lok Sabha as well as get the President’s nod. “Whether the BJP-led Narendra Modi government will ever present the bill in  Parliament is anybody’s guess. There is no reason to believe the state will get its say while continuing to oppose the Centre,” said a senior official. The legislative council in Bengal was set up in 1952 and abolished under the second United Front government 17 years later. In 2011, Mamata had to back away from pushing for the legislative council under severe Opposition from the Left parties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-14
24-06-2021||West Bengal||TMC leader Sheikh Sufiyan present at HC hearing on Nandigram||Local Trinamool leader Sheikh Sufian was present at the hearing of the Nandigram case in the Calcutta High Court on Thursday. Trinamool candidate Mamata Banerjee's election agent in the Assembly polls Sufian said in the High Court premises, "The counting of votes has been rigged. We spoke to the Returning Officer about the recount. He did not agree. That is why I have come to the High Court. Besides, he also demanded a hearing of the Nandigram case in the bench of a‘ neutral judge." Sufian, a Trinamool member of East Midnapore District Council, alleged that the counting was postponed for three hours as planned on May 2. The counting was stopped for an hour citing problems in the server. "We demanded a written recount on the allegations of fraud," but the Returning Officer wrote to us, 'I can't recalculate'." Sufian claimed that BJP candidate Shuvendu Adhikari won against Mamata in Nandigram by falsifying the count. Kaushik Chanda, the acting judge in the Nandigram case, was the former head of the BJP's legal cell. Asked to comment about this, Sufian said, "If anyone even has the faintest connection to politics, it is better not to hand him the responsibility of justice."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-14
24-06-2021||West Bengal||Commuters block railway tracks in Bengal for second straight day||A section of commuters blocked railway tracks at several stations in Bengal for about three hours on Thursday, demanding they be allowed to board staff special trains, amid the current Covid-19 restrictions, police said. Demonstrations were held at Mallickpur, Baruipur, Sonarpur, Ghutiari Sharif and Diamond Harbour stations in the Sealdah South Division of the Eastern Railway. Commuters assembled at these stations, alleging that they have been facing hardships to reach their places of work with no availability of public transport, a senior police officer said. They started agitating at the stations when they were not allowed to board staff special trains without valid documents by the Railway Protection Force personnel, he said. The agitators also threw stones at a vehicle of GRP at Mallickpur station in the Sealdah-Baruipur section, while hundreds of protesters refused to vacate the railway tracks at Ghutiari Sharif in the Sealdah-Canning segment, disrupting the movement of staff special trains there, the officer said. This was the second consecutive day that the commuters held demonstrations. Close to 1,000 people, most of them daily commuters in the Sealdah South suburban section, squatted on railway tracks and platforms at Sonarpur for over four hours on Wednesday morning. Following the requests of the Government Railway Police personnel, the blockade was lifted after about three hours in the morning, he said. The movement of local trains has been stopped since the imposition of Covid restrictions in May to contain the spread of the disease. Only staff special trains are running for people involved in essential services. "We have urged the state government to allow us to run more trains with Covid-19 protocols and are ready for it," a spokesman of the Eastern Railway said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-14
24-06-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC reserves judgment on Mamata's plea on Nandigram election result||A single bench of the Calcutta high court on Thursday reserved order on an application moved by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee seeking the judge’s recusal on hearing a petition filed by her challenging the results of the Nandigram Assembly seat. The chief minister had raised objections to her petition coming up before Justice Chanda, who was close to the BJP leadership since his days as a lawyer and represented the party in legal matters. During the course of today’s hearing, Justice Chanda questioned why the matter (of recusal) was not raised earlier. “This case was listed before me on 18 June. That day no one said that petitioner had sought re-assignment apprehending bias?”, Justice Chanda asked. “Is it not duty of the counsel to point this out? You appear in courts across the country Dr Singhvi, what is the standard practice?” Responding to the query, Singhvi, appearing on behalf of Mamata said, the issue was not raised on June 18 as they were yet to file a formal application. Singhvi went on to present instances to establish Justice Chanda’s “close, personal, professional, pecuniary and ideological relationship” with the BJP. He also submitted that Justice Chanda was yet to be appointed as a permanent judge of the high court and Mamata had raised her objection on any such confirmation. When Singhvi showed some photographs of Justice Chanda seen with BJP leaders in party events, the judge admitted the images were his. Singhvi said any observer may have “reasonable apprehension” that “impartial justice” may not be done as there is a clear case of conflict of interest. “Justice must not only be dome but seen to be done. If fair-minded people are likely to prejudge the case, they will not have confidence in the justice system. It is duty of the Court to see that proceedings are free from any partiality,” Singhvi said. The judge wondered whether his recusal since the media trial June 18 onwards would imply he was influenced by it. “What is it worth to continue in a case like this with so much controversy? I am not saying that your Lordship’s shoulders are not broad enough to bear it. But what is the worth?" Singhvi asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-14
24-06-2021||West Bengal||Falakata BJP MLA’s thank-you post raises brows||Deepak Barman, the BJP MLA of Falakata in Alipurduar district, put up a post on social media on Wednesday, thanking Mridul Goswami, the district Trinamul president, and Ganga Prasad Sharma, the immediate past BJP chief of the district who defected to Mamata Banerjee’s party on Monday, for the saffron party’s win in the district. In Bengal, Alipurduar is one of the districts where the BJP has won all five Assembly seats this time. Barman, in his post, thanked both these leaders for the BJP’s stellar performance, a move that has left them, specifically Goswami, red-faced. “As Ganga Prasad Sharma did a turncoat and joined Trinamul, he mentioned that even before the elections, he was in close contact with Mridul Goswami. It proves both of them have jointly worked to ensure BJP’s victory in all five seats of the district. That is why I felt it necessary to thank them,” said the Falakata MLA. After Barman’s post surfaced, questions on its various meanings were raised by the leaders in different tiers of Trinamul in Alipurduar, party insiders said. Goswami, however, tried to put a brave face. “Ganga Prasad Sharma’s exit was a major setback for BJP in the district. That is why their MLAs are making such comments. Does he (Barman) have any proof that I have worked in connivance with him (Sharma, for the BJP’s victory in the district)? He’d better get his facts correct,” the Trinamul district president said. Sharma, the new entrant in Trinamul, denied commenting on the BJP MLA’s post. “There is nothing to remark on it. The elections are a closed chapter,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-14
24-06-2021||West Bengal||Free legal services against over-billing of Covid-19 treatment ||Vik-Run Foundation based here has decided to offer free legal services against over-billing of Covid-19 treatment and start a scholarship programme for students who have lost their parents or are in financial stress because of the pandemic. The foundation’s decision to address these two core issues which have hit Covid-19 patients badly stems from real life experiences the foundation’s volunteers have come across. “I was in Siliguri for my grandmother’s treatment when I came across Nim Doma Lama who told me that a hospital was not only overcharging patients but was negligent in treating her mother Bijaya Rai. It is then that our team decided to take up legal issues,” said Vikram Rai, founder of the foundation, which has been distributing free oxygen cylinders, concentrators and other Covid-related aid for months. The foundation has started the free legal service christened Covisupport and the project has been dedicated to Bijaya Rai, who ultimately lost her battle to Covid-19. Bijaya’s daughter Nim Doma is leading the campaign. “My mother was hospitalised for more than a fortnight. The hospital used to say she was stable but ultimately, we ended up spending more than Rs 8.5 lakh and we found that there was negligence in the treatment. After more than a fortnight, we were advised to take my mother home and we had to shift her to another hospital,” said Nim Doma. There are allegations that the private nursing home in Siliguri did not even treat “bed sore” properly and is allegedly not “a designated Covid hospital”. The foundation is being helped by a team of nine lawyers, four stationed in Darjeeling and five in Siliguri. Priya Darshini Pandit, a lawyer attached to the project, said Vik-Run Foundation had approached their team and they immediately decided to offer free legal service “or else we are not humans during these times”. The team plans to approach the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Commission and state medical council, apart from approaching both civil courts like consumer forum and also pursue the matter in criminal court as an FIR has been lodged against the private hospital in Siliguri. Apart from the legal help, the foundation has also started a project called Siksha Sahara to help students who have lost “their parents to Covid-19” and people who have exhausted their earnings in Covid-19 treatment. “We are collating data from different areas which we intend to compile from September 1 onwards. The headmasters association are helping us,” said Rai. Some private schools in Darjeeling have promised to help the foundation. Darjeeling district has till date reported 453 deaths from Covid while 37 people have died in Kalimpong district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-14
24-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Focus on kids before third wave in Bengal||The Mamata Banerjee government has initiated a series of measures, most of which would be implemented by July-end, considering that children could be more vulnerable in case the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country. “Experts are saying, (and) some countries are also witnessing the vulnerability of children in the third phase of the pandemic.…We have initiated some measures to prepare ourselves to deal with the possible third wave keeping experts’ views in mind,” said the chief minister at Nabanna on Wednesday after a meeting with senior bureaucrats over preparedness for the possible third wave. Bengal chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi spelt out the measures, which can broadly be divided in two parts. First, the state is focusing on developing Covid infrastructure in the hospitals to provide treatment to more children. Second, the state is urgently looking at bringing mothers of children aged up to 12 under the Covid-19  vaccination programme. Sources in the health department said they were considering children aged below 18 as the most vulnerable section as children and teenagers up to the age of 18 years would not get Covid vaccines in near future. Under the health infrastructure development programme, the state government has decided to develop 1,300 ICU beds for children in state-run Covid hospitals. The state government has also decided to set up 350 sick neonatal care units (SNCU), where newborns are treated, to treat infants infected with Covid. Additionally, the state would also dedicate 10,000 general beds of its total 30,000 Covid beds in government facilities for children and women. “All these facilities would be in place by the end of July,” said chief secretary Dwivedi. Health department officials have welcomed these initiatives. “We have less than 10 percent of beds in the hospital for children. Though we can’t say for sure now that children would be predominantly infected in the third wave, we have to be ready with beds as the number of infected children could go up compared to the first two phases. These steps are in the right direction,” said a senior health department official. Sources also said increasing ICU beds for children was also an important step as these units are totally different from the counterparts used for adult patients. The state government has also decided to lay stress on administering vaccines to mothers of children up to age 12 years on priority basis. “Their vaccination is required because we have to allow mothers of children into the ICU if needed (that is, if the children contract Covid and the infection is serious enough to be admitted to the ICU). We also have to protect mothers from Covid-19 so that we can, in turn, protect their children,” said a doctor at Calcutta’s SSKM hospital. Sources in state secretariat Nabanna said that to get mothers of children vaccinated as fast as possible they would be brought under the priority group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-14
24-06-2021||West Bengal||Three face anti-party charges in Trinamul in North Dinajpur||District Trinamul leaders in North Dinajpur have decided to remove three zilla parishad members from their posts and evict them from the party for alleged anti-party activities during the recent Assembly elections. The decision has been forwarded to the state leadership and the party’s district committee is now waiting for the former’s approval, Purnendu Dey, the leader of Trinamul’s legislative party at the zilla parishad, said on Wednesday. Those against whom the decision has been taken are Bipasha Sinha, a zilla parishad member and “karmadhyaksha” (member in charge) of industrial infrastructure and power Bipasha Sinha, Puja Acharya, the karmadhyaksha of PWD and Shah Banu, who was in charge of women’s welfare in the rural body. While Bipasha is the wife of Monodeb Sinha, the immediate past MLA of Trinamul Karandighi, Puja is the daughter of Amal Acharya, a former MLA of Itahar and former district Trinamul president. “In the Assembly elections, we won in the seats from where these zilla parishad members had won at the 2018 panchayat polls. But afterwards, it was found that all three had worked against the party’s  interest,” said Dey. Once the approval comes through, other Trinamul members of the zilla parishad will initiate the process to remove them from their posts and the party will terminate their primary membership, he added. Calls made to the three by this paper went unanswered. Intimidation charge In Alipurduar, nine BJP members of the NKS (Newlands-Kumargram-Sankosh) panchayat of Kumargram block and a zilla parishad member elected from the block left their homes to stay with John Barla, the BJP MP of Alipurduar, since Tuesday. “Local Trinamul leaders are offering cash and intimidating them, asking them to defect to Trinamul,” Barla alleged on Wednesday. Barla resides in Lakhipara tea estate near Banarhat of Jalpaiguri district. Mridul Goswami, the district Trinamul president of Alipurduar, denied the charges. “BJP is losing ground  across Alipurduar. The MP is raising baseless allegations to conceal this,” he said. Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar correspondents||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-14
24-06-2021||West Bengal||State govt to focus on jab drives in containment zones to avert spread of Covid-19 in Bengal||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to focus on vaccination programmes in containment and micro containment zones to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the state. “We have decided to carry out vaccination programmes intensively in Covid-19 containment zones and micro containment zones. This will help prevent further spread of the virus,” said state chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi after a meeting on Covid vaccination programmes in the presence of chief minister Mamata Banerjee at Nabanna on Wednesday. Sources in the health department said the plan to hold vaccination programmes in areas where Covid-19 positive cases are more was timely as it has been established that only mass vaccination can prevent the further spread of the virus. Mamata, who had convened the meeting, said the state was eyeing to administer 4 lakh doses every day from next week. “As the Centre decided to change the vaccination policy a couple of weeks back, the supply of vaccines was hit for the past few days,” she added. The chief minister also pointed out that the state had already administered 2 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines, of which 33 lakh doses had been given to potential super-spreaders which include hawkers, transport workers, ration dealers and shopkeepers. Right now, there are 250-odd containment zones across the state. “As most of these containment zones are in urban areas, we have to carry out vaccination programmes to prevent the further spread of disease,” said an official. “If we can vaccinate 4 lakh people a day, we can cover 80 per cent of the 7 crore people who have to be vaccinated before the third phase comes,” added the official. The success of the programme, however, would depend on the supply of vaccines from the Centre to Bengal. The chief minister’s target of giving vaccine doses to 70 lakh people in July would also depend on how many vaccine doses are sent to Bengal. “We received 22 lakh vaccines in June.…The figure should have been at least 60 lakh given the infrastructure and population that we have. Now, bringing a maximum number of eligible people under the vaccination programme before the third wave would solely depend on how many vaccines are sent to Bengal from Delhi,” added an official. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday also expressed concern that Covaxin was not yet authorised by the World Health Organisation, which has become a big worry for students who want to go abroad. “Many students who want to go abroad are facing problems because the Covaxin was not authorised by WHO yet. They are facing trouble in getting a visa. Those who have received Covishield are not facing any trouble,” she said. The chief minister asked chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi to write a letter to the Centre asking it to take initiatives to get Covaxin authorised by the WHO at the earliest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-14
24-06-2021||West Bengal||Black fungus toll in North Bengal reaches 10||The death toll from black fungus or mucormycosis has reached 10 in north Bengal. Sources said the most recent death was of an 80-year-old Covid-19 patient on Tuesday night. “He was admitted to the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital in Siliguri with symptoms of black fungus and had undergone a surgery. He hailed from Cooch Behar,” said a source. Sandeep Sengupta, the dean of student affairs and a gynaecologist at the NBMCH, said most of the patients infected with mucormycosis were suffering from severe comorbidities because of Covid-19 or some other serious ailment. “The patients were infected with rhino-orbital cerebral mucormycosis in which infection spreads to the brain and survival of the patients becomes difficult,” he said. Another senior doctor at the NBMCH said the patients, especially those in the high-risk category for mucormycosis, should avoid visiting damp and dusty places for a few weeks after recovering from Covid-19. “Such environment increases the risk of black fungus infection.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-14
24-06-2021||West Bengal|| Plumber dies by suicide as EMI collection agents squat outside||A plumber hanged himself at a Murshidabad village on Tuesday, allegedly after collection agents of a private finance company “humiliated” him for EMI default on a loan taken in January when many had been encouraged to think the worst of Covid was over. The collection agents stayed put outside the house and refused to leave without the dues, his wife said. Sadhan Sinha, 40, who earned Rs 15,000-20,000 a month in normal times, had taken the Rs 1 lakh loan to buy a two-wheeler so he could get more work, his family said. But with the surge-induced latest pandemic restrictions stifling his income, he had been unable to pay his monthly instalments of Rs 3,400 for May and June. The recovery agents of the private finance company’s Samserganj branch visited his home in Bindupara village around 9am on Tuesday and asked him to clear his dues of Rs 6,800 immediately, Sadhan’s wife Mamoni, 36, said. “I begged for a few days’ time but they would not listen. They sat down outside the house saying they would not leave without collecting the dues. My husband felt so humiliated that he killed himself,” said a weeping Mamoni, mother of two sons, aged 18 and 15. Sadhan’s decision to take the loan in January and his subsequent suicide underline how millions of ordinary Indians were taken unawares by the pandemic’s second wave, blamed partly on the central government’s short-sightedness in prematurely declaring victory over the virus and letting its guard down. Loans and financing, which in bullish economic times are indicators of a healthy consumer appetite, have proved a bane for much of India that has witnessed outsized job cuts and loss of income opportunity over the past year. The Reserve Bank of India has tried to give borrowers some relief by instructing banks and financial institutions to consider a debt recast, provided dues have been cleared till March 2021. But, as Sadhan’s death suggests, not everyone could access the relief. Sadhan was eligible for a debt recast as he had paid his EMIs till April, but he was probably unaware of the apex bank’s initiative that would have allowed him to renegotiate the loan deal with the financial institution. “While the debt recast is a prerogative of the bank or the finance company, the problem is that most people who are in dire need of the facility don’t know about its existence,” a banker said. A neighbour in Bindupara said the “social humiliation” was what probably prompted Sadhan to take his own life. “He was well-liked in the area. He probably couldn’t bear the agents’ antics, which local people had noticed,” he said. Mamoni said that after the agents sat down outside the house, Sadhan had locked himself inside a room. Around 11am, when Mamoni went looking for Sadhan, she found their bedroom locked. After calling out several times, she looked through the window and saw Sadhan hanging from the ceiling fan at the end of a bed sheet coiled into a rope. Villagers broke the door open and rushed Sadhan to the Samserganj block hospital, where doctors declared him dead on arrival. As Sadhan was being taken to hospital amid heart-wrenching scenes, the collection agents sensed trouble and fled. Hospital authorities later informed the police and a post-mortem was conducted before the body was handed over to the family. Sadhan’s elder son Rana, 18, said his father’s income had fallen after the second wave of the pandemic prompted stricter restrictions from mid-May. In his police complaint, Rana has named the two collection agents and accused them of abetting his father’s suicide by humiliating him in front of neighbours. “Late Sadhan Sinha’s son filed an FIR on Wednesday in connection with Tuesday’s incident. A case and an investigation under IPC Section 306 (abetment to suicide) have been opened,” said the superintendent of police (Jangipur), Y. Raghuvamshi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-15
24-06-2021||West Bengal||Government doctor held over assault charge in Raiganj||A government doctor was arrested for allegedly assaulting some members of a government team that was on a surprise visit to a private nursing home here on Tuesday evening. Rakesh Gope, a gynaecologist posted at the Raiganj Government Medical College and Hospital, has denied the charge. Sources said the North Dinajpur district administration had been receiving complaints for the past few days that some private nursing homes in Raiganj town were denying treatment to patients with Swasthya Sathi cards — which are provided under the state-run free health insurance scheme. District magistrate Arvind Kumar Mina instructed Rafikul Islam, the coordinator of the scheme in the district, to look into the charges. Late on Tuesday evening, Islam and his team started making surprise visits to private nursing homes in the town. At a healthcare facility in the Debinagar area, families of some patients told the inspection team that the hospital was not accepting the insurance cards. “The team went to speak to the hospital authorities. Gope, along with some of his associates, intercepted the team, abused the officials and assaulted some of them,” said a source in the district health department. Islam later narrated the incident to the DM and lodged a police complaint. “Gope has been booked under sections 186 (voluntarily obstructing public servant in discharging public duties), 341/342 (wrongful restraint) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of duty) of the IPC,” said a police officer. A court here on Wednesday remanded Gope in jail custody for five days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-15
24-06-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul nominates Mukul as member of Assembly’s Public Accounts Committee||Mukul Roy, who had become an MLA on a BJP ticket and later returned to the Trinamul Congress, was on Wednesday nominated by the ruling party to become a member of the Assembly’s Public Accounts Committee. Section 255A of the Assembly rules gives the Speaker the power to appoint the PAC chairman. Sources said Trinamul intended to push Roy’s name as the PAC chairman. The PAC comprises 20 members and 14 of them are nominated by the ruling party, while the Opposition nominates six members. Roy’s was among the 14 names submitted by Trinamul. The BJP has named MLA Ashoke Lahiri in its list and wants him to become the chairman of the PAC. The BJP list also includes Suvendu’s name. Reacting to Roy’s nomination, Suvendu said that only validated the demand for the cancellation of his membership. “I’ve filed a complaint with the Speaker and he has called for a hearing on July 16. I’ll present my case with all necessary documents. If needed, we will go to court and his (Roy) membership will be cancelled,” Suvendu said. Trinamul, on the other hand, shrugged off Suvendu’s allegations. Trinamul MLA Tapas Roy said Suvendu was unaware of the nitty-gritty of the Assembly and hence, his statements don’t matter. “Suvendu has no idea of how Assembly works. He has just become the leader of the Opposition and hence will need time to understand things,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-15
24-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Active cases fall by 130 in Bengal||Bengal on Wednesday logged a drop in total active Covid-19 cases for the third straight day, by 130 to 22,378. The total number of active cases had declined till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702 from the peak of 1,32,181 on May 21. But for 11 days till Sunday, it rose by over 56 per cent, before sliding since Monday. On Wednesday, the state reported 2,017 recoveries, 1,925 new infections and 38 deaths, including seven from Calcutta. The daily positive confirmation rate fell to 3.46 on Wednesday.“In the peak of the second wave, positive confirmation rate was around 33 per cent. It has already improved to 3.61 (on Tuesday)…and (is) expected to improve exponentially over the next 10 days or so, down to barely 1-2 per cent,” said chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday. Positive confirmation rate is the percentage of positive cases of samples tested, and its dip indicates less Covid spread. Bengal has 3.57 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is eighth among states with the most active cases. Bengal’s recovery rate rose to 97.32 per cent. The national recovery rate is 96.57 now. The state’s mortality rate is 1.17 per cent, the national rate is 1.3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-15
24-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata ‘requests’ Modi to allow EC to hold Assembly bypolls||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday demanded that pending bypolls in seven Bengal Assembly seats be held by the Election Commission of India at once and said she was aware that the poll panel would conduct the voting only after getting Narendra Modi’s green-light. “We are watching and waiting to see (what the commission does). They (bypolls) should be held as early as possible… because the Covid-19 situation is totally controlled (in Bengal) now. So, I think they can conduct the byelections within seven days. There is no need to give so much time for candidature and candidates,” said the chief minister. A day after the Assembly election results had been declared on May 2, the commission suspended all bypolls indefinitely in view of the Covid-19 situation. Dates for Jangipur and Samserganj Assembly bypolls had already been announced following the death of candidates before voting. The decision of the bypoll suspension came at the end of an eight-phase election for Bengal that took over two months, apparently desired by none of the key stakeholders other than the BJP. “I came to know that when Prime Minister (Modi) will give the instruction, then only they (the commission) will hold the byelection. If it is so, then I will request the Prime Minister, clear the byelection,” she added. “Because now, the situation is okay. But if the third wave (of the pandemic) comes, then you cannot do anything.” The Election Commission is an independent constitutional body, but Mamata’s sarcastic appeal to Modi stems from widespread perception that the panel does the bidding of the BJP government at the Centre. Mamata lost a contentious election — now being challenged in the high court — in the Nandigram seat by a margin of 1,956 votes (0.85 per cent of the vote share) to the BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari (a Trinamul turncoat who is now the leader of the Opposition). She is now likely to return to her home turf of Bhowanipore, vacated by agriculture minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay last month. Besides Mamata and Chattopadhyay, finance minister Amit Mitra, who did not contest the elections on account of health concerns, has to be elected to the Assembly within six months of being sworn in. Asked about speculation in Delhi’s corridors of power regarding deliberate attempts to delay the Bengal bypolls, Mamata said: “Why? Within six months, it is the system.” Besides Samserganj, Jangipur and Bhowanipore, bypolls would also have to be held in Dinhata and Santipur vacated by BJP MPs Nisith Pramanik and Jagannath Sarkar, respectively. They resigned from the Assembly in order to continue as members of the Lok Sabha. Khardah and Gosaba are the other two seats where bypolls need to be held. The chief minister urged the commission not to take more than a week or so to complete the by-poll process this time. “Let them give just seven days, 10am to 7pm (for campaign), no more. That will do, and the by-elections can be completed,” said Mamata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-15
24-06-2021||North East||Assam Public Works' complaint triggers larger question on NRC||The NGO whose petition in the Supreme Court had led to the update of the National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Assam has alleged widespread manipulation, including elementary data entry fraud, in the exercise. The unverified allegation unwittingly brings to the fore the question how reliable such a nationwide exercise can be if even one state could not prevent purported foul play in spite of the exercise being monitored by the Supreme Court and with a BJP-led government in power in Assam when the data was verified. The questions — and the very basic nature of the allegations — assume significance because the BJP, depending on the geography and demography, occasionally makes noises about replicating the update in the rest of the country and protecting its vote banks that could be affected by the exercise. The Assam update had wider ramifications. Matters had not played out in line with the BJP’s wishes when the updated NRC in August 2019 excluded 19.07 lakh applicants. It was assumed that many of those excluded were Hindus, not Muslims as the saffron ecosystem had hoped for, prompting the BJP to pick holes in the data and promise the non-Muslims succour through the Citizenship Amendment Act. The grand design was captured in the infamous “chronology samajh lijiye” cry attributed to Union home minister Amit Shah. The plan had ignited months-long protests in Assam — local parties wanted all illegal migrants, regardless of religion, to be excluded — and the rest of India, where the citizenship matrix was seen as a larger plan to target Muslims. Now, the apolitical NGO, Assam Public Works (APW), has filed a complaint with the Assam CID, accusing former state coordinator Prateek Hajela and his close associates of “manipulating” the family tree of applicants to enlist names of foreigners in the updated register. All the NRC applicants were required to provide their family tree, listing details of multiple generations, to the verifying officials on field visits. Hajela, an Assam-Meghalaya-cadre IAS officer appointed by the Supreme Court to coordinate the exercise who became a whipping boy for the BJP once the data failed to match its expectations, could not be contacted for comment. He now works in Madhya Pradesh. “We suspect Hajela and his close associates, in collaboration with some officers with migrant background, data entry operators and some minority leaders with some anti-national elements, have used the government mechanism to insert the names of the illegal migrants in the updated NRC,” APW president Aabhijeet Sharma said in his complaint filed on June 21. The APW had started complaining about the data when the first draft was published in 2018, by when the BJP had already been in power in Assam for two years. When the updated NRC was published on August 31, 2019, several organisations, including the APW, and the BJP-led government had expressed concern that suspected illegal migrants may have got their names included in the register. The NGO has now come out with the alleged modus operandi. Sharma, the APW president, alleged that the update was not done properly as the data entry operators and verification officers working in the immigrant-dominated areas were from the immigrant community. The APW called for analysing the call records of the officers and the data entry operators to unearth an alleged nexus. Those left out of the NRC can appeal for inclusion at the foreigners’ tribunals with documents but this process has not yet started.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-1
24-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Frown wins||Is this the final hour of reformism in Iran? Ebrahim Raisi’s ‘election’ as president of the country has fuelled such concerns in Iran and around the world. Mr Raisi — his ties with the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, as well as with the influential military are said to be silken — was unsurprisingly deemed to be the most fitting candidate by a hawkish Guardian Council. Indeed, Mr Raisi is widely viewed to be the Establishment’s favourite figure, having served as chief justice, and his tenure, it is believed, would strengthen the hold of the conservatives on Iran’s key institutions. That cannot be reassuring for the reformist forces, but it is evident that this round of political tussle between Iran’s hawks and doves has gone in favour of the former. This is likely to have a considerable impact on the agenda to usher in incremental — liberal — changes to the country. The setback suffered by the moderates can be attributed to an interesting factor. Donald Trump’s decision to discourage Hassan Rouhani’s outreach to the West — the United States of America imposed tough sanctions on Iran and withdrew from the nuclear deal under the maverick leader’s watch — was influential in changing the mood in Iran, strengthening the hands of the conservatives. Iran’s voters seem to be equally disenchanted with the political trajectory of Tehran. After all, the voters’ turnout was the lowest in this presidential election since the inception of the republic. However, Mr Raisi can expect the principal challenges to emerge from the international front. Given the current political temperament in Iran, it is unlikely that the new president would press for the opening up of the nation’s economy even though such a step could have soothed the ruffled feathers in the West. It would also be interesting to see whether Mr Raisi’s radical views permit him to allow international inspection of Tehran’s nuclear facilities, something that could go a long way in facilitating a new nuclear pact and the removal of sanctions. Given the slippery nature of the diplomatic terrain, it would make sense for Mr Raisi to shore up public support domestically. For this to happen, Iran’s president  must encourage a slow embrace of a reformist ethic by his administration and desist from crushing freedom and liberty. But these tasks could well be anathema to his ideological inclination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-5
24-06-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Parul Khakhar's 'Shav-vahini Ganga'; Congress  in crisis||Brave words Sir — It was wonderful to read Ruchir Joshi’s article on the eminent writer and critic, Suresh Joshi, who was one of the most important figures in modern Gujarati literature (“Verse as mirror”, June 22). In one of his last major lectures, he rightly criticized Gujarati writing for not engaging with serious subjects of the day, pointing out the widespread shallowness present in works of art. The recent radical poem by Parul Khakhar, “Shav-vahini Ganga”, is a massive break from the lull that Suresh Joshi had spoken about. The lines, “In unison, the corpses cry out/ ‘All is great, all is lekker!’/ O Leader! In your Ram Rajya/ There’s a new hearse/ The corpse-carrying Ganga”, sharply criticize the political dispensation for failing to perform its duties in such trying times. These words not only convey the anger and despair of the poet but hold the potential to rouse readers against grave injustices that are being faced by the people today. She further writes that “my wannabe Emperor is naked”, aptly summarizing the current situation. We can only hope that not all is lost. Jahar Saha, Calcutta Sir — When individual freedom in India appears poised to shrink further, it is encouraging to read about poets like Suresh Joshi and Parul Khakhar. It is no surprise that Khakhar — her poem, “Shav-vahini Ganga”, has been praised for its brutal portrayal of the current situation in India and the administration’s failure to control the pandemic — has been at the receiving end of vitriolic attacks from the Bharatiya Janata Party, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and their stooges. It is also disappointing to see that Gujarat Sahitya Akademi’s journal, Shabdsrushti, carried an article criticizing the poem as a work of “pointless angst written in agitation”. It seems that in spite of  strong words from the Supreme Court pointing out that criticism of the government is not tantamount to sedition, we may continue to see many a Kafkasque situation in the lives of those who dare to protest against the government. We must thank Prakash N. Shah, the editor of Nireekshak, for the publication of “Tare Bolvanu Nahi” which was written by Khakhar as a literary rejoinder to criticism of her in the right-wing controlled press. It is people like Khakhar and Shah who are keeping the last vestiges of resistance alive. Ashoke Basu,Baruipur, South 24 Parganas Endless fights Sir — There is an immediate need for democracy and reorganization within the Congress without which it will continue to flail (“More trouble”, June 22). The Grand Old Party has been functioning like a rudderless ship for a while now, plagued by a disinterested leadership, petty rivalries, ideological confusion and inertia. Dissidence has been simmering in the Punjab unit in recent years, but now with the elections less than a year away, it has gained ground. The differences between Navjot Singh Sidhu and Amarinder Singh must not be allowed to fester any longer. The Congress must also appoint a full-time president immediately. A combination of unwarranted personal ambition as well as organizational failures has prevented the Congress from taking advantage of the serious lapses committed by the Narendra Modi government. Unless the situation is remedied, the Grand Old Party will fail to resurrect itself as a viable political force in contemporary India. S.S. Paul,Nadia Grave find Sir — A recent video on TikTok which shows a fisherman cutting open a fish to find an unopened bottle of liquor has sparked a debate on the internet about the state of pollution in the ocean. While many considered the find to be a hoax, several others pointed out that aquatic animals are facing an unprecedented level of danger as a result of irresponsible human behaviour. A study had predicted that plastic waste in the ocean might outweigh fish pound for pound by 2050. People must become aware of the deteriorating condition of the environment and put an end to littering the ocean. Aparajita Banerjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-5
24-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Papered over||Immersion in party politics is dangerous in the face of a national crisis. It is a tragic fact that the second wave of the pandemic seemed to have caught the Indian government unawares, and the white paper put out by the Congress claims that numerous deaths could have been prevented with better preparation. The prime minister’s refusal to pay heed to warnings by scientists and the Opposition and his absorption in the West Bengal elections are, the document suggests, among the reasons for this. The former Congress chief, Rahul Gandhi, has endorsed this criticism. The white paper, however, is not meant for ‘finger-pointing’, according to Mr Gandhi, but to provide insights and information. Assuming a collaborative approach, it suggests means to contain the third wave, such as ready supplies of oxygen, medicines and sufficient hospital space. It also urges a vaccination drive at the highest possible pitch — not just satisfaction at one day’s record — and financial support for the less privileged who have lost earning members to the virus. The document seems to be trying to fill a vacuum left by the Union government by outlining effective strategies to deal with the pandemic, something that the Tamil Nadu government is doing in another sphere on a practical level, by inviting a panel of international experts to advise it on much-needed economic development. Predictably, the Congress’s white paper has stung the Bharatiya Janata Party into accusing Mr Gandhi of politicizing every issue and claiming that the second wave was worst managed in Congress-ruled states. Making the Opposition’s suggestions look like agenda-driven sniping exposes the BJP’s inability to distinguish between party interests and governance. While Uttar Pradesh is still gasping from the devastation caused by the mismanagement of the pandemic by the Yogi Adityanath-led government, the BJP is already preparing for the assembly elections next year. Banners and hoardings with Narendra Modi’s portrait accompanied by Mr Adityanath’s have burst onto UP’s roads. The chief minister is apparently thanking Mr Modi for free vaccines for all — something which many countries have provided and which India is starting rather late after tussles with the Opposition. Mr Modi’s presence is possibly expected to neutralize resentment against the chief minister. The BJP is busy calculating means to win elections; the possibility of a further national crisis is a mere distraction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-6
24-06-2021||Opinion||Time for nimble diplomacy||For four decades, Afghanistan has been the theatre of a Great Game involving a range of foreign actors — the United States of America, Russia, Pakistan, Iran, India and China — that has devastated the country, entrapping it in a seemingly endless cycle of wars. Last week, a new player entered that already crowded space: Turkey. For New Delhi, already nervous about the pullout of US troops from Afghanistan by September 11, that’s terrible news. Three months before America’s departure from the war-torn nation, the cards are increasingly looking stacked against India. The US president, Joe Biden, and his Turkish counterpart, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, agreed during their June 14 meeting on the sidelines of the Nato summit in Brussels that Ankara would take charge of the security of Kabul’s international airport after September 11. The Hamid Karzai International Airport, named after post-Taliban Afghanistan’s first president, is the main point of entry into the landlocked nation for visitors from around the world. On the surface, it would be good for everyone if a country — Turkey, in this case — steps up to offer security for such a vital airport. But India’s relations with Turkey are the worst they have been in decades. After the 2016 failed coup against Erdogan, Turkey had demanded that India act against an alleged network of supporters of Fethullah Gulen, an exiled preacher whom Ankara blamed for the political crisis. India did little. Erdogan waited for his moment and struck back after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government abrogated Article 370 and cracked down on civil liberties in Kashmir. Erdogan publicly criticized India and doubled down on his support for Pakistan during a subsequent visit to Islamabad. India’s foreign ministry, a past master at boilerplate statements that deliberately say nothing you wouldn’t find in a textbook, for once responded with clear denunciation of Erdogan. Modi cancelled a planned visit to Turkey. Yet the reasons why New Delhi must worry run deeper than just the recent bad blood between India and Turkey. Already since the June 14 meeting with Biden, Erdogan has said that Turkey intends to secure the participation of Pakistan and Hungary in securing Kabul airport. Pakistan has welcomed the proposal. Imagine Indian leaders flying into Afghanistan via an airport controlled in part by Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence. It won’t be pleasant. For Erdogan, the airport’s just the start. It demonstrates his soaring ambitions to act as the new major influencer of the direction of Afghanistan. Turkey has ties with both the Taliban and other groups representing ethnic minorities such as the Uzbeks and the Hazaras. It could leverage those to seek a role as a trusted mediator by both sides. And it could do so with Biden’s blessings. At a time when it is desperate to withdraw from Afghanistan but does not want that nation to collapse into chaos, there’s nothing the US wants more than another country willing to take on more of a leadership role. Since Turkey and the US are both part of Nato, it would also give America a window for continued presence and influence in Afghanistan without risking the lives of its soldiers. Pakistan wouldn’t mind this arrangement either. It still holds greater sway over the Taliban than any other nation, and its warm relationship with Turkey means its interests would likely be safeguarded if Ankara gains greater clout in Kabul. If things go south in Afghanistan, Ankara — not Islamabad — takes the blame. It would be just the opposite for India. An antagonistic Turkey that knows how much the US needs it in Kabul could prove a nightmare. Erdogan could complicate India’s own influence game in Afghanistan, especially if Pakistan’s military has any say in it. Of course, things could play out very differently. Despite their agreement over Kabul airport, trust between the US and Turkey remains low. Ankara — like India, ironically — is adamant about purchasing the S-400 missile defence system from Moscow despite the threat of sanctions from Washington. If relations between the US and Turkey sour further, it’s entirely possible that Biden might withdraw support for greater Turkish influence in Afghanistan. And while Pakistan will be happy about Turkey’s presence in Afghanistan, it wouldn’t want Ankara to start replacing Islamabad’s hold over militant groups like the Taliban and the Haqqani network. India still has time. It has the leverage of its giant economy and warm relations with most major powers (except China) that it could offer to Turkey in exchange for better ties. Ankara knows that while it’s okay for Erdogan to grandstand over Kashmir, it would benefit from a stronger bond with New Delhi. Given Modi’s politics, it won’t be easy for the Indian leader to publicly reconcile with Erdogan’s positions on Kashmir and Pakistan. Yet without improved ties, India could stand to lose out in Afghanistan. Whining about America’s decisions won’t help — nimble diplomacy might.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-6
24-06-2021||Opinion||Forgotten chapter||The scope and meaning of Bengali culture and who are its rightful custodians were themes that played out in the recent elections to the West Bengal assembly. Although complex issues of culture and identity are never settled by the proverbial show of hands, their appearance in competitive politics does indicate that popular concerns are never confined to bread-and-butter issues alone. This, of course, isn’t exclusively limited to voluble Bengalis. In the past five years or so, Western democracies have witnessed sharp divisions on questions of history, language, sexuality, faith and, most important, national identity. As immigration has altered the ethnic profile of countries, an increasing number of people are asking the question the Harvard professor, Samuel Huntington, posed to fellow Americans in 2004: “Who are we?” For the past decade or so, maybe longer, a small group of people attached to the ideological ecosystem of the Bharatiya Janata Party have attempted to popularize the commemoration of June 20 as West Bengal Day (Pashchim Bongo Dibas). This year — and despite the inability to secure political power in the state — they managed a significant breakthrough. Having secured recognition as the official Opposition in the assembly, they observed West Bengal Day at the gates of the assembly in the presence of MLAs and the leader of Opposition. There, the demand was made to have West Bengal Day put on the official calendar. Additionally, it was suggested that the names of all those MLAs who had voted for the creation of West Bengal in 1947 be inscribed on a tablet on the assembly premises. The fulfilment of the demands must necessarily wait for a change of political dispensation. The ruling Trinamul Congress is not merely opposed to the idea of a West Bengal Day but is seeking to rename the state altogether. However, by bringing the question of the state’s name and the history of its formation into momentary focus, the BJP may have succeeded — albeit in a modest way — to resurrect a troubled, awkward and increasingly forgotten chapter of history. There were two votes on June 20, 1947. In the first division, the Bengal Legislative Assembly voted 120-90 to incorporate the entire province in the new state of Pakistan. A separate meeting of legislators from the non-Muslim majority districts of Bengal, however, voted resoundingly to seek a partition of the province and remain in India. All the Congress members from West Bengal voted for dividing the province, as did the two Communist members, including Jyoti Basu. The Muslim League members were equally united in wishing to avert the separation of the Hindu-majority districts. Their version of East Pakistan included the whole of Bengal and Assam — a reason why Mohammed Ali Jinnah subsequently lamented that he had been given a “moth-eaten Pakistan”. Since the British prime minister, Clement Attlee, had announced on June 3, 1947, that the legislatures of Punjab and Bengal could opt for partitioning their respective provinces, the vote on June 20 signalled the creation of West Bengal, although its formal borders awaited the Boundary Commission award at the very last minute. The creation of West Bengal on June 20, 1947, implied two separate rejections. First, the Hindus of the province were emphatic in their opposition to the incorporation of the province in Pakistan. This included the representatives of Hindus living in the Muslim-majority districts. The only leader of some consequence who broke rank was Jogendra Nath Mandal, a Namasudra leader who joined the Muslim League and was made a minister in the interim government. Simultaneously, all the Muslim legislators voted to have the entire province incorporated in Pakistan. The Hindu case for partitioning Bengal was forcefully expressed by the Hindu Mahasabha leader, Shyama Prasad Mookerjee, in a letter to the viceroy, Lord Mountbatten, on May 2, 1947. If, argued Mookerjee, “Muslims being 24 per cent of India’s population constituted such a formidable minority that their demand for a separate homeland and state became irresistible, surely 45 per cent of Bengal’s Hindu population was a sufficiently large minority which could not be coerced into living within Pakistan against the will of the people”. Secondly, in the aftermath of the creation of Bangladesh in 1971, a romantic aura has been built around the proposal for a sovereign, united Bengal mooted by the Muslim League’s H.S. Suhrawardy and the Congress stalwart, Sarat Chandra Bose. The proposal, however, secured no backing from either the Muslim League or Congress leaderships, with Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel rebuking Bose for being detached from reality. Moreover, it was resolutely opposed by Bengali Hindus — still in a state of shock after the Calcutta killings of August 1946 and the carnage in Noakhali a few months later. It was felt that the Suhrawardy-Bose proposal was a back-door scheme for securing all of Bengal, but particularly Calcutta, for Pakistan. The suggestion, proffered after Suhrawardy acquired a new avatar as the upholder of Bengali nationalism in East Pakistan, that the proposal indicated an embryonic, non-sectarian, cultural nationalism of all Bengali-speakers is not backed by any meaningful contemporary evidence. The movement for Pakistan in Bengal may not have been centred on the creation of an Islamic state — as certainly was the case in parts of North India — but the sense of Muslim pride that was invoked was built on an emphatic rejection of Hindu cultural dominance. As the historian, Neilesh Bose, wrote in the context of Abul Mansur Ahmed, a Bengali writer and literary figure prominent in the movement for Pakistan, “He did not exactly support a ‘divided Bengal’, as much as he opposed a Bengal where Muslims would be politically and culturally under-represented. Transforming Bengal into the Purba Pakistan portion of greater Pakistan would provide the means to fully represent Bengali Muslim cultural and political potentialities.” In short, Bengali Muslims would now dominate. At the grassroots, these impulses translated into a form of ethnic cleansing, as was first experienced in a horrifying fashion in Noakhali in 1946. In his resignation letter from the Pakistan government in 1950, Jogendranath Mandal stated that despite the Nehru-Liaquat pact, the East Pakistan government “is still following the well-planned policy of squeezing Hindus out of the province”. Despite the formation of Bangladesh in 1971, the squeeze has continued unchecked. The circumstances and the forces that led to the formation of West Bengal — in effect, as a safe haven for Hindus of the entire undivided Bengal — has proved to be awkward in a contemporary context. The Left, which once spearheaded the movement for the rights of refugees, preferred focusing on the grim condition in the camps rather than ask what created the refugee problem in the first place. This denial persists among Bengali intellectuals. Within Bangladesh, there is an understandable squeamishness over the history of the widespread political and cultural appeal of the movement for Pakistan among Bangla-speaking Muslims. The political career of Suhrawardy from the early-1950s until his death in 1963 is celebrated by the Awami League. But it fits uncomfortably with his pre-1947 record as an Urdu-speaking stalwart of the Muslim League. Suhrawardy, despite being a native of Midnapore, learnt his admittedly ‘exotic’ Bangla as late as 1937. History is invariably viewed through the prism of the present. There are political gains in portraying Bengali culture and politics as an unending saga of syncretism and progressive thought. However, the turbulent history of the second partition of Bengal, the uncertain plight of minorities in neighbouring Bangladesh and the discernible demographic transformation of West Bengal fit uneasily into the cultural nationalism of Mamata Banerjee. They become even more jarring when the political rationale behind the creation of West Bengal in 1947 is sought to be resurrected from the pages of censored history.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-6
24-06-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma sanctuary elephants pose threat to humans and crops||Elephants are positioned perilously close to human habitation at the foothills of the Dalma wildlife sanctuary, posing a danger to crops and villagers. Foresters and rural youths are patrolling the foothills to keep around 40 elephants at bay. The jumbos, most of whom were earlier stationed at the hilltop, have come down to the foothills. Foresters said danger to human life was less as unlike other forest areas, including Chandil and Kandra in Seraikela-Kharsawan, people living at villages inside the 192 sq km sanctuary, don’t tease elephants. The Chandil forest range often witnesses the presence of elephants from Bengal, Tamar (near Ranchi). Incidents of jumbos destroying homes, and wiping out standing crops are a common sight. Sometimes, elephants, when teased, also kill humans. Same is the case with Kandra. “However, it is not possible to stop elephants from entering farmlands and damaging crops. Elephants destroying crops is not a new thing in Dalma but there are very few human casualties as villagers don’t tease jumbos by throwing stones at them and bursting crackers close to them. Villagers have now learnt to live with elephants,” a forester said. He, however, added it is very difficult to predict the mood of elephants. “Though we have been taking all necessary precautions to prevent man-animal conflict, it is very difficult to predict the mood swings of wild jumbos,” the forester pointed out, requesting not to be quoted. Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra confirmed the presence of elephants on the foothills. “We don’t think there is any danger to human life on the foothills. But the elephants may destroy crops as they have been doing in the past,” he added. Some of the elephants are still stationed uphill. Around a dozen jumbos, including calves, were spotted by foresters near Chhotka Bandh on Thursday morning. “Elephants are enjoying their time without the presence of tourists. Villagers have become accustomed to living with the jumbos,” a tracker (village youths recruited as daily wagers to keep a tab on movement of elephants and other animals), said. The scenic Dalma sanctuary, 30 km from Jamshedpur, is presently close in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Dalma elephants will migrate to the jungles of Bankura and West Midnapore in neighbouring Bengal in August-September and return in February-March next year. Depending upon their mood, jumbos may migrate to Bengal earlier than their usual schedule.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-11
24-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand vests power on panchayat chiefs to issue marriage certificates||The Jharkhand government has vested power on panchayat chiefs across the state under the compulsory Marriage Registration Act, Palamau marriage registrar Dharmender Kumar Upadhaya said, terming it as a big move. A lot of relief and comfort has come with this announcement, Upadhaya told The Telegraph Online. At the panchayat level, he said, the fee for compulsory marriage registration comes for little less than Rs 100 compared to that of a marriage registrar who operates from a district town. “Let’s not forget that it is the panchayat sachiv who gives birth and death certificates in the panchayat. So it is no problem for them to issue a marriage certificate,” Upadhaya said. On Wednesday a National Informatics Centre team held a virtual session with the panchayat chiefs sensitising them about the finesse of community marriage registration. Upadhaya said the age of the boy and girl matters most for marriage registration, and one of the two has to be from the same panchayat from where the registration is done. In case of court marriage registration is to be done at the marriage registrar's desk and nowhere else, he informed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-11
24-06-2021||Jharkhand||South Eastern Railway restores Ispat Express from Friday||South Eastern Railway has decided to restore the Howrah-Titlagarh Ispat Superfast Express, which runs via Tatanagar, from from Friday, over a year after it was suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The superfast express, which will run as a special train (02517 / 02518 ), will leave Howrah daily at 6.35 am. The train will reach Tatanagar at 10.18am. It will be at the station for five minutes before  will move ahead on its onward journey. The train will reach Titlagarh at 7.35 pm the same day. On its return journey,  the superfast train will leave Titlagarh daily with effect from June 26 at 5.15am and reach Howrah, the originating station, at 6.15pm the same day. The return train will arrive at Tatanagar railway station at 1.45 pm. Apart from Tatanagar, the train will also stop at Santragachi, Kharagpur, Jhargram, Chakulia,Ghatshila, Rakhamines, Sini,  Rajkharsawan, Chakradharpur,  Manoharpur, Bondamunda,  Rourkela, Rajganjpur , Jharsuguda, Sambalpur, Hirakud, Barpali, Loisingha,  Bolangir and  Saintala between the two destinations - Howrah and Titlagarh. The train will have 10 general chair car coaches, two AC chair car coaches and two third AC coaches. Both, Chhotanagpur Passenger Association and Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry ( SCCI ) welcomed the decision of the South Eastern Railway . Kamakhya-Ranchi-Special to run from June 29 The 05662 Kamakhya-Ranchi Special will leave  Kamakhya w.e.f June 26 every Tuesday at 12 noon and arrive Ranchi at 2.25 pm, the next day. On its return, the 05661 Ranchi-Kamakhya Special will leave Ranchi w.e.f June 30 every Wednesday at 8.30 pm and reach Kamakhya at 11.30 pm, the next day. The train, with one AC 2-Tier, five AC 3-Tier, 10 sleeper class and four general second class (fully reserved) coaches, will stop at New Bongaigaon, Kokrajhar, Alipurduar, Hasimara, Binnaguri, New Mal, Siliguri, New Jalpaiguri, Kishanganj, Barsoi, Malda Town, New Farakka, Pakur, Rampurhat, Sainthia, Siuri, Andal Durgapur, Asansol, Dhanbad, Chandrapura, Bokaro Steel City and Muri stations.  The train will also stop at Raniganj on way to Ranchi from Kamakhya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-11
24-06-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi man ‘buys’ his mother a plot of land on the moon||He loves his mother to the moon and back. And just so she knows Sumit means it, he has gone ahead and gifted her a plot of land on, well, the moon. Meet Sumit Sinha (33), a wedding planner who is now the only Jharkhand resident to have “purchased” an acre of land at Mare Moscoviense or the Sea of Muscovy on the moon, where late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput also “owned” a plot of land. Such land deals are executed courtesy, Luna Society International that is authorised by the International Lunar Lands Authority (ILLA) to offer to the public a limited number of properties on the moon in compliance with international treaties in order to finance a privatised exploration and development project, its website says. There are many other websites that claim to do the same. But “owning” a piece of land on the moon, however, does not come with any ownership rights. The ownership package includes an embossed deed, a satellite photograph of the property and an information sheet detailing the geography of the moon's Moscoviense Region. The owners of land on the moon also get complimentary lifetime membership of Luna Society International. “I wanted to give something memorable to my mother to express how much I love her. After a lot of thinking, I realised that gifting her property on the moon would be a great way of showing her how much she means to me,” said Sumit. His mother Rita, now the proud owner of the property, is on cloud nine ever since Sumit handed over the ownership package on Wednesday. “I used to tease Sumit that he never gave me anything as a gift, not even a pair of earrings. Yesterday, he came to my room and handed over some papers to me. Initially, I did not understand what it was, but when I read the documents, I realised that he has bought land on the moon for me. I am short of words. This is an emotional moment for me,” said the 52-year-old homemaker. As per the registered claim and deed, this “purchase” of land on the moon will help finance a variety of programmes administered by the Luna Society, including the first non-governmental manned mission to the moon, as well as funding scholarships and educational initiatives for students. A resident of Bariatu Housing Colony in Ranchi, Sumit lost his father when he was 12, and has been living with his mother since then. Handed over the responsibility of running a family at a young age, Sumit worked in New Delhi for 15 years and currently owns an event management company in Ranchi. Sumit won the award for best wedding planner in Ranchi in 2018 and 2019. In 2018, Bollywood actor Soha Ali Khan handed over the award to him at a show in Bangalore. And in 2019, Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut conferred the award to Sumit at an event in Thailand. After Bollywood actors Shahrukh Khan and Sushant Singh Rajput purchased lands on the moon, several Indians were quick to follow the trend. Last year, a Rajasthan man gifted a plot on the moon to his wife on their wedding anniversary. In 2020, a man from Bodh Gaya in Bihar had also purchased a plot of land on the moon. Purchasing land on the moon, as of now, is largely symbolic. In 1967, the Soviet Union, the United States, and the United Kingdom came up with the Outer Space Treaty that debars any country or individual from owning any part of outer space. At least 109 more countries, including India, signed the treaty later.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-11
24-06-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town hospitality sector senses revival ||The hospitality sector is slowly gaining momentum with the gradual restoration of train services, improvement in the Covid situation and revival of trade and commerce. Several hotels of Dhanbad which were lying closed or had temporarily suspended the room service have re-launched their operations recently. The hotel operators however, are demanding permission for the opening of banquet halls and resumption of dining services in their restaurants since active Covid cases have dropped to double digit figures in the district. Skylark Hotel, one of the oldest three star hotels of Dhanbad, which opened up after a brief closure of around 20 days on June 11 is receiving around five bookings per day out of its 37 rooms. Sonotel Hotel which had also closed bookings for a brief period has re-launched the service since last week and presently seeing 50 to 60 per cent occupancy. The occupancy in another prominent hotel of the district, 17 Degrees, has also increased to five to seven rooms from two to three rooms about a week ago. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Senior General Manager of Skylark Hotel, Anutosh Bagchi said, “We have opened up the hotel from June 11 on the request of our corporate guests which are our main customer base.” “During the week days from Monday to Friday the occupancy is around 7 rooms but during the weekend lockdown the occupancy falls to zero and thus the average occupancy is around five rooms,” said Bagchi. “The main business of hotels depends on banquets and restaurants and since there is restriction on these, we are still incurring losses and once these facilities are allowed we will be in position to earn some profit,” said Bagchi. Arka Ghosh, General Manager of Sonotel Hotel said, “Though there is some improvement in terms of room occupancy as during the weekdays we get almost 60 per cent occupancy of 56 rooms which falls down to 50% during weekends due to lockdown but our major concern is unoperational banquet halls.” “Since majority of banquet bookings for July have been carried out for marriages in anticipation of improvement of situation during July but with restriction continuing we will soon have pressure for refund of booking amount also,” said Ghosh. Sandeep Narang, proprietor of 17 Degree Hotel of Dhanbad said,“We can’t understand the reason for the continuation of restrictions on in-house dining service at restaurants and at least the dining should be restored with half of seating capacity.” “Look at the market places and there is so much rush everywhere then what is the logic of continuation or dining service in restaurants which can be properly operated as per the Covid protocols,” said Narang.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-11
24-06-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town children deprived of disability grants||More than 50 physically and mentally challenged students belonging to economically weaker sections of society enrolled at different special education centres are deprived of their disability pension for several months at a time when the Covid pandemic has affected the income of one and all. The applications of several students for pensions are also lying for approval at the respective circle office for several months. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Akhlaque Ahmad, a speech therapist cum special educator at Jharia based government resource centre for the physically challenged persons said, “More than 20 students of our centres who were getting pension regularly are not receiving the same since the last four months.” “Since majority of around 170 students enrolled at our centre belong to the below poverty line families, including the children of daily wage earners, the pension amount  was a major source of income for them which helped them to survive the onslaught of the lockdown” said Ahmad. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Champa Devi, mother of a hearing impaired 14 year old girl, Rani Kumari, said, “Me and my husband Kailash Sao used to sell jhalmuri at a nearby school to eke out the living of five persons including our three children, Rani Kumari (14), Puja Kumari and a 19 year old son.” “As the school has been closed since last year, we have lost our sole source of income and somehow depend on the pensions of Rani for procuring our daily needs to some extent but the discontinuation of pension has forced us toward the brink of starvation,” said Devi. Nikhat Parveen, mother of another hearing impaired student of Resource center, said, “My husband used to earn little working a tailoring shop in Jharia and the pension provided through the social welfare department helped us a lot during the difficult times but this time the pension is also suspended for three months.” Ranjit Kumar, speech therapist and special educator of Jeevan Jyoti School School, a school for physically and mentally challenged children operated by inner wheel club of Dhanbad said, “Several of our students are also deprived of disability pensions complicating the difficulties of their parents during the time of pandemic.” Contacted, Anuj Bando, Additional Director, Social Security, said, “Though allotments are coming regularly from the government and pensions are also being disbursed but if there is any discontinuation in pension in some specific cases, we will look into it seriously.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-11
24-06-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel brings in new workplace strategy for continuous improvement ||Tata Steel on Wednesday introduced the ‘5S and Visual Workplace Management Assessments’ under the aegis of Apex Safety Management System & Audit Safety Subcommittee, across all its locations, with an objective to make the shop floor safe and vibrant. The initiative was launched jointly by T.V. Narendran, CEO and managing director of Tata Steel and Sanjeev K. Choudhary, president, Tata Workers' Union on a digital platform in the presence of employees across all locations of Tata Steel. 5S refers to five Japanese terms used to describe the steps of the 5S system of visual management. The 5S stands for Sort, Set in Order, Shine, Standardise and Sustain. Speaking on the occasion, Narendran stressed upon the importance of basics in the organisation. He said that a strong 5S visual workplace process is the foundation for any continuous improvement strategy. "This kind of an initiative will help the organisation to demonstrate the same level of excellence all across its locations," he said. TWU president Choudhary highlighted the importance of 5S in professional and personal life. The context of the programme was set by Neeraj Kumar Sinha, chief (Safety), Tata Steel who gave the background of initiating the latest initiative. "Tata Steel is committed to the safety and well-being of its stakeholders and has taken several steps in the past as well to ensure zero harm to people," he said. Notably, Tata Steel group is among the top global steel companies with an annual crude steel capacity of 34 million tonnes per annum. It is one of the world's most geographically-diversified steel producers, with operations and commercial presence across the world. Tata Motors announces changes to its Board of Directors Tata Motors on Wednesday evening announced that Guenter Butschek who had informed his desire to relocate to Germany at the end of the contract for personal reasons, will therefore be stepping down from his role as CEO and  managing director from June 30, 2021. He will continue as a consultant to the company till the end of this fiscal year. In a statement issued by the company N Chandrasekaran, chairman of Tata Sons said, “I would like to thank Guenter for leading Tata Motors successfully over the last five years and creating a strong foundation for the future. I look forward to his continued inputs as a consultant to the company.” Girish Wagh will be appointed as the executive director to the Board of Tata Motors Ltd from July 1, 2021. Wagh is currently the president of commercial vehicles division. He alongwith  Shailesh Chandra, president – passenger vehicles division and  Thierry Bollore, CEO – Jaguar Land Rover will continue to work closely with the chairman,  N Chandrasekaran, said the company statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-12
24-06-2021||Jharkhand||East Singhbhum wins virtual karate championship||East Singhbhum claimed 13 medals -- eight gold, four silver and one bronze -- to emerge champions in the second Jharkhand State E-Kata Karate Championship held virtually as part of Olympic Day celebrations on June 22 and 23. Ranchi finished runner-up with 9 medals -- 2 gold, 3 silver and 4 bronze while West Singhbhum claimed the third position by winning 7 medals -- 2 gold, as many silver and 3 bronze. Bokaro, on the other hand, had to be satisfied with the fourth spot with 5 medals -- 2 silver and 3 bronze -- in the event organised by Jharkhand State Karate Do Association (JSKA), an affiliated unit of Karate Association of India (KAI), in association with Tata Steel sports wing. Trainees of Tata Steel Karate Training Centre also performed well during the championship. "A total of 275 karatekas from 18 districts participated in the championship which concluded late Wednesday evening. The event played in kata style was officiated by 20 referees," said JSKA general secretary L. Nageshwar Rao. According to him, they wanted to put karatekas of different districts into action as they remained indoors owing to Covid-19 pandemic. "The championship was conducted successfully. We thank the dignitaries for their support and blessings," Rao, chief coach of the Tata Steel karate cradle said. The tournament was inaugurated by chief guest Farzan Heerjee, chief, (protocol and sports), Tata Steel in the presence of R. Ravi Prasad, president of JSKA, Mukul Vinayak Choudhari, chief (sports excellence centre), Tata Steel, Ashish Kumar, head (sports), Tata Steel and Anand Menezes, Olympian and senior manager (sports) of the company. Nitin Kulkarni, IAS and Ashu Shukla, DIG, CRPF, Jamshedpur, were the guests of honour at the closing ceremony on Wednesday evening. The dignitaries appreciated the championship and thanked all the participants who took part from their homes in a disciplined manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-12
24-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports 2 Covid deaths as active cases drop ||Jharkhand on Wednesday reported two Covid casualties, one each in Simdega and Dumka, taking the Covid toll to 5104, while the active caseload in the state dropped to 1364 as at least 190 Covid patients recovered in the state against 139 people found infected by SARS-CoV-2 virus on the day, figures released by the health department highlighted. At least four Jharkhand districts – Pakur, Dumka Khunti and Godda – did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, while none of the 24 districts reported a spike of more than 30 cases. East Singhbhum, as per NHM data, reported the highest spike of 25 cases on the day, while Ranchi reported 10 cases of Covid-19. The state on Wednesday tested swab samples of 63,944 residents and around 0.2 per cent of them were found infected by the deadly virus. So far, over 3.44 lakh people have been affected by Covid-19 in the state and 98.12 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of them could not survive, reveals government data. “The trajectory of Covid cases has seen a downward trend in the state, but we cannot afford to be complacent. The current restrictions will continue and the government will take necessary steps as per the situation in the coming days,” Chief Minister Hemant Soren said after the government on Wednesday extended the ongoing lockdown-like restrictions, referred to as ‘Swastya Suraksha Saptah’, till July 1. The active caseload in Ranchi dropped to 444 on the day, while that in East SInghbhum rose to 156. Among other districts, Dhanbad reported a spike of 14 cases against 16 recoveries, while Latehar reported a spike of 12 cases against 11 recoveries. At least 16 districts reported a single-digit-spike in cases on Wednesday. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 was 0.03 per cent in Jharkhand against the national average of 0.13 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state was 2129.46 days against the national average of 545.48 days. The state on Wednesday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 111816 residents and close to 90,000 of the beneficiaries were in the age group of 18 years to 44 years, a separate report from NHM stated. The second jab of vaccine was administered to 19013 residents on the day. Meanwhile, two more patients of Mucormycosis recovered on Wednesday, taking the count of Jharkhand residents who have overcome the fungal infection to 54. The state did not report fresh cases of black fungus on the day. The total confirmed cases stood at 84, while 54 suspected patients were undergoing treatment in the state by Wednesday. So far, Mucormycosis has claimed 26 lives in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-12
24-06-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren receives another threating email||In the fourth such instance after becoming the Jharkhand chief minister, Hemant Soren has received an anonymous email threatening him. Police sources said the sender has been identified. The email was sent to the official address of the secretary to the chief minister (secretarytocmjharkhand@gmail.com) on May 25 at 3.19pm. The email written in English hurls expletives at Soren and warns: “I will bear your death ceremony cost from my personal pocket. Third class…. Die as soon as possible.” A case was lodged by the chief minister’s office at Gonda police station in Ranchi on the same day. Gonda police sub-inspector Dipak Kumar investigated the case and submitted his probe report on June 1. The investigating team with the help of cyber cell of Ranchi police found the sender’s email (vikram.mouneshwar@gmail.com) and zeroed in on the IP address and other details of the accused Vikram Ghodgari Mouneshwar, who is a resident of Bangalore, Karnataka, and also traced his mobile number. “We have lodged a case under Sections 385 and 387 (putting a person in fear of injury in order to commit extortion) of the IPC,” said a source in the Ranchi police who refused to be named. Ranchi city superintendent of police Sourav Kumar confirmed the incident but said that they are not in position to comment further. “We have received a complaint and are investigating it. We cannot disclose much about the case at the moment,” he said. However, sources in Ranchi police said they had managed to nab the accused a few days after submission of the probe report. The police found that the accused did not have any criminal antecedents and was actually suffering from depression due to the Covid-19 pandemic and had written the email not in a fit state of mind. The police also found that the youth hailed from a good family. “The matter was discussed with the chief minister’s office a few days earlier and the youth who had been detained was released on bail bond by the police on the directive of Ranchi SSP (senior superintendent of police) Surendra Kumar Jha,” a source said. On July 8 and July 17 last year and again on January 5 this year, Soren had received anonymous threat emails. But the police failed to make much headway in any of these cases as the IP address of the servers were found to be in Germany and Switzerland and the cyber cell has not been able to identify the sender of the emails. Sources in the chief minister’s office refused to comment on the fresh email threat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-12
24-06-2021||Jharkhand||Bramhadev was shot at by the security forces, say activists||Human rights activists have concluded after an enquiry that innocent villagers carrying a single shot country-made gun and participating in an annual hunting festival were shot at by the security forces earlier this month. The activists were probing the killing of a tribal accused of being a Maoist by security forces in Jharkhand’s Latehar district on June 12. The probe team of human rights activists under the aegis of Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha (a coalition of progressive human rights organisations) had visited Piri village of Garu block in Latehar district, 170km from Jharkhand capital Ranchi, which witnessed the killing. “The security forces took Bramhadev Singh (24) to the edge of the forest and fired three shots at him, which led to his death,” the report which was submitted to the Latehar deputy commissioner Abu Imran on Wednesday afternoon. “The team found that the incident of 12 June was not an ‘exchange of fire’. The security forces fired upon innocent villagers. The six adivasis associated with the incident (including Bramhadev) were out on a traditional hunting ritual, as every year for the Sarhul festival. They all carried a Bhartua gun, which has been in their families from generations. This single fire gun is used to hunt small animals and birds like rabbits, pigs and chickens and to protect crops from animals,” the report points out. “Suddenly, the security forces started firing without any warning. The villagers, however, did not fire any shots from the Bhartua gun they were carrying. They instead raised their hands, shouted that they are common people, not Maoists and requested the police to not shoot. But the security personnel kept firing. One of the bullets fired by them hit one of the villagers Dinenath in the hand. Another bullet hit Bramhadev in the body,” the report adds. The firing continued for about half an hour. Fearing being shot at, the five men ran away from the forest. Thereafter, the security forces took Bramhadev to the edge of the forest and fired three shots at him, which led to his death. The villagers also told the fact-finding team that none of the six victims were associated with the Maoist organisation. “The FIR does not mention Bramhadev’s death by the police firing. According to the FIR, this incident was an exchange of fire in which the first shot was fired by the group of armed villagers and some people fled into the forest. The FIR also mentions that Brahmadev’s body was found at the edge of the forest. These statements are contrary to the facts,” the report points out. The report also states that police have filed a case against the six adivasis, including Bramhadev, under various sections (including the Arms Act). This too exposes the true intention of the police — it  wants to maintain pressure on the villagers to prevent them from questioning the police firing and the murder. In the police station, all the five victims were made to sign (or put their thumb impression) on many pages (some blank and some written) without informing them about the content of these pages. “We want the government and administration to make the truth public that this was not an exchange of fire with the Maoists. Nor was it a retaliatory action by the security forces. The adivasis were going for their traditional hunting festival and did not fire at the security forces. The security forces fired at innocent adivasis and shot dead Bramhadev. Then an attempt was made to cover up the matter,” said Siraj Dutta, one of the members of the team. The team has also in its demand before the deputy commission want an FIR to be lodged against the security force personnel and officials responsible for the killing of Bramhadev and firing on the villagers. The FIR registered by the police on six Adivasis including Bramhadev should be quashed. Administrative action should be taken against the local police and senior officials for filing wrong statements and FIRs. “Wife of deceased Bramhadev Singh should be given a compensation of at least Rs 10 lakh. The government should take full responsibility of their son’s upbringing, education and employment. Also, the remaining five victims should be compensated for harassment by the police,” the member said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-12
24-06-2021||Jharkhand||BSL serves notices to illegal occupants in township||In the last seven days the Bokaro Steel City’s Estate Court has served notices to 30 illegal occupants who have encroached BSL quarters during the Covid-19 pandemic taking advantage of the lockdown. There have been as many as 180 quarters encroached by squatters in the township. Estate Court is a quasi-judicial body established under Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1971 by BSL. “There are 180 such illegal occupied quarters existing in the list of Estate Court at present,” said a BSL officer. Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said, “In the last one week, notice has been issued by Estate Court in around 30 cases of lock breaking. They have been told to file their replies online before order is passed by Estate Court. Besides, there are around 150 cases of lock breaking of quarters against which Eviction Order has already been passed by Estate Court.” He added the decision on eviction drive against these will be taken depending on the Covid situation and permission of the administration. Sources said that whenever any lock-breaking incident comes to notice of the BSL management, a case used to be filed by the department concerned with the Estate Court. The Court later serves notices to occupants and with cooperation from the administration conducts an eviction drive. In the past nine months, the Estate court along with administrative officials has conducted three eviction drives in September, December of 2020 and in February in 2021. They have managed to evacuate about 120 illegally occupied quarters. But other quarters get illegally occupied by the squatters. Residing of squatters in a block caused worry to legal residents who are mostly BSL employees or retired employees. Local leaders said that illegal occupants have created an insecure environment in the township as earlier police had arrested Maoists, robbers, cyber criminals, and even rackets running prostitution in the unlawfully occupied quarters. There is also a gang working in these unlawful activities which break the lock of empty BSL quarters and provide it to squatters on rent. After occupying BSL quarter illegally the occupier gets a chance to live for about two years in the illegally occupied quarters. They take advantage of the lengthy process as BSL management which first identify illegally occupied quarters, lodge a case in Estate Court, then after several notices of eviction, a drive is conducted. This usually takes about two years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-12
