25-06-2021||Calcutta||JIS Group organises Father’s Day event to ease parental anxiety about students’ careers||The prolonged pandemic has had children staring at an uncertain future, what with important exams being cancelled and schools and colleges being shut indefinitely. Parental anxiety, too, has increased in more ways than one. The JIS Group took an initiative to ease parents’ worries about their wards’ careers by organising a panel discussion with academics and corporate leaders on June 20 to mark Father’s Day. The speakers advised students and their parents on smart choices for a successful career. On the panel were Chandernagore Government College principal Debasish Sarkar; TCS Co-Innovation Network vice-president and global head Debasis Bandyopadhay; psychologist, behavioural trainer and facilitator for learning and development Devlina Lahiri; and Ayushman Initiative for Child Rights secretary Arijit Mitra. The panel discussion was followed by the rebranding of the logos of two colleges under JIS Group — Guru Nanak Institute of Hotel Management and Sur Institute of Technology and Sports Complex. The event concluded with the announcement of 20 winners of the Papa Kehte Hain Bada Naam Karega contest. “This Father’s Day has been extremely eventful for our entire group, starting from rebranding the logo of two of our institutes to felicitating 20 of our students who have participated in the Father’s Day Special contest. Moreover, we are delighted to have been able to ease the pressure on parents and answer their career-related queries,” said Taranjit Singh, the managing director of JIS Group. The brainchild of Sardar Jodh Singh, the JIS Group has under it more than 30 educational institutes across eastern India, offering over 140 courses to more than 37,000 students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
25-06-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta vaccine scammer’s act an act of a distorted mind, says senior cop||Calcutta Police Commissioner Soumen Mitra on Friday said that the organisation of fake Covid-19 vaccination camps by a man pretending to be an IAS officer is an act of a "distorted mind". Debanjan Deb, a 28-year-old man who held several camps where around 2,000 people were suspected to have been inoculated, was arrested earlier this week. "What Debanjan has done is very inhuman. It can only be done by one with mental distortion," Mitra told reporters. After inaugurating a vaccination camp in the city, the police commissioner said that the matter is being investigated. The police arrested Deb on Wednesday for allegedly posing as an IAS officer and organising a Covid-19 vaccination camp in Kasba area, where actor and Trinamul Congress MP Mimi Chakraborty had also got her jab. Chakraborty, who was invited to attend the camp, said she became suspicious about the vaccination process as she did not receive the customary SMS that is sent to people after they are administered a dose, and informed the police. During a search in his office, police seized several vials of an antibiotic injection used for a number of bacterial infections, and other items which were sent for tests. It was also found that fake labels of Covaxin were pasted on the vials of Amikacin injections. On what could be the purpose of Deb in holding such free camps, a senior Calcutta Police official said it is yet to be known but he might have political connections that helped him in organising those camps. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has started spotting people who have taken Covid vaccines from his camps. Deb used to introduce himself as a joint commissioner of the CMC and travel in a large car with the logo of the state government. The police found "forged seals and papers" of the CMC from Deb's office. It was also revealed during the investigation that the arrested man opened several bank accounts in the names of senior CMC officials using fake documents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
25-06-2021||Calcutta||Summer Camp in Covid times||CRAFT To get over the drudgery of the lockdown, I put needle to thread. I wanted to create a proper Bengali doll that I could gift my grandchildren. The doll has been made using old dresses of my grandchildren which they have overgrown. I cut the dresses, gave them the shape of legs and face. Then I took some wool from my knitting box to make the hair. Then I thought of putting a bindi on the forehead and sindur in the parting of the hair to complete the look of a Bengali grandmother. To make the legs and face of the doll, I had to tear open a cushion to take out synthetic cotton to stuff inside the doll. The border of the sari is a ribbon which they had used to wrap a gift for me and the style of wearing the sari is also how elderly Bengali ladies dress. My grandchildren will be excited and thrilled to see their old dresses reused in such an interesting way. Krishna Nandy, 69 years, BC Block Bored but busy at home I feel very bored during this lockdown. But I have many things to do at home. I have a pet dog named Ella. I play with her with balls and chewing toys. I bathe her, feed her and take care of her. Also, I have my Kathak dance classes to attend in online mode. I love to dance and play. I have board games like Brainvita, Business, ludo, snakes and ladders to play. I do video calls with friends and cousins. I can’t go out to malls and restaurants so I sometimes request my parents to order in food. I love to eat pizza. I also like to draw pictures. My mother guides me and I even have a picture drawn by me hung on the wall of our living room. I watch cartoons on TV. My favourite show is Oggy and the Cockroaches. I also read story books that my aunt gifted me. I am currently reading Diary of a Wimpy Kid and the Tintin series. I help my mother bake cakes, cupcakes and muffins. We also make burgers and pizzas. I make jute bags with my mother too. My aunt gifted me a keychain set; I made some keychains and hung it on my homemade-bags. I also have a mini microscope, which I had built on my own. Every Friday, we all watch a movie together on TV. I wonder when the malls and movie halls will open. I really want to go out and have fun like we used to do earlier.” Ritisha Chakraborty, 8 years Akankha Krishnachura, New Town Flight of fantasy All my luggage was packed and we dashed to the airport. My biggest fear was I might miss my flight to Tokyo. I increased my pace but OUCH! I landed straight on the floor in my room and not in the land of the rising sun. Waking up with a start, I quickly freshened up and went downstairs to hear that the lockdown has been extended by another two weeks but I wasn’t sad. I would rather get to spend more time with my family and do interesting things like painting and make slime and do experiments with paint and water. I have to admit that these days I have been a little naughty and lazy so my mother’s morning ritual is to check if I have neatly kept my books and toys in my room. The truth is I would simply stuff my toys and experiment kits in my closet. That day, like every morning, she entered my room and out of the blue she opened my cupboard which she hardly does. CRASH! My toys and clothes burst out like an avalanche on my mother and we burst out laughing. My mother cleaned my closet and came across her childhood album. It was absolutely wonderful going through her childhood pictures and hearing funny stories. I was petrified when we heard about the cyclone Yaas coming towards our state. Last year, Amphan had blown away our iron swing from the 28th floor terrace and devastated our terrace room. So, we quickly sealed the windows. Luckily we were saved from the cyclone this time as it made its landfall in Balasore. After every storm comes a sunny day and we should not lose hope and try to find light at the end of the tunnel. I am sure very soon we all will be able to get back to normal life, just like before. Shivali Sanyal, 9 years, Uniworld City, New Town||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
25-06-2021||Calcutta||This Month, That Year||Local 2019: Snehodiya, the senior citizen’s home in New Town, is inaugurated by minister Firhad Hakim on June 25. It has 57 double rooms and 90 single ones with facilities like dining, housekeeping, laundry and round-the-clock medical assistance. 1564: Rani Durgavati of Gondwana leads her army against the Mughals. After the king died a few years earlier, she has been managing the central Indian kingdom herself. The queen gets injured but refuses to leave the battlefield. When defeat is imminent, she kills herself with a dagger. The date of her death, June 24, is observed as Balidan Diwas in later years. 1932: Elattuvalapil Sreedharan is born on June 12 in Kerala. He grows up to become an engineer credited with giving public transportation in India an overhaul. In the 60s, his workers repair the bridge connecting Rameswaram to mainland Tamil Nadu in 46 days when the target was six months. With similar success, he works on Cochin Shipyard, Konkan Railway, Calcutta Metro, Delhi Metro and is fondly called “Metro Man”. 2008: Field Marshal Sam Manekshaw dies on June 27. Having served in the army for four decades and five wars, he was Chief of the Army Staff during the 1971 Indo-Pakistani War and the first Indian Army officer to be promoted to the rank of field marshal. He was awarded the Padma Vibhushan and the Padma Bhushan too. 2000: An inter-Korean summit between South Korean President Kim Dae-jung and the North Korea’s supreme leader Kim Jong-il takes place in Pyongyang from June 13 to 15. The first of its kind since the Korean War of the 1950s, the summit is considered a milestone and goes on to win Kim Dae-jung a Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts in peace-keeping. 2015: Gustave, the massive man-eating Nile crocodile is spotted for the last time in June. Estimated to be more than 18ft in length, 900kg in weight and more than 60 years of age, the reptile is rumoured to have killed about 300 people. Experts feel his size makes it difficult to hunt agile prey such as fish, forcing him to go after hippos and humans. Multiple attempts at capturing Gustave have failed. 2016: Rodrigo Duterte assumes office as President of the Philippines on June 30. His reign is highly controversial, especially his vocal support for extrajudicial killings in the war on drugs. A human rights group estimates 7,000 deaths from the day he takes office till January 2017 alone. Many citizens, however, see him as a saviour. 1866: English mountaineer George Mallory is born on June 18. In the 1920s, he is part of the first three British expeditions to Mount Everest. On his third expedition in June 1924, he disappears. His body is found 75 years later but it remain unknown whether he reached the summit before dying. Mallory is remembered also for having uttered the most famous three words in mountaineering. When asked why he wished to climb Mount Everest, he had said: “Because it’s there”. 1920: Hemanta Mukherjee is born in Benares on June 16. He grows up to become one of the leading composers and singers of the Bengali and Hindi music industry. Besides singing memorable numbers like Ei raat tomar amar, Ei poth jodi na shesh hoy and Hai apna dil to awara, he wins the National Award twice. 1963: Hollywood film Cleopatra releases on June 12. Starring Elizabeth Taylor as the Egyptian queen, Richard Burton as Mark Antony and Rex Harrison as Julius Caesar, it is the most expensive film made to date and nearly bankrupts its studio, 20th Century Fox. But the film becomes the highest grosser of the year and wins four Academy Awards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
25-06-2021||Calcutta||Kestopur containment zone casts Covid curbs aside||A stretch in Kestopur has been marked as a micro-containment zone after a spike in Covid cases but residents, hawkers, shops and rickshaw drivers are flouting norms and walking in and out of it as they please. A guardrail, pushed to a corner, is the only indicator that this 100m stretch of Rabindra Pally around the Pragati Sangha club is a containment zone. Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation had marked it as such on June 16 and civic officials placed bamboo poles and guardrails on the main road that leads into the locality. From VIP Road, this zone is a 10- minute ride and from Salt Lake, it is across the canal from the Tank 8 footbridge around AK Block. Anupam Mondal, Ward 24 co-ordinator under whose jurisdiction the area falls, said they decided to set up the zone as at least a dozen families who live in the area opposite Pragati Sangha club had tested positive for Covid-19. “Many people had fallen sick there over the past two weeks. They had been regularly going out to visit markets and even their relatives,” said Mondal. On Tuesday, The Telegraph Salt Lake visited the stretch and found that the guardrails had been displaced and kept on the sides of the street. Residents were moving around without any restrictions. Cars, bikes as well as electric rickshaws were entering and leaving without any checks. Nearly all the shops, including tea shops and small eateries on the road, were open and many residents were out shopping for groceries. Very few were wearing masks. Bikash Chattopadhyay, a retired government school teacher who lives in the locality, said people seldom wore masks when they were out in the locality. “I know of several people who had tested positive here but were stepping out regularly. We were living in fear. Now some of those people have recovered but there are quite a few active cases in the area,” said Chattopadhyay. Tukai Saha, who runs a small shop selling tea and sundry items, said many of his neighbours had tested positive. “A lot of people here are still down. Nobody is adhering to containment norms,” said Saha. Mondal, the ward co-ordinator, said he had made repeated requests to residents to adhere to Covid-19 protocols and not step out in case anyone tested positive in their family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
25-06-2021||Calcutta||Suchitra Binani on nurturing nature||Having grown up in Sikkim, Suchitra Binani is familiar with the brightest of blooms and sweetest of fruits. The colours in a garden, she says, can make one’s day and so endeavours to grow Petunias, Marigolds, Roses and many more flowers. Besides a houseful backyard and terrace, her front yard has been landscaped in the Japanese garden style too. My kinship with plants is all thanks to Palzor Namgyal Girls High Secondary School in Gangtok. While studying there, we had gardening as a subject and each class had its own space to cultivate on a hill. So besides chasing careers, we were taught to appreciate nature. How I wish Bengal schools would do the same! I’ve been living in Salt Lake for some 30 years and grow different kinds of plants. Flowers are my favourites and my current favourite among them is Passion Flower, a uniquely-shaped purple bloom. We have fruits like Coconuts, Pomegranates, Guavas and even Betel leaf (Paan) and Italian Basil, that I use to cook pesto sauce with. The terrace has different kinds of Spinach, Mint, Adenium…. At one time I had more than 50 Adeniums and would gift them out to relatives. One of these relatives was later shifting from Burdwan to Bihar and I was so touched when he said he was leaving everything behind in his old town — except the Adenium I had gifted. I used to make fresh wheatgrass juice for my family — it’s a great immunity booster — and they became so popular that I started selling them too. I’m getting lots of calls for these now, what with Covid around, but unfortunately it is too hot for the plants to survive now. I’ll resume in October. Years ago, my kids had planted a Pine tree in the garden that grew so tall and strong that its roots had started growing through the house. We had to fell it but the tree is still a part of our house. We got a carpenter to make dining table chairs using that wood. Now I proudly tell guests that the chairs they sit on grew in our very own garden. Previously passers-by would steal flowers from the frontyard. Once they tore off all my Marigolds and I broke into tears. But I’m happy to note that flower theft has reduced of late. Maybe, people are scared of touching them in fear of Covid! If you have a garden you tend to yourself, send your address and contact number to The Telegraph Salt Lake,  6, Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
25-06-2021||Calcutta||An acre of immunity||A plot of land next to Bagjola Canal in Action Area III will be a source of Vitamin C in near future. The amlaki saplings planted there in September have already grown threefold. A group of residents of Sunny Fort, in Action Area IIB, have adopted an acre of the canal bank where they have planted 200 amlaki plants. “A large number of trees fell in New Town during Cyclone Amphan. Trees like Krishnachura and Radhachura may be good for beautification and fast-growing but they are not deep-rooted. We decided to plant indigenous trees that would be good for the environment and also have medicinal value,” said Achintya Mitra, an ayurvedic doctor who works for the Ayush ministry. The choice of amlaki was dictated by the prevailing pandemic situation. “Amlaki is the richest source of Vitamin C. It prevents respiratory diseases, like cough and cold,” says Sankar Dasmahapatra, a gynaecologist, who takes half an amlaki every morning. In August, the residents approached NKDA with an appeal to let them grow medicinal plants. “They showed us two plots. We chose this one, just behind NBCC Square, as it was close to a water source, was level and was unlikely to be submerged in a shower,” said Joydeep Banerjee, a geologist. The plantation project has been taken up under New Town Kolkata Care Foundation, a non-profit trust set up by them. “We are funding it from our own pockets. NKDA fenced the land, de-weeded it and handed it over to us. We got high-yielding imported saplings from a nursery in South 24-Parganas, levelled the land and got the soil ready with manure. A small electric pump was purchased and we went over by turns in the weekends to water the plot through the winter and summer. Two people have also been engaged to look after the plants,” said Dasmahapatra, who is the president of the foundation. The fence has also been netted to prevent  cows from the local village from being let in here to graze. Though the plot is close to Bagjola Canal, the residents do not use that as their source of supply. The canal being a sewage channel, its water is full of heavy metal. We draw the water from another fresh water canal nearby,” said Banerjee. The group met NKDA chairman Debashis Sen on Monday. “They are expecting the first crop next year and want us to put them in touch with a self-help group. We also want people of the neighbouring villages to benefit rather than passing on the yield to a corporate entity. They have promised to train the villagers to treat the amlaki so there will be value addition before they sell it,” said Sen. Use of vitamin C-rich vegetables  in cooked food destroys their benefits. “So it is best taken raw. This is why amlaki is so good for boosting immunity. Price of amlaki skyrocketed last year after the pandemic struck, from Rs 50 a kg, reaching Rs 300 a kg, and is still hovering around Rs 200 a kg. It will be a commercially viable crop,” said Dasmahapatra. Once the amlaki plants stabilise, the group plans to plant other smaller medicinal plants like ginger and turmeric in the 4.5m gap between the amlaki saplings. “We can do more projects if the government gives us more land,” said Mitra, whose wife Paramita is a horticulturalist and is part of the endeavour. Residents of Sukhobrishti are also welcome to join the foundation since their complex is closest to the current site as is any like-minded individual, he added. The project would officially turn a year old on September 10. “If the corona situation eases, we want to commemorate the occasion with a programme,” said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
25-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Supply worry sparks jab rush||The weekend witnessed the last few vaccination camps before June 21, the day from which the Centre had announced it would procure vaccines from manufacturers and send to the states. Not only is there uncertainty about future supply but the price factor also comes into play. Private centres now have to cap their prices at Rs 780 for Covishield, Rs 1,410 for Covaxin and Rs 1,145 for Sputnik V jabs. This will include the Rs 150 service charge hospitals can levy, a figure they claim isn’t enough to cover costs of conducting outdoor camps. “We at BA Block had initially approached another hospital for community vaccination but they were giving us a date after June 20. We didn’t want to take a chance. The second wave had hit BA Block cruelly and four or five residents have already succumbed to Covid in recent months,” said block president Snehasish Ghosal. They went ahead with Techno Global Hospital and organised their camp on June 19 for 140 people. “After today’s camp, most residents will have got at least their first shot,” he said. BK Block too held their camp for 150 people on the same day. “While we are aware of the June 21 notice, we were in talks for with Amri Hospitals since a month and a half back. This more or less covers all residents in the block and we shall hold another camp three months later for the booster dose,” said secretary Rajarshi Chanda. Amri charged them Rs 950 per Covishield jab. “It’s true that the jabs will be cheaper after June 21, but at this point, no one cares for discounts. They just want to be safe as soon as possible and in a safe environment sans crowds. June 19 was the soonest we could offer this and residents rushed to sign up,” he said. Price no factor Kaushik Sarkar, general manager, Techno India Group, said price is not a factor for them. “We were initially charging Rs 1,000 for Covishield but from the day after the announcement was made — June 9 — we slashed our rates to Rs 780. We didn’t wait till June 21. We shall continue with community camps despite losses because of the price cap,” said Sarkar. The hospital has stock that will last till the end of June. “We have placed fresh requisition for Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V but don’t know when they will arrive. Supply is critical and there is uncertainty. The first time around we got vaccines two months after placing orders,” Sarkar said. Indranil Dam, who was in charge of the AMRI camp at BK Block, said there was a backlog even before June 21. “The camps happening today had made bookings between June 1 and 7 and this phase will continue till June 22. For the next phase, there is no clarity yet,” he said. They are still getting calls for offsite camps, but “the craze of the first 15 days has reduced. Most people in Salt Lake, Rajarhat, Dum Dum and Sinthi are now inoculated,” Dam said. “The month of April was the game-changer. Before that people were scared of the vaccine or were taking it easy. After the second wave all want a jab.” Sarkar agreed that the rush for vaccines was now on the wane. “Those who have the awareness have got their shots by now. These camps are mainly for the leftover elderly residents who could not travel to hospitals,” he said. A camp organised by MLA Sujit Bose at Ward 31 office (between BF and CF Blocks) gave free jabs to 500 residents on June 22. ILS Hospitals was the medical partner. “Since yesterday we started capping our service charge at Rs 150 but it may be tough to cover the cost of logistics, especially in faraway camps like in Belur and Joka,” said senior manager of ILS Hospitals, Amith Saraf. “For now, we are doing four to five camps a day. Let’s see how things play out.” Personalised service At BA Block, five nonagenarians turned up. At BK Block, volunteers fetched residents to the community hall. “It wasn’t possible for health workers to come door-to-door but it’s very kind of the volunteers to drive us here,” said 84-year-old Geeta Kanjilal, who got her jab sitting in neighbour Indraneel Sarkar’s car outside BK Block community hall. AK Block hosted a vaccination camp on Saturday where 114 people were vaccinated. “This includes seven people who had mobility issues and were vaccinated at home. The vaccinators from AMRI were kind enough to agree to our request,” said block secretary Aritra Ranjan Sen. Earlier, an elderly lady of CK Block was vaccinated at home by ILS Hospitals which gave the shots at a camp organised by Bidhannagar CK-CL Block Residents’ Association on June 7. “We kept a paramedic on watch for 30 minutes. A few elderly residents who were driven up to the community centre, the venue of the camp, were also vaccinated in their cars,” said Aruna Tantia, director of ILS Hospitals. The AE Block Samaj Kalyan camp on Wednesday also arranged for Millennium Health Care nurses to give jabs to about five residents at home. Additional reporting by Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
25-06-2021||Calcutta||Hidco mulls crematory at Rajarhat burning ghat||The Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) has set its sights on the Hazratala burning ghat in Rajarhat to build an electric crematorium. An expression of interest was invited on Monday by the authorities from architects for the preparation of a detailed project report for the construction of the crematorium. The burning ghat, which is the only facility in the vicinity of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation and New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) area, as reported in The Telegraph Salt Lake cover story on June 4 titled ‘Final journey in a Covid world’, is an archaic one using wooden pyres. The area is under the Rajarhat Bishnupur gram panchayat and is 4km from Derozio College and a kilometre from Rajarhat Chowmatha towards Berachampa. Hidco officials have paid several visits to the spot. Though the area is outside NKDA area, Hidco can undertake projects anywhere across the state. “The facility is on community land and is run by a committee,” said an official. With the state government directing every municipal authority to build a cremation facility in its area after the Covid second wave caused a spike in deaths, Hidco was planning to build a crematory and a mortuary behind Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute in Action Area 1D. That led to protests from residents of the neighbourhood. While four furnaces had been planned in the 2.5 acre land that had been earmarked for the project in New Town, the Hazratala burning ghat site is not as big. “It is spread over 1.5acres. So we will have space for only two furnaces. A mortuary will be there as will a meditation hall but everything will have to be scaled down as the space is less,” the Hidco official said. The burning ghat, which gets its name from adjoining Hazra Babar than where a Shiva temple was later built (not the one with the same name in Chak Pachuria, opposite Uniworld City), has been in use since the 1950s when boats would bring wooden logs for the pyres down the Noai canal, by which it is located. “A part of the burning ghat is vested land while the rest were donated by a few influential residents of the area. We had been petitioning since 2011 for its modernisation. Though we have received some funds from the earlier MLAs which were used to build a concrete platform with a shed as also toilets, it is becoming difficult to maintain such a spacious ground,” Prasanta Roy, secretary of the Hazratola Smashan Samiti, told The Telegraph Salt Lake. The Covid situation put enormous stress on it as it did on every cremation ground in the city. “In April-May, over 100 bodies came here, with even six-seven bodies sometimes on a single day from even Bhangor to Kestopur. Population of Rajarhat has increased manifold with New Town coming up. Not just pollution, it is a horrendous experience to witness burning on a wooden pyre. It is time-consuming also, requiring close to three hours per body. An electric crematory will be a far more hygienic and convenient option,” Roy points out. As for the New Town crematory project, the DPR, submitted to the government, continues to remain under its consideration for approval. “Meanwhile, we want to go ahead with the second project,” the official said. Write to us at saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
25-06-2021||Calcutta||New Town: Location of this township was accidentally stumbled upon...||The people of Bengal are not new to greenfield township projects, already having the experience of earlier greenfield town development projects like Bidhannagar, Kalyani, Durgapur and Haldia. But New Town is fundamentally different from these earlier projects. It is now being estimated that to complete this township at the present price-value, the government, the Housing Infrastructure Development Company (Hidco) and other stakeholders like several public sector companies, joint venture companies, co-operatives and individuals would have jointly incurred an expenditure of about nearly one lakh crore rupees. Self-sustaining model Another challenging decision taken by Hidco was not to depend on the state government’s budgetary provisions and allocations but to ensure that the project was completed on a self-sustaining model — on a no-loss no-dividend basis. We had also made it clear that if indeed HIDCO could make some profit, it would entirely be used for the good of the public and disseminated among the members of the society. The Herculean task of building a new township and that too as a complete greenfield project, without being financed by on-budget provisions of the government and mobilising land of approximately 3,770 hectares, big enough to contain nearly one and a half million residential and floating day time population respectively, had been taken up and pursued without much fanfare and publicity. Nevertheless, all key stake-holders were taken into confidence... In retrospect, I believe it was this participatory style of collective leadership, team functioning and contribution of the people as well, that helped us to develop New Town within a relatively short time span... The location of this township was accidentally stumbled upon... Light in the horizon One evening I was returning from Basirhat through the rural stretches of Beliaghata.I had taken the Martin Burn Road also colloquially known as the 211 road (211 being a bus route that operated along this road). It was evening. On my left was a vast uninterrupted landmass and the twilight sky looked splendid. Suddenly I noticed a bright light blinking in the horizon. Out of curiosity, I stopped and asked one of the locals about it. I was informed that the source of the light was the glow sign set atop on the roof of Bidyut Bhawan, which is the headquarters of the West Bengal State Electricity Board located in Bidhannagar. This made me think. Was there no obstruction or any big construction between me standing on a desolate stretch of the Martin Burn Road and Vidyut Bhawan? What about this huge expanse of land in between and who are the people controlling this land? What about agriculture? On making enquiries, I came to know that this area is locally known as Dhobirbil and the area is used as a drainage pond for most of the Rajarhat Municipality and many other areas of the Rajarhat block and surroundings... It must also be mentioned that the acquisition of the land, initiation of the project and the subsequent possession was met with stiff resistance from local real estate players. They filed cases against the acquisition in the Calcutta High Court. High Court ordered in their favour and ordered the state government to return the land to the promoters but the West Bengal government decided to appeal to the Supreme Court (1997 Supreme Court Case 207, West Bengal Housing Board and others versus Brijendra Prasad Gupta). The judgment of the Supreme Court is considered by many legal luminaries as historic. I decided to carry out a reconnaissance of the area where I, in consultation with our party and political entities, proposed to build something big through the housing department. But before that I had to see the area with my own eyes... We started in the morning from Kestopur. We rode (on a motorbike) along the road beside the canal and halted at the Patharghata Bazar...We could hardly recognise ourselves as we were caked in dust which we had acquired from our hour-long bumpy ride through the dusty and muddy roads. After a brief halt we started the last leg of our journey. The road was comparatively better. We reached the Lauhati Road at Bishnupur. We returned via Rajarhat and reached Baguihati two and a half hours after we had started. We had stopped at many places to talk to the villagers. We had gained some invaluable experiences and information which would prove to be of profound importance later. I have already mentioned about the CMDA’s planning wing. They in consultation with IIT Kharagpur produced the first concept plan.  After detailed discussions and necessary modifications, the government accepted it… The drainage issue We decided that the irrigation department would make a master plan for New Town’s drainage taking in view the growing drainage requirements of upper and lower catchment areas of both the canals. Undoubtedly, the plan included widening and de-siltation of both the canals and involved necessary pumping arrangements. We also wanted to ensure that villages in the New Town areas adjacent to the canals could be saved from inundation during the monsoons. So the concept of a garland canal or neighbourhood canal came into being in this connection… MAR: Only connect After making both the bridges, one over the Kestopur canal to link Bidhan Nagar and Kolkata and the other over Bagjola Canal to link the two pieces of massive land mass of New Town, operational we concentrated on the development of the Major Arterial Road (MAR). Regular meetings were held to tide over teething problems... It is to be noted that IRCON, a railway organisation was awarded the first land filling contract with special permission from the Chief Minister... Interestingly, Mamata Banerjee was the then Union Railway Minister... At one phase, I was presented with a particularly sticky complication... We simply couldn’t find where to connect the northern end of the MAR, which would connect this new city with the established road network of Kolkata. Neither the satellite maps nor intense field visits could present a solution. The only available land was located near the Derozio College located to the airport’s southern end and then taking the alignment along the airport boundary wall to the big space in front of the New Terminal Building. But when we approached the Government of India and the Airport Authority, we were informed that the said piece of land was needed for extension and modernisation of the Kolkata Airport. The area which we had initially marked for conjoining the MAR with the VIP Road had a large number of constructions and dismantling them would pose a fresh set of challenges. As I discussed my dilemma with Hidco officials and party leaders, my chances grew remote. But luck was on my side. One day during an occasional morning walk I came across a large piece of land very near to my apartment on the VIP Road. There was a four-storied under-construction building at the northern extremity of this vacant land. I stood there looking eastward, towards the direction of the proposed New Town. There was only one intersection and that would be the 211 bus route road located somewhere midway. I could see that the area from where I stood up to the 211 intersection, was vacant and marshy, with the exception of three or four newly constructed small buildings. Beyond the 211 intersection started the proposed area for the new town. I could not imagine how we had missed this part as it lay in plain sight… Indeed, the inauguration of the MAR is one of the most prestigious and effective landmark events in the annals of this township. However, it should be noted that a few good-intentioned engineers and officers were apprehensive that such a big road (ten lanes) would incur high costs and felt that we should go for a four or six lane road instead. But I had other plans. It was to be the showpiece and our prime advertisement. I wanted it to reflect the magnitude and quality of the city which we were planning to build. I must admit that the completion of this road with its modern lights and landscaped boulevards was appreciated by our citizens and investors alike... Even before the completion of the first bridge which permits entry into New Town, West Bengal Housing Board’s first project (as then HIDCO was not formed) — East Enclave — had been initiated. The officials and engineers had to negotiate very difficult narrow approach roads to reach the project site. But they had taken up the challenge and extended their co-operation and readily provided assistance towards the completion of the main bridge which was a few metres away from their project boundary. The bridge was popularly referred to as the NBCC Bridge as a Public Sector Undertaking of the Government of India, NBCC, was given the construction contract... How to fill the land Thousands of trucks, rollers and JCP machines and Volvo trucks carrying heavy instruments like earth cutting machines started rolling into the project area. During the summers, the project area would look like a battlefield, with clouds of dust hovering over the area... Land filling of such a huge low-lying area appeared to be a stupendous task. The filling of low-lying areas of neighbouring Salt Lake was accomplished by the sand and silt from the river Hooghly, which was pumped by high powered pumps through large diameter pipes. But in our case the size was an issue and we sought suggestions from experts from abroad. I calculated the expenses that we would incur should we use their methods. Bidhan Nagar was a government project and if the cost was rupees fifteen thousand per cottah to complete, the same was sold to all sections of society at the rate of say rupees five thousand per cottah... New Town Project is a self-sustaining one... Many methods of land filling were discussed... Finally we decided upon a novel and cost effective way... We decided to desilt the East Kolkata Wetlands — it was long overdue; and also some wetlands in the northern side of the New Town project. We also planned two large artificial water bodies and a garland canal along with de-siltation… The foundation stone of New Town was laid by our Chief Minister Jyoti Basu on 1st June 1995… Publisher: Das Gupta & Co Price: Rs 700||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
25-06-2021||Calcutta||Birth & growth of a ‘New Town’||New Town was planned under the stewardship of Gautam Deb, the housing and public health engineering minister from 1987 to 2011 in the Left Front regime. A resident of BF Block in Action Area 1B since 2018, the 68-year-old veteran politician has written a book on the evolution of the township, titled Forging An Audacious City: A Participatory Perspective. He speaks to The Telegraph Salt Lake on the formative years of New Town and his evaluation of its genesis. When did you think of  writing the book? After we left the government. I collected various official documents to append to the text to make it as authentic as possible. How does it feel to stay in a township you helped give birth to? It is a rare opportunity. City-building is such a stupendous and time-consuming job that it is very rare that the builder gets to see the city ready in his lifetime. Is it turning out the way you had envisaged? They (the current government) have compromised to an extent. Because of the recession in the real estate market, big PPPs are on a pause. They can’t sell off all the land even if they want to. Even then, I’d say they could not touch the core of our plan. Drainage, sewerage, roads, electricity, drinking water... I had got everything ready. The township is growing at a much slower pace. We had acquired 7.5km to the east of the Hidco office. The MAR runs across 12.5km. There is nothing towards Hatishala or across the canal near Shapoorji (Sukhobrishti). We did not sell any land that side. Are you happy with the population growth rate in New Town? There is no reason to be happy. When we were developing the township, land was selling briskly and construction was taking place fast. Now even if people buy land, they are dragging their feet on construction. This is the situation in Calcutta and other metros too. Huge tracts of commercial space are lying idle. If you see the township at night, you can make out in the multi-storeyed buildings how many are lit and how most stay dark. Did you plan for Metro to pass through New Town? Initially we had thought of it. Our planning consultant S.K. Roy held meetings with the Metro authorities. New Town was part of their initial plan for Metro in Salt Lake. But the viability report for New Town was weak. We were unsure if the size of population that would be needed to support the extension of the route could be achieved soon enough. So it was decided to end the route at Salt Lake. But you did not think of a Metro link to the airport. No, the railways had no such plans. It would have been better if they did. We could have given them what they needed instead of them making do with what they get, like it is the situation now. We would have taken the route towards Shapoorji (Sukhobrishti), which would have helped residents of New Town more. Which housing complexes were commissioned in your time? The first projects were by the housing board. What was there to show here excepts miles of empty fields? I had to make people believe that a city was being built and it was possible to live here. I took up the Major Arterial Road (MAR) first. Then there were to be two clusters of buildings — some close to the Salt Lake end at the southern tip, and then some at the other end, near Haldiram’s under the flyover. The first housing project we took up was East Enclave. After that, some would come up in the middle, like Balaka and Alaka. Then the developers came — Bengal Ambuja (Utsa), Bengal Peerless (Axis Mall, Animikha and Akankha), Bengal Shrachi... Chandan Basu built Greenfield Heights. I invited both Unitech and DLF, who were at loggerheads with each other in Delhi, to come and invest here. The NRIs built Rosedale Garden. What were the big challenges you faced when you tried to sell apartments? It was an uninhabited place that could not be approached from Salt Lake. There were two cuts that separated the landmass — one was Kestopur and another Bagjola. They had to be bridged. It was also low land, needing to be filled up to the height of a full human figure. Where would you get so much clay? We had to dry out all waterbodies in the area, from Nalban up till Sashon, in neighbouring Bhangore. For a month, they were left to dry before we could start excavation. But the top layer could not be used as it would be too soft to support foundations of buildings. So we had to dig from a depth, where the soil was at least 20-30 years old and had achieved the compaction benchmark. The top layer that we got after drying out the waterbodies was gold, being rich in organic matter. It was very fertile and could support vegetation of all kinds. So we used it at the end at the top. That one year when the waterbodies were off limits for pisciculture, we paid a salary to the fishermen, with us paying half and the fisheries paying half. The fisheries department was happy as their production went up after that exercise, which is supposed to be done at regular intervals but never was. What are your memories of those days? The area looked like a war zone with JCBs and dumpers making trips to and fro with the clay. Bidhan Roy needed two crore cubic meters of sludge for Salt Lake, which he piped in from the Hooghly. We needed 3.5 crore cubic metres for New Town. We excavated two waterbodies to dig up soil for filling up the land. One was the one in Eco Park and the other is parallel to the MAR, on the Nawabpur side, which is slightly smaller over 38 hectares. There was difference of opinion among the engineers whether the soil from the ponds was suitable as foundation.  Soil in our state is so soft that it is expensive to make roads in Bengal, except in Purulia or Bankura. Is there any part of your plan left unfinished? We were supposed to have brought water from Calcutta down Kestopur Canal and run water transport on it. I had even procured a few launches for this. The canal was navigable even 40 years ago and there were big cargo boats from the Sunderbans coming to Ultadanga Ghat. Our aim was to restore the route from the Hooghly to river Bidyadhari and not let the canal turn into an open sewage line. We wanted to build a second MAR across Kestopur Canal near Balaka Abasan. A city of one and half million population should not be dependant on only one entry and exit. Where had you planned the second MAR? At that time, there was a plan to construct Eastern Expressway, about 8km to the east of the Eastern Metropolitan Bypass and parallel to it, to connect Madhyamgram and Barasat via Badu and Shashon to Sonarpur. I had requested Buddhada (chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee) to make the second MAR a part of that expressway. This MAR was to have started from Derozio College in Rajarhat at the north to 211 Road (Martin Burn Road, colloquially named after the 211 bus route). Land had been acquired and work had started for a few kilometers and survey had been done from the northern border of New Town till Doltala near Madhyamgram. New Town was to be gradually spread over five Action Areas. We started work on three. We had identified land in Beontia mouza, behind Chak Pachuria, under Bhangor block in South 24-Parganas for a solid waste management plant for New Town. Instead of the existing practice of dumping waste on the land like it is done at Dhapa, an engineer who went to France for exposure as part of an exchange programme, briefed us on a new technique which would need a tenth of the land. An open cast pit would be dug and suitably waterproofed. The waste would be dumped in it. Each pit would take four-five years to fill up when one can proceed to dig the second pit. By the time one will reach the fourth pit, the first will have undergone the required chemical decomposition and could be dug up for use as fertiliser. This way, no new land would be required. The power required to run the plant could be generated from methane and other byproducts of the plant. There is hue and cry over the lack of a crematorium. You did not plan one. A crematorium could be part of the solid waste treatment complex. The Kestopur Canal runs by the Beontia mouza. We were in talks with the panchayat to acquire the land when the government changed. If there is one thing you would change in current New Town, what would it be? The location of Eco Park. It is a disaster. It will have to be dismantled in future. Can you imagine an entertainment park coming up in Dalhousie Square with children crossing the traffic-heavy main road? Already, they have labelled it an accident-prone area. The High Court will come up here, hotels will be built here, the consulates will come. It was planned as a 48-hectare lung of the township, like the Maidan is for Calcutta. The lake is not a bheri but an artificial waterbody that we had dug for soil. So many people came to me for the land, including Sourav Ganguly. I had refused as no construction should happen there. Now you have people staying in rooms, binging on sweets at the shop, doing water sports…They did not consult the transport department or the earlier planners. Do you agree with Gautam Deb’s views on the current New Town? Write to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6 Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
25-06-2021||Calcutta||Medicines found in office of fake IAS officer who held camps not Covid vaccines||Police said many vials of Amikacin Sulphate — an antibiotic used to treat bacterial infections — have been found at the Kasba office of Debanjan Deb, who allegedly posed as a bureaucrat and organised “Covid vaccination camps” across the city. The police suspect some of those “vaccinated” at the camps received the antibiotic. A senior officer involved in the probe said that on scratching off the label on the vials seized from Deb’s office, where the camp was organised, they found another label that had “Amikacin Sulphate” printed on it. “Amikacin is a common antibiotic…. It has a nephrotoxic property, which causes impairment of kidneys if used over a long period of time. If investigation proves that only 0.5ml was administered just once, it should not cause any side effects,” said Sudipta Mitra, medical superintendent, Peerless Hospital. The vials seized from Kasba had “2ml for four doses” written on them, suggesting each person received 0.5ml of the liquid. Investigators said this was another discrepancy they found because Covishield vials contain 5ml of vaccine each, enough to vaccinate 10 people. Till Wednesday, the police had come across people who had received “vaccine” shots through Deb for free, but on Thursday, purported evidence emerged that he had provided “vaccines” to at least 171 persons at Rs 650 each. The police said a microfinance company that has its head office on AJC Bose Road had approached Deb thinking he was a CMC official and requisitioned vaccination for 171 of their employees on June 5. According to documents found by the investigators, the company had transferred Rs 1,11,500 to a bank account in the name of “Kolkata Municipal Corporation” with a registered address at “3rd floor, KMC Building, 170, Shantipally, Kasba, Kolkata — 700107”. “The CMC has no office at this address... The address was of Deb’s office at Shantipally, Kasba,” said an officer. The market price of different brands of Amikacin Sulphate ranges from Rs 13 to Rs 116 for a 2ml vial. If the average cost of 2ml of Amikacin was Rs100, he was “vaccinating” four people from that and charging Rs 650 from each, an officer said. Investigators said they have found soft copies of the design of the “Covishield” label on Das’s computer that was pasted on the vials hiding the antibiotic’s label. A north Calcutta college principal has lodged a complaint with Amherst Street police station against Deb alleging he had organised a vaccination camp on their campus on June 18 for 72 people, including teachers, staff and some students. The complaint said that a former student of the college brought Deb into contact with the college officials before the purported camp was organised. The “vaccines” were administered free of cost. The police said the college officials were apprehensive about the content of the liquid that was administered and hence had lodged a formal complaint of cheating against Deb. The case has been taken over by the detective department of Calcutta police, which is also probing the case drawn up at Kasba police station. The police said a complaint had been lodged on behalf of the CMC against Deb alleging that he had forged the signature of the special commissioner, Calcutta Municipal Corporation, for accepting money against purported vaccines from a microfinance company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
25-06-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s College to conduct online entrance test for PG courses on July 22||St Xavier’s College, Park Street, will hold online entrance tests on July 22 for admission to its postgraduate courses. “Last week, we had decided against holding any online entrance tests at the undergraduate level. But at the postgraduate level over the years we have seen a much lesser number of candidates apply. So, we will hold tests,” principal Father Dominic Savio told The Telegraph. At the undergraduate level the candidates will be admitted on the basis of weightage awarded to plus-II scores. Applications for admission to the postgraduate courses will be accepted between June 30 and July 15. The entrance tests for all departments will be of 90 minutes duration and will consist of a mix of MCQ and/or short questions and essay-type questions. Father Savio said the question would be emailed to the prospective students. They have to write the answers within the pre-announced duration and mail those back. “If any candidate writes to us about factors like connectivity issues, the college will make arrangements. They can come to the campus and use the connectivity facility to appear for the tests,” he said. St Xavier’s offers two-year post-graduate programmes in commerce, English, political science, sociology, economics, physics, computer science, Bengali, education and microbiology. On an average 400 candidates apply against each discipline. The college has introduced master’s in education from this year. Detailed information with regard to syllabus and format of entrance test for each department, will be published on the college website. The entire admission process from applications to enrolment, will be conducted online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
25-06-2021||Calcutta||Monitor lizard rescued in New Town||A monitor lizard was rescued from New Town’s CE Block near Axis Mall on Thursday. The lizard, which had got stuck in the gap between a wall and the shutter of Daily Needs, a shop on street No. 202, was first spotted by two of its employees. They alerted the shop owner, Sumit Singha, who stays in AK Block, and other residents of the area. Singha told his employees not to harm the reptile and called Ankur Roy Choudhury, the vice-chairman of the New Town News and Forum, an NGO. “I asked him to help as  I was worried that someone might harm it or kill it,” said Singha. Choudhury then called up a forest department official, who in turn informed the Wildlife Rescue and Transit Centre in Salt Lake’s Baisakhi. A team from the centre arrived at the spot and rescued the monitor lizard. “Our team reached within 30 minutes. We saw that the lizard had climbed on top of the rolling shutter of the shop and was stuck,” said the official. “We used a long Y-stick  to bring it down.” The monitor lizard was then taken to the centre where a veterinary doctor checked in it. “It is exhausted and we will keep it in observation for sometime before releasing it back into the wild,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
25-06-2021||Calcutta||Ramp up tests, fix pipelines supplying oxygen to Covid ward: Committee to health department ||A team of doctors has asked the health department to make arrangements for setting up pipelines to carry oxygen to wards and increase Covid testing at a time when the number of cases has dipped and several hospitals are less burdened with patients. The team, comprising senior doctors from different medical colleges and hospitals, has asked the health department to ensure that some of the equipment that have been lying defunct in Covid hospitals be repaired, in case of a third wave. On June 22, the Bengal government had constituted a 10-member committee comprising experts from the fields of medicine, pulmonology, epidemiology and child care to draw up suggestions on how the health department could gear up to meet challenges in case of a fresh surge of cases. The committee met for the first time on Thursday. “The number of Covid tests has started dropping. There is a growing belief among a section that the pandemic is over and there is no need for tests. This can be disastrous,” said GK Dhali, the officer on special duty for Covid-19 and a member of the committee. “We have asked the health department to ensure that tests are conducted with equal intensity and across both urban and rural centres.” Senior officials of the health department said the number of tests had fallen from around 66,000 a day to about 55,000, on an average. Bengal recorded a little over 1,900 cases on Thursday, with Calcutta registering 155 cases followed by North 24-Parganas with 217 cases. On May 24, the state had registered over 12,000 cases with Calcutta alone accounting for over 3,000 cases and North 24-Parganas around 4,000 cases. Several experts, while underlying the need for tests, also suggested that if wards have to be readied, it was mandatory to fix pipelines for supplying oxygen. Many Covid hospitals on the fringes of North 24-Parganas, Howrah and South 24-Parganas — apart from several others in the districts — are yet to have this facility. “Since this is a lean period, it would be really helpful if some of the equipment lying defunct are repaired and made ready for use. Biomedical engineering plays a crucial part in treating Covid patients,” said Yogiraj Ray, a committee member. Senior health department officials said the suggestions would be compiled and distributed to the concerned departments of hospitals. “Funds would not be a constraint if the proposals are properly drawn up,” said a senior official at Swasthya Bhavan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
25-06-2021||Calcutta||Former vicar general of Calcutta Archdiocese Father John Mohandas Maveetil passes away||Former vicar general and financial administrator of the Calcutta Archdiocese, Father John Mohandas Maveetil, passed away on Monday at Church of Christ the King, Park Circus. He was 73. A funeral mass was held at the church on Tuesday, presided over by Archbishop of Calcutta, Thomas D’Souza, before internment at St John’s Cemetery, Sealdah. About 50 people attended the proceedings but around 10,000 watched it online. Father Maveetil was ordained as priest in 1978. The catholic priest had served the archdiocese in various capacities for 43 years, was also treasurer of the Indian Canon Law Society, and the diocese Judicial Vicar (Canonical judge).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
25-06-2021||Calcutta||New Town: WBHIDCO, NKDA and Bidhannagar police jointly conduct security awareness programme||The Bidhannagar police chief said on Thursday a probe into the shootout at the Sukhobrishti housing complex 14 days ago, which led to the death of two gangsters, revealed “gaps on the part of the police as well as the residents’ bodies”. Bidhannagar police commissioner Supratim Sarkar made the comment at a meeting with residents of New Town at Biswa Bangla Convention Centre. “While reviewing security.., we have come across gaps on the part of the police as well as residents’ body,” Sarkar said. “This meeting is meant to plug gaps. We have not called this meeting to blame anyone or to conduct a post-mortem of any event. Rather we want to plug these gaps to ensure that incidents like the one that happened on June 9 do not occur again.” The Bidhannagar commissionerate and the New Town Kolkata Development Authority jointly convened the meeting, which was attended by representatives of at least 35 residents' welfare associations (RWA) of the township. A Bengal police team had gunned down two gangsters from Punjab — Jaipal Bhullar and Jaspreet Singh, alias Jassi Kharar — during a raid on a flat at Sukhobrishti on June 9. According to Sarkar, a probe into the incident revealed that police stations in New Town in most cases did not have information about tenants. “In most cases our police stations do not possess even basic information about tenants and how long a tenant is taking a property on rent. We don’t get to know who is living with the said tenant and don’t have their identity documents. This despite the fact that we have systems in place for house owners to visit police stations (to provide the information) or fill in the tenant verification form online,” Sarkar said. The commissionerate released a nine-point guideline for the RWAs. According to the guidelines, all RWAs should send a profile of their housing societies to the police mentioning details such as the number of flats, contact numbers of office-bearers, number of tenants and their contact details, position of CCTV cameras and details of the agencies hired for security and housekeeping. The owners of flats who let out their properties have to fill in a tenant-and-landlord profile form containing details of the tenant and the number of persons expected to stay with the tenant. The police also asked the RWAs to consider issuing identity cards to the tenants. The residents’ associations have been asked to compile a list of brokers active in each society and make them fill in broker’s identification forms issued by the commissionerate. The filled-in forms have to be handed over to the nearest police station. “Brokers have become an integral part of the ecosystem and form a connect between the landlord and the tenant. It is imperative to know their antecedents as well,” said Sarkar. The additional director-general of police (Bengal STF), Vineet Goyal, who attended the meeting, stressed the need to create effective deterrence through neighbourhood watch and checks by the RWAs. Goyal also urged the residents to take the help of technology to keep track of people entering or leaving a complex. “Criminals look for safe shelters and they want to leave no footprint. Many complexes here have CCTV cameras and we know that several are using access-control apps like MyGate, which provide a ready database on cars as well as people entering and leaving. However, if the RWAs also check who has taken which flat on rent and if it is indeed them who are staying, then it goes a long way towards bolstering the security of a community,” said Goyal. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen urged the residents to co-operate and said that they were trying to set up more CCTV cameras. “We have more than 500 cameras and are planning to add 600 more,” said Sen. Residents of several housing societies who were present said the new guidelines would be helpful. “We have regular checks and it is mandatory for the owners to submit tenant verification forms. However, we did not have the brokers’ profile and will ensure that we have a list now,” said Annapurna Sinha, the secretary of the NBCC Vibgyor residents welfare body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
25-06-2021||Calcutta||Suburban railway services to remain suspended, says chief minister Mamata Banerjee||Running trains now would mean a renewed surge in Covid cases, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Friday, suggesting the suburban services will remain suspended for now. “Whatever restrictions are in place, they are in place to contain the spread of Covid-19. First let us fully reduce the Covid numbers. People will face difficulties because of the curbs…. Running trains now would mean a surge in Covid cases. Who will take responsibility then?” Mamata said at Nabanna in response to a question on the agitations at railway stations, demanding resumption of suburban services. “The lockdown and curfew enforced at other places have not been enforced here. Almost everything is operational here…. Many offices, from government to other places, have implemented the work-from-home culture. Many offices are arranging for the transport of their workers. Vegetable sellers have the option of coming in cars. Markets and vegetable mandis are open,” she said. Suburban railway services have been suspended since May 6, part of a slew of measures to combat the surge in Covid-19 cases. Metro, too, has benched its fleet except for a few designated groups. On Thursday, two letters — from the assistant general manager of Eastern Railway and the divisional railway manager of the Sealdah division — were sent to the state government. The railway authorities shared their concerns about the protests and sought the state’s help. On Thursday, protesters at Mallikpur station — between Baruipur and Subhasgram on the Sealdah-Diamond Harbour stretch — allegedly turned violent, hurling stones at cops who had gone there to end the blockade. Personnel of the GRP, including an officer, and the RPF were injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
25-06-2021||Calcutta||Jadavpur University teachers suggest stipulated test duration enforcement across faculties||A section of teachers at Jadavpur University has told vice-chancellor Suranjan Das that students “are sharing answers among themselves” during online exams and suggested that the stipulated test duration be enforced across faculties to curb the malpractice. In a letter, the teachers wrote: “We strongly believe that the duration of an examination is an important factor for proper evaluation of students.” The teachers of all three faculties — engineering, science and arts — said they gave the suggestions to VC Das this week so that “nobody can question the validity of their degrees from a legal point of view”. VC Das said the suggestions would be placed before the next faculty council meeting. Parthapratim Roy, the secretary of the teachers’ association, said they were forced to take up the issue because teachers from the engineering faculty had been complaining about identical answer scripts. “We did not encounter any anomaly in science and arts, where the exams are being held for the duration stipulated by the UGC (three hours and 15 minutes, based on marks a paper carries). But in the engineering faculty, where students are taking as many as 12 hours to complete a paper — three hours for writing and nine hours for uploading the script — instances of sharing answers are being reported. We want the duration to be reduced so that the anomaly can be curbed,” he said. The acting dean of engineering, Bijan Sarkar, who took charge in May, declined to comment. A teacher in the faculty said the students were taking extra time to submit papers citing poor connectivity. “In reality, bright students are forwarding answers to others. If the specified duration is being spent on solving questions, the additional time is being used to copy the answers and hold consultations. Submission of papers is being delayed to prove connectivity woes. Students might end up scoring high marks but they are not being tested properly,” he said. In a letter to the VC on May 22, the Jadavpur University Teachers’ Association had raised their objection to engineering students being given 12 hours to write and submit their papers. “The extension... for submission of answer-scripts was done keeping in mind the difficulties that may be faced by such students in uploading their answer-scripts. Such students must be dealt with on a case-by-case basis,” reads the letter submitted on May 23. “It now appears that the additional time has been misused. What if someone lodges a complaint to the UGC, challenging the sanctity of the exam process,” said Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
25-06-2021||Calcutta||Tanker falls off Vidyasagar Setu, lands on perimeter wall of Fort William at Hastings||A tanker carrying fly ash crashed into the guardrails of Vidyasagar Setu and landed on the perimeter wall of Fort William at Hastings on Thursday morning. Police said the tanker was headed towards Kidderpore. It swerved near the point where the Calcutta-bound ramp of the bridge bifurcates towards Esplanade and Hastings. The driver and the helper were injured. Some footpath dwellers beneath the bridge were alerted by the deafening sound of the tanker landing on the concrete wall around 6.30am. The driver’s cabin came off from the main body of the tanker as an impact of the fall. Alarmed by the sound of the tanker crashing through the boundary wall, a team of armed military personnel, who were on their morning shift, immediately reached the spot and cordoned the area. Senior officers, who arrived at the spot later, found the driver and his assistant groaning in pain, trapped inside the driver’s cabin. Police control in Lalbazar was informed along with Hastings police station and a team of police officers arrived at the spot. They shifted the two injured to SSKM Hospital. A case of rash and negligent driving has been filed against the driver. The vehicle has been sent for mechanical tests. “The driver, Inamul Haque, hails from Ratua in Malda and is around 30 years old. He received injuries on his head and chest,” said a senior police officer. “The assistant, Arif Hossain, is aged 18 years and hails from Malda too. He received injuries on his hands and chest.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
25-06-2021||Calcutta||One-time relief for vehicle tax defaulters||Vehicle owners who had to pay their tax by April 28 or immediately thereafter but failed to do so can clear their dues without any penalty by July 31, the Bengal government said on Thursday. This will be a one-time relief, the government said. Usually, owners of commercial and private vehicles enjoy a grace period of 15 working days to pay their tax, after which defaulters invite a penalty. The rates of penalty are 25 per cent (for the first 45 days), 50 per cent (next 75 days) and 100 per cent (beyond that). “Private vehicle owners have to pay tax for at least five years. For small cars, the amount is usually Rs 25,000,” said a transport department official. The government notice announcing the penalty says all motor vehicle offices were shut from May 15 because of Covid curbs. Which means vehicle owners whose tax validity had expired on April 28 couldn't pay even after the grace period. The order, issued by the transport secretary, spells out that “due to closures of the counters during the restriction period the vehicles which had valid tax on April 28 would be liable to pay a penalty...” It says: “Therefore... the government of West Bengal... condones the delay of payment of tax... on motor vehicles which have tax validity as on and after April 28, 2021...”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
25-06-2021||Calcutta||Claims of lack of knowledge by CMC and police raise concerns among citizens||An illegal Covid vaccination camp was held in Kasba purportedly under the aegis of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, barely a kilometre from a civic health clinic where doses were often much fewer than the number of people in the queue. The illegal camp was held about 150m from the local CMC ward coordinator’s office but no civic official apparently knew about the camp, where fake shots were allegedly administered. Kasba police station is about 1.5km from the site where the illegal camp, allegedly organised by Debanjan Deb, was held. The police have claimed no knowledge of the camp, as well as others allegedly organised by Deb. The police said Deb, who had posed as an IAS officer and a joint commissioner of the CMC, had put up flexes and boards at the vaccination site bearing the emblem of the civic body. The camp was held in a building — located in a lane opposite Acropolis Mall — that houses offices of a public sector bank and a public sector insurance company. The claims of lack of knowledge by the CMC and the police on something that should have been staring in their face has raised concerns among residents. “How is it possible that police and CMC officials knew nothing? It is surprising that hundreds were being vaccinated at a camp at a time when civic health clinics were reeling from shortage of doses. Yet no one found anything suspicious. This sounds incredulous,” said a resident of Kasba. Jadavpur MP Mimi Chakraborty went to the camp, took a jab herself and spoke at length about how she was trying to popularise the state government's efforts to vaccinate people against Covid. After his arrest on Tuesday, Deb spoke about a CMC official whom he said he called on often at the civic body’s headquarters on SN Banerjee Road. The police have contacted the person and have apparently not found any material evidence to link the two. Police sources said the person held an important post and was directly involved in the CMC’s vaccination project. “We have not yet found any direct link between Deb and anyone in the CMC,” said an officer in the probe team. Sushanta Ghosh, the outgoing councillor of the CMC's Ward 107, where Deb held the illegal vaccination camp, said he had alerted civic officials the moment he knew about the camp. “It was only on Tuesday that a large number of local people were administered shots and I got to know about it. Earlier, the organisers had mostly brought people from other places. The CMC logo was used on Tuesday. I immediately called the borough health officer and asked him to enquire about what was happening. That is how the matter came to light,” said Ghosh. The office of Ghosh on the Gariahat-Ruby connector is about 150m from the site where the camp was held. The ward 107 health clinic of the CMC, on P Majumder Road, is about a kilometre from the site. A CMC official said they had no knowledge of the camp running there. “After we were informed about the camp, one of our officials went there. His phone was taken away before he was allowed to enter. He came out and reported that the CMC logo was being used at the camp. As we enquired further, we came to know that the corporation had not organised any such camp,” the official said. Doctors of the civic body on Thursday met those who were “vaccinated” at Tuesday’s camp and enquired about their health. The meeting was held at Kasba New Market. “Seventy people met the CMC doctors. Most were anxious about what would happen to them. A few reported that a dark spot had formed at the injection site. Many said they did not suffer from any adverse reaction,” said an official. “If anyone who took the vaccine at the camp organised by Deb encounters any health issues, he or she should visit the ward 107 health clinic of the CMC.” The foundation stone of Tripura Shankar Sen Shastri Memorial Library in central Calcutta has the name “Shri Debanjan Deb (joint secretary, West Bengal government)” at the bottom of a list that includes the names of former mayor and current chairman of the CMC’s board of administrators, Firhad Hakim, and MLA Nayana Bandhopadhyay. Bandhopadhyay on Thursday lodged a complaint with Taltala police station saying she was not involved in the foundation stone laying ceremony, held on February 26, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
25-06-2021||Business||Government  deadlines for various income tax compliances||The government on Friday extended deadlines for various income tax compliances and also exempted from tax the amount given by an employer to employees for COVID-19 treatment. Also, ex-gratia payments received from employers by family members in case of employees' death due to COVID would be exempt from income tax in fiscal 2019-20 and subsequent years. The limit for such tax-exempted payment would be Rs 10 lakh in case it is received from any other person. "In view of the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, taxpayers are facing inconvenience in meeting certain tax compliances and also in filing response to various notices. "In order to ease the compliance burden of taxpayers during this difficult time, reliefs are being provided...," the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said in a statement. The tax department said many taxpayers have received financial help from their employers and well-wishers for meeting their expenses incurred for treatment of COVID-19. "In order to ensure that no income tax liability arises on this account, it has been decided to provide income-tax exemption to the amount received by a taxpayer for medical treatment from employer or from any person for treatment of Covid-19 during FY 2019-20 and subsequent years," it added. In case of taxing capital gains arising out of transfer of residential house property, the CBDT said for relief in taxation, the re-investment deadline would be September 3, 2021 for such capital gains. Section 54 of the Income Tax Act provides that in case there is capital gain on account of transfer of a residential house property, such capital gain can be exempt from tax if the taxpayer invests the capital gain amount into another house property within 2 years (in case of purchase of new house) or within 3 years (in case of construction of a house) from date of transfer of original house property. The CBDT circular now provides that in case any such time period of 2 / 3 years is expiring between April 1, 2021 to September 29, 2021, it will be extended to September 30, 2021. Besides, the deadline for making payments under the Vivad Se Vishwas direct tax dispute resolution scheme has been extended by two months till August 31. However, taxpayers have the option to make payments till October 31 with an additional amount of interest. The last date for PAN-Aadhaar linking too has been extended by three months to September 30, 2021, while the same for furnishing Tax Deducted at Source (TDS) certificate in Form 16 to the employees by employers has been extended till July 31, from July 15, 2021. The due date for furnishing TDS statement for the last (January-March) quarter of the 2020-21 has been extended to July 15, from June 30, 2021. The quarterly statement in Form 15CC to be furnished by an authorised dealer for remittances made for the June quarter would have to furnished by July 31. Also, the deadline for furnishing Equalisation Levy Statement in Form No. 1 for the financial year 2020-21, has been extended by a month till July 31, 2021, while for processing Equalisation Levy returns, the time limit has been extended by 3 months till September 30, 2021. Commenting on the measures, Nangia & Co LLP Partner Shailesh Kumar said this would give much needed tax relief to taxpayers, who have received monetary help from their employer, friends and extended families, either for treatment of COVID-19 or on account of death of a family member from the coronavirus infection. "Though the relief is granted retrospectively from FY 2019-20 onwards, since the due date for filing ITR for FY 2019-20 has already expired, it would be important to see whether the Government revives the time limit for filing ITR for FY 2019-20," Kumar added. The extension of various due dates, be it for PAN-Aadhaar linking, payment of tax/ penalty under Vivad se Vishwas scheme, completion of assessment proceedings, completion of penalty proceedings, registration of charitable trusts and institutions for income tax exemption etc, will provide additional time, both to taxpayers as well as tax authorities, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-9
25-06-2021||Business||Sensex surges 226 points to end at record high||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped 226 points to end at a fresh lifetime high on Friday, boosted by ICICI Bank, Axis Bank and Infosys amid positive cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index closed 226.04 points or 0.43 per cent higher at record 52,925.04. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 69.90 points or 0.44 per cent to 15,860.35. Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 4 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, SBI, ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finserv, L&T and Maruti. On the other hand, Reliance Industries, NTPC, HUL, Titan and Asian Paints were among the laggards. "Domestic equities rose mirroring an upbeat mood in the global markets after US President Joe Biden embraced Senate infrastructure deal to help stimulate the economy. "The overall mood in Wall Street was lifted since the US jobless claims ticked down as the economy heals," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. On the domestic front, recovery was seen in banks and metal stocks following its consolidation during the past few days, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with gains. Equities in Europe were trading on a mixed note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.44 per cent lower at USD 75.23 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-9
25-06-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty open on positive note amid positive global cues||Equity benchmark Sensex and Nifty opened on a positive note on Friday amid a positive trend in global markets and sustained foreign fund inflow.  The 30-share BSE index was trading 65.90 points or 0.13 per cent higher at 52,764.90 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 32 points or 0.20 per cent to 15,822.45.  Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 3 per cent, followed by Maruti, HCL Tech, ICICI Bank, Maruti, Axis Bank and SBI.  On the other hand, Reliance Industries, HUL, Asian Paints, Kotak Bank and Nestle India were among the laggards.  In the previous session, the 30-share index Sensex ended 392.92 points or 0.75 per cent higher at 52,699. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 103.50 points or 0.66 per cent to 15,790.45.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,890.94 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data.  According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities look to be muted as of now.  "While Indian equities remained buoyant led by improved prospects of economic recovery in the backdrop of sharp contraction in daily caseload and ramp-up in vaccination programme, a sharp rise in crude price with Brent surpassing USD 75/barrel and recent weakness in INR have emerged as key overhangs for the market, he noted.  On the global front, he said, US equities recovered sharply after President Joe Biden announced that he has reached a deal with a bipartisan group of lawmakers on an infrastructure plan.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.22 per cent higher at USD 75.73 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-9
25-06-2021||Business||RBI announces prudential norms for dividends by NBFCs including housing finance companies ||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday announced prudential norms for dividends by non-banking finance companies (NBFCs), including housing finance companies (HFCs). The rules link dividend payment to their capital ratios and net non-performing assets and will be effective from the profits of financial year ended March 31, 2022 A dividend paying NBFC must have a net NPA ratio of  less than 6 per cent in each of the last three years, including at the close of the financial year for which the dividend is proposed to be declared. The RBI has also imposed a ceiling on the dividend payout ratio, which is the ratio between the dividend and net profit. This will be 60 per cent each for core investment companies and standalone primary dealers and 50 per cent for other NBFCs. There is no ceiling for NBFCs that do not accept public funds and do not have any customer interface. Systemically important and deposit-taking NBFCs will have to maintain a minimum capital ratio of 15 per cent — Tier I and Tier-II capital — to  pay dividend. Housing finance companies should also maintain a  minimum capital ratio of 15 per cent by the end of the fiscal. SPAC rules Sebi is planning to come out with a framework on special purpose acquisition companies (SPACs) next week, which will enable the listing of start-ups on domestic stock exchanges, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-9
25-06-2021||Business||National Anti-profiteering Authority alert on Covid profiteering||The National Anti-profiteering Authority (NAA) has urged the top brass of the GST administration to ensure that the producers and suppliers of medical devices and drugs lower the prices of Covid-related supplies so that the benefits of the GST rate cuts are passed on to the consumers. The profiteering watchdog in an office memorandum also asked senior tax officials to ensure that complaints about companies and suppliers not reducing  the prices are taken up on a priority basis. “Suppliers are required to commensurately reduce the prices of each of the supplies of goods and services made by them so that the benefit of the reduction in tax rates and/or input tax credits is passed on to the recipients/consumers,” the NAA said in its instruction. Tax officials have been told to collect all the evidence needed to take action against “errant suppliers of various goods and services”. M.S. Mani, senior director, Deloitte India, said: “Businesses dealing with medical supplies that have undergone a GST rate reduction need to ensure they have adequate documentation to demonstrate that the rate cuts have been passed on to the consumers.” The move comes after the Centre notified tax rate cuts on Covid-related medical supplies with effect from June 14, as cleared by the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council. The concessional tax rates on 18 classes of items will remain in force  till the end of September. Rajat Bose, partner, Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co, said, “The office order issued by the NAA is a step in the right direction. The government should give wide publicity to Section 171 of the CGST Act and educate the consumers of their rights against companies who are not passing on the benefit of the reduction in GST rates on Covid items.” If a supplier is found raising the base price to pocket the tax benefit meant for consumers, anti-profiteering authorities could order refund of the allegedly overcharged amount to the consumer or deposit the same in designated consumer welfare funds if identifying individual buyers is not possible. In addition to returning the overcharged amount with hefty interest, any profiteering behaviour may invite a penalty provision, which has been in force since January 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-10
25-06-2021||Business||India presses Opec for 'affordable' oil price within a 'reasonable band'||India on Thursday pressed oil cartel Opec for an “affordable” oil price within a “reasonable band”. It also urged the producers to phase out production cuts. Opec nations such as Saudi Arabia have traditionally been India’s principal oil source. But the world’s third-biggest oil importer has started tapping newer crude oil sources after Opec and its allies ignored its calls to ease supply curbs. As a result, Opec’s share in India’s oil imports has dropped to about 60 per cent in May from 74 per cent in the previous month. Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan in a virtual dialogue with Opec secretary general Mohammad Sanusi Barkindo reiterated concerns over oil prices, which have shot up above $75 per barrel —  the highest since April 2019. The spike has led to retail petrol and diesel prices climbing to a record high. Petrol is above the Rs 100 per litre mark in nine states and Union Territories. Diesel is being sold at over Rs 100 a litre in Rajasthan and Odisha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-10
25-06-2021||Business||Saudi Aramco-Reliance Industries deal likely this year||The much awaited deal between Reliance Industries (RIL) and Saudi Aramco is set to be concluded this year after a delay of more than 14 months. As a precursor to the proposed transaction, first announced by Mukesh Ambani in 2019, Yasir Othman al-Rumayyan, head of the Saudi oil giant, is joining the board of RIL as an independent director. Analysts feel the appointment of al-Rumayyan has come along expected lines. But investors want more clarity on the stake sale in the O2C business including timelines given that nearly two years have passed since Ambani announced the deal. RIL plans to offload a 20 per cent stake in its oil-to-chemicals (O2C) business, which comprises its twin oil refineries at Jamnagar in Gujarat and its petrochemical assets, to Aramco for an enterprise value of $75 billion. The deal was to conclude by March 2020 but was delayed by the pandemic. There was some headway in August last year when Saudi Aramco said it is undertaking a due diligence. There have been reports that the Saudi oil major has proposed a cash and share deal. Speaking to the shareholders at the 44th annual general meeting, chairman Mukesh Ambani said the proposed transaction is likely to be concluded this year. “Despite several challenges because of Covid-19, we have made substantial progress in the past in our discussions (with Saudi Aramco)... This continued engagement and resolve from both sides, even during this pandemic, is a testimony of the strong relationship between Saudi Aramco and Reliance.” “I expect our partnership to be formalised during this year,’’ he added. However, his statement did not impress the stock markets. The Reliance Industries stock ended with losses of 2.35 per cent at Rs 2,153.35 with sources saying the absence of a specific announcement on the deal and its value disappointed the Street.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-10
25-06-2021||Business||Centre worried about rising inflation accompanying expected rebound in growth ||The Centre is worried about rising inflation accompanying the expected rebound in growth as the second wave of the coronavirus recedes and the states unlock themselves. Principal economic adviser Sanjeev Sanyal on Thursday said rather than rushing in and announcing a bunch of new measures, it is more sensible to watch and act quickly based on the situation. “We need to watch carefully what the data is saying rather than pre-judge how the economy will behave from here on,” Sanyal said at an event organised by the Merchant Chamber of Commerce. “While we continue doing all the good things that were said in the budget and continue to support demand, we need to be very careful of the secondary impact of inflation,” Sanyal said. “(Inflation is an) international problem already,” Sanyal said, citing record inflation in the US and other countries. US headline CPI inflation rose from 2.6 per cent in March to 5 per cent in May. Retail inflation in May touched 6.2 per cent in India on account of high food and energy prices, in excess of the RBI’s upper tolerance band of 6 per cent. The pandemic has resulted in a significant increase in health expenses and consumption of household non-durable goods. A surge in fuel prices has added to travel costs. He added that there is another scenario of a differentiated recovery with some sectors showing growth. This requires a more targeted response than a universal one. Another scenario could be a short-term bump in economic activity due to pent up demand which may not be sustainable. In that situation, the government has to provide support and will do what is necessary on the monetary and fiscal front. “When you are dealing with high uncertainty, it is important to stress and acknowledge the uncertainty rather than what Friedrich Hayek (Nobelo winner) used to say to have a presence of knowledge. So, surveillance and situational awareness is more important than some false forecasting tool or model,” he said. S&P forecast S&P has scaled down the country’s growth forecast to 9.5 per cent this fiscal from the earlier 11 per cent with a warning that there was risk to the outlook from further waves of the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-10
25-06-2021||Business||Reliance Industries etches green energy vision ||A battle royale is set to erupt in green energy. At the Reliance Industries’ virtual AGM on Thursday, Mukesh Ambani said the company would invest Rs 75,000 crore in renewable energy — which will pit him against Gautam Adani, whose group has set itself the target to be the No.1 solar company in the world by 2025 and a top renewable energy player in the world in another 10 years. Reliance’s ambitious plan in new energy was the key theme at the 44th annual general meeting (AGM) of the company with chairman-cum-managing director Ambani claiming they will make new energy a “truly global business’’. Addressing the shareholders, Ambani said Reliance has started work on developing the Dhirubhai Ambani Green Energy Giga Complex on 5,000 acres at Jamnagar. This will be amongst the largest such integrated renewable energy manufacturing facilities in the world. It will have four “giga factories” that will manufacture and fully integrate all the critical components of the new energy ecosystem. The term giga factory was first coined by Elon Musk, the Tesla chief, when the company began work on its huge battery unit outside Sparks, Nevada. In solar energy, RIL will build an integrated factory to make solar photovoltaic modules or solar panels. It will also build an advanced energy storage battery unit. There will be an electrolyser factory to manufacture green hydrogen, while a fuel cell unit will convert the hydrogen into energy. “Over the next three years we will invest over Rs 60,000 crore in these initiatives. Reliance will thus create and offer a fully integrated, end-to-end renewables energy ecosystem,’’ the RIL chief said. The Jamnagar complex will also provide infrastructure and utilities to manufacture ancillary material and equipment needed to support the Giga factories. Reliance will also support independent manufacturers to be part of this ecosystem. It will invest an additional sum of Rs 15,000 crore in value chain, partnerships and future technologies, including upstream and downstream units. “Thus, our overall initial investment from our own internal resources in the new energy business will be Rs 75,000  crore (over $10 billion) in three years… Jamnagar was the cradle of our old energy business. Jamnagar will also be the cradle of our new energy business,’’ Ambani said. The Adani group, which is present in solar power, wind power and hybrid power — harnessing both wind and solar energy — and solar parks, had also announced its venture into the lithium battery segment earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-10
25-06-2021||Business||Jio-Google phone by September||Jio and Google on Thursday announced that they have jointly developed a made-for-India JioPhone Next smartphone that will be available from September 10, which is also Ganesh Chaturthi. The two companies have also expanded their partnership, wherein Jio and Google Cloud will collaborate on 5G technology. Jio will use Google Cloud’s technologies to power its 5G solutions and boost the internal needs of key businesses such as Reliance Retail, JioMart, JioSaavn and JioHealth. Reliance will shift its core retail businesses to Google Cloud’s infrastructure, enabling the firm to take advantage of Google’s artificial intelligence and machine learning, e-commerce and demand forecasting offerings. On the new smartphone, RIL chairman Mukesh Ambani said, “As you have come to expect from Jio, it is my promise that JioPhone Next will be, by far, the most-affordable smartphone not just in India but globally.” Though the price of JioPhone Next was not disclosed, it will have cutting-edge features, including voice assistant, language translation, automatic read-aloud of screen text and smart camera with augmented reality filters and security updates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-10
25-06-2021||India||Covid: Maharashtra records 9,677 cases, 156 deaths||Maharashtra on Friday reported 9,677 new COVID-19 cases and 156 deaths, taking its infection tally to 60,17,035, and death toll to 1,20,370, the state health department said in a release. Of 156 deaths, 117 occurred in the last 48 hours and 39 in the last one week. Also, 355 deaths which had taken place earlier were added to cumulative tally on Friday. The reconciliation of cases in Mumbai was complete with removal of duplication which brought down the caseload in the state capital by 4,467. The state's caseload too decreased by 73 after reconciliation of figures, the release said. As many as 10,138 patients were discharged from hospitals on Friday, taking the total of recoveries to 57,72,799. There are 1,20,715 active cases in the state now. The recovery rate is 95.94 per cent while case fatality rate is two per cent. There are 6,33,748 people in home quarantine while 4,248 are in institutional quarantine. With 2,36,034 tests conducted on Friday, tally of samples tested for coronavirus reached 4,05,96,965. Mumbai city reported 693 new cases taking its case tally to 7,18,962. The city also added 20 deaths, taking its fatality count to 15,368. The larger Mumbai division reported 2,076 cases of infection and 34 deaths, taking its caseload to 15,85,717 and death toll to 31,671. Nashik division added 659 cases and 16 deaths, of which 10 deaths were reported from rural parts of Ahmednagar district. Pune division's caseload increased by 2,210. Out of 20 deaths in the division, 14 were reported in Satara district. Kolhapur division continued to report the highest number of cases among divisions with 3,854 infections coming to light on Friday. Of these, 1,672 cases were found in rural parts of Kolhapur district. Out of 55 deaths in the division, 24 were reported in rural parts of Kolhapur. Aurangabad division's caseload went up by 197 and it also added ten deaths. Latur division reported 323 cases and 18 deaths. Akola division reported 217 new cases of COVID-19 and three deaths, while Nagpur division added 141 cases. There was no COVID-19 death in the entire Nagpur division on Friday, the release said. Maharashtra's coronavirus figures are as follows: Positive cases 60,17,035; New cases 9,677; Death toll 1,20,370; Recoveries 57,72,799; Active cases 1,20,715; Total tests 4,05,96,965.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-34
25-06-2021||India||Shashi Tharoor faces temporary Twitter ban after IT Minister||After Twitter briefly blocked IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad from accessing his account for alleged copyrights violation, chairman of the parliamentary panel on information technology Shashi Tharoor on Friday said the same thing happened with him and the standing committee will be seeking an explanation from the social media firm over the temporary locking of their accounts and the rules it follows while operating in India. Confronting Twitter, Prasad said it was apparent that his statements calling out the high handedness and arbitrary actions of the micro-blogging platform, particularly sharing clips of interviews to TV channels and the powerful impact had "clearly ruffled its feathers". "Friends! Something highly peculiar happened today. Twitter denied access to my account for almost an hour on the alleged ground that there was a violation of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of the USA and subsequently they allowed me to access the account," Prasad said in a tweet. Tagging Prasad's tweet, Tharoor said, "Raviji, the same thing just happened to me. Clearly DMCA is getting hyperactive." He said one of his tweets has been deleted by Twitter because its video included the copyrighted BoneyM song "Rasputin". After a process, the account was unlocked, the Congress leader said. Indians creatively make videos using short snippets of foreign music and most people would consider that "fair use", Tharoor argued in a series of tweets. Instead of letting the clip enhance the popularity of their song, the copyright holders have issued a notice, the Lok Sabha MP said, adding that though he had just retweeted it, he was not about to contest their act. In this case the complainant was the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry which is zealously defending the rights of Sony Music to "Rasputin", he said. Ironically, Tharoor said, at their last conference in India, he was a keynote speaker. "So I won't blame @Twitter for this action or attribute the motives to them that @rsprasad does, though it wasn't pleasant finding my account locked. Clearly they had no choice but to honour a DMCA takedown notice, however stupid & pointless the request was," he said in another tweet. But getting a notice from a UK-based organisation, citing Twitter's role as a service provider under a US law, points to the challenges of Twitter India's operations in India, Tharoor said. The minister has pointed to possible violations of Indian regulations while conforming to foreign rules, he said. "As Chairman of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology, I can state that we will be seeking an explanation from @TwitterIndia for the locking of @rsprasad's & my accounts & the rules & procedures they follow while operating in India," Tharoor said. A couple of hours after his series of tweets, Tharoor tweeted that Twitter had locked him out again because to explain the problem, the first tweet in his thread of tweets included the offending copyrighted video. "Locking is a foolish response to a DCMA notice; disabling the video (which they've now done) should be enough. @Twitter has a lot to learn," he said. Weighing into the issue, Rajya Sabha MP and Shiv Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedi said this has happened to her verified Facebook page as well with respect to television debates. "I had also raised this copyright issue in the department related Committee meeting. Unfortunately, it only pinches when it hits home. No conspiracy sir, it is something that has gone unaddressed & is less understood," Chaturvedi said, tagging Prasad's tweet. "I had in a committee meeting on copyright and Intellectual Property Rights asked this specific question: how can a TV channel flag a segment as copyright violation for a debate in which I was a part & is shared on my page? The page was allowed access only when post was taken down," she tweeted. However, there was no answer then and not even taken up as a larger issue that needs clarity, she said in her series of tweets on the issue. "Today it happened to the IT Minister and he blames the platform! The issue is not you, your position or the platform, it is the lack of clarity. But then we live in the times of narrative setting," Chaturvedi said. The temporary locking of the IT Minister's Twitter account comes at a time when the US-based digital giant has been engaged in a tussle with the Indian government over the new social media rules. The government has slammed Twitter for deliberate defiance and failure to comply with the country's new IT rules, which has led to the microblogging platform losing its legal shield as an intermediary in India and becoming liable for users posting any unlawful content. Lashing out at Twitter, Prasad -- in a series of posts on rival social media platform Koo -- said it was apparent that his statements calling out the "high handedness and arbitrary actions" of Twitter had ruffled feathers. He also tweeted on the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-34
25-06-2021||India||Pregnant women can be vaccinated, says health ministry||ICMR Director General Dr Balram Bharagava on Friday said that pregnant women can be vaccinated against COVID-19, amid concern over expansion of vaccine beneficiaries ahead of a possible third wave of coronavirus infections. "The health ministry has given guidelines that they (anti-Covid vaccine) can be given to pregnant women. We have also demonstrated from our ICMR PregCovid registry that vaccination is useful in pregnant women and it should be given," he said during a press conference. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) chief was asked a question on vaccination of children and pregnant women. However, Dr Bhargava advised caution in rushing to vaccinate children. According to a NDTV report, vaccination for pregnant women was one of the topics discussed by the NTAGI, or National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation, last month. Doubts were raised about possible risks to the mother and/or child - including that of clotting (or thrombosis) with the Covishield jab, but the committee decided "benefit far outweighs the risk". "Considering current situation of pandemic, NTAGI-STSC recommends pregnant women should not be excluded from vaccination because exposure probability is very high and therefore the benefit far outweighs the risk," the committee said in its report. "... before vaccination, pregnant women should be fully informed that long-term adverse reactions and safety of vaccine for fetus and child (has) not yet (been) established," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-34
25-06-2021||India||India, China agree to hold next round of military talks soon||India and China on Friday agreed to hold the next round of military talks at an early date to achieve the objective of complete disengagement in remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh amid fresh sparring between the two sides on the prolonged LAC standoff. At a virtual meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs, the two sides had a "frank exchange" of views and decided to maintain dialogue to reach a mutually acceptable solution for withdrawal of troops in all friction points to enable progress in the overall ties, according to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) here. In a statement at the end of the talks, the MEA said both sides agreed on the need to find an early resolution to the remaining issues along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. The talks took place in the backdrop of a fresh round of sparring between the two sides over the standoff as well as deadlock in further movement in the disengagement process after the withdrawal of troops by both sides from the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in February. "Both sides agreed on the need to find an early resolution to the remaining issues along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh keeping in view the agreement reached between the two foreign ministers in September 2020," the MEA statement said. "In this regard, the two sides agreed to maintain dialogue and communication through the diplomatic and military mechanisms to reach a mutually acceptable solution for complete disengagement from all friction points so as to ensure full restoration of peace and tranquillity to enable progress in the bilateral relations," it added. The MEA said both sides also agreed that in the interim, the two sides will continue to ensure stability on the ground and prevent any untoward incident. "The two sides agreed to hold the next round of the senior commanders meeting at an early date to achieve the objective of complete disengagement from all the friction points along the LAC in the western sector in accordance with the existing bilateral agreements and protocols," it said. India refers to the eastern Ladakh region as the western sector. The previous round of military talks(11th round) was held on April 9. "The two sides had a frank exchange of views on the situation along the LAC in the western sector of the India-China border areas," the MEA said. A war of words broke out between India and China on the border standoff this week. India on Thursday blamed China for the standoff saying its amassing of a large number of troops close to the border and attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo along the LAC last year were responsible for seriously disturbing peace and tranquillity in the region. India's response came after China said its military deployment in the region is a normal defence arrangement aimed at "preventing and responding" to alleged "encroachment and threat" on Chinese territory by India. The WMCC meet was co-chaired by MEA's additional secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava and the director general of the boundary and oceanic department of China's foreign ministry. India and China had reached a five-point agreement to resolve the border standoff during talks between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi at a meeting in Moscow on September 10 on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation(SCO) conclave. The pact included measures like quick disengagement of troops, avoiding action that could escalate tensions, adherence to all agreements and protocols on border management and steps to restore peace along the LAC. India and China were locked in a military standoff at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh since early May last year. However, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February following a series of military and diplomatic talks. The two sides are now engaged in talks to extend the disengagement process to the remaining friction points. India has been particularly pressing for disengagement of troops in Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang. According to military officials, each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the LAC in the sensitive high altitude sector. There was no visible forward movement in disengagement of troops in the remaining friction points as the Chinese side did not show flexibility in their approach to this issue at the 11th round of military talks. Last month, Army Chief Gen MM Naravane said there can be no de-escalation without complete disengagement at all friction points in eastern Ladakh and that the Indian Army is prepared for all contingencies in the region. Gen Naravane also said that India is dealing with China in a "firm" and "non-escalatory" manner to ensure the sanctity of its claims in eastern Ladakh, and that it was even open to initiating confidence-building measures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-34
25-06-2021||India||Congress is needed in coalition to take on BJP, says Sharad Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar on Friday said the Congress cannot be left out of any alternative front to take on the BJP, days after a meeting at his residence gave rise to speculation about Third Front moves for the 2024 elections. "An alliance was not discussed in the (Rashtra Manch) meeting but if an alternative force is to be raised, it will be done only by taking Congress together. We need power like that and I had said this in that meeting," the senior politician was quoted as saying by news agency ANI, as reported by ndtv.com. He also called for "collective leadership" if any front is considered. Asked if he would lead the new front, he quipped: "Sharad Pawar has tried this many times before." Pawar’s meetings with poll strategist Prashant Kishor has also given rise to speculations over the past few weeks, but a meeting at his home on Tuesday was watched and dissected with interest. The meeting was called by Yashwant Sinha, not Sharad Pawar, Majeed Memon, a leader of Pawar's NCP. The meeting lasted over two hours. Notably, the Congress was missing though three leaders were invited. There was no discussion of a political front at the Tuesday meeting, Pawar said, according to the report by ndtv.com. On a leadership role for him in any Third Front to take on the BJP in the next general election in 2024, he said: "We haven't discussed but I think we'll have to go ahead by taking a role of collective leadership. I did this for years but right now I'll work for keeping everyone together, guiding and strengthening them."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-35
25-06-2021||India||ICMR chief: More data needed on whether children can take jabs||ICMR Director General Dr Balram Bharagava on Friday said that pregnant women can be vaccinated against COVID-19, but more data needs to be available to decide whether children can be inoculated against the disease. "The health ministry has given guidelines that they (anti-Covid vaccine) can be given to pregnant women. We have also demonstrated from our ICMR PregCovid registry that vaccination is useful in pregnant women and it should be given," he said during a press conference. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) chief was asked a question on vaccination of children and pregnant women. On whether COVID-19 shots can be administered to children is still a debatable question, until enough data is available, Bhargava said, adding that there is only one country in the world, the US, which is administering vaccines to children at the moment. Whether very small children will ever need a vaccine is still a question, he said. "Till such time we have more data available on vaccination of children we will not be in a position to vaccinate children at large. However, we have started a study on children between 2-18 years and we should have the results of that by September- October so that we can make some decision," Bharagava said. However, international literature and experts are still debating on whether children need to be inoculated, he said. "In the US we have seen some complications with vaccines among children," Bharagava said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-35
25-06-2021||India||Where can I ride a 50cc Moped?||of the best things about 50cc Moped is that they can be drove anywhere. It is convenient for you to ride them almost anywhere. If you want to avoid heavy traffic, it is one of the safe and convenient options you can get. However, there are some requirements you need to check before riding a 50cc Moped in any area. If the requirements do not match the speed limit of a 50cc Moped, it is recommended to look for another route according to the rules and regulations. Convenient places for riding 50cc Moped It is no doubt that you can ride 50cc Moped almost everywhere. However, there are some traffic rules you need to know before going for it. 50cc Moped can be safer for people of all ages, and it can be the best alternative to high-speed vehicles that can be dangerous for kids and adults. 1. Any route if your speed is limited: Before taking out your 50cc Moped on any route, you should check the speed limit. If the speed limit is below 30 mph or Equal to it, you are good to ride your 50cc Moped on the route. 2. Alternative routes for increased speed However, if the speed limit is above 30 mph, it is recommended to go for an alternate route even at the minimum level because you can be charged for speeding slow on a route where it is not allowed. It is highly recommended to check the speed limit issued by the traffic rules and regulations. It will keep you safe, and you will not come across any inconvenient situation. 3. Road condition to ride Moped 50cc The road type should also be convenient for you to ride the 50cc Moped. It is important to check the road condition because you can face trouble while driving your 50cc Moped if the road is not good enough. It should be smooth to provide you with a stable ride; however, 50cc Moped can also take extreme conditions. You should be aware of the road status before driving a 50cc moped; it will keep you safe from many inconveniences. Things you should consider before riding 50cc Moped You can take your 50cc Moped out on the roads; however, you should drive it according to the terms of your license. 1. You should have a specific license for the 50cc Moped, which will allow you to drive it on any highway. 2. Always make sure you have insurance. You can find scooter insurance online. 3. It is recommended not to take it out on the roads where it is always busy, and traffic is fast. 4. You can take an alternative route to keep yourself safe and serve the purpose of driving a 50cc moped. 5. You should gather all the information about rules and regulations that applies to a 50cc moped. 6. It will keep you safe from the trouble that can be faced during riding the 50cc Moped. Conclusion 50cc Moped is one of the best options because of its structure and the convenience and can provide you. You can drive it almost everywhere however you have to give some of the things in mind discussed above.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-35
25-06-2021||India||Which Affordable Smartphones Should You Consider In 2021?||Meta: With so many new smartphones released every year, finding an affordable option can be tricky. Check out some of our suggestions for the right device here. If you are on the hunt for a new smartphone, you might be a bit overwhelmed by all of the interesting options that are currently available for Indian consumers. Smartphones have become very advanced over the years, and they can now do a lot more than just allow you to take photos and scroll your Facebook news feed. Of course, with more features comes a higher price tag so how do you find an affordable model? Below, we’ll look at some of the more affordable smartphones that you should consider in 2021. Redmi Note 10 Pro Max For those interested in finding an affordable smartphone with an excellent camera, the Redmi Note 10 Pro Max is a good option. This model comes with a 108MP quad rear camera setup and a 6.67-inch display. That’s not all, it also has some stereo speakers to make listening to your favourite songs on your Spotify app easier, regardless of where you are. Samsung Galaxy F41 Battery life is a key consideration for many smartphone owners, especially those who enjoy playing mobile games or slots at an online casino on their device. For this reason, we believe that the Samsung Galaxy F41 is a great option for those looking for an affordable device with a good battery life. You’ll find that this device not only comes with a 64MP triple rear camera but also a 6,000mAh battery. Realme Narzo 20 Pro Next on our list is the Realme Narzo 20 Pro. This device was first launched back in 2020 and has since gone on to become one of the best affordable options for customers in India. Security was clearly a design priority with this device as you’ll find a side-mounted fingerprint scanner which offers biometric authentication. This makes this device perfect for using online banking, securely depositing at a sports betting site or keeping emails private thereby maintaining online data security. Realme X7 If you are on the hunt for a smartphone with excellent processing power, we can recommend the Realme X7 device. This phone is powered by an 800U 5G processor and so you can expect it to run all of your applications pretty well. In addition to that, you’ll find a 64MP quad rear camera and a 16MP selfie camera for taking shots on the go. Charging this device is quite simple as the 4,310mAH battery will support 50W fast charging. According to the experts, the Super AMOLED display makes this one of the best smartphones on the market right now. Consider These Options Finding a smartphone that fits both your budget and your technical expectations isn’t always easy but if you take a closer look at some of these options, you should find something that suits you. These smartphones have great displays, cameras and processing power, all at an affordable price. Make sure to test out all of the features and determine which is the best device for you going forward.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-35
25-06-2021||India||Dr. Himanshu Dwivedi- Keeping local journalism alive||Journalism is all about communication and intention. And Newspapers bridge the gap between government and society, raising relevant issues of our times and sets the agenda of the day. We come across the life of one such exemplary journalist, Dr. Himanshu Dwivedi who is the Editor in Chief Of Haribhoomi, a daily Hindi newspaper published in North and Central India. Hari Bhoomi Newspaper is a media production company based in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, India. Established on 5 September 1996 as a weekly Hindi language newspaper, today Haribhoomi is one of the leading daily Hindi newspaper. It hugely covers states of Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Chattisgarh, as well as parts of Orissa. Their Delhi Edition covers regions of Delhi, Faridabad and Gurgaon. Along with the News they provide their reader's different kinds of weekly magazines with a daily newspaper like Saheli for women, Balbhoomi for children, Manzil for youth, Ravivar Bharti for families, Rangarang for entertainment and Choupal, a cultural magazine. They even offer value-added products to their readers from time to time by publishing calendars, directories, road maps, etc. The senior editor and brave journalist Dr Himanshu Dwivedi also runs the INH news channel. INH News is a fast paced vibrant and dynamic Hindi News TV Channel considered as one of the best and most trusted place for news. INH News delivers breaking news, headlines and top stories from business, politics, entertainment, fashion and lifestyle, sports and more from India and the world. It is recognised in Northern and Central parts of India for its extensive home news coverage, foreign news and team of experienced presenters, editors, correspondents and reporters. It is true to its slogan, 'Badhte Bharat Ki Aawaz,' INH News Channel is committed to broadcasting stories that reveal and inspire and is innovatively produced. The Editor-in-Chief of the daily newspaper Haribhoomi, Mr. Himanshu Dwivedi is a skilled speaker, expert in political affairs and a strong editor, who has an inspirational life journey. He has seen many ups and downs in life but with his strong conviction and intelligence, he faced all challenges and came out as a winner. However, one thing worth mentioning here is that even after reaching such a high level of success, this brave journalist is still attached to his roots. Coming from a middle-class Indian family, his father was a government official in Gwalior. To fulfil his father's wishes, the young Himanshu took admission in engineering, but later left it halfway, which angered his father who decided not to give his son any money for further studies. Himanshu took up the responsibility of his career solely on his shoulder. He later took admission in arts and started working as an intern in a daily newspaper Aaj. While working that time, he got an opportunity to go to Ayodhya and report on the demolition of Babri Masjid. It was here that he met senior journalists from across the country and learned a lot during field reporting on a very sensitive issue. After this he got an opportunity to work in Dainik Bhaskar, Gwalior. Mr. RL was the local editor at that time, from whom he learned many things and considered him as his Guru. It was while staying in Bhaskar that he got the opportunity to cover the 1993 election, and interviewed some prominent politicians that time. Gradually he started enjoying Journalism and learned both editorial and management and its importance in the media world. While closely working with the marketing team, he got to understand the specifics of the work from newspaper news, advertising, printing to circulation. At a young age of 22 years, he was made the local editor of Satna for the Swadesh newspaper. After Swadesh (Satna) he also worked for Navbharat, Chhindwara edition. In the year 2000, Himanshu got an opportunity to meet Captain Abhimanyu, the owner of Haribhoomi, and subsequently joined Haribhoomi in Rohtak (Haryana). After living in Rohtak for four years, he came to Raipur to launch Raipur edition of Haribhoomi and then stayed here since then. The rest as they say is history. Dr Himanshu Dwivedi with his vision and able leadership was able to bring significant changes in the organization and achieved many milestones, raising the benchmark of Haribhoomi as a Hindi daily all over the northern parts of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-35
25-06-2021||India||Serum Institute manufacturing first batch of Covovax, says Poonawalla||The first batch of Covovax, a Covid-19 vaccine developed by Novavax Inc, is being manufactured at the Serum Institute of India's Pune facility, SII CEO Adar Poonawalla said on Friday. "Excited to witness the first batch of Covovax (developed by @Novavax) being manufactured this week at our facility in Pune. The vaccine has great potential to protect our future generations below the age of 18. Trials are ongoing. Well done team @seruminstindia," Poonawalla said in a tweet. In March this year, he had said that the clinical trials of Covovax vaccine have begun in India and the company hopes to launch it by September this year. In August 2020, American vaccine company Novavax Inc had announced a licence agreement with SII for the development and commercialisation of NVX-CoV2373, its Covid-19 vaccine candidate, in low and middle-income countries and India. In January this year, the Serum Institute had rolled out Covishield vaccine in the country. It had entered into a collaboration with the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca to manufacture the vaccine. In that month itself, Poonawalla had said SII expected to launch Covovax by June 2021. "Our partnership for a COVID-19 vaccine with @Novavax has also published excellent efficacy results. We have also applied to start trials in India. Hope to launch #COVOVAX by June 2021!", Poonawalla had said in a tweet. SII is already supplying AstraZeneca/Oxford COVID-19 vaccine, Covishield, in India and to other countries across the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-35
25-06-2021||India||Modi meeting J&K leaders praiseworthy, says Tomar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's talks with leaders of various political parties in Jammu and Kashmir is "praiseworthy" and it will establish peace, harmony and bring about development in place of terrorism there, Union Agriculture and Panchayati Raj Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Friday. The prime minister had, on Thursday, met leaders of a coalition of mainstream parties of J&K in the national capital. Replying to a query on the meeting, Tomar said, "The leaders present in the meeting are very hopeful and I feel the initiative and vision of the PM is praiseworthy. It will lead to establishment of peace, harmony and development in place of terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir." He said peace and harmony was now prevailing in the UT post the scrapping of provisions of Article 370, adding that local bodies and panchayat polls were held there recently in a peaceful environment. Speaking about his department, Tomar said the Union Panchayati Raj ministry had given substantial development funds to J&K, with focus on areas like agriculture and agri marketing. Replying to a query on the farmers' protests underway against three new laws, Tomar said the Union government had spoken to one of the leaders of the stir 10-11 times in a 50-hour period. He added that the Centre was always ready for talks with farmers so that problems the latter are facing can be resolved. Tomar was speaking here on the sidelines of a MP BJP SC/ST Cell meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-35
25-06-2021||India||India reports 51 cases of Delta plus variant of coronavirus||Fifty-one cases of Delta Plus variant of the coronavirus have been detected across 12 states in the country, with Maharashtra reporting the highest number of 22, the Centre said on Friday, stressing that there are still very limited cases of this mutation and it cannot be inferred that it is showing an upward trend. These 51 cases were detected from over 45,000 samples sequenced so far in the country. Sujeet Singh, Director of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), said 22 cases of Delta Plus variant have been found in Maharashtra, followed by nine in Tamil Nadu, seven in Madhya Pradesh, three in Kerala, two each in Punjab and Gujarat, and one case each in Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir, Haryana and Karnataka. "There are very limited number of cases of this mutation (Delta Plus). In India, there are very limited cases (of Delta Plus). There are nearly 50 cases that are found in 12 districts and this has happened in the last three months. It cannot be said that in any district, state it is showing an increasing trend. Till the time we don't correlate this we will not say this is a rising trend because its mutations are the same as Delta variant," Singh told a media briefing of the health ministry. There was some variance in the figures in the slides presented at the briefing but officials confirmed later that the total cases of the Delta Plus variant detected so far stands at 51 across 12 states. Of these cases, at least 14 cases (29.1%) have been traced back to southern India in states like - Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. So the transmission potential in the Delta variant can also found in the Delta Plus variant, he added. The NCDC is among the 10 institutes involved in genome sequencing of the coronavirus in the country. Singh said the Delta Plus variant signifies the Delta variant with an additional mutation -- B.1.617.2.1. This specifically refers to acquisition of K417N genetic variant in the background of Variant of Concern (VoC) Delta (B.1.617.2). He said K417N is of public significance as this mutation is also present in the Variant of Concern Beta (B.1.351). He said the Delta Plus variant is denoted by a plus sign. "This does not mean...that severity of transmission is more or lead to more severe disease. If scientific evidence does (suggest) that then we will definitely let you know," he said. Singh added that since the Delta variant is already a VoC, its sub-lineage can also be called a VoC. Talking about Delta Plus variant, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director General Balaram Bhargava said it is present now in 12 countries, and in India, it has been found in 12 states, but they are very localised. "Delta Plus variant has also been isolated and cultured at ICMR-NIV and laboratory tests to check vaccine effect on Delta Plus variant. We should have these results in 7-10 days' time whether the vaccine is working against the Delta plus," he added. Singh said Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana, Kerala, Maharashtra, Punjab, Telangana and West Bengal have Delta variant in more than 50 per cent of the samples sequenced. "After that, we came to a conclusion that exponential surge during the second wave was to a large extent driven by this variant. Ninety per cent of the cases (of the samples sequenced) are being driven by B.1.617.2 (Delta) variant of SARS-CoV2," he said. He said coronavirus variants of concern have been found in 174 districts in 35 states and union territories with the highest number of such cases seen in Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab, Telangana, West Bengal and Gujarat. The proportion of COVID-19 cases with variants of concern rose from 10.31 per cent in May, 2021 to 51 per cent on June 20, 2021, he added. Bharghav also asserted that both the COVID-19 vaccines -- Covishield and Covaxin -- work against SARS-CoV-2 variants like Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Delta. He added that the second wave of COVID-19 is not yet over in the country as 75 districts still have more than 10 per cent prevalence and 92 districts have 5-10 per cent prevalence of the coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-35
25-06-2021||India||Ravi Shankar Prasad claims Twitter denied him access to his account ||In the first instance of a Union Minister being blocked, Twitter on Friday briefly blocked IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad from accessing his account, ratcheting up tensions with the government as it came under renewed attack for not following local laws. Twitter denied Prasad access to his account '@rsprasad' for almost an hour on the grounds that he violated the US Digital Millennium Copyright Act, but the minister said the microblogging platform violated new IT rules that require intermediary or a host of user content to give prior notice before locking access. The IT Minister called out Twitter over the brazen arbitrariness and running its "own agenda". It was not immediately clear which of Prasad's posts violated the US copyright law. Twitter said it has restored the access, but withheld the tweet in reference. Soon after Prasad flagged the issue, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor tweeted that he too had faced something similar. "Raviji, the same thing just happened to me. Clearly DMCA is getting hyperactive. This tweet has been deleted by @Twitter because its video includes the copyrighted BoneyM song `Rasputin'," Tharoor tweeted. Tharoor further said: "As Chairman of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology, I can state that we will be seeking an explanation from @TwitterIndia for the locking of @rsprasad's & my accounts & the rules & procedures they follow while operating in India". Prasad lashed out at Twitter, and in a series of posts on rival social media platform Koo said it was apparent that his statements calling out the "high handedness and arbitrary actions" of Twitter, had ruffled feathers. "Friends! Something highly peculiar happened today. Twitter denied access to my account for almost an hour on the alleged ground that there was a violation of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of the USA and subsequently they allowed me to access the account," Prasad wrote. He also tweeted on the issue. The temporary locking of the IT Minister's Twitter account comes at a time when the US digital giant has been engaged in a tussle with the Indian government over the new social media rules. The government has slammed Twitter for deliberate defiance and failure to comply with the country's new IT rules, which has led to the microblogging platform losing its legal shield as an intermediary in India and becoming liable for users posting any unlawful content. "It is apparent that my statements calling out the high handedness and arbitrary actions of Twitter, particularly sharing the clips of my interviews to TV channels and its powerful impact, have clearly ruffled its feathers," the minister said. He went on to say that it is now obvious why Twitter is refusing to comply with the intermediary guidelines and added "because if Twitter does comply, it would be unable to arbitrarily deny access to an individual's account which does not suit their agenda". Twitter's actions are in gross violation of the IT rules, where they failed to provide any prior notice before denying access to the account, the minister pointed out. "Twitter's actions indicate that they are not the harbinger of free speech that they claim to be but are only interested in running their own agenda, with the threat that if you do not toe the line they draw, they will arbitrarily remove you from their platform," Prasad said. The minister made it clear that platforms will have to abide by the new IT rules fully and warned that there will be no compromise whatsoever. In a statement, Twitter spokesperson, said, We can confirm that the Honourable Minister's account access was temporarily restricted due to a DMCA notice only and the referenced Tweet has been withheld. Per our copyright policy, we respond to valid copyright complaints sent to us by a copyright owner or their authorised representatives". But IT Ministry sources claimed that it was obvious that Twitter was not comfortable with the minister's posts, criticising the platform for non-compliance with the IT Rules and hence it threatened the IT Minister by denying access to his account for about an hour for alleged violation of copyright law of the US. The issue that further needs to be deliberated in this context is whether India should be guided by the US copyright laws or its own copyright laws, they argued. The sources questioned how a multinational platform like Twitter, which proclaims itself as the flag bearer of free speech, can invoke American laws in India to curtail the free speech of a senior minister of the government. Recounting the incident of Friday morning, the sources said that though the Twitter account of the Minister was visible for public viewing, Twitter did not permit anyone authorised to access this account to log in or make any post. When the minister and his team tried to log in to the Twitter account @rsprasad, it displayed a message Your account has been locked because Twitter received a compliant Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Notice for content posted to your Twitter account". Under the DMCA copyright, owners can notify Twitter claiming that a user has infringed their copyrighted works, the message read. "Upon receipt of a valid notice, Twitter will remove the identified material. Twitter maintains a repeat copyright infringer policy under which repeat infringer accounts will be suspended. Accruing multiple DMCA strikes may lead to suspension of your account," the message said. About an hour later, Twitter unlocked access to the account by posting a warning message to the minister's account stating, Your account is now available for use. Please be aware that any additional notices against your account may result in your account being locked again and potentially suspended". It further said, "In order to avoid this, do not post additional material in violation of our Copyright Policy and immediately remove any material from your account for which you are not authorised to post . The sources said Twitter neither gave any prior intimation before blocking access to the account nor specified any content that was found violating the US laws on copyright. It is pertinent to mention here that Twitter has not fully complied with the new rules, called intermediary Guidelines, that mandate setting up a grievance redressal mechanism and appointing officers to coordinate with law enforcement. The rules became effective from May 26 and Twitter, even after the expiry of the additional time, had not appointed the requisite officers, leading to it losing the 'safe harbour' immunity. Twitter and the government have been at loggerheads over multiple instances in the past months, including during the farmers' protest and later when the microblogging platform tagged political posts of several leaders of the ruling party BJP as "manipulated media", triggering a sharp rebuke from the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-35
25-06-2021||India||Ayesha Sulthana gets anticipatory bail from Kerala HC in sedition case||The Kerala High Court on Friday granted anticipatory bail to Lakshadweep filmmaker Ayesha Sulthana in a sedition case registered against her by the Kavaratti police. A case was registered on June 9 under section 124-A (sedition) and 153 B (hate speech) of IPC on the basis of a petition lodged by a political leader hailing from Kavaratti. Granting bail, Justice Ashok Menon said there was no apparent indication in her statement, which amounts to imputations or assertions prejudicial to the national interest, nor does it propagate any class of persons against another group of persons. The court said in the event of her arrest, she shall be released on bail on execution of bond for Rs 50,000 with two solvent sureties each for like amount to the satisfaction of the officer arresting her. Following the registration of the FIR in Lakshadweep, Sulthana had approached the Kerala High Court seeking anticipatory bail. Last week, the high court had granted her interim anticipatory bail for a week, while reserving orders on her anticipatory bail application. The court had directed her to comply with the notice given by Kavaratti police to appear before them for interrogation on June 20 in connection with the case. The court had ordered that she be granted interim anticipatory bail if she is arrested. The allegation is that the filmmaker, while participating in a debate telecast by a Malayalam news channel on June 7, had said the Centre used biological weapons against the people of Lakshadweep. When the anticipatory bail plea came up, her counsel had submitted that Sulthana had clarified her remarks later and tendered an apology for making the statement. Sulthana submitted that she never realised that usage of the word bio-weapon is an offence and the remark was made not intending to create hatred in the minds of the people. She said she was ready to appear before police for questioning but sought protection from arrest. Opposing her anticipatory bail plea, Lakshadweep administration had said Sulthana promoted separatism and communalism even in the minds of school children by making such a statement. Sulthana was interrogated by the Kavaratti police on Sunday, Wednesday and Thursday in connection with the case. Emerging from the police station at Kavaratti, after nearly a three-hour long interrogation on Thursday, Sulthana had claimed, "Everything is over.I am told that I can go back to Kochi.I will reach Kochi tomorrow or a day after."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-35
25-06-2021||India||BJP, AAP engage in war of words over oxygen demand exaggeration report||The BJP and the Aam Aadmi Party on Friday exchanged barbs over a Supreme Court panel report that the Delhi government "inflated" its oxygen requirement during the second wave of Covid-19 by four times. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in a tweet slammed the BJP and said that his only crime was that he fought for the lives of two crore people when the saffron party was busy campaigning in poll-bound states like Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. "My crime was that I fought for the lives of the two crore people of Delhi. When you were doing election rallies, I was awake all night arranging for oxygen. I fought, pleaded to get people the oxygen they needed. People have lost their loved ones due to a lack of oxygen. Don't call them liars, they will feel bad," Kejriwal said in an attack to the BJP, which accused his government of "heinous crime" and "criminal negligence". Earlier in the day, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra in a press conference cited the report to note that the Delhi government had demanded 1,140 MT of the life-saving gas during the peak of the second wave even though it could utilise 209 MT. The requirement was 351 MT even if the panel went by the Delhi government's formula while it was 289 MT according to the central government's estimate, he said, adding that only 209 MT was expended while Kejriwal projected an requirement of 1,140 MT. "Imagine the amount of criminality. This is a heinous crime by Arvind Kejriwal. This is criminal negligence as the panel says he sought four times more oxygen than required. The report has exposed the politics he did to shift blame from his incompetence and failure to deal with Covid-19," Patra claimed. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, however, accused the BJP of lying about the existence of such a report. "There is no such report. We have spoken to the members of the Oxygen Audit Committee formed by the Supreme Court. They said they have not signed or approved any such report," he said. Patra noted that many lives were lost in Delhi due to lack of oxygen and expressed hope that Kejriwal will be held accountable and punished by the Supreme Court. Due to Kejriwal's lies, he alleged, 12 states were affected as oxygen supply was diverted from them to meet the needs of the national capital. Patra said many lives could have been saved if the Delhi government had not inflated its needs, and states like Uttar Pradesh and Haryana had to suffer. "You were proving incompetent and a failure. You had to shift blame and for that, you pressed false alarms and spread panic across the country," he said, attacking the Delhi chief minister for targeting the Modi government than for shortage in oxygen supply and meting out "step-motherly" treatment to Delhi. Patra said Mumbai and Delhi had 92,000 and 95,000 Covid cases respectively on May 3, and while the western city required 275 MT of oxygen, Delhi sought 900 MT. The Delhi chief minister works with the formula of "100 per cent advertisement and zero per cent Covid management", and spent over Rs 1,000 crore on advertisements, he said, alleging that Kejriwal has been doing similar politics on vaccination and ration programmes in the capital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-36
25-06-2021||India||Why is there a need for waterproofing your terrace and roof?||Since the early days, immediately after food, man started finding shelter and they tried out means for protection from natural elements especially water. Since then, after technological evolution, man built roof over the heads to protect themselves from outside natural threats. But still water creates a serious issue. We all know that roof is the most exposed part of your house. Normally we expect the roof of our homes to be watertight and strong enough to withstand all the challenges nature throws in its way. But in reality because of the constant exposure to extreme weather, roofs gradually get damaged. If we don’t prevent this damage the entire building could suffer from water leakage, seepage and cracks. Benefits of waterproofing terraces, roofs & exteriors of your home Following are the noteworthy benefits of roof waterproofing. Improves structure durability Moisture eats up the strength of your structure if left untreated. Getting an effective roof or terrace waterproofing solution will increase its durability. Reduces cost of repairs Effective roof and terrace waterproofing solutions helps save a good amount of money in the long term by reducing the cost of frequent repairs. Maintains visual appeal of the home The home that you build with love can quickly turn ugly with stains and black spots caused by constant water seepage. Unwanted water leakage from the roof eventually seeps through the walls causing the growth of mold and mildew, which are quite the eyesore. Waterproofing of a roof before it becomes susceptible to leakage can prevent this disfigurement. Safeguard against health issues When moisture seeps into the house through a leaky roof, it can lead to the build-up of a lot of health issues in the form of breathing problems and allergies. Mold and mildew too can harm your health. It's advisable to have roof waterproofing done at the right time to safeguard you and your family against such avoidable health problems. Asian Paints SmartCare for watertight roof leakage solutions: For the above reasons, roof waterproofing is a necessary safeguard for you and your loved ones. Instead of worrying about terrace waterproofing costs, the question that you need to consider is whether the home you build with so much love is safe and durable? Damp Proof and Damp Proof Ultra from SmartCare range by Asian Paints are designed to take care of all your terrace waterproofing requirements. In combination with Roof Tape and Crack Seal, the thick, seamless, and durable membrane formed by Damp Proof and Damp Proof Ultra, offer the ultimate waterproofing solution for your terrace. It also gives comprehensive 360-degree protection for the monsoon rains. High-quality performance against heavy rainfall. Additional benefits! Application of Asian Paints SmartCare Damp Proof or Damp Proof Ultra offers a lot of additional benefits too. From protecting the exterior covering via terrace waterproofing, Damp Proof and Damp Proof Ultra also reduces surface temperature and gives you a long-lasting solution with an 8 and 10-year warranty. 1. DampProof: Comes with 8 Years Warranty* and help to reduce the surface temperature up to 10-degree 2. DampProof Ultra: Comes with 10 Years Warranty* and help to reduce the surface temperature up to 12-degree* Then what are you waiting for? Click here and the experts at SmartCare will provide you a 360-degree solution for all your waterproofing needs. This is a sponsored article and curated by ABP Digital Brand Studio. The Telegraph India editorial team played no role in creating this content.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-36
25-06-2021||India||Court extends judicial custody of wrestler Sushil Kumar till July 9||A Delhi court on Friday extended the judicial custody of Olympic medallist wrestler Sushil Kumar till July 9 in connection with the alleged murder of a young wrestler at Chhatrasal Stadium here. Kumar was produced before Metropolitan Magistrate Mayank Aggarwal at the end of the 14-day judicial custody. He is facing charges of murder, culpable homicide, and kidnapping. According to the counsel of the accused, he has been shifted to Tihar jail number 2 from Mandoli jail, where he was earlier lodged. Kumar, along with his associates, allegedly assaulted Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends at the stadium on the intervening night of May 4 and 5 over an alleged property dispute. Dhankar, 23, succumbed to the injuries later. The police have claimed that Sushil Kumar is the main culprit and mastermind of the murder and said that there is electronic evidence wherein he and his associates could be seen beating Dhankar. Sushil Kumar was nabbed on May 23, along with co-accused Ajay Kumar Sehrawat. Till now, he has undergone police and judicial custody of 10 and 23 days, respectively. A total of 10 people, including Sushil Kumar, have been arrested so far in connection with the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-36
25-06-2021||India||First indegenous aircraft carrier to be ready by next year, says Rajnath||India's first Indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC)will be commissioned next year and its combat capability, reach and versatility will add formidable capabilities in the country's defence, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said here on Friday. In a statement to the media after visiting the IAC at Ernakulam wharf of the Cochin port to review its construction progress, Singh described it as India's pride and a shining example of Atmanirbhar Bharat. "The project was originally approved by the NDA government and has made significant progress in the recent past despite Covid. "Commissioning of the IAC next year will be a befitting tribute to 75 years of India's independence", Singh said in the statement read out to the media. "The combat capability, reach and versatility of the aircraft carrier will add formidable capabilities in the defence of our country and help secure India's interests in the maritime domain," the Defence Minister said. The minister said it was a pleasure to review first- hand, the work being done on the Indigenous Aircraft Carrier. Singh, who reviewed Project Seabird at Karwar, which will be the largest naval base of the Indian Navy in future, and will provide the facilities and infrastructure to support the Navy's operations in the Indian Ocean Region and beyond, said the government is fully committed to a strong navy and these two projects are examples of our unwavering focus. "Our impetus to modernisation, harnessing India's indigenous industry and know-how, is a key priority. Forty-two of the 44 warships on order being built at Indian shipyards is a testimony to this", he said. He said the IAC boasts of nearly 75 per cent indigenous content, from design, to steel used in construction, to key weapons and sensors. The Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) has also recently accorded approval for RFP of Project 75-I under the Strategic Partnership model, which will give further fillip to indigenous development of niche manufacturing technologies, the Minister said. "These measures will help enhance the Indian Navy's operational reach and prowess to protect India's maritime interests," he said. Singh said the Indian Navy remains poised and combat ready to tackle any challenge. "Navy's proactive forward deployment during the Galwan standoff signalled our intent that we seek peace but are ready for any eventuality," the minister added. He said the Navy has also made significant contributions in the fight against COVID, bringing back Indian citizens from overseas during Op Samudra Setu-I, and much needed Liquid Medical Oxygen during Samudra Setu-lI, despite dangers of COVID spread onboard warships. SAR efforts by the Navy during Cyclone Tauktae showcased the spirit of daring and courage among our men and women in whites, he said. "Our efforts are in alignment with the Prime Minister's Vision of SAGAR, or Security and Growth for All in the Region, and the wider goal of a Free, Open and Inclusive Indo-Pacific, to ensure peace and stability in the region," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-36
25-06-2021||India||Why no large-scale testing to prevent spread of Delta plus variant, asks Rahul ||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday asked the government why "large-scale testing is not being done" to check and prevent the spread of the Delta plus variant of coronavirus, and how effective are the vaccines against it. Many experts feel that the Delta plus variant, which has been declared as a 'variant of concern' by the Union health ministry, may trigger the third wave of Covid-19 infections in the country. "Questions to the Modi government on Delta plus variant: Why is testing not being done on a large scale to check and prevent it? How effective are the vaccines against it and when will complete information be available? What is the plan to control it in the third wave of the virus," he posed in a tweet in Hindi. Rahul's comments come just a day after Congress interim resident Sonia Gandhi asked party office-bearers to launch a massive public outreach programme to create awareness about the shocking failures of the Narendra Modi government in Covid management. Lamenting that the Covid-induced restrictions didn’t allow political activities for a long time, she said a detailed action plan was being prepared to expose the government that had caused unbearable miseries to the people. She laid special emphasis on vaccination to save people from a third wave of Covid-19, arguing that the daily coverage rate had to be dramatically expanded to meet the year-end target. Addressing the office-bearers through videoconference, Sonia said: “At the national level, the daily rate of vaccination has to treble so that 75 per cent of our population gets fully vaccinated by the end of this year. No doubt this is dependent entirely on the adequacy of vaccine supply. We must continue to put pressure on the Union government, which has, at our party’s insistence, finally taken on the responsibility for this. At the same time, we have to ensure that registration takes place, vaccine hesitancy wherever evident is overcome and vaccine wastage is minimised.” Pointing out that adequate steps need to be taken to meet the challenges of the third wave, Sonia said: “The second wave has been devastating for lakhs and lakhs of families all over the country. We must learn from this traumatic experience so that we do not have to experience it yet again.” India was hit severely by a brutal second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in April and May, claiming a massive number of lives daily, with a shortage in oxygen supply at various hospitals adding to the woes. However, the number of cases have shown a downward trend and the positivity rate too has been shrinking in the last several days. From a daily case count of over 4 lakh, the number of new Covid-19 cases has been hovering around 50,000 in the last couple of days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-36
25-06-2021||India||Dark days of Emergency can never be forgotten, says Modi on 46th anniversary||On the 46th anniversary of the imposition of Emergency, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said those "dark days" can never be forgotten and called for taking a pledge to strengthen India's democratic spirit and live up to the values enshrined in the Constitution. "This is how Congress trampled over our democratic ethos. We remember all those greats who resisted the Emergency and protected Indian democracy," he tweeted, while sharing a link about several draconian measures taken by the then Congress government. "The dark days of Emergency can never be forgotten. The period from 1975 to 1977 witnessed a systematic destruction of institutions.Let us pledge to do everything possible to strengthen India's democratic spirit, and live up to the values enshrined in our Constitution." he said. Other senior BJP leaders also hit out at the Congress with Home Minister Amit Shah saying the Congress "murdered" democracy on this day in 1975 for its lust and arrogance of power. Emergency was imposed to trample on voices that were raised against a family, he said, calling it a dark chapter in India's democracy. BJP president J P Nadda paid tributes to those who fought against Emergency while suffering numerous atrocities. The Emergency was imposed by then prime minister Indira Gandhi for a 21-month period from 1975 to 1977, when curbs were imposed on the fundamental rights of people. Gandhi lifted Emergency in 1977 and called for Lok Sabha elections in which the Congress was handed a crushing defeat, its first ever since the country's Independence in 1947, by the combined opposition of Janata Party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-36
25-06-2021||India||ED raids ex-Maharashtra Home Minister Deshmukh's premises in Nagpur, Mumbai||The Enforcement Directorate on Friday conducted searches at the premises of former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in Nagpur and Mumbai as part of a money laundering probe against him, officials said. They said the raids are being carried out under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and the locations include Deshmukh's residence in Nagpur. The central probe agency had registered a criminal case under the anti-money laundering law against Deshmukh, 71, and others last month after studying a recent CBI FIR. The ED case came about after the CBI first carried out a preliminary enquiry followed by filing a regular case on the orders of the Bombay High Court that asked it to look into the allegations of bribery made against Deshmukh by former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-36
25-06-2021||India||India records over 51,000 fresh Covid cases, 1,329 deaths in a day||A single-day rise of 51,667 COVID-19 infections took India's case tally to 3,01,34,445 while the weekly positivity rate declined to 3 per cent, according to Union Health Ministry data on Friday. The death toll climbed to 3,93,310 with 1,329 more people succumbing to the viral disease in a day. The number of active cases has further declined to 6,12,868 and now comprises 2.03 per cent of the total infections. A net decline of 14,189 active cases has been recorded in a day, the data updated at 8 am showed. Recoveries outnumbered daily new cases of COVID-19 for the 43rd consecutive day with the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surging to 2,91,28,267. The case fatality rate stood at 1.31 per cent. While the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.66 per cent, the weekly case positivity rate has come down to 3 per cent. According to the Health Ministry data, the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.98 per cent. It has been less than 5 per cent for 18 consecutive days. India administered 60.73 lakh vaccine doses in a day taking the cumulative number of jabs given so far under the nationwide inoculation drive to 30.79 crore, according to immunisation data published at 7 am. Also, 17,35,781 tests were conducted on Wednesday for the detection of COVID-19, taking the total number of tests conducted so far in the country to 39,95,68,448. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore total COVID-19 cases on May 4 this year and 3 crore on June 23. Of the total 3,93,310 deaths reported so far in the country include 1,19,859 in Maharashtra, 34,425 in Karnataka, 31,901 in Tamil Nadu, 24,948 in Delhi, 22,366 in Uttar Pradesh, 17,516 in West Bengal, 15,944 in Punjab and 13,415 in Chhattisgarh. The Health Ministry has stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths reported so far have occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-36
25-06-2021||India||Delhi govt exaggerated oxygen requirement by four times, claims SC panel||The sub-group constituted by the Supreme Court to audit Oxygen consumption in hospitals in national capital during the second wave of COVID-19 said that the Delhi government exaggerated" the consumption of oxygen and made a claim of 1140 MT, four times higher than the formula for bed capacity requirement of 289 MT. The five-member panel headed by AIIMS Director Randep Gulleria said the Delhi government had made the claims for allocation of 700 MT oxygen on April 30 of medical-grade Oxygen using a wrong formula. The top court had on May 6 named a sub-group for carrying out the audit exercise for Delhi's health infrastructure and allocation of oxygen and said that it shall consist of Randeep Guleria of AIIMS, Sandeep Budhiraja of Max Healthcare and two IAS officers not below the rank of Joint Secretary -- one each from the Centre and the Delhi government. The panel in its report pointed out that four model hospitals in Delhi --Singhal Hospital, Aruna Asaf Ali Hospital, ESIC Model Hospital and Liferay Hospital -- have claimed extremely high Oxygen consumption with very few beds and the claims appeared to be clearly erroneous, leading to extremely skewed information and significantly higher Oxygen requirement for the entire state of Delhi. The panel, which submitted its interim report to the top court, said that during the meetings of the sub-group, it was repeatedly noted that there was a gross discrepancy in the data recorded from proformas. Additional secretary, Department of Promotion of Indian Industry and Internal Trade, Government of India, expressed anguish over the way the data was collated by the Government of NCT Delhi, as it still has a lot of errors which have been pointed out. It is still not clear on what basis had an allocation of 700 MT been sought by the government of Delhi in the Supreme Court of India when collated data had so many errors and it took an Oxygen audit to point out the same, the 23-page interim report said. The interim report, which is part of the 163-page report of the National Task Force, said It also appears that the government of India used a wrong formula and made exaggerated claims on April 30. It was also evident that some hospitals could not differentiate between KL (Kilo Litre) and MT (Metric Tonne) and the same was not examined while projecting 700 MTs. The report said that the Controller of Explosives, PESO has informed that Oxygen supply to Delhi and Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) tankers level is being monitored on daily basis and as per 8 reports on May 13, most of the LMO tanks were filled with more than 75 per cent, while few tanks are completely filled. It is obvious that there is excess oxygen supply in NCT Delhi, which is further substantiated by the fact that NCT Delhi has picked up only 11 MT LMO from the Air Liquide plant at Panipat by 11 am on May 13. It was also pointed out that Delhi was unable to store all the LMO allotted to it and had asked the suppliers to hold Oxygen reserves at their own plants, the report said. The panel further said in its report that tankers in Delhi are not able to off-load oxygen and lying idle as Oxygen tanks in various hospitals are completely filled. A complaint has been received from M/s Goel Gases that their tankers have been parked at LNJP hospital and could not offload oxygen for many hours, leading to the breakdown of the supply chain. Similar instances have been observed at AIIMS, New Delhi, it said. The panel on May 13, among many suggestions, said that a fixed quota should be made available of NCT of Delhi on an assured basis and an additional quota should be available for Delhi to lift from plants by  maximum 4 pm of the day, after which the unutilized additional quota should be made available for other States to utilize as to ensure the available oxygen, capacity does not go un-utilised. After detailed discussions, the sub-group arrived at the conclusion that the current oxygen requirement of NCT Delhi ranges from 290-400 MT of LMO. Accordingly, it is recommended that 300 MT of quota should be available for NCT of Delhi on an assured basis, the report said. The panel said that an additional 100 MT of quota should be available for Delhi to lift from plants by 4pm of the day, after which the unutilised quota from this 100 MT should be made available for other states so that available oxygen capacity does not go unutilised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-36
25-06-2021||India||Covid: Instances of vaccination mistakes surface in Bihar||Azhar Hussain was given a “Covid vaccine shot” with an empty syringe in Saran district. Sunita Devi was given a Covishield shot by a nurse and a Covaxin shot by another — all within five minutes — in Patna district. Manoj Kumar — and 25 others in Bhagalpur district — received certificates on their mobile phones “confirming” they had taken the first dose of Covishield when they had not taken any shots at all. A series of fiascos has raised concern about the arrangements, monitoring, efficiency, safety and accountability of the Covid vaccination process in Bihar, which has launched a campaign to inoculate six crore people in six months. Azhar, who had gone to a vaccination camp at the government Urdu middle school at Brahmapur Imambara, around 70km northeast of Patna city, realised he had been given an “empty shot” only because a friend had videotaped the incident. “I took the shot on June 21. Later that day I saw a video filmed by my friend Aman Khan who had accompanied me to the vaccination camp,” Azhar, who is in his early 20s, told reporters. “I was shocked to see that the nurse just tore open the plastic packaging of a disposable syringe and injected me without filling it with the vaccine.” It appears that the friend had not cottoned on to what was happening while filming the event, either. The video shows a nurse engrossed in conversation with somebody as she strips off the packaging of a disposable syringe and straightaway “injects” Azhar. The clip has been widely circulated on social media. “We have investigated it. The youth is well but is being monitored. The nurse, Chanda Kumari, was busy talking to others. She has been suspended and served with a showcause notice,” Saran additional district magistrate Gagan, who uses only one name, told The Telegraph. Sunita Devi had been administered a Covishield shot at Belarchak village, Punpun block, on June 16 and had begun her mandatory 30-minute observation period when another nurse approached her and gave her a Covaxin shot. Sunita, who is in her early 50s, says she had told the nurse she had already taken the jab but she ignored her. Sunita developed fever after the shots but recovered in a couple of days. Health department officials, who monitored her condition for a few days, have issued showcause notices to the two nurses, Chanchala Devi and Sunita Devi. Patna civil surgeon Vibha Kumari Singh told this newspaper that Sunita would undergo tests to find out whether coronavirus antibodies had formed in her body. “If yes, she can take either Covaxin or Covishield as the second dose,” she said. Manoj, an elected ward member of the Maheshpur Ghanshyamchak panchayat, told this newspaper he had visited a vaccination camp in his panchayat area on June 16 with his friends to take the vaccine. “Those operating the camp entered our details and checked our Aadhaar cards,” he said. “Just a handful of people had arrived. We were asked to wait till at least 10 people came because only then a vial of vaccine containing 10 shots would be opened.” As Manoj and his friends waited, a sudden rush of vaccine seekers turned the place crowded. “Around 150 people had assembled, of whom 103 got themselves registered for the shot. However, only 60 were vaccinated and the rest, including myself, were turned away,” Manoj said. “The camp organisers said their stock of vaccines had got exhausted and asked us to come the next day. We returned home but the certificates arrived on our mobiles.” The camp officials did not explain why they had registered 103 people despite having only 60 doses, or why Manoj and his friends were not vaccinated despite being among the first to arrive. Manoj said he and the 25 others who had received such false certificates visited the vaccination camp the next day but were turned away again. “This time the camp officials said we had already taken the (Covishield) vaccine and should now come between September 8 and October 6 (84 days and 112 days, respectively, from June 16) to take the second dose,” Manoj said. He said he and the rest tried to have the issue resolved but nobody at the local government hospital or the block office was willing to listen. Manoj and some of the other aggrieved vaccine seekers, who are members of chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United, then began raising the issue at every platform. All 26 eventually received a call from health department officials asking them to come and take the jabs on June 21. “All of us took the shots. But when we asked for the certificates, we were asked to make do with the certificates we had received earlier,” Manoj said. This means Manoj and the rest can take the second shot on any day starting September 8 although, going by the Centre’s norms, they should become eligible only on September 13. Sources said Bhagalpur civil surgeon Umesh Sharma had conducted an inquiry. “It’s possible that something like this happened at Maheshpur Ghanshyamchak,” Sharma told this newspaper on Wednesday. He said such problems happened when a large number of people suddenly turned up to take the shots and the supplies were low. “This happened while we were trying to increase the vaccination rate. Around 62,000 people turned up at the various centres but only 52,000 could be given the jab because of a shortage of vaccines,” Sharma said. Altogether 1.5 crore of Bihar’s 12 crore people have been vaccinated so far, of whom 23 lakh have received both doses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-36
25-06-2021||India||Immunised patients hospitalised for Covid discharged two days earlier than others: Study ||People vaccinated against Covid-19 and yet hospitalised with the infection are likely to require shorter hospital stays, face significantly reduced need for intensive care unit support and run up lower hospital bills, a nationwide study of health insurance claims has suggested. The study has found that vaccinated patients hospitalised for Covid-19 were discharged two days earlier than others, and that the fully vaccinated among them had a 66 per cent lower risk of needing ICU support. Also, the average hospital bill of the vaccinated patients was Rs 60,000 lower than that of unvaccinated patients. “Our findings bolster the evidence for how vaccination benefits individuals,” said Prakash Subbarayan, MD of Star Health Insurance, a Chennai-based company that has handled over 300,000 Covid-related claims over the past year. The Star Health study is the first in India to compare Covid-19 infection outcomes, including hospital bills, in unvaccinated and vaccinated people. It has drawn on data from hundreds of hospitals, in contrast with earlier studies from single or far fewer hospitals. Prakash and his colleague Madhumathi Ramakrishnan — both doctors themselves — analysed the health outcomes and the insurance claims of 3,301 unvaccinated and 519 vaccinated Covid-19 patients admitted to 1,104 hospitals across the country during April and May this year. They found that the vaccinated patients had a lower average hospital stay of 4.9 days, compared with seven days for unvaccinated patients. And 31 (6 per cent) of the 519 patients who had received at least one vaccine dose needed ICU support compared with 291 (8.8 per cent) of the 3,301 unvaccinated patients. Only one (3 per cent) among the 33 patients who had taken two doses before they developed the infection required ICU support, implying a 66 per cent reduced risk of the need for ICU care as a result of vaccination. Sixteen (0.5 per cent) of the 3,301 unvaccinated patients died compared with none among the 519 vaccinated. “We see the protective effect against the need for ICU support even after one dose, but the effect is much stronger two weeks after completion of both doses,” Madhumathi said. The average hospital bill for the vaccinated patients was Rs 217,850 compared with an average bill of Rs 277,850 for the unvaccinated patients. While the difference of Rs 60,000 per patient is significant for health insurance companies, the difference in expenses was not in proportion to the significant reductions observed in the need for ICU care or durations of hospital stay. “Our study covered a diverse set of hospitals, large and small. India does not have standardised hospital costs and in such circumstances, it is essential to address this,” Prakash said. The relatively meagre decline in hospital bills despite shorter stays or a reduced need for ICU care may be the result either of the absence of standardised costs or of hospitals trying to charge as much as they can from insured patients, an issue India’s health insurance industry had flagged last year. The General Insurance Council, a body of public and private insurance companies, had in an application to the Supreme Court last year said that private hospitals were charging “exorbitant amounts of money from insured patients”. The GIC had cited instances where hospitals had initially sought payments two to five times the amounts they accepted after insurance companies raised objections. “We have observed that privately insured patients are generally not getting benefits of the government’s Covid-19 rates,” said Malini Aisola, a coordinator with the All India Drug Action Network, a group of physicians and health activists tracking the country’s healthcare landscape.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-37
25-06-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi signals end to Covid ceasefire||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday asked party office-bearers to launch a massive public outreach programme to create awareness about the shocking failures of the Narendra Modi government in Covid management apart from other issues such as abnormally high prices of essential commodities and petroleum products. Lamenting that the Covid-induced restrictions didn’t allow political activities for a long time, she said a detailed action plan was being prepared to expose the government that had caused unbearable miseries to the people. She laid special emphasis on vaccination to save people from a third wave of Covid-19, arguing that the daily coverage rate had to be dramatically expanded to meet the year-end target. Addressing the office-bearers through videoconference, Sonia said: “At the national level, the daily rate of vaccination has to treble so that 75 per cent of our population gets fully vaccinated by the end of this year. No doubt this is dependent entirely on the adequacy of vaccine supply. We must continue to put pressure on the Union government, which has, at our party’s insistence, finally taken on the responsibility for this. At the same time, we have to ensure that registration takes place, vaccine hesitancy wherever evident is overcome and vaccine wastage is minimised.” Pointing out that adequate steps need to be taken to meet the challenges of the third wave, Sonia said: “The second wave has been devastating for lakhs and lakhs of families all over the country. We must learn from this traumatic experience so that we do not have to experience it yet again.” Referring to the price rise, Sonia said it was taking place “at a time when livelihoods are being lost in unprecedented numbers, when there is mounting unemployment and when economic recovery is not a reality”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-37
25-06-2021||India||Narendra Modi's all-party meet underlines importance of leaders jailed, vilified as 'anti-nationals'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday seemed to retrace his steps on Kashmir’s mainstream politicians as he spoke and posed with them, underlining the political importance of people jailed, vilified as “anti-national” and dismissed as irrelevant by members of his own administration. In contrast to the symbolism of the outreach, though, Modi’s Delhi meeting with 14 Jammu and Kashmir politicians yielded little of substance apart from an assurance to restore statehood if they supported and participated in the ongoing delimitation exercise, political sources said. Still, sources among those who attended the meeting appeared happy at the change of their status, emphasising how they were able to say before the Prime Minister things “for which people are jailed every day here”. For instance, Mehbooba Mufti told Modi that Article 370 had been “illegally and unconstitutionally scrapped” and asked him to talk more to Pakistan. “The Prime Minister’s picture with the leaders explains it all. They had been pushed to the political margins, jailed, but today they were in the same row with the Prime Minister,” a senior leader from the five-party alliance that is fighting for full restoration of Article 370 told The Telegraph. “There were no red lines and leaders were free to tell the Prime Minister things for which people are jailed every day here. Also, it’s part of a larger peace process with Pakistan and we hope more engagements will follow.” A tweet from Modi later acknowledged as “leaders of J&K” people his administration had sought to marginalise in Kashmir politics and replace with others. “Our democracy’s biggest strength is the ability to sit across a table and exchange views. I told the leaders of J&K that it is the people, specially the youth who have to provide political leadership to J&K, and ensure their aspirations are duly fulfilled,” the tweet said. Politically, the Prime Minister offered no concessions at the talks and focused on the delimitation and development. The delimitation remains one of the BJP’s last remaining agendas in Jammu and Kashmir, through which it apparently wants to tilt the balance in favour of Jammu’s Hindu-majority areas. The Valley, which roughly accounts for 60 per cent of the Union Territory’s population, has 46 of the 83 Assembly seats while Jammu has 37. A breakthrough was never expected at a meeting with politicians opposed to the scrapping of the special status, nor did the Centre indicate any willingness to strive for a middle ground. Among those who met Modi were former chief ministers Farooq Abdullah, Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba, whom the government had jailed along with thousands of others when the then state’s special status was revoked on August 5, 2019. The atmosphere was therefore bound to be electric. The meeting lasted well over three hours and emotions ran high as Mehbooba, in particular, complained about the way Valley politicians had been humiliated and hounded and Articles 370 and 35A, which formed the bedrock of Kashmir’s relations with Delhi, amended or scrapped. Sources said the focus of Modi’s outreach was to make his guests lend their support to the delimitation to give it credibility. A source said: “He and home minister (Amit Shah) also spoke about development activities that they claim have taken place. That said, he (Modi) wanted the delimitation to be undertaken so that Assembly elections are held.” “He said they (the government) were committed to restoring statehood but made no immediate promise of restoring it.” While Hindu-majority Jammu is getting increasingly impatient for Assembly polls to be held after three years of central rule, the Centre is reportedly under pressure from the US, too, to restore the democratic process in Jammu and Kashmir. The National Conference and some other Valley parties appear likely to cooperate on the delimitation but any focus on granting more seats to Jammu’s Hindu-majority areas is likely to inflame the situation. These parties have, however, not decided yet whether to participate in any elections held later. Omar said the National Conference had decided to review its previous decision to not participate in the exercise and would consider a fresh invite from the delimitation commission. He, however, said there was no need to single out Jammu and Kashmir for delimitation when such an exercise for the whole country was scheduled in 2026. Of the 14 invited, 10 were from the BJP or friendly parties, the Congress included, since it has toned down its rhetoric on Article 370 and limited its demand to full restoration of statehood. Two were from Sajad Lone’s People’s Conference and one from the Apni Party, who want to leave the issue of Article 370 to the Supreme Court, which is hearing petitions on it. All they want is restoration of statehood. The problem area for Modi was the five-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, four of whose leaders — Farooq, Mehbooba, Omar and CPM veteran Yousuf Tarigami — were at the meeting. That the leaders chose to address the media separately after the meeting mirrors the differences within the alliance. For instance, Mehbooba took a more hard-line position on special status and Pakistan. “The meeting took place in a cordial way. I spoke of how the people of Jammu and Kashmir are suffering. People are angry and furious, emotionally broke. They feel humiliated,” Mehbooba said. “I told him (Modi) that the way Article 370 was illegally and unconstitutionally scrapped on August 5, 2019, is not acceptable to the people. The way the BJP struggled for 70 years to remove Article 370 — we will struggle constitutionally, peacefully to restore it, whether it takes us months or years. We did not get it (Article 370) from Pakistan. We got it from our country.” Mehbooba also risked touching a raw nerve by pressing Modi to talk more with Pakistan if it brought peace to Kashmir, referring to a host of initiatives he had already taken, such as a ceasefire. Omar said it appeared that talks with Pakistan were under way and, if so, he welcomed the development. “We should use back channels to improve the tensions,” he said, appearing to differ with his father who had said ahead of the meeting that he was not interesting in seeking Pakistan’s involvement in the talks. Omar said his party too sought restoration of Article 370, but appeared to suggest the National Conference would rather fight the battle in the courts. “We don’t believe in the August 5, 2019 (measures) that include the division of (the erstwhile) state. We want (that), when the issue comes up in the Supreme Court, we will present our view,” he told reporters after the meeting. Apparently dissatisfied with the outcome, Omar said one meeting would not bring hearts together. It appeared an allusion to Modi’s reported comment at the meeting that he wished to bridge “Dilli ki doori” (the distance with Delhi) as well as “Dil ki doori” (the distance between hearts). An official spokesperson said the Prime Minister appreciated the cordial atmosphere at the talks and the frank exchange of views. “He stressed that our priority was to strengthen grassroots democracy in J&K. He added that the delimitation had to happen at a quick pace so that polls can happen and J&K get an elected government that gives strength to J&K’s development trajectory,” he said. In the Valley, people had little expectations from the meeting. Many here believe that Modi is releasing pressure on the international front at a time China is holding on to territory it has occupied in Ladakh — at Kashmir’s doorstep — and back-channel negotiations with Pakistan have become important.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-37
25-06-2021||India||UN World Food Programme and Odisha sign agreement to work on food security||The United Nations World Food Programme and the Odisha government have signed an agreement to work on improving food and nutritional security of households in the state by strengthening livelihood initiatives by involving thousands of women’s self-help groups. “This is a significant partnership for achieving nutritional security in Odisha focused on empowerment, livelihood and incomes of women,” said WFP country director Bishow Parajuli. “Such focused initiatives are important to address and reduce vulnerabilities around food security as highlighted by the Covid-19 pandemic,” he added. The agreement was signed on Wednesday between Parajuli and Sujata R. Karthikeyan, commissioner-cum-secretary, department of Mission Shakti, at a virtual ceremony. “Sustainable livelihoods lead to improved household food and nutritional security and ultimately result in holistic empowerment of women. This collaboration will support women’s self-help groups by providing technical assistance and capacity development, directly contributing to long-term food security and developing a replicable model,” said Karthikeyan. “Working with self-help groups to create livelihood opportunities, improving household nutritional security and increasing women’s participation in decision-making are some of the core objectives for the department of Mission Shakti,” she said. The partnership, effective till December 2023, will also be focusing on improving the linkage of women’s groups with government procurement systems, increasing awareness on entitlements, building the capacity of the groups, developing monitoring tools and undertaking evaluations to improve the function of these groups.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-37
25-06-2021||India||Odisha govt mulls use of drones to deliver Covid vaccines to remote areas||The Odisha government is mulling the use of a special drone to take Covid-19 vaccines to the remotest parts of the state. The special drone has been developed by the students of Industrial Training Institute (ITI), Cuttack, with the support of IG Drones. The Centre had earlier given its nod to the Telangana government’s “Medicine from the sky project” to use drones for experimental delivery of Covid-19 vaccines. ITI principal Dr Hrushikesh Mohanty told The Telegraph: “We have signed an MoU with IG Drones for research and development. Earlier, we had developed the drones, which are being used in mining areas by the OMC (Odisha Mining Corporation). The newly developed drone is capable of carrying vaccines to the remotest areas. We have set up a centre of excellence in the institute for development of drones with the support of IG Drones. This is a part of the Skill Odisha project. The drone was developed within two months.” Technical head, IG Drones, Sambit Parida said: “The indigenously developed Delta 400 drone can be airborne for long endurance operations and can be used for surveying and mapping with accuracy of sub-centimetre level. It has the capability to connect with NavIC, a navigational satellite system developed by Isro, for autonomous navigation.” The drone, which has a 48MP high-res camera with infrared (IR) capabilities, can carry a payload of 1kg additionally which is now repurposed to cater to the needs of vaccine delivery by the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) in the remote areas. “The autonomous navigation and geo-fencing features makes it a class ahead of other drones with an ability to fly more than three hours,” Parida said. During three hours of being airborne, it will cover a radial distance of 50km and travel 35km per hour. “A parachute is connected to the 4kg drone which can smoothly drop the vaccine without any problem,” an official said. Though it has not been produced on a commercial basis, the cost of a single drone would be around Rs 9 lakh to Rs 10 lakh. Official sources said the Odisha government is planning to use the drone to send the vaccines to the remotest areas particularly in Kalahandi, Malkangiri, Koraput districts. Last year, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation used drones extensively to disinfect markets in the state capital during the Covid-19 outbreak. CEO and co-founder of IG Drones, Bodhisattwa Sanghapriya, said: “We have collaborated with state’s premier industrial technical institute so that we can transfer our technology and take advantage of their huge experience in the field of hardware. Besides, we will be able to develop some indigenous talents. It would have been a bit difficult to develop the drone without the support of the ITI.” The technologically advanced, well-equipped drones offer a plethora of services, including railways, road services, infrastructure, engineering, security and surveillance, river mapping services, forest services, forest and wild surveys. “Because of its high-res camera with IR capabilities, it can be used for border security and surveillance and can also locate Maoist hideouts in forest areas,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-37
25-06-2021||India||Covid: Ganjam shops told to display vaccination certificates||The Ganjam district administration in Odisha has made it compulsory for shopkeepers and owners of business establishments to display their vaccination certificates to encourage customers to take the Covid-19 vaccine. They will not be allowed to carry out business transactions if they fail to display these certificates. “We request all the shopkeepers, vendors and other professionals to display Covid vaccination certificates (single/final dose) in front of the shop. It will create confidence among customers and help to stop the spread of infections,” tweeted Ganjam district collector Vijay Amruta Kulange. Kulange told The Telegraph: “We have issued the appeal with the aim to create public awareness. The business associations have come forward and supported the decision. Those traders who fail to comply with the order will not be allowed to open their shops. The move will help in reducing the transmission of the virus.” According to the order, shopkeepers, vendors and other retailers will have to vaccinate themselves and their staff. They need to display the vaccination certificates at the front of their shops. “A special squad will move around and ensure that the order of the administration is carried out,” said the collector. Meanwhile, the number of daily Covid cases registered on Tuesday went below 3,000. A total of 2,957 positive cases were recorded in Odisha on Tuesday. The daily positivity rate for Covid-19 remained below five per cent for the second consecutive day on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-37
25-06-2021||India||BJP sees a tactical step back to build a ‘Naya Kashmir’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday shed the BJP’s iron-fist approach and chose to soothe emotional differences during his meeting with Valley politicians that was seen in party circles as an effort to “stoop to conquer” to achieve the saffron establishment’s long-term goal of building a “Naya (new) Kashmir”. During the first such outreach effort after his government in one fell swoop stripped Jammu and Kashmir of its special status and turned it into a Union Territory in August 2019, Modi was learnt to have put his politest foot forward. “Hum Dilli ki doori bhi mitana chahte hain aur dil ki doori bhi (We want to reduce the distance with Delhi and also the distance between hearts),” the Prime Minister was quoted as telling the leaders by sources. According to the sources, Modi stressed that he was always available for the people of Kashmir. In BJP circles, Modi’s overture was viewed as a tactical step back to achieve the long-term goal of “political integration” of Jammu and Kashmir and the saffron establishment’s aim of building a “new Kashmir”. Modi, however, obliquely told the leaders that the Centre’s decision to annul Article 370 provisions to end Jammu and Kashmir’s special status was cast in stone and instead focussed on moving ahead to complete the process of redrawing Assembly constituencies and hold elections. Convening the meeting with the five-party alliance fighting for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, including Mehbooba Mufti’s People’s Democratic Party and Farooq Abdullah’s National Conference, was seen as an admission of failure of the Modi government at a time its strongarm tactics had created massive resentment in the region and triggered worldwide criticism. “Sometimes you have to stoop to conquer,” a BJP leader said when asked about the government’s move to host the very leaders it had put under house arrest and doggedly tried to discredit earlier. BJP leaders said the government’s priority now was to secure the support and participation of all political parties to complete the delimitation process to redraw constituencies and hold elections to exhibit to the world its commitment for democratic process. The government and the BJP apparently want to redraw the Assembly and Lok Sabha constituencies in a way that favours the ruling party and the aim now is to achieve the goal without much opposition. In his address at the meeting, both Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah promised to hold elections once the delimitation exercise is over and also restore statehood to Jammu and Kashmir, but no clear timeline was promised. “Our goal of scrapping Article 370 (provisions) without much turmoil has been achieved. The next step is to move slowly and make the people and the political parties accept this irreversible reality peacefully and move forward,” a BJP general secretary said. The sources said the leaders of the five-party Gupkar alliance were allowed to speak freely at the meeting and even make a case for their main demand of restoration of special status. “They (the alliance leaders) have the right to present their demand but they also know that it can’t be accepted and the only option is to leave the past behind and move forward,” a BJP leader said. This leader added that the meeting was to give an opportunity to the Valley leaders to vent their frustration and move on. The five parties that make up the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration had earlier been vilified as the “Gupkar gang” by none less than Union home minister Shah and its leaders termed dynasts, corrupt and anti-national. After ending Kashmir’s special status, which the BJP believes had alienated the region from the rest of the country, the party is now working tactically to get a political foothold to push its “nationalist agenda”. In BJP circles, leaders often talk about building a “Naya Kashmir” without clarifying what it exactly means. Initially, the BJP had hoped to discredit and edge out the traditional leadership of Jammu and Kashmir and build an alternative leadership. However, with those efforts faltering, the party appears to have chosen to engage with them. “The Prime Minister’s move to convene an all-party meeting is a welcome step. It shows the central government’s commitment to take the democratic process forward after holding the panchayat and district development council elections,” the BJP general secretary in charge of Jammu and Kashmir, Tarun Chugh, had said over the phone on Wednesday. Chugh, however, disconnected the line when this correspondent asked about the Prime Minister meeting leaders of what the BJP had dubbed the “Gupkar gang”, baring the unease in the party over the compulsions of engaging with those it had tried to decimate. Some BJP leaders are also viewing the Kashmir overture as another diversion from the “negativity” being spread against the government over the Covid mismanagement and economic woes. BJP leaders, however, pointed to the date of the meeting called by the Prime Minister to rule out any leniency over the ideological firmness with regard to Article 370. “Today (June 23), all our top leaders marked the ‘Punya Tithi’ (death anniversary) of (party ideologue) Syama Prasad Mookerjee and the meeting is scheduled for tomorrow,” a leader had said on Wednesday. The scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status has been termed as the fulfilment of the “dream” of Mookerjee, one of the founders of the Jana Sangh that is the BJP’s predecessor. “Remembering Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee on his Punya Tithi.… His efforts towards national integration will never be forgotten,” Modi tweeted on Wednesday. BJP chief J.P. Nadda wrote a newspaper article to remember Mookerjee and hailed Modi and Shah’s “iron will” on removing Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, and the fulfilment of Mookerjee’s dream of “One Vidhan (One Constitution), One Pradhan (One Prime Minister) and One Nishan (One emblem)”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-37
25-06-2021||India||Save coral islands from disaster, say scientists||A scientists’ collective has sought the intervention of President Ram Nath Kovind in withdrawing a controversial draft law on land acquisition and construction-based “development” proposed by the Lakshadweep administration, fearing it would have a catastrophic effect on the coral islands. The Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation (LDAR), 2021, envisages constructions of buildings, including high-rises and tourist resorts, widening of roads and refurbishing the airport. The scientists believe the LDAR, one of the many overbearing reforms of Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel, would require the use of a large amount of land that would endanger the ecology of the islands that sits on coral reefs, and also affect the livelihood and culture of residents. Sixty scientists who are part of the Lakshadweep Research Collective have in their letter to the President highlighted the dangers of allowing the LDAR, which was pushed through by keeping the locals out of the decision-making process. The scientists further requested the President to “restore and reinvigorate” the Justice Raveendran Commission that had made several recommendations to protect the islands. The collective also sought a committee of scientists, policy-makers and local elected representatives to re-evaluate the development plans in the context of the archipelago’s “unique culture, ecological fragility and climate vulnerability”. “Lakshadweep needs careful development, but this development needs to be calibrated against the realities of climate change, existing population pressures, cultural sensitivities and basic human rights. Any development in Lakshadweep should aim to strengthen, not weaken existing ecological and social infrastructure that currently work to protect the island and its people,” the collective pointed out in the letter. The collective noted that the LDAR “ignores a scientific understanding of Lakshadweep’s unique geography, ecology and culture, which place clear limits on the developmental possibilities on island, lagoon and reef, already constrained by climate change”. The statement quoted Rohan Arthur, senior scientist at the Nature Conservation Foundation, as saying: “Surrounded by ocean, barely a few metres above sea level, and with only the reef to protect it, it is clear that all development on these islands needs to be very carefully managed. Over the last two decades we have personally witnessed the reefs being battered by repeated bleaching events and intense storms. How long it will take for these ecosystems to recover is anyone’s guess. “Given how linked land, lagoon and reef are in Lakshadweep, the development envisioned in the draft LDAR would be nothing short of disastrous.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-37
25-06-2021||India||‘Indebted’ CJI Ramana salutes home states with open letter||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana has penned an emotional open letter to the people of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh in a role reversal as it is the top judge of the country who usually receives such correspondence from the people. In his letter, Justice Ramana has expressed his gratitude for the rousing reception he received when he visited the two states last week. This was the first visit by Justice Ramana, born in an agricultural family on August 27, 1957, at Ponnavaram village in Andhra Pradesh’s Krishna district, to his home state after taking over as the CJI on April 24. Justice Ramana is also the first judge from the erstwhile undivided southern state to helm the country’s judiciary. According to sources, despite repeated requests from the CJI’s office that his visit should be a low-key affair in view of the pandemic, hundreds of legal fraternity members of the two states, Telangana chief minister K. Chandrashekar Rao, other politicians from across the spectrum and students gathered wherever Justice Ramana went, right from the airport. An emotional Justice Ramana, who returned to New Delhi this week, penned the open letter in Telugu. Upon a request from this correspondent, the CJI’s office has shared a copy of the English translation of the letter. Salutes to Telugu people — Indebted forever. It is natural for parents to aspire for success of the offspring. The desire on the part of the offspring to see the parents rejoicing at their success is equally natural. I am no exception to this. The fact that my parents are not with me today to bless me and feel proud of my achievement when I reached the pinnacle of Indian judiciary has made me feel a void. During my first visit this past week as the Chief Justice of India, the Telugu people have filled that void. Billion salutes to the pristine and progressive society of Telangana which, like my parents, hugged me like a baby and showered me with unbound love and affection and blessings. This visit was one of those rare occasions when I am overcome with emotions. Sincere thanks to each one of those countless elders, brothers and sisters, who, in spite of Covid fears and even after being dissuaded, turned up in large numbers, owned me up, congratulated me, blessed me and encouraged me. Lawyers, students, teachers, youth, workers, women, farmers, people from all walks of life irrespective of caste, creed and religion have, without expecting anything in return, turned up just to enquire about my well being and to bless me. None of them asked for any personal favour. All that they wanted was further strengthening of the judiciary. They symbolise the selfless nature and maturity of Telangana society. I am deeply touched by the kind gesture of my mentors and retired Judges, who, in spite of their advanced age, have stepped out of their homes for the first time since the onset of Covid, to bless me in person. My deep respects to each one of them. Right from the Chief Minister to common persons, people took trouble to welcome me in these extraordinary times. They mirror the ‘everyone is our own’ attitude of Telangana and the renowned hospitality of Hyderabad. My sincere thanks to the Government of Telangana, Hon’ble Governor, Hon’ble Chief Minister, Hon’ble Chief Justice and Hon’ble Judges of Telangana High Court, Hon’ble Ministers, people’s representatives, leaders of various political parties and officials for according the unexpected welcome. I and my wife Sivamala shall remain indebted to the governing bodies of Tirumala Tirupati, Yadadri and Srisailam temple trusts, Government representatives and the local officials for facilitating the holy darshan and blessings at a very short notice. The efforts of the Telangana Government in developing the Yadadri shrine into one of the most important pilgrimage centres in the country is praiseworthy. Thanks also are due to the officials of the Telangana Government, staff of Raj Bhawan, High Court and police personnel for taking great care of me and my staff from the time we landed here over a week ago. Thank you to media persons for the co-operation extended. Please continue to adhere to Covid protocols till the time the Scientists and the Government formally declare the end of the pandemic. There is no room for negligence on this count. With the strength of blessings received from Telugu people, I am returning to Delhi with the confidence that I will be able to discharge my constitutional duties efficiently. Goodbye. Namaste.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-37
25-06-2021||India||Teacher commits suicide over non-payment of salary dues by private school ||A 46-year-old man committed suicide at his Delhi home allegedly over non-payment of salary dues by a private school where he worked earlier as a Taekwondo coach and also because the pandemic restrictions had stifled his income avenues, police said on Thursday. The deceased, identified as Tanoop Johar, used to work in Rohini but had been unemployed for over a year now. He was found hanging at his house in outer Delhi’s Mangolapuri area by his family members on Tuesday, they said. In a purported suicide note, Johar has mentioned two school management officials and accused the authorities of non-payment of salary dues. He also wrote that he was “disturbed” because the school had not given him salary and he had no work recently. The police said Johar had filed a case in the labour court against the school management last year over non-payment of salary. One of his former colleagues said Johar had been taking online classes since March last year during the lockdown but had to discontinue later over a dispute with the school management over salary. “After two months of taking online classes last year, Johar had questioned the school authorities over non-payment of salary. They gave the excuse that they were waiting for students to pay fees and kept assuring us that we would be given our salaries. But after four months, when we asked them again, the school management told us to resign,” a former colleague of Johar alleged. “During the lockdown last year, we had also written to the school authorities about the issue but still our salaries have not yet been paid. We had also moved court against the management,” he said. Deputy commissioner of police (Outer) Parvinder Singh said Johar had not been working at the school for more than a year now. “All the allegations are being looked into. The matter is under inquiry and no case has been registered yet,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-37
25-06-2021||India||July 31 result deadline for state education boards||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed that Class XII results of all state education boards must be declared by July 31 and their respective methodologies for awarding marks completed in the next 10 days. Many state boards, as also the national boards CBSE and CISCE, have cancelled the Classes X and XII exams in view of the pandemic. A bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari grilled the Andhra Pradesh government that has planned to go ahead with the exams “tentatively”. The court expressed reservations about the state’s decision and posted Andhra Pradesh’s case for a special hearing on Friday, declining to adjourn the matter till Monday on the ground that students’ future cannot be kept in uncertainty. The bench indicated that even if there was one Covid-related death on account of the planned exams, Andhra would be compelled to pay an exemplary compensation. The court had on Wednesday approved the declaration of Class XII results of CBSE and ISC students on the basis of marks obtained in the past three and six years, respectively. Some of the petitioners before the apex court want a similar formula to be followed by the state boards. The court agreed with the request of Monika Gosain, the counsel appearing for the Haryana government, that a clarification be issued to the effect that the respective boards are free to formulate their own formulas for award of internal marks as all boards are autonomous and independent bodies. “We have no difficulty in acceding to this submission. In other words, we make it clear that each board may formulate its own scheme. However, we further make it clear that we are not endorsing the correctness and validity of the proposed schemes, to be so formulated by the concerned boards,” Justice Khanwilkar said while dictating the order. “That will be considered on its own merits, if and when the occasion arises….” “We direct all the state boards to ensure that the schemes are formulated and notified at the earliest and not later than 10 days from today and also declare the results of internal assessment by 31.07.2021, which is the timeline specified for the CBSE and the CISCE in terms of our order dated 22.06.2021…,” the court added. The bench disapproved of the Andhra government’s decision to conduct the exams in July. The bench cautioned Andhra that it cannot expect the University Grants Commission to withhold the college admission process merely because the state had not declared the results on time. “You have to understand that just because you have not conducted the exam cannot be a ground for not starting college admissions,” the bench said, adding that “CBSE and ISC students will get admissions and your students will be deprived”. The court was of the view that with an estimated 5.20 lakh students being asked to write the exams and another 50,000 support staff entrusted with the task of conducting the tests, the pandemic situation in Andhra could only worsen. “Have you worked out the formula to follow the protocol? How are you going to arrange for the requisite rooms? How are you going to divide the students in 34,634 rooms? On what basis have you said that not more than 15 students per room? If you don’t have the arrangements, are you going to conduct it in the open?” the bench asked. Justice Khanwilkar observed: “We’re not very convinced…. How can we permit you to put the lives of students at risk? If we agree, you will have to put before us a proper firm decision… You’ll have to explain to us everything to ensure a well-defined formulated plan.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-38
25-06-2021||India|| India seeks to corner Pakistan on terrorism at Shanghai Cooperation Organisation meeting||India sought to corner Pakistan on terrorism at the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting of national security advisers this week by suggesting that the group adopt an action plan against Pakistan-based terror groups. This was the key thrust of NSA Ajit Doval’s intervention at the meeting in the Tajikistan capital of Dushanbe where he shared the table with his Pakistani counterpart Moeed Yusuf. Sources said Doval proposed an action plan against the Laskhar-e-Toiba (LeT) and the Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) as part of the SCO framework and called for targeted sanctions against UN-designated terrorist individuals and entities. Whether his suggestion has been taken on board was unclear as the outcome document of the meeting had not been released till late Thursday evening. Condemning terrorism in all forms and manifestations, Doval is said to have argued that the perpetrators, including those involved in cross-border terror attacks, should be expeditiously brought to justice. Both LeT and JeM, based in Pakistan, are UN-designated terrorist groups. LeT chief Hafiz Saeed is a UN-designated terrorist. Doval also stressed the need to monitor new technologies used by terrorists, including drones for smuggling weapons and misuse of the dark web, artificial intelligence, blockchain and social media. With the US-Nato pullout from Afghanistan drawing near, it is a subject of concern for the SCO — many of the member countries share boundaries with the war-ravaged country. On Afghanistan, Doval is said to have iterated India’s position on the need to preserve the gains made in the last two decades. While batting for greater connectivity, Doval underscored that such projects should respect sovereignty and territorial integrity in an oblique reference to New Delhi’s concerns regarding China’s ambitious Belt and Road Initiative that runs through Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. New Delhi has refused to join the BRI on the ground that it violates India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. Compared to last year’s meeting, this edition appears to have gone off without much of a flare-up between India and Pakistan. Doval had walked out of the virtual meeting last year to protest against Yusuf using the new map of Pakistan as his backdrop. India had declared the new map — issued by Pakistan on August 5, 2020, to mark the first anniversary of the removal of Article 370 provisions in Jammu and Kashmir — as fictitious. The new map shows Gilgit-Baltistan and Kashmir as one territory that has been described as “Indian Illegally Occupied Jammu and Kashmir’”. Earlier, Pakistan used to describe Jammu and Kashmir as “Indian-occupied Kashmir”. The new map also states that the region is disputed territory, whose “final status is to be decided in line with relevant UNSC resolutions”. Further, the international boundary on the eastern side has been extended up to the undefined frontier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-38
25-06-2021||India||Covid: Over 2,000 people get fake vaccines in Mumbai||More than 2,000 people have been administered fake Covid vaccines at camps in Mumbai so far, the Maharashtra government told Bombay High Court on Thursday. The state government’s counsel, chief public prosecutor Deepak Thakare, told the court that at least nine such camps had been held. The state government also submitted before a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni a status report on the ongoing probe. The government said police had recorded the statements of 400 witnesses and the investigators were in the process of finding the whereabouts of a doctor. The doctor had allegedly been present at a fake vaccine camp at a housing society in Kandivali. “At least 2,053 people fell victim to these fake vaccination camps. Four FIRs have been registered in relation to these camps. While some accused persons have been identified, several unknown persons, too, have been booked in these FIRs,” Thakare said. The court said the government must take measures to get the victims tested for any ill-effects caused by the fake vaccines. “Our anxiety is, what happens to these people who were vaccinated? What were they administered and what is the effect of these fake vaccines?” the court asked. The bench also took exception to the fact that the state government was yet to come up with specific guidelines for vaccination camps organised by private housing societies, offices, etc, despite a court order earlier this month. “This is very very urgent. We had expected the state would come up with SOPs immediately. Time is of essence here, you (state) can’t delay,” the court said. The bench also asked the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to inform the court about the steps it proposes to take to check the possible adverse effects on the health of the people administered the fake vaccines. The BMC counsel, senior advocate Anil Sakhre, said the civic body was also conducting its own probe into the incidents. “We have realised that vaccination certificates were not given to the victims on the same day that they were administered the fake jabs. Later, certificates were issued using the names of three different hospitals. That is how people realised something was wrong,” Sakhre said. “These hospitals, however, said they had not provided the vials used in these camps. We have also written to the Serum Institute of India,” he said. The high court directed the BMC and the state government to file affidavits responding to the bench’s queries and directions by June 29, the next date of hearing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-38
25-06-2021||India||In court, Rahul Gandhi denies ‘Modi’ defamation||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi appeared before a magistrate’s court in Surat on Thursday to record his statement in a criminal defamation suit filed by a Gujarat MLA, and denied making any defamatory remarks on people with the “Modi” surname. The suit had been filed by Surat BJP MLA Purnesh Modi over Rahul’s alleged remark on the Modi surname. In his statement before Surat’s chief judicial magistrate A.N. Dave, Rahul denied making any defamatory remarks on people with the Modi surname during a poll rally in Karnataka in 2019. When the magistrate asked Rahul if he had said Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave Rs 30 crore to an industrialist, Rahul told the court that being a national leader, he kept raising issues of corruption and unemployment in his addresses in the interest of the nation, and it was his right to do so. When the court asked if he had said all people with the Modi surname were thieves, Rahul said he had never made such a comment. To most of the remaining questions related to the evidence and statements of witnesses in the case, Rahul said: “I don’t know”. After recording the statement, the magistrate said the case would be heard again on July 12. Earlier, Rahul had appeared before the court in October 2019 and pleaded not guilty for his comment. Legislator Purnesh Modi had filed a complaint against Rahul in April 2019 under Indian Penal Code Sections 499 and 500 that deal with defamation. A week ago, CJM Dave had directed Rahul to remain present on June 24 to record his statement. In his complaint, the MLA had alleged that Rahul had defamed the entire Modi community by saying at a poll rally in 2019: “How come all the thieves have Modi as the common surname?” During an election rally held at Kolar in Karnataka on April 13, 2019, Rahul had reportedly asked: “Nirav Modi, Lalit Modi, Narendra Modi... how come they all have Modi as the common surname? How come all the thieves have Modi as the common surname?” Rahul was the Congress president when he had made this alleged remark. Purnesh Modi has also moved Gujarat High Court, seeking to call the Kolar district collector and a videographer who had recorded the speech as witnesses. The high court is expected to hear the matter on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-38
25-06-2021||India||Unnao rape victim to Prime Minister: Drop BJP candidate||The Unnao rape victim has written to the President, Prime Minister and the Uttar Pradesh chief minister, demanding that the BJP change its candidate for the post of the zilla panchayat chairman here as he is “very close” to jailed former MLA and her tormentor Kuldeep Singh Sengar. The rape victim also claimed a threat to her life if the BJP gave the ticket to Arun Singh, the Nawabganj block panchayat chief. The poll for the zilla panchayat chairman’s post is scheduled for July 3. The BJP has denied the charge, with its district president Raj Kishore Rawat saying the allegations may be part of a “conspiracy” by the Opposition. Sengar, a former BJP MLA from Unnao’s Bangarmau, was accused of rape by the victim in 2017. A Delhi court sentenced Sengar to life imprisonment in December 2019. The rape victim told PTI over phone that said though the BJP talked of strict action against criminals, it had declared the man who was “involved” in the murder of her father as its candidate for zilla panchayat chairman’s post.” She alleged: “The BJP government is still supporting Kuldeep Singh Sengar. Arun Singh is very close to Sengar. My entire family has been destroyed by Sengar. If Arun Singh gets the ticket, it will increase the danger to my life. It is my demand from the party and the government to withdraw Arun Singh’s name and declare someone else as its candidate.” She said she had written to President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath on the issue. She also alleged that her uncle was seeking parole from police custody but it was not being allowed because of Sengar. Her sister’s marriage has been stalled in the absence of any male member in her family, she said. Rawat, denied the allegations, saying Arun Singh is “a man of clean image”. “The allegations against him are baseless. It may be part of the Opposition’s conspiracy. Arun Singh has got a clean chit in many cases,” Rawat added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-38
25-06-2021||India||CBI names 18 retired police officers in Isro  ‘spy’ case||The Central Bureau of Investigation has named 18 retired police officers in a fresh FIR registered in accordance with the Supreme Court directive to probe the conspiracy behind the alleged framing of Indian Space Research Organisation scientist Nambi Narayanan in an espionage case dating back to 1994. The FIR registered at a court in Thiruvananthapuram names then circle inspector at Pettah police station S. Vijayan, sub-inspector Thampi Durgadutt, city police commissioner V.R. Rajeev, deputy inspector-general Siby Mathew, deputy superintendent of police K.K. Joshua and deputy director of Intelligence Bureau, R.B. Sreekumar, among the accused. The CBI filed the FIR based on the Supreme Court order in April. The apex court had considered a report by a three-member panel about the role of police officers who allegedly implicated Narayanan in the case. Narayanan, his colleague D. Sasikumaran, labour contractor S.K. Sharma and Maldivian women Mariam Rasheeda and Fauzia Hassan were arrested in the case and allegedly tortured by the police. Kerala police had arrested Narayanan and others under the Officials Secrets Act for “selling” classified information on the space agency’s rocket programme to the two Maldivian “spies” who in turn passed them on to Pakistan’s ISI. The IB, which stepped in considering the national security angle, even claimed to have seized several kilos of classified information from Narayanan’s home. The Malayalam print media lapped up the spy scandal and ran juicy stories about the involvement of the accused, including the two Maldivian women. However, the CBI that investigated the case in 1996 dropped the charges for want of evidence. The Supreme Court in 1998 acquitted the accused and allowed the scientists to return to work. The women who eventually returned to Maldives were found to be low-level informers tasked with keeping an eye on India-based Maldivian students campaigning against their President Maumoon Abdul Gayoom. The 18 named in the new FIR have been booked under IPC Sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 167 (a public servant framing an incorrect document with intent to cause injury), 195 (fabricating false evidence), 218 (public servant framing incorrect record), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 330 (voluntarily causing hurt to extort confession), 348 (wrongful confinement to extort confession) and 506 (criminal intimidation). The spy scandal had a political fall guy in then chief minister K. Karunakaran. With faction feud in the Congress at its zenith, his rivals A.K. Antony and Oomen Chandy used the scandal to the hilt by accusing Karunarakan of shielding his trusted lieutenant and deputy inspector-general of police Raman Srivastava whose name figured in the case. In a major political coup, the duo got Karunakaran to step down in 1995. The apex court later acquitted Srivastava who then went on to become the security adviser to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan during his previous term. P.C. Chacko, former Congress functionary who recently joined the Nationalist Congress Party, on Thursday said the CBI should question Antony and Chandy in a clear indication that the political angle in the spy scandal had not died down. “We all know that it was a conspiracy created by factional leaders of the Congress to crucify K. Karunakaran… I feel that these leaders (Antony and Chandy) should be interrogated,” Chacko said. Sources said a CBI team from Delhi would soon travel to Thiruvananthapuram to collect evidence and record the statements of Narayanan and all the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-38
25-06-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul leaders deny links with organiser of fake jab camps||Trinamul leaders are rushing to clear their names linked to a 28-year-old who had posed as an IAS officer and ran fake vaccination camps in parts of Calcutta when he wasn’t boasting on social media about his proximity to party bigwigs. Debanjan Deb, who had held "inoculation camps" in a college on Amherst Street, Sonarpur and in Kasba, was caught after Trinamul MP and actor Mimi Chakraborty got a jab but did not receive either a message or the vaccination certificate on the Centre's Co-WIN app and got suspicious. Deb, who posed as an IAS officer and joint commissioner of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, was arrested on Thursday with police seizing a large number of vials of an antibiotic (Amikacin), fake labels of Covishield and Covaxin from his office at Kasba. Over the last few months, Deb has on his Twitter handle shared his photographs with those of Trinamul leaders Subrata Mukherjee, Smita Bakshi,  Rajya Sabha MP and former IMA National president Shantanu Sen, CAB president Abhishek Dalmia among others. Among the many identities the accused has donned is that of a joint secretary in the West Bengal government, designation he tagged to his name in a plaque that also boasts  names of CMC administrator and former mayor Firhad Hakim, MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay and MLAs Tapas Roy, Nayana Bandyopadhyay among others. The event was held on February 26, this year. “I was extremely busy with electioneering and unaware of any such event held on February 26,” said Roy, Trinamul MLA from Baranagar. Roy said he did not give permission to anyone use his name in a plaque. He also denied ever having met Deb. Chowringhee MLA Nayana has lodged a complaint. “I am surprised to find my name in the plaque. I don’t know who organised the event, I did not attend it,” she said. The Bengal IMA states in its letter that it had organised several camps during the Covid pandemic and Deb might have attended one of the events where he clicked photographs without disclosing his identity. “There could be a deep-rooted conspiracy against our state, which has the highest vaccination rate in the country,” said Sen. “As a public representative, I often get to meet unknown people, they also take photographs without informing.” Hakim, arrested last month for his alleged involvement in the Narada sting operation case, said it wasn’t correct to link the fake IAS officer to the party. “The PM should also resign. He was photographed with Mehul Choksi and Nirav Modi. Police are investigating, arrests have been made. None of our party members is  involved,” said Hakim. Three FIRs have been filed against Deb at Kasba, New Market and Amherst Street police stations, while the detective department of the city police has started a probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-12
25-06-2021||West Bengal||Landslide washes away portion of NH-55 in Bengal's Darjeeling||A major landslide washed away a portion of National Highway 55 in West Bengal's Darjeeling district on Friday, an official said. No casualties, however, have been reported so far, he said. Almost 40 metres of the national highway has been completely washed away in Gairigaon area near Tindharia early in the morning following heavy rain, the official said. The landslide has blocked traffic movement on the vital road connecting Siliguri and Darjeeling, he said. It will take time to restore connectivity through the road, he said. However, the landslide has not cut off Darjeeling as vehicles are now being diverted through a longer route via Rohini, the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-12
25-06-2021||West Bengal||SC annuls Calcutta HC order refusing to take Mamata’s affidavit in Narada case||The Supreme Court Friday annulled the Calcutta High Court's June 9 order refusing to take reply-affidavits of Bengal, its Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and state Law Minister Moloy Ghatak on the CBI's transfer plea related to the Narada scam case. A vacation bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari urged the 5-judge bench of the High Court, headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal, to decide afresh the pleas of Mamata, Moloy and the state government before deciding on the CBI petition seeking transfer of the scam case to the high court itself. The top court was hearing three appeals including that of the state government challenging the high court's denial for filing of affidavits by Mamata and Moloy in their role on the day of arrest of four Trinamul Congress leaders on May 17 by CBI in the Narada scam case. It has been alleged that the state ruling party leaders played a key role in stopping the CBI from performing its legal duty after the arrest of four leaders in the case. Ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, Trinamool Congress MLA Madan Mitra and former mayor of Calcutta Sovan Chatterjee were arrested by the CBI which is investigating the Narada sting tape case on a 2017 order of the high court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-12
25-06-2021||West Bengal||Nandigram election case: ‘Caesar’s wife’ reminder to  Calcutta High Court judge||A lawyer representing Mamata Banerjee in Calcutta High Court in her election case on Thursday urged Justice Kausik Chanda to recuse himself from the hearing as his relationship with the BJP was “comprehensive and inextricably intertwined pecuniary, personal, professional, ideological and a long-standing continuous one”. The chief minister has challenged the result of the Nandigram Assembly election in which she lost to BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari, and the matter is being heard by Justice Chanda. “The relationship of the Hon’ble Justice Kausik Chanda with the BJP is not merely of a judicial kind, i.e., of having decided or expressed a view in an identical manner beforehand, but a comprehensive and inextricably intertwined pecuniary, personal, professional, ideological and a long-standing continuous one,” said Mamata’s counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi during the hearing of the case in which she herself was present virtually. “A Hon’ble Judge of this Hon’ble Court should be like Caesar’s wife — above suspicion,” Singhvi added, saying that Justice Chanda should recuse himself from the hearing. The hearing on the matter continued for 70 minutes and the judge, who would decide whether he would release the case or dispose of the issue, adjourned the order. Last week, Mamata’s counsel Sanjay Basu had written a letter to acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal, seeking reassignment of the hearing from Justice Chanda. Justice Bindal is yet to take a decision on Basu’s letter. When hearing on the election petition began on Thursday, Singhvi asked Justice Chanda that since the application for reassignment of the case was pending before the acting chief justice, whether he should wait for an administrative order or proceed judicially. “Your petitioner wrote a letter to acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal to assign another judge for hearing the case. The acting chief justice has not taken any decision on the basis of that letter yet. So this court has no legal bar to hear the matter,” Justice Chanda said. Singhvi replied that it was the judge’s prerogative to decide the matter “judicially”. Then he went on to submit several points — such as Justice Chanda’s stint as the head of the legal cell of the BJP till his appointment as the solicitor-general of India, his appearance on behalf of the BJP in several litigation, and his close relationship with BJP leaders like Dilip Ghosh and Tathagata Roy — to suggest a “conflict of interest” and urged him to release the matter. “The fact that Suvendu Adhikari is a member of the BJP and the Hon’ble Judge was an active member of the BJP will lead to a situation and perception whereby the Hon’ble Judge, in adjudicating the said election petition, may be said to be judge in his own cause,” said Singhvi. He added: “No man can be a judge in his own cause and justice should not only be done, but manifestly be seen to be done. Scales should not only be held even but it must not be seen to be inclined.” Singhvi said that as Justice Chanda was yet to get the status of a permanent judge of the court, his client felt that she might not get fair justice from this court. During the course of the hearing, Justice Chanda said that it was not uncommon for lawyers to have political affiliations. “You are associated with the Congress and fighting the case on behalf of the Trinamul Congress. That does not mean that your client will not get proper justice from you…. Then, how could this affect the judiciary? What makes your client feel that she would not get justice from this court?” asked Justice Chanda. “Judgeship is a divine role of doing justice. It is different from being a lawyer,” Singhvi said. “There should be no doubt in the mind of a litigant about the judge who is hearing his or her case. My client has her doubts on whether she would get proper justice from this court. So the judge should release the matter,” he added. Justice Chanda said a media trial was going on over the issue. “If I recuse, will it be giving into media trial?” asked Justice Chanda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-12
25-06-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul leaders  file police complaint against BJP MLA for backing call for ‘partition’||In a first move of its kind, Trinamul leaders of Dabgram-Fulbari Assembly seat filed a police complaint against BJP MLA Shikha Chatterjee for backing the demand for a separate north Bengal state. Chatterjee defeated Trinamul’s Gautam Deb this time. “She (Chatterjee) has openly supported another partition of Bengal. Such a statement, we believe, can foment tension and pose problems for the elected government of the state. That is why we filed a complaint with the police against her. Appropriate legal steps should be taken against her for backing such a demand,” said Debasis Pramanik, head of Trinamul’s Dabgram-Fulbari block committee. Some BJP leaders have demanded a separate state or a Union territory status for north Bengal, but the party has said it is not its official stand. However, many in the BJP, including Alipurduar MP John Barla, are underscoring the demand in a consistent manner. “Our leaders, including party’s state president Dilip Ghosh, have unequivocally asserted that this is not our party’s stand. We don’t want any division of Bengal,” said a BJP leader in Siliguri. He added Ghosh would visit the region next week and meet party leaders workers in Siliguri and Alipurduar. ““He will speak with the MLAs and MPs who have spoken on the demand. Workers and leaders would be specifically instructed to abstain from making any comment on the issue. We will reach out to the people to reassert that our party does not support this demand.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-12
25-06-2021||West Bengal||Malda accused’s kin give statements in court ||Police on Thursday got the statements of the brother and maternal uncle of Asif Mohammad, who had allegedly killed his parents, sister and grandmother, recorded before a judicial magistrate. The investigators said the statement of Asif’s brother, Arif Mohammad, was crucial as he had lodged an FIR against the accused and was present at the time of the alleged murders at Kaliachak in February. “He might be made the principal witness if his statement is found to be instrumental in the interest of the case,” said a source. Shish Mohammad, Asif’s uncle, is believed to know how Asif had collected firearms and ammunition. “Hence, his statement would cement the case against Asif,” said the source. After Asif’s arrest, the police seized seven automatic 7mm pistols, nearly 80 bullets and 10 magazines from his friends Sabir and Mahfuz. The police on Thursday produced Sabir and Mahfuz in the same court and remanded them in judicial custody for 10 days. Initially, it had been thought Asif had bought the firearms to kill the family members. “But in due course, it was evident he did not need so many firearms and bullets. It seems he had some other intention. We are trying to find out whether he wanted to earn money by selling the arms or operate a gang,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-13
25-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal cabinet approves proposal to issue student credit cards||The Bengal cabinet on Thursday approved a proposal to issue credit cards to students to enable them to apply for education loans up to Rs 10 lakh. “Our cabinet today okayed a proposal of issuing student credit cards. Students can avail themselves of education loan up to Rs 10 lakh and they have to repay the amount within 15 years after they get jobs,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday at Nabanna after the cabinet meeting. According to the proposal, the facility would be extended to students — who have spent at least 10 years in Bengal — studying between Class X and postdoctoral research. The maximum age limit for securing the education loan is 40. The Bengal government would be the guarantor for each of the students who would apply for the education loan from banks through the credit cards. The scheme would be launched on June 30 across the state. The chief minister said about 12 lakh Class X students, 9.5 lakh Class XII students and those pursuing bachelor degree and postgraduate degree, research scholars and postdoctoral students could secure the benefits. Trinamul Congress sources said the student loan had been promised by Mamata ahead of the Assembly polls. Sources said the credit cards would help students who wished to study abroad or at institutions of repute that were costly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-13
25-06-2021||West Bengal||National Gorkhaland Committee brings statehood to fore||The National Gorkhaland Committee (NGC), an apolitical body positioning itself as a “think tank” of the Indian Gorkha community, called on Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankar in Darjeeling on Thursday and requested him to “keep in mind” that the aspiration of Darjeeling hills is either Gorkhaland or a Union territory. Trilok Dewan, vice-chairman of the NGC and former chief secretary of Andhra Pradesh, said while the NGC welcomes the formation of North Bengal state or Union territory, an issue raised by BJP MP John Barla, hill people want a separate state or Union territory for the Gorkhas as it is about “identity” and not just development. “We requested the governor to kindly keep in mind that our aspiration is Gorkhaland or even Union territory status. The BJP has also mentioned PPS (permanent political solution) even in their sankalp patra (manifesto) and for us the permanent solution is either Gorkhaland or Union territory,” said Dewan. “The Gorkhaland demand is important for us as the identity of Indian Gorkhas is under question and we are treated as second-class citizen and thought as citizens of Nepal,” said Dewan, referring to the Indo-Nepal friendship treaty of 1950 that allows citizens of both the countries to freely travel, settle and conduct business in each others territory. The NGC’s assertion before the governor is likely bring back focus on the statehood issue, observers believe. The governor has not issued any statement on the NGC’s reminder. The NGC had also recently said that they have decided to set up a Peoples’ Forum to expedite the demand of a separate home state. The NGC is currently reaching out to political parties “of the proposed state”, eminent citizens and institutions representing stakeholders such as “tea, tourism, cultural, natural resources … and social organisations to participate in the PF (Peoples’ Forum) and work together in this endeavour.” The NGC’s announcement comes at a time when Gorkhaland is not much of a buzzword among political parties in the hills, including the Binay Tamang and Bimal Gurung factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. Both Tamang and Gurung are in alliance with Trinamul which opposes the statehood demand. Gurung before Assembly polls had merely said they would support a party that supports Gorkhaland during the 2024 Lok Sabha election. The BJP and its ally Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) are talking about a permanent political solution but they have not expressly stated that is Gorkhaland. The GNLF wants a constitutional body “not less than Sixth Schedule status”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-13
25-06-2021||West Bengal||Two ‘cough syrup smugglers’ injured by BSF bullets in Malda||Two youths of in Sovapur village of Malda district near the India-Bangladesh border were injured by bullets fired by BSF personnel early on Thursday. BSF officials have claimed their personnel had to fire two rounds to prevent the smuggling of cough syrups to Bangladesh. Relatives of the injured youths, both brothers, however, have claimed they were innocent and the BSF had fired without provocation. The injured, Tutul Sheikh, 28, and his brother Byron Sheikh, 24, are from Sovapur under Baishnabnagar police station of the district. While the bullet hit Tutul on his right hand, Byron sustained a bullet injury in his abdomen. Both are under treatment at Malda Medical College and Hospital. According to BSF sources, while personnel of the 78th battalion were patrolling at the border in the night hours, they found 20-odd persons near the border apparently trying to smuggle the cough syrup bottles over the fences to Bangladesh. “As our men challenged them, the youths attacked the team with sticks, iron rods and sharp weapons. One of our men got injured and had to fire one round in self-defence. The gang then went after another jawan who fired another round. This made the gang members escape the spot,” said a BSF source. The border guards have also claimed that smugglers were waiting at the other side of the border to receive the illegal consignment in sacks. “Later, our men frisked the area and seized 145 bottles of the cough syrup which costs around Rs 27,000, but the youths had fled,” the source added. Mozaffar Sheikh, the father of the two injured youths, claimed his sons were never involved in smuggling. “They were fired at without valid reason. This is unfortunate,” he said. Officials of state intelligence agencies, however, have ratified the statement of BSF officials. “There can be no reason for the two youths to loiter near the fences at 1am. Even so, we are trying to gather more information,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-13
25-06-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri witnesses protests over vaccine ‘anomaly’ and shortage||Two places in Siliguri subdivision on Thursday witnessed protests over alleged anomalies in vaccination and lack of jabs. At the Siliguri district hospital, people who gathered to get their jabs flew into rage, alleging that touts were controlling the vaccination and they were not provided with coupons for the dose despite standing in queue since early morning. “A stranger prepared a list of 100 names. Those sitting at the counter issued a few coupons and told us that there were no more coupons. We suspect a racket of brokers has become active at the hospital and is controlling the vaccination process,” said Satyajit Sen, a resident of Subhashpally in Siliguri. The protesters alleged that some people who had arrived late had their names on the list and were seen carrying coupons. “We had been standing in the queue since 3am but did not get coupons. But some others, who arrived hours later, got vaccines. This cannot happen unless middlemen are involved in the process. The district health department should look into the issue. Such anomalies should not continue at a government hospital,” said another aggrieved person. Residents raised a blockade on Asian Highway II at Bagdogra on Thursday morning, alleging shortage of jabs at a school where a vaccination camp had been going on for a week. “We have been standing in queues for hours for the past three-four days at the school but eventually, we are told everyday that the stock has exhausted,” said a resident. The blockade was withdrawn after 45 minutes following assurance from police officers that necessary action would be taken. A senior official of Darjeeling district health department said: “We need to know what exactly led to the protests. If any anomaly is found, we will take appropriate steps. Our officers are monitoring the entire vaccination process to ensure that people do not face any harassment.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-13
25-06-2021||West Bengal|| Construction workers cry for cash aid, scrapping of Covid-induced curbs in Hasnabad||Around 1,000 workers attached to the construction industry and other unorganised sectors blocked Taki Road in Hansnabad, North 24-Parganas, for around two hours on Thursday, demanding cash aid from the government and the scrapping of Covid-induced curbs. Protesters said they were in dire financial straits as work had repeatedly been suspended for 15 months or so. The workers, who squatted on the road from 9am to disrupt traffic, also demanded the state government withdraw curbs on intra- and interstate movement of vehicles with construction materials, as those reduced work opportunities at micro levels. “We are living a nightmare. We have been surviving somehow on rice and lentils given by the government. But we don’t have money, which has created a lot of problems, including marital ones in many homes,” said Khalil Gazi, a mason from Taki. Since February 2020, the construction industry has been reeling under the pandemic. Initially, migrant workers, many from Bengal, fled worksites fearing the disease. Then came the nationwide lockdown. Gradually, the Centre allowed work with limited workforce, but curbs at local level in various states, including Bengal, hampered work. The industry expected a revival by 2021-end, but the second wave made matters worse. “Last year, I returned from Kerala in fear of Covid-19,” said Faruq Gazi, a mason from Hansnabad, adding he “infrequently” found work as a farm hand. He later joined a construction firm. “But though the Covid-19 situation improved earlier this year in Bengal, there was no regular work. My own employer had a financial crisis. In the past six months, many like me could not manage work for 30 days.” “We are not starving, but no cash aid has been given to us by the state government,” he said, adding aid of at least Rs 2,000 a month was needed. Insiders in the construction industry said problems of workers were genuine. “Work came down to a trickle from May 3 (after Assembly poll results, when the first set of  fresh restrictions were introduced). It almost came to naught from May 15. Workers are facing a cash crunch as the industry operates on no-work, no-pay principle,” said a source. After the Mamata Banerjee government offered some relaxations this month, the real estate industry is operating at 50 per cent of the normal workforce, which means that one among two eligible persons is getting work. But movement curbs mean only those staying on construction sites get jobs. Work is also hit by curbs on movement of trucks with construction materials. The government has now allowed work on construction sites if workers are vaccinated. Realtors say they have so far vaccinated around 10,000 workers. “We want to vaccinate more workers but many are stuck at home. They cannot commute in the absence of public transport. If the government makes some arrangements, more workers can join work,” Nandu Belani, president of Calcutta chapter of Credai, a body of realtors, said. There is no formal estimate as to how many people are employed in the real estate industry but construction as a whole, which also includes infrastructure such as road and bridges, gives jobs to no less than 35 lakh. Sushil Mohta, owner of Merlin Group and president of Credai West Bengal, said it is only in the last few days that work has reached 50 per cent. “It was barely 15-20 per cent before that. I visited many sites today (Thursday) and saw work getting delayed owing to lack of workers. They want to join but can’t because of transport issues,” Mohta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-13
25-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Mamata seeks PM help for Covaxin’s WHO seal||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking his intervention in the process to get Covaxin approved by the World Health Organisation so that students and people, who were administered the indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, could travel abroad without any difficulty. “However, it is learnt that Covaxin is still not approved by WHO and it is not possible to travel abroad as many countries are allowing only those people who are fully vaccinated with WHO approved vaccines,” read the chief minister’s letter. She pointed out in her letter that a large number of students from all over the country travelled abroad every year to pursue higher studies. Many such students were vaccinated with Covaxin and they are now facing trouble to get visas of countries where they want to go for higher studies. Moreover, people from all walks of the society need to go abroad for jobs, business and other purposes and they are also facing trouble to secure visas only because they were administered Covaxin. “Hence, I request for your kind intervention so that an early approval is received for Covaxin from WHO and students do not face any problem. This will also benefit people travelling abroad for job, education, business and other purposes as well,” she wrote. Sources said the problem had become critical only because there was no choice of vaccines at a majority of the vaccination centres. “Many of those who wished to go abroad had no choice about which vaccine to take. Now, those who were given Covaxin are facing trouble. The chief minister has raised a serious issue and the Centre must solve it at the earliest,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-13
25-06-2021||West Bengal||Total active Covid cases drop further in Bengal||Bengal on Thursday reported a drop in total active Covid-19 cases for the fourth consecutive day as the number fell by 70 to 22,308. The state also logged 1,952 recoveries, 1,923 infections and 41 deaths. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, plummeted to 3.45 on Thursday. The positive confirmation rate is the percentage of positive cases out of total samples tested. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid spread. The total active cases had improved till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702, from the all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21. But over 11 days till Sunday, it had risen again by over 56 per cent, before starting to fall again over these four days. Bengal currently has 3.57 per cent of the national total of active cases and remains eighth on the list of states with most active cases. The state now has a total of over 14.89 lakh Covid cases since the first was detected on March 17 last year. The total cases include over 14.49 lakh recoveries and 17,516 deaths. Of the 41 deaths reported on Thursday, eight were in Calcutta and nine in North 24-Parganas, the two worst-affected districts. Calcutta on Thursday logged 155 infections and North 24-Parganas 217. Bengal’s recovery rate rose to 97.33 per cent. The national recovery rate is 96.58now. The state’s mortality rate is 1.17 per cent, while the national rate is 1.3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-13
25-06-2021||West Bengal||CPM event to recall Emergency ‘dangers’ after five-year gap||The CPM in Durgapur will on Friday resume, after a five-year gap, its annual convention to mark the day then Prime Minister and Congress leader Indira Gandhi had clamped Emergency on the country on June 25, 1975. The decision to resume the convention on Emergency was taken at a meeting of the CPM’s West Burdwan district committee last week. A CPM leader said most leaders decided to hold a convention on the 46th anniversary of Emergency as the party felt the Narendra Modi government had imposed an “undeclared Emergency” on the country. “To generate awareness among people on the dangers of Emergency, we will hold a mass convention at Khoyrasole (Durgapur) on June 25 (Friday),” said Pankaj Roy Sarkar, a CPM district secretariat member in West Burdwan. Around 250 people have been invited to the event to be held with strict adherence to Covid protocol. CPM leaders in Durgapur said the convention was relevant, alleging Modi’s fascist mode of governance and chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s autocratic ways were harming democratic institutions. On the five-year gap, some senior CPM leaders in Durgapur said the party’s electoral understanding with the Congress had nothing to do with it. However, a few others said the gap occurred to maintain cordial relations with its poll ally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-13
25-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Today's news||Creation and consumption of news are not benign processes. This is because both phenomena — what passes as news content and what consumers think of it — can mirror broader, changing social patterns. The findings of a survey — the Reuters Institute Digital News Report 2021 covered 46 nations around the world — need to be examined in the context of the changes sweeping through the news ecosystem. Some of the inferences are far from surprising. For instance, the report found that readers are increasingly relying on mobile technology to get access to news. The figures are revealing. In India, over 70 per cent of the respondents stated that they used their mobile phones for this purpose, while 82 per cent said that they preferred sourcing news online. Digital media’s gain has, however, been a loss for traditional media platforms. The migration of advertisement revenue from print media to its digital avatar has been discernible for a while now. But there is a corollary that cannot be ignored. The survey found that India ranks a lowly 31 when it comes to public trust in overall news. Another democracy — the fourth estate is supposed to be one of the sentinels in such polities — the United States of America, fared worse, with only 29 per cent of Americans saying that they trusted what they read. This is troubling. At a time of an unprecedented assault — political, cultural and ideological — on truth, the erosion in belief in the credibility of news may expedite the creation of false narratives. Significantly, the report also found that the chasm between traditional news sources and those from social media is widening. This lays bare an interesting irony. Even though print media and government broadcasting institutions performed credibly on the trust quotient, they — especially the former — are being starved of revenue and resources. Perhaps there is a compelling case for correcting the imbalances in revenue spending by taking into consideration the irrefutable faith that readers continue to vest in the traditional formats. The study is, overall, an indicator of the multiplicity of battles that are being fought across the world of news. Traditional and independent media are battling parched revenues and intimidation, while digital media are being confronted with a precipitous fall in trust along with predatory regulation — the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, against which several media firms have moved court, being a case point. These custodial conflicts ironically reveal the media’s relevance in modernity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-5
25-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Hard test||The decision to cancel school-leaving examinations cannot be lightly taken. But in-person examinations would be dangerous for students, teachers and other personnel amid the pandemic. So the Supreme Court has approved the proposals of the Central Board of Secondary Education and the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations to compute the final results of Class XII students on the basis of internal assessments. The boards have evolved detailed formulas regarding the weightage of marks — between the Class X results of a student and internal assessments in Classes XI and XII, and between theory and practical work. The problem here is that it is the schools that have awarded the marks from which the final results will emerge. Schools may have been too generous or too miserly with marks, or might attempt to manipulate the assessments. For uniformity of assessment, the two boards will identify a reference year — out of three past years for CBSE schools and six for CISCE ones — in which the school performed best, and will ensure that the computed results do not deviate more than a fixed percentage either way. The Supreme Court dismissed petitions asking for in-person examinations, ruling in favour of the examination boards that students unhappy with the computed results could sit the examination in person when it was safe. No one would claim that the situation is perfect. The state boards will have to make decisions too. Meanwhile, no formula has been worked out for the Class X results. Class XII results are more urgent because of college admissions. But one fear is that these results will be too generalized to reflect a student’s capabilities. Many teachers feel that students often mature unrecognizably after Class X, so including those results may be unfair, while internal assessments of Class XI, which students often take lightly, would pull down their results. These are undeniable problems, but not being able to join higher education institutions at all would be incalculably damaging. However, the tension preceding the decisions and acceptable solutions may prompt thoughts about the absoluteness of the examination system. The computation formula together with the problems being voiced may be suggestive in this direction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-5
25-06-2021||Opinion||Two Emergencies||It is 46 years since Indira Gandhi declared an ‘internal’ Emergency in the country on June 25, 1975. There are obvious dissimilarities between that 21-month period and the last seven years — but the similarities are so stark as to warrant repeated reiteration. How did we reach this particular point in our political life that we had so unequivocally rejected less than half-a-century ago? The Emergency certainly taught Indira Gandhi that she had completely misread the democratic commitment of the people of the country. The centralization of power today has woken citizens to the fact that they cannot take for granted a cylinder of oxygen, let alone a dignified place at the crematorium. Here’s the governance paradox. On the one hand, there is little evidence that institutions of governance have the ability to act unless directed by the prime minister, Narendra Modi, or the home minister, Amit Shah. At the same time, the Central government’s administrative machinery reminds us of its ominous presence continuously. It has simply turned its attention from caring for people to punishing protesters. To draw parallels with the Emergency is not simply an exercise of history repeating itself. The centralization of power today is more persuasive and even more dangerous as the ongoing Covid-19 crisis tells us. While the Emergency is indissociably linked with Indira Gandhi, she was not its only mover. Her younger son, Sanjay Gandhi, acted as her alter ego in implementing the political project. The key innovation in governance was to replace political representation with direct control through a coterie of favoured administrators and police personnel bypassing the Union cabinet and elected representatives. Does that not sound similar? Indira Gandhi had made the Congress an extension of her orders. Her electoral victory was followed by the birth of Bangladesh which greatly boosted her popularity. Many forget that the nationalization of banks (July 1969) and the abolition of privy purses (September 1970) took the country by surprise. Once again, the similarities are striking. Modi has centralized powers to such an extent that critical decisions are made without the relevant minister being even informed. The prime minister and his alter ego run the government administration directly from their offices. As in the Emergency, administrators are not chosen for their competence but for their ability to be supine. Institutions that once asserted their independence from political influence such as the Election Commission of India, the armed forces, the comptroller and auditor general of India and, allegedly, the judiciary have shown disquieting signs of working in tandem with the strategies of Modi and Shah and the Hindutva project of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. Today, both the Central Bureau of Investigation and the police are efficiently deployed to arrest dissenters without charges. There is, however, a subtle difference. During the Emergency, the police made mass arrests, detained Opposition leaders and tortured many. The suspension of civil liberties and laws safeguarding human rights made their ‘tasks’ easier to implement. At present, the media, the judiciary and political parties are formally independent. But individuals can be targeted under the sedition law and other draconian acts which, like the Maintenance of Internal Security Act, do not provide any scope to prove innocence. Underlying this style of leadership is a common emotional orientation: commitment to action with contempt for institutional procedures; impatience with the complex, time-consuming ways of electoral democracy and a deep distrust for thinking out policies. Instead the duo in Delhi opts for decisionism and a strategy of making sudden and uncompromising decisions. Two major policies that set in motion mass sterilization (nasbandi) and the demolition of lower class neighbourhoods during the Emergency were simply ordered by Sanjay Gandhi. He pioneered in India what may be called aesthetic authoritarianism that has today been extended by Modi. If the former wanted the Walled City to get a makeover, the latter aspires to architecturally re-engineer the entire capital and the whole of India (if he has his way): the Central Vista project, the beautification of the Benaras ghats and the naming of the Motera stadium in Ahmedabad after Modi have been expedited when thousands are dying for the lack of basic public health facilities. Modi has been using electoral democracy to command majorities and then hollow out institutions. The passage of the farm laws is an instance of how Parliament has been undermined and how laws with far-reaching consequences (like the corporatization of farming) have been brought in. Modi’s populist style is based on taking sudden, ‘inspired’ decisions: demonetization (notebandi), the writing down of Article 370 to break up the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, the sudden countrywide lockdown announced on March 24, 2020 are three notable examples. It is this capacity to defy institutional procedures that gives Modi his hold over his bhakts. One more point should be noted. Modi has directed much of his ire at the first prime minister of India, Jawaharlal Nehru, and not his daughter. Why? Does he see in her a kindred spirit, a mentor in establishing an authoritarian polity? We are clearly headed for a new system of politics and governance if Modi were to have his way. India’s current ruling regime works by creating new levels of policies and pronouncements that shock and awe and then allows these to normalize. Each sudden decision (or lack of one) tries to condition the population to be dependent on the whims of the supreme leader. The surprise element in the dispensation demands devotion, not evaluation. The fundamental difference with the Emergency is that the Modi regime functions by normalizing authoritarian culture in a polity based on liberal institutions and electoral majorities. This has been made possible by the widespread ideological groundwork that has been done by the RSS. The Emergency was an authoritarian regime that was imposed from above by legislation. Hindutva pursues the work of theologizing the nation into an object of worship that cannot tolerate dissent or criticism, which is supplemented by producing internal enemies that are always seen to threaten the integrity of the Hindu rashtra. The one that commands mass power is the targeting of Muslims, which involves civic violence that allegedly borders on the genocidal. But the enemies of Hindutva are also diverse: they include Christians, leftists, human rights activists and all Opposition leaders, including those that were once with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party. The innumerable deaths on account of the criminal misgovernance of the pandemic have awakened many (including the bhakts) to the problems of an excessively centralized leadership. But the problem of centralization may not disappear as it did after the dismantling of the Emergency, when Indira Gandhi apologized for its implementation. Today, the problem of centralized leadership draws its power from an ideological culture. Unfortunately, this does not promise to wither away anytime soon. As young students in the University of Delhi, we experienced how the absence of democracy impacted the lives and the behaviours of students in a campus. That was another Emergency. As senior citizens, we wonder with great trepidation how our children will cope with the new ideological environment in what we once used to proudly describe as not just the ‘world’s largest democracy’ but among the ‘best’ as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-5
25-06-2021||Opinion||Token gestures: Meghalaya and Netaji||Rabindranath Tagore’s stay in Shillong is not only well-documented, but the bungalow he had lived in, Brookside, is also preserved as a heritage building with his statue standing tall amid the pines. But very little is known about the visit of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose to this abode of clouds, although Netaji stayed there not once but five times. With his 125th birth year being celebrated, the Meghalaya arts and culture department has taken to social media to highlight the bungalows Netaji had lived in. Netaji arrived in the Scotland of the East in June 1927. One would hardly associate a soldier-statesman with lyricism, but in a letter to his sister-in-law, Bivabati Devi, he wrote: “Shillong is beautiful and has a good sanatorium... The azure sky, green fields, the mountain ranges all around, the play of light and shade in the forests, the continuous roar of the waterfall, all this keeps me contented. It reminds me of Shakespeare’s lines in As You Like It: ‘And this our life, exempt from public haunt/Finds tongues in trees, books in the running brooks/Sermons in stones, and good in everything’.” However, he disliked the incessant rain, and it was the monsoon and the Khasi hills comprise the wettest place on earth. Were he to resort to Shakespeare again, there was Feste in Twelfth Night with his plaintive song: “[f]or the rain it raineth everyday!” And although Netaji was not under house arrest, all these letters were censored. According to the researcher, Malabika Bisharad of Shillong, Netaji was there to recover from the travails of imprisonment: “After two-and-a-half years of detention without trial in a Burmese prison, Subhas Chandra Bose was freed on May 16, 1927. His weight had fallen by 40 pounds while in jail. Shillong was chosen as the most suitable place for him to recuperate. He was under the medical supervision of Dr Bidhan Chandra Roy, who had a house in Shillong and came there to treat Netaji.” Accompanied by his parents and elder brother, Sarat Chandra Bose, with his family, Netaji first stayed in Kelsal Lodge, now occupied by the BSNL in Oakland locality. He left Shillong for Calcutta in August but was back in the first week of September, accompanied by his parents, sister and others. They stayed at Kelsal Lodge again till October 18, 1927. He was elected president of the Bengal Provincial Congress Committee on his return. Bisharad, who has steadfastly campaigned for the heritage status of Brookside, rues that the front gate of Kelsal Lodge only has BSNL inscribed on it, instead of the name of the bungalow. It possibly came to light in the Eighties, when Netaji’s relatives visited Kelsal Lodge and enquired about the place. Netaji also stayed in Bidhan Bhavan (presently Circuit House) and Ashley Hall, now under trustees, during his third and fourth visits to Shillong in June 1929 and September 1938. In October 1938, during his last visit, he stayed in the Raj Bhavan. In 1997, Shillong celebrated Netaji’s birth centenary and unveiled his statue at the State Central Library. In March this year, a freedom concert to mark the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence was held at the Raj Bhavan, the same elegant structure where Netaji had stayed in 1938. Its Durbar Hall contains paintings of national icons, including Netaji’s. At that function, the chief minister, Conrad Sangma, mentioned the “struggle of the forefathers for the freedom of the country.” On January 23, he unveiled a statue of Netaji on Jail Road. However, there is no word on whether the government plans to preserve Kelsal Lodge or the Netaji Library at Rilbong. In the town marking the 94th year of his visit this month, should token gestures suffice to commemorate Netaji’s milestone birth anniversary, especially in a country that boasts of the world’s tallest statue at 597 feet?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-5
25-06-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor:  Tamil Nadu's economic advisory council masterstroke||Sir — Of the many announcements made by the governor of Tamil Nadu in his address to the members of the assembly, the government’s decision to form an economic advisory council was undoubtedly the master stroke (“Stalin attempts what Modi won’t”, June 22). The council would comprise eminent economists — the former governor of the Reserve Bank of India, Raghuram Rajan, the Nobel laureate, Esther Duflo, the former chief economic adviser, Arvind Subramanian, the development economist, Jean Drèze, and the former Union finance secretary, S. Narayanan. It appears that the chief minister, M.K. Stalin, has taken an entirely different path compared to the various regimes in the past, keeping in mind only the welfare of the people of Tamil Nadu. His gentle behaviour during his meeting with the prime minister, Narendra Modi, where he raised the problems faced by the common man during the pandemic, is also laudable. Stalin seems to have realized that hearing out people of eminence in their respective domains is likely to bring good results and help lead the state to glory. Tharcius S. Fernando, Chennai Sir — The Tamil Nadu government has constituted a five-member economic advisory council to guide the chief minister in managing the state’s economic and social policies. This is a welcome measure. The fiscal position of the state is poor, with debts amounting to over five lakh crore rupees. Politics in the state has mostly been based on freebies — people are often paid in cash and kind by the political class in order to secure their votes, expending much of the money from the state’s coffers. This system must be stopped. The public exchequer should be used for developmental activities which, in turn, would provide employment opportunities for the youth. Much of the state’s revenue comes from the sale of alcohol and the registration department. For a long time, the state has been planning to implement prohibition in a phased manner. In this situation, striking a balance between generating revenue and the expenditure of the state without taxing the people more is quite a challenge. It remains to be seen how the council resolves this dilemma. Sravana Ramachandran, Chennai Sir — The decision of the chief minister of Tamil Nadu to constitute a ‘dream team’, comprising leading global economic experts, is welcome. The five-member committee was brought together by the state finance minister, Palanivel Thiaga Rajan, who, before his political stint, was an investment banker in the United States of America and Singapore. While Raghuram Rajan and Arvind Subramanian are Tamilians, Esther Duflo has been working with Tamil Nadu through the Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab. These relationships are likely to help the state in the future. Other states should follow in the footsteps of Tamil Nadu and appoint economic experts to help the government. Bhagwan Thadani, Mumbai Sir — M.K. Stalin has wisely constituted a five-member economic advisory council to the chief minister. Some of the council members are critics of the Centre’s economic policies, as is the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam. The economists in the council do not need an introduction. Stalin is well aware of the dire financial condition of the state that he has taken over following the reign of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam. According to the budget of 2020-21, Tamil Nadu has a debt burden of Rs 5.12 lakh crore. A white paper is supposed to be released in July this year, focusing on the true state of Tamil Nadu’s finances. It will be interesting to know about the contents of this white paper and the council members’ final recommendations, and see how those can be implemented with a hostile National Democratic Alliance government at the helm in Delhi. K. Nehru Patnaik, Visakhapatnam Sir — Tamil Nadu has set an encouraging precedent by involving experts in the management of the state’s finances. It is unfortunate that in the present day, academics are often scorned. Political leaders have been inciting this trend. Blinded by their ego, they make economic decisions that end up harming the economy. This is true for the states as well as the Centre. The expertise of academics should not be taken lightly; they acquire these credentials after years of hard work. The Centre would do well to follow the example of Tamil Nadu. It should try to undo the impact of rash economic measures such as demonetization and try to boost the country’s finances before it is too late. Chandrani Ghosh, Calcutta Sir — Last week, the International Olympic Committee declared its plans to plant around 3,55,000 native trees in the western African countries of Senegal and Mali, which are supposed to host the Youth Olympics Games in 2026. Steps like this could go a long way in combating the problem of desertification. Given that people across the world follow events such as the Olympics, this would also send out a positive message. After all, land degradation is not a problem unique to Africa — around 30 per cent of India’s land is estimated to be degraded. Large-scale tree planting initiatives in all nations are the need of the hour. Sangeeta Dutta, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-5
25-06-2021||Jharkhand||Sindri woman given Covishield first, Covaxin as second dose||Family members of a Sindri resident created ruckus at a vaccination centre after she was administered Covaxin as second dose instead of Covishield given to her as the first dose. The family of 50-year-old Sarita Devi charged the medical staff at Saraswati Vidya Mandir of gross negligence and demanded a probe into the case. A team of Sindri police who reached the site controlled the situation and asked the medical staff to talk to higher officials including doctors involved in the vaccination process. Computer Operator Amar Kumar, deputed at the centre charged Sarita for the mistake and said, “There was a huge rush at the centre and she herself went before the nurse without verifying her previous certificate due which the error took place.” Vaccination for 45 and above age group was scheduled at the Saraswati Vidya Mandir based centre which witnessed a huge rush from the time of its commencement. Chhavi Kumari, the nurse deputed at the centre who administered the Covaxin as second dose to Sarita also attributed her for the mistake and said, “The undue haste shown by the woman in taking the vaccine led to the mistake as she put pressure for early vaccination.” “We have talked to the doctors and they have assured us that the woman can contact the doctors at any time if there is any discomfort,” Chhavi Kumari said. District Reproductive and Child Health Officer, Dr Vikash Rana who is also the nodal officer for Covid Vaccination said, “We have asked the Medical Office in Charge of Jharia to put the women under observation and at the same time also initiate action against the staff responsible for the error.” He however appealed to all beneficiaries to remain cautious as after the first dose they get the proper certificate so they must make proper enquiry at the centre before taking the second dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-10
25-06-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town provides financial security to Covid orphans||Sri Ram Sharma, Principal District and Session Judge of Dhanbad cum Chairman of District Legal Service Authority, on Thursday provided cheques worth Rs 2,000 each to eight children who lost both their parents due to Covid and turned orphan during the pandemic. The financial help was provided as part of the project Shishu of Jharkhand Legal Service Authority (JHALSA) launched earlier this month across the state. Sharma said that financial help was provided as part of the project to bring such orphan children into the mainstream as per direction of acting Chairman of JHALSA, Apresh Kumar Singh. He further said that such orphan children are being provided sponsorship by the district social welfare department and district child protection unit. Altogether 60 such children have been identified and verified in the district by the para legal volunteers of DLSA out of which eight have been provided Rs 2000 cheque each today. Arvind Kachchhap Additional District and Session Judge of Dhanbad who is also secretary of District Legal Services Authority said that DLSA has been assigned by JHALSA to extend help to such children. “After identification of such children through para legal volunteers by visiting their places they have been provided financial help and would be further provided all government schemes as per their eligibility” said Kachchhap. Dasrath Chandra Das Deputy Development Commissioner of Dhanbad; Sneh Kashyap, District Social Welfare Officer; others were also present during the cheque handing over. Dhanbad district administration during the last month under the Sambal Saathi Scheme has provided help kits to altogether such 150 families who have lost their bread winners. Each kit contains 10 kg rice and wheat each; two kg each of pulses and chura (rice flakes); two kg each of sattu (parched gram powder), salt, chickpea, gram, washing powder; five kg each of potato, onion, sugar; two litres mustard oil; one kg each of spices and soyabean; five packets of biscuits; 10 pieces of bathing soap as well as detergent cakes; 200 grams of toothpaste; three toothbrush; two fruit juice packets, two bottles of sanitizers and 10 pieces of masks. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh on June 16 also held meetings with different corporate organizations including BCCL, MPL, DVC, ACC, Tata Steel, Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited seeking their support for making arrangements for the education and skill oriented training of such children. All the participants of the meeting have also assured all support to the district administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-10
25-06-2021||Jharkhand||Team India wrestler meets Hemant, asks for good coaches ||Guess what 14-year-old wrestler Chanchala Kumari of Ranchi, who is the first wrestler from Jharkhand to qualify for the world championship, asked for when she met chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday? No, not funds, wrestling kits or a job. She requested him to ensure that good coaches were assigned to the state sports academy for better training of sportspersons like her. Impressed by her dedication to sports, Hemant assured her all help. On June 21, Chanchala, who hails from a humble family in Ranchi’s Hotwar village, scripted history by clinching a berth in the national squad for the upcoming world wrestling championships. She will be the lone athlete to represent India in the  under-40 kg (sub junior) category at the tournament which is scheduled to be held in Budapest, Hungary, between July 19 and July 25. Her success also paved way for her mentor Babloo Kumar’s escalation as Team India coach (female). It was to congratulate them both that Hemant met them at his  Project Building office in the evening. Hemant is learnt to have asked Chanchala about her family, financial condition and other details. He also asked her about her expectations from the government, especially with regard to her sporting discipline. But Chanchala only asked for good coaches. Speaking over phone, Babloo, said, “CM sir repeatedly asked her if she wanted anything. All that she kept saying was  the need for  good coaches at her academy. She stressed that earlier, coaches at her academy groomed many like her from scratch. She wished to avail their services again. CM immediately asked  sports secretary Pooja Singhal to look into the issue.” Chanchala’s father, Narendra Pahan, is a small time farmer while her mother is a housewife. She has three other siblings — an elder brother and two sisters, one younger to her. She is a cadet of Jharkhand State Sports Promotion Society (JSSPS), a joint venture between the state sports department and Central Coalfields Limited (CCL), that runs special academies at the mega sports complex in Khelgaon. Chanchala got enrolled in 2016 and in four years time, she became the first wrestler from Jharkhand to make it to the world championship. Sources said that the wrestling academy at JSSPS has been without coaches for the last one year after their contracts expired. Among them are Bholanath Singh, who is also  president of the Jharkhand State Wrestling Association, and Babloo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-10
25-06-2021||Jharkhand||Railways extends special train services till September||Jamshedpur: The South Eastern Railway has decided to extend the running of several long distance special trains till September this year. A circular issued by Garden Reach, the Calcutta based headquarters of South Eastern Railway on Friday said the trains which have been extended till September will continue to run on the existing route and same stoppages. There will be no changes in the composition of the trains, as well. The daily Tatanagar- Danapur Special will now run till September 29. Earlier, the train was notified to run till June 29. The bi-weekly Hatia- Yesvantpur Special will now run till September 28. Earlier, it was notified to run till July 1. Running of Hatia-LTT Special has been extended for another two months till September 27. The weekly Santragachi- Pune Special which runs via Tatanagar railway station will ply till September 27 against the earlier notified June 26. The Tatanagar- Thawe (Bihar) special which runs four days a week will continue to run till September 29. Earlier, the train was supposed to run till June 28. The running of Hatia- Purnia Court Special, a daily train, has been extended till september 29. The train was earlier supposed to run till June end. Running of the daily Ranchi- Howrah Special train was also extended till September 29. The train was earlier notified to run till June 30. The Hatia- Islampur Special was also extended till September 29. The train was earlier supposed to run till June end. It has also been decided to continue the running of Hatia-Gorakhpur Special on its existing path and stoppages till further advice. SER stops running of Oxygen Express trains The South Eastern Railway has stopped running of Oxygen Express trains due to drop in Covid-19 cases and subsequent fall in demand of liquid medical oxygen (LMO). South Eastern Railway has been continuously transporting liquid medical oxygen to different parts of the country for treatment of Covid affected patients since the peak of the second wave in April this year. Data available from the railways revealed that in  all the railway zone has run 219 Oxygen Express trains delivering a total of  16054 MT of liquid medical oxygen to various parts of the country. From its three loading points viz. Tatanagar, Rourkela and Bokaro the zone has dispatched 6927 MT, 7037 MT and 2090 MT of liquid medical oxygen respectively to bring relief to the Covid affected patients. The Oxygen Express trains from SER jurisdiction carried liquid oxygen to various states - Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Karnataka, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Kelara, Assam and Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-10
25-06-2021||Jharkhand||Lease signed for Bokaro international cricket stadium ||The Jharkhand State Cricket Association, affiliated with the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI), has signed a lease agreement with Bokaro Steel Plant on Friday for the construction of an international cricket stadium. BSL is a unit of Steel Authority of India Limited, and the first city of Maharatna to house an international cricket stadium. The JSCA claimed Jharkhand will become the first state in the country to have three world-class stadiums. The proposed land is located in the erstwhile Mouza-Narkara in the south of National Highway (NH)-23 and south-west of the existing Vishthapit College in Balidih area. The spot is on the route between Bokaro-Ramgarh and Ranchi. It is near neighbouring Giridih, Dhanbad and Purulia (West Bengal) districts. “The agreement entails transfer of 20.17 acres of land by SAIL-BSL to JSCA at Bokaro on long term lease initially for a period of 33 years, with the provision of further renewals as per SAIL Board approved Guidelines and other necessary approvals,” said Manikant Dhan, BSL, spokesperson . The lease agreement between SAIL-BSL and JSCA was signed in the presence of Director In-charge BSL, Amarendu Prakash, former secretary of BCCI and former director of ICC Shri Amitabh Choudhary, president of JSCA, Dr Nafis Akhtar, secretary of JSCA, Sanjay Sahay and others. Bokaro MLA Biranchi Narayan, who had played an important role in negotiating the project, was also present at the occasion organised at Bokaro Niwas, along with executive directors of SAIL-BSL and officials of JSCA. BSL management has received the request for allotment of land to JSCA for the construction of an International Cricket Stadium in Bokaro in January 2018. Dhan said, “The proposal was put up for approval by the SAIL Board and the Ministry of Steel. After obtaining necessary approvals and clearances, all other formalities prior to signing of lease agreement were completed by both parties.” Director in-charge termed it as a proud moment for all. Prakash said, “The proposed international cricket stadium at Bokaro will facilitate grooming of local cricketing talents.” Responding to questions, Choudhary said, “Proposed international cricket stadium at Bokaro will be state of the art in terms of facilities and will have a seating capacity of around 25,000 people. Further activities for the construction of the stadium at Bokaro will now be taken up by JSCA”. The proposed cricket stadium in terms of size will be lesser than Ranchi, which has a 40,000 seating capacity. Chaudhary said, “But the stadium to be constructed in Bokaro will be larger than other international cricket stadiums in the nation and abroad. It will be larger than Lords and Rajkot international cricket stadium.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-10
25-06-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro player wins state chess tournament||Ankit Kumar Singh of Bokaro won the state level all Jharkhand online open blitz tournament organised to mark the Olympic Day. The event, organised by Ranchi Chess Club under the aegis of All Jharkhand Chess Association (AJCA), attracted 136 participants from 14 districts of the state. Ankit emerged champion with 8.5 points out of 9 rounds, a full point ahead of Ishant Kumar of Dhanbad and top seed Vatsal Singhania (Fide Master) of East Singhbhum, who finished second and third, respectively. There was no entry fee for the event and Rs 20,000 was distributed amongst the 36 cash prize winners. According to AJCA secretary Neeraj Kumar Mishra, the tournament was held successfully and the participants showed enthusiasm to take part. "It was a successful event and the participants showed great zeal to be part of this virtual tournament," Jamshedour-based Mishra, an International Master (IM), added. The state chess outfit has been helping chess enthusiasts remain busy during the pandemic by organising tournaments at periodical intervals. It recently conducted a virtual Chess Festival for different age groups. The event served as a platform for winners to participate in the online national championship. At a time when Covid-related situation was normal earlier this year, AJCA organised an offline senior state championship in Ranchi. “We are planning to organise more online chess events to help players get prepared for national tournaments. The dates would be announced in due course of time,” an AJCA official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-10
25-06-2021||Jharkhand||Breaking stereotypes, Dhanbad village youth becomes YouTube sensation||From TikTok, Instagram to a YouTube sensation,  the journey of the brother sister dancer duo Sanatan Mahto and Savitri Mahto continues from non descript Kusmtand village in Baliapur block, garnering one million viewership on YouTube and 1.86 lakh following on Instagram. Sanatan, 26, a post graduate in Political Science from P.K. Roy Memorial College in Dhanbad was unemployed in 2019 before he started shooting his dance, lifestyle and comic videos through which he has earned around Rs 12 lakh in the last year of the pandemic. “Yes indeed life has changed for me and my family over two years as we have carried out renovation of our house and also constructed a room, put a gate on village house, procured advance version camera for shooting videos and procured a bike, laptop etc,” said Sanatan and added despite success they are keeping their foot on the ground and most of their videos are related to their rural life. Sanatan received formal dance training at a private institute in Dhanbad from 2012 to 2018. “Though initially I started uploading my solo videos but the viewership was dismal and later on I started making duet dance videos along with my elder sister Savitri after giving some training to her and shot from my mobile phone.” “Our dance video on the bollywood number Pyar hamara amar rahega had 9.5 million views and 1.2 million likes while a comedy video titled Ek din had 2.7 million views and 1.9 million likes,” said Sanatan. “Though initially the response was not good but the popularity drastically increased during the lockdown since people were spending more time on mobile phones watching social media sites etc,” said Sanatan. “I am more happy about another aspect of our venture as people of remote areas like ours where dance was treated as a taboo, are now accepting dance and allowing even the girls to pursue dance,” further said Mahto. Sanatan’s father is a small time father and part time daily wage earner who was the sole bread earner of the family till lockdown hit and the family was in dire straits. His brother suffers from chronic diabetes and the family could not afford medical expenses for him. “Elder sister Savitri Kumari who is also my dance partner used to support the family income working as a teacher in a local private school of Baliapur but that school also closed down during lockdown aggravating our financial difficulties,” said Sanatan “My message for the youth is very simple, don’t waste time pursuing such careers for which you don’t have any aptitude and instead concentrate on your passion,” said Sanatan who used to provide dance training to his village youth before switching to YouTube. “Regularity is the second most important requirement for success as we have continued our video streak ever since February 2019 when I uploaded my first dance video on youtube,” signed off Sanatan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-10
25-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand doubles vaccination targets across districts||The Jharkhand government is looking to vaccinate 2.5 lakh people every day from now on, doubling the present number in an effort to speed up its immunisation drive against Covid-19 in apprehension of a third wave anytime soon. Additional chief secretary of the state health department Arun Kumar Singh has written to all deputy commissioners, reviewing their present targets and asking them to ensure that the new numbers are achieved. “Fresh targets have been fixed following a review. It was realised that there is a need to speed up the vaccination drive as Jharkhand is falling behind many other states. Only through acceleration of vaccination through different strategies will we be able to fight the virus,” said Singh, adding that it has been decided to allot vaccine doses to districts based on their consumption to prevent wastage. Statistics available on the Union health ministry’s portal till June 25 suggest that Jharkhand has vaccinated 62,40,166 people so far. On an average it is vaccinating about 80,000 to 1 lakh people a day and on some days the number goes up to 1.30 lakh. On June 21 and 22, the state vaccinated approximately 1,03,016 people with East Singhbhum accounting for 13,021, Ranchi 8,329 and Dhanbad 7,360.  But some districts like Garhwa, Khunti, Jamtara achieved dismal figures of 2,768, 1,381 and 1,872 respectively. To boost statewide coverage, the health department has provided fresh daily targets to every district. For instance, Ranchi has been given a target of 25,911 jabs, East Singhbhum 13,510, Dhanbad 18,528 and Bokaro 14,250. A health department official added that compared to earlier times, vaccine hesitancy had lessened to large extent, but in certain rural areas, misconceptions and fears still exist. “Awareness drives apart, the government has also rolled out several initiatives like mobile vax vans, on-spot registration by holding special camps , etc.  But as states are unlocking and migration of people is happening once again, there is a fear of resurgence of the virus. Only by effective vaccination, will we be able to contain the intensity of infection,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-10
25-06-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi's wrestling mentor becomes national team coach||In yet another good news for the sports fraternity of the state, Ranchi based certified trainer Babloo Kumar was on Thursday named as the coach for Indian wrestling team (female) for upcoming world championship to be held in Budapest, Hungary from July 19 to 25. Wrestling Federation of India (WFI) officially sent a letter to Jharkhand State Wrestling Federation president Bholanath Singh in the evening after appointing Babloo as coach for team India. The letter to state wrestling outfit read, “Bablu Kumar of your state has been selected as coach of Indian cadet women wrestling team for participation in the 2021 world cadet free style, Greco roman style, and women wrestling championship being held at Budapest in July.” On June 21, a tribal girl from Ranchi Chanchala Kumari scripted history by becoming the first wrestler from the state by qualifying for the world championship. 14-year-old Chanchala, who hails from from Hotwar village in Ranchi’s Ormanjhi block booked her berth in the sub-junior category (40 kg). She will be the lone player to represent country in this category. She was coached by Bablu. Her success paved way for his escalation to coach India’s women team for the upcoming prestigious tournament. However, this will be Bablu’s fourth stint as team India coach in international circuit after getting NIS certification on 2016-17. “I was the coach for Indian boys team during u-17 world championship held in Athens in 2017. Next year, I coached women team in u-15 Asian meet in Iran and in 2019, I was again given the opportunity to coach boys team during u-15 meet in China,” he said, adding that he will put his best to ensure that Indian players excel in the forthcoming world championship. Bablu and her protégé returned from Delhi on Wednesday. State wrestling outfit officials accorded them warm welcome at the airport. Central Coalfields Limited (CCL), which jointly runs Jharkhand State Sports Promotion Society (JSSPS) felicitated its cadet Chanchala and Bablu. On Thursday, a delegation of BJP also visited Chanchala’s house to felicitate the athlete and her family members.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-10
25-06-2021||Jharkhand||East Singhbhum registers another case of Mucormycosis ||Jharkhand reported one confirmed and four suspected cases of Covid-induced Mucormycosis in the past 48 hours, which took the total count of confirmed cases to 84 and suspected cases to 59 in the state, figures released by the health department on Thursday highlighted. As per government data, at least 26 people have died of the fungal infection and 54 patients have recovered from it in Jharkhand so far. The fresh confirmed case was reported in East Singhbhum, which has so far accounted for 20 confirmed cases of Mucormycosis. Ranchi has reported 30 cases of black fungus so far, the highest in the state. However, the recovery rate for black fungus was higher than 60 per cent, indicating that the state was coping well with the lethal infection, health officials said. Meanwhile, two more Covid casualties, one each in East Singhbhum and Dumka, took the Covid toll in the state to 5106 in the past 24 hours, a bulletin from National Health Mission (NHM) stated. At least four Jharkhand districts – Dumka, Godda, Pakur and Palamu – did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, the bulletin further stated. The state on Thursday tested swab samples of 50,454 residents and 114 of them, less than 0.3 per cent, tested positive for Covid-19, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As many as 252 Covid patients recovered from the infection on the day, bringing the active caseload in the state down to 1224, the bulletin further stated. While none of the 24 districts in Jharkhand reported a spike of more than 20 cases, Ranchi accounted for 15 fresh cases of infection – the highest among the districts. Ranchi also reported 99 Covid recoveries on the day, which brought the active caseload here down to 360. At least 20 recoveries against nine fresh cases of infection brought the active caseload in East Singhbhum down to 141, the NHM stated in its bulletin. Except Ranchi, all the districts in the state reported a single-digit-spike in cases, a trend that highlights the drop in Covid transmission across the state, health officials said. As per government data, over 3.45 lakh people have been infected by Coronavirus in Jharkhand so far and 98.16 per cent of them have recovered. However, 1.47 per cent of the patients could not survive the viral infection, which claimed almost thrice as many lives in the second wave as in the first one last year. The growth rate of Covid-19 was 0.03 per cent in Jharkhand on Thursday against the national average of 0.12 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state jumped to 2206.13 days against the national doubling rate of 560.62 days, the NHM bulletin highlighted. The state on Thursday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to as many as 93,549 residents, including over 77,000 from the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. As per NHM data, the second jab was administered to 13,906 beneficiaries and almost 4000 of them were younger than 45 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-11
25-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Snana Yatra at Golmuri Iskcon Temple||Jamshedpur: The annual bathing rituals of Lord Jagannath and his siblings, brother Balabhadra or Balaram and sister Subhadra were held on Thursday at the Iskcon Temple at Cable Town in Golmuri amid Covid restrictions. A small gathering of devotees including Jamshedpur MP Bidyut Baran Mahato attended the bathing rituals referred to as Snana Yatra or Devasnana. Very few devotees turned up to witness the rituals performed by the priests of the Iskcon Temple, in the wake of the pandemic. The bathing rituals of the three deities are performed on the Purnima (full moon day) of the Hindu month of Jyeshtha, considered the auspicious birthday of Lord Jagannath ahead of Rath Yatra ( or the chariot festival ). The three deities are ceremonially bathed and decorated for a public audience with the devotees. The organisers later distributed prasad among the devotees. Similar bathing rituals of Lord Jagannath and his siblings were performed at the Naga Mandir near Beldih Golf Course, which holds the city's oldest Jagannath Rath Yatra (chariot festival),  Utkal Association in Sakchi and Gandhi Ashram in Baradwari. Jamshedpur will miss the grand Rath Yatra celebration organised by Iskcon in association with several local NGOs, for the second consecutive year due to the pandemic. This year the annual Rath Yatra falls on July 12. Members of Iskcon Temple said only the Rath Yatra rituals would be performed in a low profile manner because of the pandemic. "No Rath Yatra procession would be taken out wherein devotees pull the chariot during the festival. We will perform the necessary rituals in a symbolic manner," said an official. The tradition of the grand Rath Yatra wherein the three presiding deities -lord Jagannath and his siblings - brother Balaram and sister Subhadra — are placed on the chariot and taken to their Mausi Bari from Bistupur to Sakchi  covering a distance of about 5 Kms every year was broken last year when the local administration did not allow the festivities due to the Covid-induced pandemic The celebration ends nine days later with Bahuda Yatra or the return journey of the trio to their temple. (Pinaki Majumdar) Bokaro: A Bokaro police team rescued a peacock from the busiest Dundibagh vegetable market on Thursday. Acting on information, police rescued the peacock lying injured in the vegetable market. Peacock sustained injury on its leg following which it was lying and surrounded by people. Police later handed it to the forest department. The reason for the peacock’s presence at the vegetable market, situated in the heart of the town, is yet to be ascertained, said in-charge of City police station Santosh Kumar. Sources said that the Dundibagh vegetable market also houses bird sellers and it might be possible that someone may be intending to sell the peacock. The bird may have been deserted because a buyer did not buy it or refused to purchase it. (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-11
25-06-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren focuses on fulfilling promise of providing employment to youth||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has decided to focus on fulfilling his promise of providing employment to youth at a time when Covid-19 cases are showing a declining trend in the state. In a meeting on Wednesday evening, Soren directed officials to remove all shortcomings and irregularities in recruitment rules within a month and publish advertisements of vacancies of different government jobs so that the recruitment process can be completed at the earliest. “With the Covid numbers decreasing in almost all the districts, the chief minister reminded the officials about his promise made to the people that 2021 would be the year of employment. Though the promise of providing nearly 15,000 government jobs by March could not be fulfilled due to the Covid pandemic, the chief minister is determined to fulfil his pledge at the earliest. This led to the directive for completing all processes within July,” said an official in the chief minister’s secretariat. The chief minister had called a meeting with chief secretary Sukhdev Singh, principal secretary (personnel) Vandana Dadel, Jharkhand Public Service Commission chairperson and retired IAS officer Sudhir Tripathi and advocate-general Rajiv Ranjan on Wednesday evening where the directive was issued for completing all formalities of identifying vacancies, removing loopholes in recruitment laws and publishing advertisements for recruitment within a month. “The aim is two-fold. On one hand we will provide jobs to our talented youths and on the other, we will fill up vacancies in government departments which is affecting their functioning,” said Soren. It was also decided to form a three-member committee to study the representation of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe candidates during promotion of government posts and submit the report to the personnel department. This report would form the basis for framing of regulations for jobs in various departments. The chief minister had announced in Dumka in December last year that 2021 would be the year of employment for youth and nearly 15,000 government jobs would be filled up by March. According to sources in the personnel department, there are nearly 25,000 teacher posts lying vacant in state-run schools along with over one lakh vacancies in several departments. “There are nearly 5.25 lakh government posts, out of which 1.95 lakh have been filled so far. The maximum number of vacancies are in the school education department (104,000) followed by home, jail and disaster management departments (nearly 74,000), 35,000 in the health department, 4,036 in the legal department, 3,500 in agriculture, 3,464 in drinking water, sanitation and water resources department and 2,000 posts vacant in the road construction department,” a source said. Youths in certain parts of the state had started a social media campaign “Jharkhand Yuva Mange Rojgar (Jharkhand youths demand employment)” from June 21 reminding the ruling dispensation about the promise of providing jobs in their manifesto for the 2019 Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-11
25-06-2021||Jharkhand||Simdega district plans to produce more sportspersons in Barki Chhapar village||The Simdega district administration in Jharkhand plans to develop Barki Chhapar village not only by providing livelihood options but also in producing more sportspersons after its resident Salima Tete was selected last week as a member of the national women’s hockey team for the Tokyo Olympics next month. Salima became the first woman from Simdega district and the second from Jharkhand to represent her country in Olympic hockey, the first being her teammate Nikki Pradhan. Simdega deputy commissioner Sushant Gaurav visited Barki Chhapar on Monday to speak to the villagers and directed officials to focus on the overall development of Salima’s village. Gaurav also visited Salima’s home where he met and felicitated her parents Subhani and Sulakshan Tete. Her youngest sister Mahima, who has also played junior national hockey, was present. “Some government schemes are already being implemented in the village. We just wanted to give an impetus to the development process of both sports and livelihood,” Gaurav told The Telegraph when asked about his visit. The administration would convert an existing ground in the village into a properly fenced area so that it helps in training budding players. “Four more such grounds would be developed in different villages of the district,” said Hockey Simdega president Manoj Konbegi, who was also present during Gaurav’s visit. Gaurav also went around the village and advised residents to opt for lift irrigation while also assuring them to provide a tractor for community use. “Sports can develop only when there is an assurance of nutritional security of sportspersons,” Gaurav further said, adding that he encouraged the villagers to grow maduwa (finger millet) and groundnut. “This district is known for successful lift irrigation schemes and the success can be repeated in Barki Chhapar also as there is a perennial source of water in the village that is required for the purpose,” he added. “The villagers who are mainly farmers adopt traditional practices but shifting to mechanised processes would help them get more yield,” Gaurav said when asked about why he wanted to gift a tractor to the village. “I’m hopeful more good players would emerge from the district who would also play at the international level in near future,” said Gaurav when pointed out that 19-year-old Salima was the only woman hockey player from the district who was selected for the Olympics. “We are glad that the deputy commissioner visited the village of a player with a positive attitude and wanted to help it develop, besides also promoting sporting activities,” Konbegi said, adding that they were hopeful of more players emerging from the district. “Simdega has produced many national and international players in the past. I’m hopeful more such players from the district would represent the country in near future,” he said when pointed out that no male player from Jharkhand has made it to Indian hockey teams for Olympics since Ajeet Lakra played in Barcelona in 1992.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-11
