26-06-2021||Calcutta||Techno India Group carries out largest vaccination drive in eastern India||Techno India Group has been spearheading one of the biggest mass vaccination camps in Bengal since mid-May and has already inoculated lakhs of beneficiaries with the Covid-19 vaccine at a time when the second wave created a ruckus throughout the country. Considered to be the largest vaccination drive in eastern India, the camp has provided jabs to beneficiaries from corporates, non-profit organisations and social enterprises, premiere colleges, schools and clubs, chambers, etc. Meghdut RoyChowdhury, Director Global Operations, Techno India Group said, “The only way to proactively fight the virus is to vaccinate one and all. We are proud of the work our teams have done to convert our campuses to mass vaccination centres.” The group turned its college and school campuses into vaccination centres, while no India Group turned its college campuses into vaccination centres. Techno India Dama Healthcare and Medical Research centre was converted to a Covid hospital during the peak of the second wave. “The satellite centres include the Techno India University-Main College Campus, The School of Future, Offbeat CCU and campuses at Kankinara & Konnagar have been converted into vaccination centres. Vaccination camps were also organised in  our Garia, Mankundu & Ariadaha schools,” the group said in a press release. “As a strong ally of the LGBTQIA+ community, in what is considered one of the first moves in the country, TIG has inoculated 500+ citizens of the LGBTQIA+ person in association with Offbeat CCU and Prantakatha and aims to vaccinate more people every day. The specially-abled youths and adults in association with AKB Memorial Trust have partnered with Techno India Group for their vaccination,” the statement added. Speaking about the drive, Prof. Manoshi Roychowdhury, Co-Chairman of Techno India Group said, “I believe that a life lived to its fullest extent is when one starts serving others .I have always felt that we must contribute largely towards the society and this mass vaccination drive was our step forward to help the people and environment be safe. I am so thankful to our  TIG family to stand beside us and be a part of the mass vaccination drive to materialise the Chairman’s dream and also spread this activity to the district levels.” Techno India Group partnered with several private companies and groups, government entities, universities, schools and residential complexes to carry out the vaccination drive in Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
26-06-2021||Calcutta||Mimi Chakraborty falls ill days after taking fake Covid jab||Actor-turned-TMC MP Mimi Chakraborty on Saturday fell ill, a few days after she was administered a fake COVID vaccine, sources said. However, the doctor who attended to the Jadavpur MP said it was too early to link her illness with the fake jab that she had taken four days ago, they said. Chakraborty became seriously ill at her residence in the morning and her maid called the family physician, sources close to the renowned actor said. The actor, who has been suffering from gall bladder and liver-related problems, suffered from dehydration, stomach ache and her blood pressure count dipped, they said. "Mimi Chakraborty's condition is now stable and she is under treatment at her home. She is also suffering from hypertension. The doctor who attended to her said her illness cannot be immediately linked to the fake vaccine as she already had a liver problem," the sources said. Chakraborty, whose alertness led to the busting of a fake vaccine racket organised by a conman posing as a civic official in Kolkata, was scheduled to undergo a test during the day to ascertain any possible adverse effects of the jab. In a video message on Thursday, she had asked people not to panic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
26-06-2021||Calcutta||Deb of fake jabs a master of many rackets ||The Calcutta Police's special investigation team has registered three more cases against Debanjan Deb, who was masquerading as an IAS officer and running fake vaccine camps across the city. According to sources in the detective department, Deb had spread his racket much beyond the fake vaccine camps. In the new complaints that have come up against Deb, he had swindled traders and private firms worth nearly a crore. A private firm allegedly paid him Rs 1.2lakh for vaccinating its 172 employees. From a pharma company,  he had allegedly received Rs 4 lakh for clearing a tender. A contractor had allegedly paid him Rs 90 lakh for constructing a stadium. Police have made three more arrests in the case, all of whom have been remanded to police custody till July 3 after being produced at a court. Susanta Das, 54, and Rabin Sikder, 31, were among the two other signatories in a bank account that Deb was operating in the name of Calcutta Municipal Corporation. Das is a resident of Salt Lake, while Sikder is from Barasat. The third member arrested was identified as Santanu Manna, a Taltala resident, who was employed by Deb. Deb had floated an NGO and was collecting data including Aadhaar cards and personal details of individuals. “We will submit a prayer before the court to add Section 307 of the Indian Penal Code (attempt to murder) against Deb,” said Murli Dhar, joint commissioner of police (crime), Calcutta Police. Under Section 307 of  IPC any person who commits and act with intention or the knowledge that the same could cause death would be held guilty of murder and could face imprisonment for life or not less than 10 years. The racket for administering fake vaccines was reported by Trinamul MP Mimi Chakraborty after she got inoculated but did not receive any certificate. The Calcutta Police has set up a special investigation team with officers from the detective department to “investigate the larger conspiracy” in the fake vaccine case. Deb had impersonated as an IAS officer posted as joint commissioner in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and even operated bank accounts in the civic body’s name. He had set up the NGO Urban Planning and recruited around 12 people, but did not have any license to run it.  He was involved in distribution of masks and sanitisers during the Covid pandemic, which helped him build a network in several areas in and around Calcutta. “It is very unlikely that he could have run the entire operation without any help from officials in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation,” said a police officer. Deb has confessed that the antibiotics that he had passed off as Covid vaccines were procured from Bagri market. He had worked with the information and cultural affairs department in event management between 2014 and 2017 that helped him come in contact with several local Trinamul leaders across the city. The health department has started a camp for identifying recipients of the fake vaccine at the Kasba camp, where the Trinamul MP too went for her inoculation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
26-06-2021||Calcutta||Illegal Covid vaccination camps spark scare in city||The illegal vaccination camps allegedly conducted by Debanjan Deb, who used the emblem of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation on the premises, has left even those who were vaccinated at genuine CMC centres scared. Many recipients who did not receive any text message after getting vaccinated turned up at the vaccination sites on Friday, anxious whether they too had been duped. The civic officials running the vaccination sites told the recipients that some technical glitch could have been responsible for the delay in the arrival of the message and advised the recipients to log into the CoWIN portal and verify their vaccination status. “Some of those who had taken vaccines earlier but did not get any text message came today to ask why they had not received any message. They said they had learnt that recipients of fake vaccines at the illegal camps did not get any message, too,” said an official of the CMC who is in charge of vaccination in one of the boroughs. “We told them to download their vaccination certificates from the CoWIN portal. The certificate is proof that they had got a genuine vaccine.” The civic body is administering Covid vaccines from more than 140 ward health clinics run by it. Besides, many off-site vaccination camps are being organised. A section of civic officials admitted that people were likely to be fooled if the organisers of an illegal camp used the CMC emblem. “There is no list of vaccination sites of the CMC available in one place. A list of megacentres is there on the CMC’s website but I am not sure if it is regularly updated because we keep opening new centres every week,” the official said. The off-site centres include the ones where members of priority groups like public transport drivers and conductors, and retailers are being vaccinated. “We are using community halls or other properties of the CMC that are rarely being used during the pandemic to vaccinate anyone from a priority group. These are called megacentres,” said a CMC official. There are some off-site centres where members of select priority groups such as sex workers are vaccinated. At five of the off-site centres managed by the CMC, bookings are being done through the WhatsApp chatbot number 8335999000. These centres are at St Xavier’s College on Park Street, Quest Mall on Syed Amir Ali Avenue, Roxy cinema in Esplanade, Bidhan Sishu Udyan near Ultadanga and South City International School on Prince Anwar Shah Road. It is easy to verify the authenticity of the vaccination programme being run from the ward health clinics because the clinics have been there for long and residents know they are run by the CMC. The authenticity of the jab drive at the centres where the appointments are made through the chatbot is easy to ascertain, too, because the CMC’s twitter handle mentions the number of the chatbot. A Gariahat resident suggested that the CMC display the name of the official running a vaccination centre and his or her contact details outside the centre. Such details should also be available on the CMC website, the Gariahat resident said. “It is only then that people will be able to distinguish between genuine centres and illegal ones. We do not know whether more such illegal camps were held in the city,” the resident said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
26-06-2021||Calcutta||Illegal Covid vaccination camps: Two cheat complaints lodged against Debanjan Deb||Two complaints of cheating to the tune of Rs 1 crore have been lodged against Debanjan Deb, who had allegedly posed as an IAS officer and conducted illegal Covid vaccination camps. Deb’s three bank accounts, according to police, have only Rs 7,000. Both complaints were lodged with Kasba police station. One of them says Deb, now behind bars, had purchased electronic goods for his Kasba office worth Rs 10 lakh but did not pay the supplier. The other alleges that he had taken Rs 90 lakh to build a stadium as part of a government project. “Till now we have found three bank accounts of Deb, one of which he opened in the name of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. We are checking bank statements to understand where he had transferred or spent the money,” said an officer. The police will write to the CMC asking whether Deb was involved in any civic projects. He has claimed that he had won several sub-contracts from CMC-affiliated contractors. The police questioned at least four persons, including employees of Deb, in his presence on Friday. Joint commissioner (crime) Murlidhar Sharma said a special investigating team headed by deputy commissioner Saikat Ghosh would be set up to probe the “larger conspiracy” angle of the case. Trinamul’s Sonarpur South MLA Lovely Maitra and the Indian Medical Association, Bengal branch, have lodged police complaints against Deb. Lovely has complained that she was misled into believing that Deb was a “government servant” when she attended a programme organised by him. Trinamul MP and IMA state secretary Santanu Sen said in his complaint that it was not possible for them to verify Deb’s credentials when he approached them for voluntary distribution of masks, sanitisers, PPE kits, oximeters and thermal guns.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
26-06-2021||Calcutta||School club to work for empowerment of girls||A club to work for the empowerment of girls, fight discrimination and campaign for equality at home and outside was launched online by The Heritage School on Friday. The initiative primarily of and for students aims to pave the way for an “inclusive and progressive” society. The club includes boys and girls from Classes IX to XII. Members feel it is important to include boys because one section of society — girls  — alone cannot bring a change. The Heritage School completed 20 years and “THS Girl Up” is part of the Girl Up initiative started by the United Nations Foundation in 2010. “Women consider themselves subservient to men. Girls have to realise their potential and what they want in life,” said principal Seema Sapru. “More sensitivity towards women is required, which is lacking in men. Both boys and girls compliment each other and just because we have this club does not mean one will look down upon boys. There has to be equity,” she said. Sapru spoke about how this inequality exists in society irrespective of class or culture. She said that even in books or families, there were certain roles that women were expected to play and they had accepted that because it was “ingrained in them”. The members of the club organised orientation meetings with students to listen to their issues at home and outside on Friday. A 15-year-old gave an example of how in a joint family the girls were taught to cook, while no such expectation was there from the boys. A girl said that though her brother was younger than her, he could return home by 9pm but she had to be back before sundown. A 16-year-old was asked to study home science not because she wanted to but because she was a girl. “It is important to teach boys how to cook because it is a skill. Boys need to know how to cook because they will have to make their own food when they are alone,” said Pratyush Goenka, a Class XI student and the vice-president of the club. The club will organise conferences and campaigns to talk about gender equality and women empowerment. The president of the club said it was not enough to know these words - the boys and girls need to understand them and realise the impact of inequality on society. “There are girls who face discrimination but they do not realise that it is discrimination,” said Divyanshi Srivastava of Class XII, the president of the club. “It is important for men to realise that something is wrong and a change is needed. It is not enough if only one part of society tries to bring a change,” said Divyanshi. “We want our generation not to discriminate so that when their children grow up, they don’t have to face this discrimination,” said Pratyush.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
26-06-2021||Calcutta||Families with Covid patients should keep themselves occupied: Experts||Several mental health specialists said fami-lies with Covid-19 patients should keep themselves occupied with routine chores that would divert their mind from the disease and its ramification. Routine activities like clearing the cupboard, organising long-pending paperwork and gardening would help keep their mind off “even momentarily” from the disease. In almost all families, one or more members have been infected. Some of the members need hospitalisation while those recovering at home worry about their well-being. “The worry is real and one cannot wish it away. One needs to fill the day with routine activities that keep them distracted,” said psychiatrist Jai Ranjan Ram. He said there was a possibility of “concentration lapse” and in such situations mundane work would help. Psychiatrist Rima Mukherjee said it was not possible to feel positive during “stressful times”. “You do not need to be upset that you are not feeling positive all the time. People who are infected with Covid-19 or have any family member down with the virus, it is difficult to be positive but one has to continue to hope…keep oneself occupied,” she said. Mukherjee made the statement at a recent interactive session on Covid: Dealing with Anxiety, Fear and Grief, organised by South Point School. The session was attended by both the teachers and the administrative staff of the junior and the senior schools. Mukherjee said an occupation or a job could help them stay focused. “One could do chores that had been piled up for long like sorting out old clothes or solving crosswords,” she said. Mukherjee said the session was attended by teachers who were “very busy” with their school work during the pandemic. “It is a blessing because it gives you less time to brood or over think or feel anxious. That is the positive thing about working,” she said. But while the young or those working can still keep their mind off, the elderly or retired people should be encouraged to do activities that would help them cope with the situation. “The younger ones in the family should encourage them (the retired or elderly) to take up activities they haven't done for long like practising an art form or simply watching movies... concentration would be low…. Routine activities that do not require too much exertion are better. But engaging in something like that would momentarily take your mind off the fact that we are going through a bad pandemic…,” said psychologist Ruvena Sanyal. The disease has separated people from their own family as they are left to recover on their own, be it in the hospital or at home. “One needs to feel connected because that gives a sense of collective resilience that I am not the only one. What we are going through is universal grief and anguish,” said psychotherapist Farishta Dastur Mukerji.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
26-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid surge: Shops and markets shut for 3 days starting Monday||Shops and markets, barring those selling milk and medicines, in parts of Garia, Boral, Rajpur, Sonarpur, Harinavi, Kodalia and Subhasgram, on the southern fringes of Calcutta, will be shut for three days starting Monday. The authorities of Rajpur-Sonarpur Municipality took the decision following an alert from the health department over the rising number of Covid cases from those areas. “All shops and markets, except those offering emergency services like milk and medicines, will be shut. We will start campaigning from Saturday. If any shop is found open without a valid reason, action will be taken under the Disaster Management Act. We might decide to replicate this model again,” Pallab Das, the chairman of Rajpur-Sonarpur Municipality, told The Telegraph. “The Covid situation in Rajpur and Sonarpur is a cause of concern,” a health department official said. In South 24-Parganas, micro-containment zones have been declared in Bhangar, Canning and Mahestala.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
26-06-2021||Calcutta||State secondary education board allows one-day window to rectify Class IX marks errors||The state secondary education board has allowed a one-day window, from June 27 to 28, to schools that have committed errors while submitting marks of Class IX exams to enter the correct marks. The West Bengal Board of Secondary Education created a website for submission of Class IX marks to arrive at the final scores of the Madhyamik 2021 candidates and warned schools against any “discrepancy” in the marks entered in the website. The heads of the institutions have been asked to open https://www.wbbsedata.com on and from June 21 and submit the subject-wise marks by June 24. About 600 schools submitted erroneous marks. A notice signed by Kalyanmoy Ganguly, the board’s president, says: “This is to notify to the schools who requested the board for resubmission of marks of Class IX due to wrong submission of marks, the board has decided to open the same website from 11am June 27 to 11am June 28. If any discrepancy occurs during resubmitting of marks, no such window will be opened further…. Any discrepancy/tampering found in the marks register as well as in the submitted marks in the website shall lead to action as per rule.” An official of the board said the schools after submission of marks detected the errors on their own. “Many schools added the marks in the Class X formative exams. There are instances of marks of one student being submitted against another. So, the schools that appealed for rectification have been allowed a day for resubmission.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
26-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid surge: Several areas in city declared micro-containment zones ||Several areas in Salt Lake, Bangur, Baguiati, Jyangra, Kestopur and other places have been declared micro-containment zones because multiple Covid cases are being reported from there. The board of administrators of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation decided to set up micro-containment zones following an alert from the health department to the civic body and the Bidhannagar commissionerate. Among the containment zones is a 50-metre stretch in Salt Lake’s BF Block. On Friday, traffic guardrails were put up to demarcate the zone. Each guardrail has “Containment Zone” written on it. The guardrails had been placed along the sidewalk in front of the gates of at least five houses. A kindergarten school functions from the ground floor of one of the houses and a salon from another. Both establishments are closed because of Covid-19 restrictions. All houses have multiple Covid patients in home isolation, said a civic health official. Multiple micro-containment zones have been declared in Jyangra, near Baguiati, a 10-minute drive from VIP Road. Krishna Chakraborty, the chairperson of the board of administrators of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, said the objective of declaring containment zones was to ensure that people who had tested positive for Covid-19 did not step out. “We have asked the residents not to step out and be indoors at all times. We have given them the phone numbers of our officials who they can get in touch with if they need anything. This is a precautionary step. We don’t want any increase in the number of cases,” Chakraborty said. A senior officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said they, too, had reached out to residents and given them the phone numbers of policemen who they could contact for their daily needs. “We have directed them not to step out and have given them numbers of our personnel if they need any help, such as buying groceries and medicines,” the officer said. In Salt Lake, however, residents of at least two houses in a containment zone apparently sent their help and chauffeurs to markets to buy groceries and other essentials despite the civic body and the police repeatedly announcing that no one should go beyond the barricades. A resident of BF Block in Salt Lake’s Sector I, where a containment zone has been created using guardrails, said he had seen several people moving the guardrails and stepping out. Ankush Agarwal, 38, said he saw many people stepping out of the containment zone. “There were no cops posted near the guardrails and no one to monitor the entry and exit of people,” Agarwal said. Supriyo Chakraborty, the coordinator of Ward 31, which includes BF Block, said some residents had alerted him about violation of containment zone rules. “Many from affected families had even gone out to have snacks and tea at a nearby stall opposite the BF-CF park. We had requested them repeatedly not to go out,” Chakraborty said. An officer of the commissionerate said cops were patrolling the containment zones and repeatedly asking people not to step out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
26-06-2021||Calcutta||Three private hospitals get orders to refund various sums to patients||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Friday asked three private hospitals in the city to refund various sums to patients who had complained that the hospitals did not accept Swasthya Sathi cards or had charged them more. CMRI Hospital agreed to refund Rs 67,617 to a patient’s family who had alleged that the hospital did not agree to admit the patient — a 22-year-old woman — under the Swasthya Sathi scheme. “The patient’s family said the hospital refused to admit the woman under the Swasthya Sathi scheme. The hospital said the patient’s family presented the card after the woman had spent a fortnight at the hospital. We requested the hospital to consider the case on humanitarian grounds since the family is very poor. The hospital agreed to return Rs 67,617 out of the total Rs 8.67 lakh bill,” said the chairman of the commission, retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee. The woman was shifted to a state run hospital from CMRI where she passed away in May. Similarly, Iris Hospital in Jadavpur was asked to return Rs 50,000 to a patient’s family who had alleged that the hospital did not admit the patient under the Swasthya Sathi scheme. Banerjee said the hospital told them that the Swasthys Sathi scheme had not become operational in the hospital when the patient was admitted in May. “They agreed to return Rs 50,000 when we asked them,” he said. Fortis Hospital was asked to refund Rs 70,000 to a patient’s family after they lodged a complaint that the hospital had charged them the full package amount of Rs 2.10 lakh though the patient died within a day of admission. “The patient was admitted for a procedure under Rs 2.10 lakh package, but the 76-year-old man passed away within a day. The patient’s family that the hospital charged the full amount for one day. We asked the hospital to return Rs 70,000 that the patient party had to pay as it was not paid by the insurance company,” said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
26-06-2021||Business||Tata Consumer Products to launch American gourmet coffee brand Eight O’Clock in India||Tata Consumer Products Ltd is going to launch American gourmet coffee brand Eight O’Clock in India next week, 15 years after it acquired the business in the US. TCPL will sell the coffee directly to consumers in India, who can place orders online and get them delivered home. The Tatas had bought the company, the fourth largest in the roasted and grounded category of coffee in the US, for about Rs 1,015 crore from Gryphon Investors in 2006. Apart from the US, the 102-year old Eight O’Clock coffee brand is also available in Canada and Europe. This is the second premium coffee brand launched by TCPL, which has brought Starbucks to India through a joint venture, as it plans to strengthen its  presence in the coffee market in India. “I am happy to say that Eight O’Clock coffee will be launched in the D2C (direct-to-consumer) segment next week,” Natarajan Chandrasekaran, chairman of Tata Sons and TCPL, told shareholders at the 58th annual general meeting. The coffee business in the US grew 7 per cent in volume and 9 per cent in value (constant currency) in 2020-21, Sunil D’Souza, managing director & CEO of the company, later said. Eight O’clock Coffee Ltd, USA had reported a revenue of Rs 1,293 crore in the last fiscal and a profit of Rs 145 crore. The USA is the largest coffee market in the world, estimated at $11 billion. Earlier this year, TCPL launched Sonnets by Tata Coffee, a premium range of roast and ground coffee, again in the D2C segment. Responding to a shareholder on the way forward in coffee, the chairman said: “In all our portfolio we are really pushing (for) very strong distribution and market share gain, you are already seeing market share gain in tea and coffee is a long way to go but there is a big opportunity. We will definitely look at significant growth in this segment.” Food and beverages, which primarily include tea, are two of the strong pillars for TCPL which took over the consumer facing businesses of Tata Chemicals two years ago. Apart from salt, its portfolio now includes pulses, spices, ready-to-cook items, mineral water, and breakfast cereals. “When we did the integration we had committed synergies of Rs 100-150 crore in 18-24 months. We remain well on track to meet, if not exceed, the quantum and the timing of the synergies that we committed,” D’Souza said during the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-9
26-06-2021||Business||Pharmeasy to acquire Thyrocare in Rs 4,546 crore-deal||Online pharmacy chain PharmEasy will acquire Thyrocare Technologies Ltd for Rs 4,546 crore. API Holdings Ltd, the parent of PharmEasy, on Friday announced that it has signed definitive documents to acquire a 66.1 per cent stake in Thyrocare from Dr A. Velumani and affiliates at a price of Rs 1,300 per share aggregating to Rs 4,546 crore. The acquisition will be done by Docon Technologies Pvt Ltd, a 100 per cent subsidiary of API. Docon will also make an open offer for an additional 26 per cent stake at the same price for Rs 1,788 crore if the offer is fully accepted. This is at a discount of almost 8.15 per cent to the closing price of the Thyrocare scrip on Friday. On the BSE, the share ended with gains of 6.23 per cent at Rs 1,448.05. The announcement, which came after market hours, further said that current chairperson A. Velumani will be separately acquiring a minority non-controlling stake of less than 5 per cent in API as part of a series of equity investments by existing and new investors of the company. PharmEasy — founded by Dharmil Sheth, Dhaval Shah, Harsh Parekh, Hardik Dedhia and Siddharth Shah — is also present in the B2B pharma marketplace and consultation. The company has a base of more than 12 million consumers, a network of more than 6,000 digital consultation clinics and 90,000 partner retailers across the country. At present, it serves over 1 million users for their pharmacy and diagnostics needs, conducts 3,00,000 consultations and issues over one million digital prescriptions on a monthly basis. On the other hand, Thyrocare is the largest B2B player in the diagnostics space and has a network of over 3,330 collection centres across 2,000 towns in India. According to the companies, their collaboration is unique and transformative for the Indian healthcare sector. The synergies of both are expected to accelerate the delivery of high-quality diagnostic and OPD services. ‘‘We are delighted to partner Thyrocare. We will provide world-class customer experience in diagnostics by leveraging technology and building on the pan-India presence of Thyrocare,’’ Siddharth Shah, CEO of API Holdings, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-9
26-06-2021||Business||Reliance Industries share falls, analysts seek more clarity||Shares of Reliance Industries (RIL) slipped for the fourth day as analysts sought more clarity about its Rs 75,000-crore plan to invest in clean energy amid some apprehensions about its current valuation given its run-up over the past few weeks. The RIL scrip ended with losses of 2.28 per cent at Rs 2,104.30. “There was no O2C completion, no timeline on WhatsApp-JioMart, no timeline on IPOs of Jio/Retail...we would not be surprised to see some of the outperformance over the last six weeks reverse,’’ analysts at JP Morgan said. A note from Citi said clarity on the green energy projects and aspects is needed and it may be “premature” to incorporate any value accretion. Meanwhile, RIL has paid Rs 3,213 crore as corporate tax in 2020-21 — a decline of 61.6 per cent over the previous fiscal’s Rs 8,386 crore. The tax payout is perhaps the lowest since 2015. Consolidated revenue fell 18.3 per cent to Rs 5.39 lakh crore. However, annual profit rose 34.8 per cent to Rs 53,739 crore. Moody’s on 5G tech Moody’s on Friday said countries in the Asia-Pacific region, including India, that are late in adopting 5G technology will get insignificant revenue from the services. The governments in late adopter markets will have to play a significant role in 5G services roll-out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-9
26-06-2021||Business||R.C. Bhargava says states play key role in wooing big businesses||Industry veteran and chairman of Maruti Suzuki India, R.C. Bhargava, on Friday said the role of the state governments in making the manufacturing sector more competitive is more important for industry than an antagonistic Centre-state relationship. Bhargava was speaking on the prospects of a revival of manufacturing in eastern India at an event organised by the Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry. “I don’t think it matters whether the state and the central government are at loggerheads as long as the state government does what it should do to make manufacturing competitive in the region,” Bhargava said. The fundamental consideration for any industry, Bhargava said, is how to make its goods affordable to consumers. Instead of a policy that increases the cost of inputs and finished products, what industry needs is an enabling low-cost environment for manufacturing. Affordability will spur demand, which in turn will create employment and earnings for the government which can subsequently be used for social development. “If the eastern region wants to grow, they have to understand that the bulk of what requires to make industry come to the East lies in the hands of the state governments, the officers and the entire administrative machinery and not with central government or anybody outside,” Bhargava said. Bhargava rued that the government tends to not recognise the importance of time —  whether in making payments to private businesses or interacting with them. “If industry is to become more competitive, both at the political and the administrative level it has to be recognised that time is an extremely costly and valuable input for industry,” Bhargava said. Bhargava further said that the government should not create a situation where labour feels it can disregard whatever the management says with somebody there to bail them out. Bhargava, who had experience in both government and industry, was equally critical of industrialists. He said that industrialists have to comply with tax laws, give up ostentatious consumption, and operate their companies in the interest of all stakeholders including employees. No expansion Bhargava said that there is no immediate new capacity planned by the automotive major, including that in the east. “At the moment we are not looking at any site anywhere, because we have enough capacity. The market for cars is growing very slowly. In the last five years and I am excluding the Covid years, the compounded annual growth of car sales in India was 1.3 per cent. If industry is growing at that rate, why would somebody create large capacities anywhere,” he said. “Unless growth in India picks up sharply the question of investing in other parts of the country does not arise at this point of time,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-9
26-06-2021||Business||Centre plans another stimulus to provide relief to some sectors||The government is working on yet another economic stimulus measure which is likely to provide relief to sectors hit hard by the second wave of the pandemic. The package could include a scheme to promote health infrastructure in non-metro cities and a hike in the surety limit of the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) to Rs 4.5 lakh crore from Rs 3 lakh crore, sources said. They said the package will focus on augmenting dedicated Covid-19 treatment facilities, including ramping up of hospital beds, strengthening the procurement of essential medical equipment and drugs, bolstering the national and the state health infrastructure, and setting up more laboratories and testing centres. The sources said the package may be cleared next week as experts have forecast the third wave of the pandemic could hit the country in the middle of July that will put the medical infrastructure under strain. While the amount of the package for health infrastructure is unclear, the allocation would help in augmenting facilities in small towns. However, the ECLGS scheme would be expanded to hospitals, which can take up to Rs 100 crore in loans for facilities at non-metros. In new hospitals, up to 75 per cent of the loans will get the surety, while it will be 50 per cent of the loan in case of expansion. Earlier this week, the Centre extended the free foodgrain scheme of 5 kg under the ration system till November. “Interventions may continue for the vulnerable sections of society as well as industry as and when the need arises,” the official added. Sources said the RBI and finance ministry officials were working on relief measures for stressed borrowers. Around 80 per cent of small and medium businesses (SMBs) across India are “insecure” about their future following the first and second Covid wave-induced lockdowns, a survey conducted by the Consortium of Indian Associations (CIA) and its 40 partner SMB associations shows. “Over the past year, CIA has provided vital suggestions and modifications required on several initiatives taken by the central and state governments for the benefit of MSMEs. As a result, we realised a data-backed survey would help consolidate the feedback from this sector, to bring out the pain points and provide solutions,’’ said CIA convenor K.E. Raghunathan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-9
26-06-2021||Business||Government extends income tax compliance deadlines||The government on Friday extended the deadlines for various income tax compliances and also exempted from tax the amount given by an employer to employees for Covid-19 treatment. Ex gratia payments received from employers by family members in case of employees’ death because of Covid would be exempt from income tax in fiscal 2019-20 and subsequent years. The limit for such tax-exempted payment would be Rs 10 lakh in case it is received from any other person. Along with these reliefs, the government extended the deadline for a bunch of tax submissions. The deadline for making payments under the Vivad Se Vishwas direct tax dispute resolution scheme has been extended by two months till August 31. Taxpayers have the option to make payments till October 31 with an additional amount of interest. The last date for PAN-Aadhaar linking has been extended by three months to September 30, 2021. The date for furnishing Tax Deducted at Source (TDS) certificate in Form 16 to the employees by employers has been extended till July 31 from July 15, 2021. In case of taxing capital gains arising out of transfer of residential house property, the CBDT said for relief in taxation, the re-investment deadline would be September 30, 2021 for such capital gains. “Taxpayers intending to claim the exemption in respect of sums received during FY 2019-20 would need to revise their return of income to claim refund of tax paid. Hence, it is expected that the government may also extend the due date for filing a revised return for Assessment Year 2020-21. Taxpayers shall have to carefully read the fine print to check the applicable deadlines as a diverse set of dates have been prescribed under different sections,” Kumarmanglam Vijay, partner, J Sagar Associates, said. Tax expert Narayan Jain said, “The exemption for amount received for Covid treatment or amount received on death of Covid patient is a humanitarian decision. We welcome the extension of various timelines.’’||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-9
26-06-2021||India||Banquets to host 50 guests for wedding, gyms to open from Monday||Banquet halls for marriages with 50 people attending, gyms allowed to open in Delhi from Monday The Delhi government on Saturday allowed weddings at banquet, marriage halls and hotels with 50 people in attendance, and reopening of gyms and Yoga centres at 50 per cent capacity under the phased unlock process initiated with an improvement in the city's Covid-19 situation. The relaxations will come into force from Monday. The Delhi Diaster Management Authority(DDMA) in its order said the prohibited and restricted activities will continue till 5 am on July 5. Gyms and banquet halls were closed on April 19 when Delhi was facing the brutal second wave of Covid-19. In second week of May, weddings were permitted at home and in courts with not more than 20 people in attendance. According to NDTV report Delhi, recorded its lowest daily rise in Covid cases today with only 85 new infections in 24 hours, has been easing Covid restrictions over the past few days. Last week, the Delhi government allowed shops to remain open through the week, while markets were allowed to function with a reduced workforce. Bars, had also been permitted to operate till 10 pm, while the timings for restaurants were extended from June 20. However, with the relaxations also came warning by doctors and public health experts concerning rapid unlocking and Covid protocols being not followed. Delhi has witnessed one of the worst Covid-19 outbreaks during the pandemic’s second wave(April and May) and witnessed huge number of cases on a daily basis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-31
26-06-2021||India||Vaccine: Zydus Cadila shot for 12-18 soon, says Centre||A new coronavirus vaccine developed by Indian pharmaceutical company Zydus Cadila will be available soon for the young between 12-18, the central government said in an affidavit to the Supreme Court on Friday. According to NDTV, filed in response to the Supreme Court's pointed questions about the vaccination drive, the centre also briefed the court about its plans to vaccinate all adults in the country by the end of the year. It said that 186.6 crore doses are needed for vaccinating people above 18 years who number 93-94 crore. Walk in vaccinations have been allowed all ages and digital divide is not a constraint for access to vaccines anymore, it added. Calling its vaccination policy dynamic and not static, the centre said Covid-19 shots are now free for all above 18 years under the new policy in effect since Monday. Vaccination figures are put out in the public domain on a daily basis, it said, underscoring its efforts at transparency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-31
26-06-2021||India||J&K: Omar seeks reinstatement of statehood followed by Assembly elections||The National Conference, a key partner of the alliance fighting for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, on Saturday favoured reinstatement of statehood to be followed by Assembly elections and said it would not “fool” people with assurances of a return of the undiluted Article 370. The comments of NC vice-president Omar Abdullah suggest the party is warming up for business with the Centre that is firmly against any rethink on Article 370. Restoration of statehood is the cornerstone of the agenda of the five-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, of which the NC’s Farooq Abdullah is the head. PDP leader Mehbooba Mufti, another partner of the alliance, has made it clear in the aftermath of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s reach-out meeting with Valley politicians on Thursday that there would be no compromise on this primary demand and that she would not participate in any election until special status was restored. Appearing to justify his stand, NC vice-president and former chief minister Omar said people across the region badly needed a “breather” and that his party wanted to pull them out of trouble. Omar and his father Farooq addressed the media in Srinagar on Saturday after returning from the all-party meeting with Modi in New Delhi. “Azad sahab (Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad) spoke on behalf of us (before the Prime Minister) and said the (Centre’s) timeline of delimitation-election-statehood was not acceptable to us and that it should be delimitation-statehood-election. If elections are to be held, restore statehood first and then only we will talk about elections,” Omar said. “Azad sahab put forth this view on our behalf at the meeting. Whenever we get an opportunity, we will keep stressing on it,” he added. The Prime Minister is reported to have sought the Jammu and Kashmir leadership’s support in completing the delimitation and suggested that statehood could be restored after Assembly elections. Omar said on Saturday that his party would not fool people by saying it expected the current regime to restore the special status but that the Valley leadership would continue to strive for it legally, politically, constitutionally and peacefully. “It took the BJP 70 years to fulfil its political agenda on (Article) 370. Our struggle has just started. We don’t want to fool people by telling them we will get 370 back in these talks,” Omar said. “They snatched it from us. We can’t fool people (by saying) they will return it.” Farooq, the NC president, did not object to Omar’s views. When the Gupkar alliance was floated in August 2019, it had stated without any ambiguity that restoration of the undiluted Article 370 was its utmost priority. “We want to assure the people that all our political activities will be subservient to the sacred goal of reverting to the status of J&K as it existed on 4th August, 2019,” the second declaration of the alliance had said in August last year. The declaration was issued after the Valley’s key leaders were released from jail. In July last year, weeks after his release, Omar had kicked up a political storm by favouring the restoration of statehood as a condition for participation in elections. NC chief spokesman Ruhullah Medhi had resigned in protest. Omar backed off after an outcry and allegations of sell-out, claiming he “never placed statehood above the restoration of Article 370”. On Saturday, Omar took care to point out that he would not personally contest elections “at the moment” but they could not wait for the Supreme Court’s decision on Article 370 endlessly. “We have challenged everything (the August 5, 2019, decision to scrap special status) but that does not mean we will stop. Let us talk to people here. If the people of Jammu and Kashmir tell us that until we have the Supreme Court decision, it makes no difference to us that hospitals are not functioning; some DCs (deputy commissioners) arrest a common Kashmiri only for saying that he can talk to a local officer but outsiders do not understand him; if people are suffering and getting arrested time and again; there is a bureaucratic unchecked administration — if people of Jammu and Kashmir like it… we will raise our hands (and give up),” Omar said. “But people want a breather here. If people want there should be officers who listen to them, understand them, are concerned about their children’s education and health, then the vehicle can move on both tracks. We will not leave that fight (for Article 370) but wherever we can take people out of tribulations, that should be done,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-31
26-06-2021||India||Enforcement Directorate summons Anil Deshmukh in money laundering case||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh has been asked to appear before the Enforcement Directorate or ED for questioning early next week after he sought a fresh date for appearance in a money laundering case related to an alleged multi-crore bribery-and-extortion racket that led to his resignation in April, officials said. The 71-year-old Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader was asked to depose before the investigating officer at the agency office in Ballard Estate in Mumbai by 11 am. However, he did not turn up and instead sent his lawyers to the ED office seeking case documents and a fresh date for appearance. Deshmukh has now been asked to appear next week by Tuesday, news agency PTI reported quoting sources. Earlier, lawyers of Deshmukh handed over a letter written by the politician to the investigators. "He (Deshmukh) will not appear today. We have not been given documents related to this case and we have given a letter to ED demanding these documents and case details in which he is to be questioned. We will furnish our reply accordingly," lawyer Jayvant Patil told reporters outside the ED office. The central agency early on Saturday arrested his personal secretary Sanjeev Palande, 51, and personal assistant Kundan Shinde, 45, after it carried out raids against them and Deshmukh in Mumbai and Nagpur on Friday. The aides were brought to the ED office for questioning following the searches and arrested subsequently. They were sent to the agency's custody till July 1 by a special court here. The ED case against Deshmukh and others was made out after the CBI first carried out a preliminary inquiry followed by a regular case being filed on the orders of the Bombay High Court. The court had asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to look into the allegations of bribery made against Deshmukh by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Deshmukh, who had resigned from his post in April following the allegations, has denied any wrongdoing. Singh, a senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, was forced out of his post after investigators revealed the role of assistant police inspector Sachin Waze in the stationing of an explosive-laden SUV near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's Mumbai residence that triggered a terror scare. Waze has since been dismissed from service. In his letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray after he was removed from the police commissioner's post, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had asked Waze to extort over ₹ 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. According to the ED, about 10 bar owners in Mumbai recorded statements before it alleging that they had paid about ₹ 4.7 crore "bribe" in cash in a three-month period to be handed over to Deshmukh through police officials. Deshmukh was the home minister in the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra headed by Uddhav Thackeray. In his letter, Param Bir Singh also alleged that Palande was present when Deshmukh had asked Waze to extort money. The CBI named Mr Deshmukh and others under criminal conspiracy charges and "attempt to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of public duty".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-31
26-06-2021||India||Congress demands immediate release of dearness allowance||The Congress on Saturday demanded immediate release of dearness allowance (DA) to 115 lakh government employees, including armed forces personnel, that was suspended last year in view of the Covid pandemic. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said the government should not be insensitive towards its employees and armed forces, and not play jokes with them at a time when salaries are decreasing and inflation is rising. Hitting out at the government, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said it is a crime to "loot" Rs 37,500 crore from soldiers, government employees and pensioners. "Even in the Covid epidemic, instead of increasing the morale of 113 lakh employees engaged in the service of the country, the central government is trying to snatch their hard-earned money," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "It is a crime to loot Rs 37,500 crore from soldiers, government employees and pensioners," Gandhi added. Singhvi said the government should pay the actual arrears of DA to employees as per 7th Pay Commission and not play jugglery or pull wool into the eyes of the common man. "This frequent shadow boxing by the central government, in respect of dearness allowance can only highlight and underline the mischievous, the malevolent and the Machiavellian approach of the government towards lakhs and crores of central government employees and lakhs of Army-related employees and pensioners within that category," he said at an online press conference. "This non-payment highlights and underlines the clear hypocrisy, the clear double standard of the government, which speaks in two voices, forked tongues about nationalism. We demand an immediate restoration of the DA that was suspended last year," he added. Singhvi said on April 23, 2020, the "government hit people's stomach with a kick by cutting Rs 37,500 crore", which was payable as dearness allowance by the 7th Pay commission to 115 lakh government employees. He said these include 41 lakh people either serving or retired pensioners within the armed forces, the balance 65-70 lakh are central government employees. The Congress leader demanded that the government pay them three instalments of DA due on January 1, 2020, July 1, 2020 and January 1, 2021. "Please, don't do your usual jugglery and pull in the wool over the Aam Aadmi's eyes. Make sure that what you give back by way of arrears is actual real arrears," he said, adding that the government makes sure the rate increase fully covers and compensates them. He said from July 1 this year everything should be restored on parity as intended and envisaged by the 7th pay commission. "These are cruel jokes, insensitive government, as I said a mischievous, malevolent and Machiavellian approach, which needs to be immediately rectified, at least from July 1 forthwith," Singhvi said. The Congress leader said the cut made retrospectively in April last year citing Covid was "a very weird irony and paradox", as one cannot think of a more "absurd reason" that the government slapped its employees with a cut of Rs 37,500 crore instead of helping them. He alleged that the government did not stop the Central Vista project which is over half this money. "Not a penny was cut there because somebody's ego is paramount," Singhvi said. "This is a strangest, weirdest approach and definition, where you are attacking your own armed forces. You are doing a surgical strike on your own armed forces. You are speaking on a forked tongue of nationalism, in the same breath," Singhvi claimed. The Congress spokesperson said while the inflation is touching new highs, the government has not even given a direct fiscal incentive to boost the economy in Covid times, whereas some countries have given a direct boost to their economy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-31
26-06-2021||India||Modi reviews Covid-19 situation, expresses satisfaction at vaccination pace||Expressing satisfaction at an increased speed of Covid-19 vaccination this week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said it is important to carry this momentum forward and also underlined a need to involve NGOs and other organisations in efforts to expand the drive. Over 3.77 crore Covid vaccine doses have been administered in the last six days, the government said in a statement after a high-level review meeting held by Modi with top officials on the progress of the vaccination drive. It was noted that 128 districts in the country have vaccinated more than 50 per cent of over 45 years of population and 16 districts have vaccinated more than 90 per cent of this age group. "PM was informed that 3.77 crore doses have been administered in the last 6 days which is more than the entire population of countries like Malaysia, Saudi Arabia and Canada," the Prime Minister's Office said. Modi also directed officials to work with states to ensure that the pace of testing does not go down as testing remains a very important weapon to track and contain rising infections in any region Modi underlined the need to involve NGOs and other organisations in the vaccination drive, with officials stating that they are in touch with state governments to explore and implement innovative methods to reach people for vaccination, the PMO said. Modi was also informed about the rising interest in Cowin platform globally, his office noted, adding that he said that efforts should be made to help all countries, who have expressed interest, with India's rich tech expertise in the form of Cowin platform. Officials gave a detailed presentation to Modi on the progress of inoculation in the country and was briefed about the age-wise vaccination coverage. He was also briefed about the vaccine coverage among healthcare workers, frontline workers and the general population in various states, the PMO said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-31
26-06-2021||India||A career in Cyber security can give 100% financial growth early on in your career, says Mr. Kaushik Ray||Q1. Cyber security training is quickly replacing coding as a career choice within technology. What the last decade was to coding perhaps this decade will do the same for cyber security. How and why did this tectonic shift come by?  A. Covid19 led to massive digital adoption starting 2020. This led to an explosion in cybercrime and cyber-attack. Cyber security thus became an absolute necessity for any enterprise, private or Govt, in protecting their digital infrastructure. This has led to huge demand-supply gap in cyber security experts leading to unprecedented salary growth and freelancing opportunities unlike coding which has experienced regular growth in largely IT companies.  Q2. What are the major gaps in cyber security training segment in India? What sets WhizHack Technologies apart?  A. We realized there is hardly any standardization in cyber security trainings and hundreds of mom-and-pop training centers have sprung up to cater to the rising demand. Problem is gullible students subscribe to these courses with little or no employment prospects as these courses are largely theoretical with no industry connect. Most courses are taught using open-source tools whereas employers seek hands on skills of commercial tools with standardised certifications that are valued in India & abroad  Coming to the next part of your question, we are 3 co-founders who collectively have over 90 years of collective experience building technologies, complex trainings and running new age technologies at large scale. We realized that for a developing country like India to overcome menace of rising cyber-crimes and organized attacks, the most important thing is to build a complete ecosystem to manage cyber security. WhizHack is India’s 1st vertically integrated cyber security organization developing advance surveillance systems, managing security services and training next generation of workforce for a secured cyber ecosystem.   Q3. What sort of job profiles do you prepare your students for and what kind of average compensation can they expect in the market?  A. We prepare our students for a variety of positions that are in-demand and meet their new skillset. These budding Cyber Security professionals can look at positions that include Cyber Forensics Analyst, Network Operations Specialist, Cyber Analyst, Cyber Incident Responder, and Cyber Infrastructure Support Specialist. Average starting salaries are Rs. 5 lakhs per annum for freshers and Rs. 8 lakhs and above with experience. Most importantly, they get into core cyber security jobs which propel them to grow their professional and financial growth by over 100% in the next few years.  Q4. How can budding cyber security experts equip themselves to fight competition and thrive in a dynamic industry as this?  A. As per Michael Page, India is expected to have over 1.5 million unfulfilled job vacancies in cybersecurity by 2025, the second highest in the APAC Region after China. According to Indeed, the average annual salary for the position of a security specialist in India is ₹889,265. Job seekers in the age group of 25 to 29 accounted for most searches for roles in cybersecurity, followed by those in the age group of 20 to 24 and 30 to 34.  Cyber security thus offers huge possibilities for professional success. However, this is a field where knowledge needs to be constantly upgraded, religiously track the latest technology developments used by cyber criminals in India and abroad, actively participate and contribute in cyber defense communities and leverage strong mentors (knowledge+industry) who can easily give you a head start of several years.  Q5. How does a dual certification programme at WhizHack help students seeking a career in Cyber defense?  A. The IIT Jodhpur TISC WhizHack, powered by Cybint, Israel is India’s first and only Dual Certificate program in Advanced Cyber Defense. The programme is unprecedented in its scale and depth of knowledge development and empowerment. This a 6-month part time course and prepares students to enter the cyber security industry as a specialist. It has the advantages of blended training- live mentoring by IIT Jodhpur faculty and 50% hands on training in personalized cloud based Israeli labs with latest cyber defense techniques.  This course is aligned with National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education (NICE), the Cybersecurity Workforce Framework in the US and CompTIA Security+ Course that helps graduates work in different parts of the World. The icing on the cake is access to commercial projects during training and a one-year extended access to Israeli labs with latest commercial tools for easy hiring by top employers. Course information on:- iitj@whizhack.com or 8447223249||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-31
26-06-2021||India||Stuck in traffic due to Kovind’s visit, Uttar Pradesh woman dies ||A woman in Kanpur lost her life on Friday night as she and her family were reportedly stuck in the traffic and got delayed due to restrictions during President Ram Nath Kovind’s visit to the city. According to a report by ndtv.com, Vandana Mishra, the 50-year-old woman who died, was the head of the women's wing of the Kanpur chapter of the Indian Association of Industries. Her family had rushed her to a private hospital last night after she fell seriously ill.Mishra had recovered from Covid-19 recently, the report says. Mishra’s emergency visit to the hospital coincided with the time when Kovind was visiting Kanpur and police stopped traffic along the route she was travelling. Reports quoted by ndtv.com say the situation led to a traffic pile-up and an inordinate delay, and Mishra was pronounced dead on reaching the hospital. Taking note of the incident, the Kanpur Police apologised on Saturday. "On behalf of Kanpur Police and myself, I am deeply sorry about the demise of Vandana Mishra. This is a big lesson for the future. We pledge our 'route' system will be such that citizens are held up for the shortest possible time so such incidents are not repeated," Kanpur Police Commissioner Asim Arun tweeted. In another tweet, the Commissionarate of Kanpur said that Kovind was disturbed by the incident. “The President called the police commissioner and the district magistrate and enquired about the incident. He asked officials to personally convey his condolences to the family,” they said. A senior police official has been asked to carry out an inquiry, and sub-inspector Sushil Kumar and three constables have been suspended over the incident for holding traffic for longer than needed. The president is on a three-day visit to his birthplace, Kanpur, and reached there on Friday by train.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-31
26-06-2021||India||Delhi registers 85 fresh Covid cases in a day, lowest of the year||The national capital recorded 85 fresh cases of coronavirus, the lowest daily count this year, and nine more deaths on Saturday, according to data shared by the Health Department here. The positivity rate dipped to 0.12 per cent, it said. The nine new fatalities have pushed the death toll in the city to 24,961. On Monday, Delhi had reported 89 coronavirus cases with a positivity rate of 0.16 per cent, while 11 people had died, the data showed. Ninety-four people had been diagnosed Covid positive on February 16 while the daily tally was 96 on January 27, according to official figures. Delhi had recorded 111 cases and seven deaths on Wednesday, while the positivity rate stood at 0.15 per cent. On Thursday, 109 COVID-19 cases and eight deaths were recorded while on Friday, 115 cases and four deaths, lowest since March 21, were reported.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-31
26-06-2021||India||Tomar urges farmers to end seven-month long protest||As farmers' protest against the new farm laws entered eighth month, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Saturday appealed to protesting farmers to end their agitation while saying that the government is ready to resume talks on the provisions of three legislations. The government and farmer unions have held 11 rounds of talks so far, the last being on January 22, to break the deadlock and end the farmers' protest. Talks have not resumed following widespread violence during a tractor rally by protesting farmers on January 26. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi's borders for seven months now in protest against the three laws that they say will end state procurement of crops at MSP. The Supreme Court has put on hold the implementation of the three laws till further orders and has set up a committee to find solutions. The committee has submitted its report. "I want to convey through your (media) that farmers should end their agitation. ....Many are in favour of these new laws across the country. Still, some farmers have any issue with provisions of the laws, Government of India is ready to listen and discuss with them," Tomar tweeted. He said the government held 11 rounds of consultations with protesting farmer unions. The government has increased the minimum support price (MSP) and is procuring more quantity at MSP. Farmers' protest had started on November 26 last year and has now completed seven months notwithstanding the coronavirus pandemic. Three union ministers, including Tomar and Food Minister Piyush Goyal, have held 11 rounds of talks with the protesting farmer unions. In the last meeting on January 22, the government's negotiations with 41 farmer groups hit a roadblock as the unions squarely rejected the Centre's proposal of putting the laws on suspension. During the 10th round of talks held on January 20, the Centre had offered to suspend the laws for 1-1.5 years and form a joint committee to find solutions, in return for protesting farmers going back to their respective homes from Delhi's borders. The three laws -- The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- were passed by the Parliament in September last year. Farmer groups have alleged that these laws will end the mandi and MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced. On January 11, the Supreme Court had stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Bhartiya Kisan Union President Bhupinder Singh Mann had recused himself from the committee. Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) President Anil Ghanwat and agriculture economists Pramod Kumar Joshi and Ashok Gulati are the other members on the panel. They have completed the consultation process with stakeholders and submitted the report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-32
26-06-2021||India||Farooq Abdullah, son Omar want statehood for Jammu and Kashmir before elections||National Conference chief Farooq Abdullah Saturday said there was "a level of mistrust" in Jammu and Kashmir and it was for the Centre to remove it, even as his son and former chief minister Omar Abdullah demanded restoring Jammu and Kashmir's statehood before holding Assembly polls. Speaking to reporters upon their return from Delhi after attending an all-party meet convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on J&K, Farooq said he would hold discussions with his party leaders and PAGD constituents before making any further statement on the meeting. He said the country's first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru promised plebiscite to the people of J&K but went back on it. He also said that before the 1996 elections, the then prime minister P V Narasimha Rao had promised autonomy to J&K from the floor of the house. "Narasimha Raoji before elections promised us autonomy and said the sky is the limit, but not independence. We said we never asked (for) independence, we have asked for autonomy. He promised us from the floor of the house. Where is that?" Farooq asked. "There is a level of mistrust...We should wait and see what they (the Centre) do... Whether they will remove the mistrust or let it continue," he added. Farooq said even senior Congress leader Karan Singh has called for the restoration of statehood to Jammu and Kashmir before holding elections. He said that at the prime minister's meeting, all invited persons put forth their views. "This was the first step from their side that somehow the situation is improved in Jammu and Kashmir and a political process is restarted." he said, adding he would speak more on the meeting after consulting party members and PAGD leaders. The Srinagar Lok Sabha MP dismissed suggestions that the June 24 meeting with the Prime Minister signalled the end of the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) -- a Six-party amalgam of mainstream parties formed after the Centre abrogated Article 370 and split Jammu and Kashmir into two union territories in August 2019. "Why should it be the end of the alliance?" Omar, meanwhile, told reporters it was made clear to the Centre during the PM's meeting that the statehood should be restored to J&K before holding Assembly polls. "(Ghulam Nabi) Azad sahib spoke on behalf of all of us that we do not accept this timeline. We do not accept delimitation, election, statehood. We want delimitation, statehood and then the election. If you want to hold polls, you will have to restore statehood first," he told reporters after his return from Delhi. On the process of delimitation, he said the National Conference had authorised its president Farooq Abdullah to take a view as and when the party is approached by the delimitation commission again. He also dismissed suggestions that the PAGD was weakened after the all-party meeting, saying alliance members said nothing against the spirit of the grouping. "We maintain that we do not accept the August 2019 decisions and we will continue to fight them legally, democratically and peacefully," he said. Referring to some leaders refusing to talk about the restoration of Article 370 as the matter was subjudice, Omar said it should not come in the way of discussing the issue. "Firstly, only two persons said the matter is subjudice -- Azad and Muzaffar Hussain Baig -- and they both are not part of the PAGD. The matter is before the Supreme Court does not mean we cannot talk about it. The Babri Masjid case was before the Supreme Court but the BJP raised the Ram Temple issue all along," he said. He said the leaders were invited to the all-party meet at the party level and not as an alliance representative. "Had we been invited as an alliance, then only one person would have been invited," he added. The National Conference vice president said they would continue to strive for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir's special status, irrespective of how long it takes. "It took 70 years for the BJP to succeed in their agenda of abrogation of Article 370. We won't back off from our mission, even if it takes us 70 weeks or 70 months or more time," he said. He said the leadership should take steps that provide some respite to the people from "harassment". "If people are fine with no development till the Supreme Court decides on the petition, we will also raise our hands. A man was jailed for just saying that he was more comfortable with local officers as outside officers do not understand him... We want that we should provide relief to people on these accounts. The two things (providing relief to people and legal process) can go on simultaneously, " he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-32
26-06-2021||India||CJI Ramana prods law minister on poor digital connectivity in rural areas||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana has written to Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad seeking steps to resolve the poor digital connectivity in rural, tribal, remote and hilly areas that is "adversely impacting the pace of justice delivery". The CJI referred to the digital divide and said that "a whole generation of lawyers is being pushed out of the system" due to the technological inequality. He was speaking during the release of a book, 'Anomalies in Law and Justice', authored by former Supreme Court Judge Justice R V Raveendran in a virtual function here. During the course of the panel discussion that followed the launch of the book, he informed that the matter of connectivity figured prominently in the two-day conference of chief justices of high courts that he had held recently. "The poor connectivity in rural, tribal, remote and hilly areas is adversely impacting the pace of justice delivery and is also depriving thousands of young lawyers across the country of their livelihood. "A whole generation of lawyers is being pushed out of the system due to digital divide," the CJI said. Justice Ramana also said that he recently wrote to the minister of Law, Communications and IT highlighting these issues and requested him to initiate steps on priority to bridge the digital divide and also to evolve a mechanism to help the advocates who have lost livelihood due to the Covid pandemic and who are in dire need of financial assistance. The CJI also highlighted the need to declare the legal professionals and associated functionaries as frontline workers and the need to vaccinate them all on priority.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-32
26-06-2021||India||Coronavirus will win if we keep fighting, says Kejriwal after oxygen controversy||Seeking to move on from the controversy over a Supreme Court-appointed panel report on Delhi's oxygen demand, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday called for everyone to work together to ensure there is no shortage of oxygen in the next Covid wave. The virus will win if there is a fight among stakeholders, Kejriwal tweeted, a day after his Aam Aadmi Party and the BJP hit out at each each other over the report that said Delhi's oxygen needs were exaggerated four times over during the second Covid wave. "May we work now if your fight over oxygen is finished? Let us together make a system so no one faces shortage of oxygen in third wave," Kejriwal said in his tweet in Hindi. "There was an acute shortage of oxygen in the second wave. It should not be so in the third wave. Corona will win if we fight with each other. The nation will win if we fight together," he added. While AAP leaders accused the BJP of "cooking up" the report from the Supreme Court appointed committee, the saffron party charged the Delhi government with "criminal negligence". Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia alleged that the "bogus" and "misleading" report was "cooked up" at BJP's office and submitted by the Centre in the apex court. The sub-group constituted by the Supreme Court to audit oxygen consumption in hospitals in the national capital during the second wave said the Delhi government "exaggerated" the consumption of oxygen and made a claim of 1,140 MT, four times higher than the formula for bed capacity requirement of 289 MT. The five-member panel, headed by AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria, said the Delhi government had made the claims for allocation of 700 MT oxygen on April 30 of medical grade oxygen using a "wrong formula". Two members, B S Bhalla, Delhi government's principal home secretary, home, and Max Healthcare's Clinical Director Sandeep Budhiraja, questioned the conclusions. Bhalla gave his objections and comments on the 23-page interim report shared with him on May 30. The report has an annexure of communication sent by Bhalla on May 31 in which he said a reading of the draft interim report makes it painfully apparent that the sub-group, instead of focussing on the task, delineated from the terms of order of the Supreme Court dated May 6. As controversy spiralled on Friday, Kejriwal reacted to developments saying his only "crime" was that he "fought for the breath of two crore people" of Delhi. "...When you were doing an election rally, I was awake all night arranging for oxygen. I fought, pleaded to get oxygen for people." "People have lost their loved ones due to lack of oxygen. Don't call them liars, they are feeling so bad," Kejriwal said on Twitter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-32
26-06-2021||India||Delta Plus: 21 new cases prompt Maharashtra to tighten curbs  ||The Maharashtra Government has tightened lockdown curbs in an effort to head off the spread of the new Delta Plus variant and avert a lethal third wave. The government took the step after some 21 cases of the new Delta Plus variant emerged and infection numbers and deaths have been nudging higher in the state. So far, one death has been attributed to the new Delta Plus variant involving an 80-year-old woman with comorbidities in the Ratnagiri district. The new lineage has been labelled a “variant of concern” by both the state and central governments. The tighter level-three restrictions out of a five-level unlock plan have been imposed until further notice under the state government’s “break the chain” guidelines. The government said it will use positivity test results from RT-PCR tests, not less accurate rapid antigen tests, to determine the future lockdown restrictions. Authorities have warned that a third Covid-19 wave could strike the state in the coming weeks if people fail to abide by “Covid-appropriate” behaviour. The state government decided it could not afford to take any chances and has tightened the lockdown even though little is known about whether the new variant is more virulent. “We are being a little cautious. We know from past experience that these things have a way of being an unpleasant surprise,” a state government official said. Ordinary shops and establishments can stay open until 4 pm on weekdays. The tighter restrictions still allow restaurants to remain open with 50 per cent capacity until 4 pm on weekdays and provide takeaways and home deliveries outside those hours. The Maharashtra Government said it has conducted extensive testing in different districts and has sent the results of the tests for genomic sequencing to the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology. Until Friday, Maharashtra had been proceeding with a careful five-level lockdown plan that it had announced June 5. The new variant has emerged as the number of Covid-19 cases and also deaths in states like Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu have stubbornly remained at relatively high levels, even as cases in cities like Delhi have fallen sharply. “We have learned lessons from the first and second waves,” Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said this week. The state had 19 lakh cases in the first wave and close to 40 lakh in the second. The Centre reported 51 cases of the Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 spread across 11 states, with the maximum number of cases in Maharashtra. The government called the cases “very localised”. Delta Plus cases have been detected in the UK, the US, Portugal, China and Russia, among other countries. Senior virologist Shahid Jameel points out that, “places have opened and now everyone is out.” He adds: “The graph of cases coming down will never be very symmetrical. The tail is always going to wag the dog. This has been the experience in other countries too.” Scientists fear Delta Plus (B.1.617.2.1) could be a variant that’s much more infectious and severe than the aggressive Delta strain which was first detected in India and is believed to be largely responsible for the devastating second wave. There are worries that Delta Plus could be able to escape the protection from existing Covid-19 vaccines and be immune to certain drugs. Jameel says vaccination still remains the “safest bet” to end the pandemic. “We have to vaccinate, wear masks. It comes down to individual choice and public policy.” Jameel adds there is one genomic mutation every 11 days. “The new Delta Plus lineage could be minor,” he said. But he added that in Maharashtra’s case, it was clearly a case of “once bitten, twice shy. While India’s immunisation rollout has surged, experts say it may not be enough to avert a third wave nationwide with many more vaccine doses needed and delivery hurdles. After vaccinating a record more than 8 million people Monday, the country vaccinated 6.5 million people Friday, including 364,322 in Bengal. Says Health Economist Rijo M. John: “Kerala definitely seems to have entered into a higher plateau with the cases staying pretty constant around 12,000 for the past several days and the situation in Maharashtra is not much different.” He adds: “It could be also a matter of better reporting. No-one is quite sure.” India reported 51,225 fresh Covid cases Friday of which Maharashtra contributed 9,844. The Maharashtra case figure is up from 7,652 nine days ago. New cases in Tamil Nadu stood at 6,162 and 12,078 in Kerala. New deaths stood at 1,324 out of which 556 were in Maharashtra,155 in Tamil Nadu and 136 in Kerala. Covid claimed 41 lives in Bengal Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-32
26-06-2021||India||Ayodhya should manifest finest of our traditions, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday reviewed the Ayodhya development plan and asserted that the temple town in Uttar Pradesh should manifest the "finest of our traditions and the best of our developmental transformations", according to government sources. Speaking at a virtual meeting, which was also attended by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Modi described Ayodhya as a city that is etched in the cultural consciousness of every Indian. "Ayodhya should manifest the finest of our traditions and the best of our developmental transformations," the prime minister was quoted by a government source as saying at the meeting. Noting that Ayodhya is both spiritual and sublime, Modi said the human ethos of the city must be matched by futuristic infrastructure, which is beneficial for everyone including tourists and pilgrims, according to the sources. The coming generations should feel the desire to visit Ayodhya at least once in their lifetime, Modi was quoted as saying. The prime minister said that the way Lord Ram had the ability to bring people together, the development works of Ayodhya should be guided by a spirit of healthy public participation, especially the youth. He also called for the skills of talented youngsters to be leveraged in this development of the city, the sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-32
26-06-2021||India||Top BJP leaders discuss preparations for Assembly polls in 5 states in 2022||Preparation for the assembly polls in five states early next year was the main agenda of a meeting of senior BJP leaders, including several Union ministers, on Saturday as they deliberated on political and governance issues linked to these states. Party president J P Nadda and Union ministers Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh, Nirmala Sitharaman, Narendra Singh Tomar, Smriti Irani, and Kiren Rijiju were among those who attended the meeting, party leaders said. "Preparation for the assembly polls in five states were the main agenda of the meeting," a party leader said after the meeting. Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Manipur and Goa are slated for early next year. The BJP is in power in all these states except Punjab, and has been holding a series of meetings of its senior leaders as it works to put up an impressive show in the next round of elections. Uttar Pradesh is especially crucial to the BJP's political fortunes as the party has been the dominant power in the country's largest state since Prime Minister Narendra Modi led it to power in 2014. The ruling party leaders have been holding deliberations for some time over a number of political and governance issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-32
26-06-2021||India||Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra report first deaths due to Delta Plus variant of coronavirus||Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra reported their first deaths due to the Delta plus variant of Covid-19 on Saturday and Friday respectively, according to officials. In Tamil Nadu, a patient from Madurai succumbed to the infection, according to the state health department. Minister for Medical and Family Welfare MA Subramanian said three positive cases of the new 'Delta Plus' variant were identified of which two have recovered. Those tested positive for the Delta Plus variant include a 32 year old nurse from Chennai and another individual from Kancheepuram district. "After the death of the Madurai patient, the samples were collected, which confirmed that it was 'Delta Plus' variant," he said. However, the patient's contacts have tested negative. In Maharashtra, an elderly woman died in Ratnagiri civil hospital, a senior official said Friday. The woman hails from Sangameswar and was admitted to the hospital, over 330 kilometres from Mumbai, a few days ago, Ratnagiri district official Sanjay Shinde told PTI. He said the woman's death was being audited to see if she suffered from comorbidities. Shinde said district officials have been told to increase awareness as well as sensitise people about appropriate Covid-19 behavior. According to the Union health ministry, after Maharashtra with the maximum of 20 cases of 'Delta Plus', nine people in Tamil Nadu have tested positive for the new variant as of Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-32
26-06-2021||India||Money laundering: Anil Deshmukh fails to appear before ED||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh has sought a fresh date for appearance before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) which had summoned him for questioning on Saturday in a money laundering case related to an alleged multi-crore bribery-cum-extortion racket that led to his resignation in April, officials said. The 71-year-old Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader was asked to depose before the investigating officer at the agency office in Ballard Estate here by 11 am, they said. A team of Deshmukh's lawyers visited the ED office and sought a fresh date for appearance, officials said, adding that the agency is expected to accept his request. The central agency had arrested his personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and personal assistant Kundan Shinde late last night after it carried out raids against them and Deshmukh in Mumbai and Nagpur. The aides were brought to the ED office for questioning following the searches and arrested subsequently. They will be produced before a special court for cases under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in Mumbai on Saturday where the ED will seek their remand for custodial interrogation, officials said. The ED case against Deshmukh and others was made after the CBI first carried out a preliminary inquiry followed by a regular case being filed on the orders of the Bombay High Court. The court had asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to look into the allegations of bribery made against Deshmukh by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Deshmukh, who had resigned from his post in April following the allegations, has denied any wrongdoing. Senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Singh was shunted out from his post after investigators revealed the role of assistant police inspector Sachin Waze in the stationing of an explosive-laden SUV near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's Mumbai residence that triggered a terror scare. Waze has since been dismissed from service. In his letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray after he was removed from the police commissioner's post, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had asked Waze to extort over Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. According to the ED, about 10 bar owners in Mumbai recorded statements before it alleging that they had paid about Rs 4 crore "bribe" in cash in a three-month period to be handed over to Deshmukh through police officials. Deshmukh was the home minister in the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra headed by Thackeray. In his letter, Singh also alleged that Palande was present when Deshmukh had asked Waze to extort money. Palande and Shinde had been questioned by the CBI in the past. The role of the two in the operation of certain shell firms is being looked into by the ED. The CBI booked Deshmukh and others under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections related to criminal conspiracy and the section of the Prevention of Corruption Act for "attempt to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of public duty".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-32
26-06-2021||India||Delhi’s oxygen requirement exaggeration report not final, says SC panel head||AIIMS chief Dr. Randeep Guleria on Saturday said it would not be correct to say that Delhi "exaggerated" its oxygen needs by four times during the second wave of Covid-19 as the report by the Supreme Court-appointed sub-group, which he incidentally heads, is an interim report. "Delhi oxygen audit is an interim report. We should wait for the final report," Dr Guleria told  ndtv.com on Saturday morning. Asked whether the report was exaggerated four times, Guleria replied, "I don't think we could do that". "The matter is in the Supreme Court. We need to wait and see what the top court says about it. Undercounting of active cases and other factors need to be considered," he added. The sub-group constituted by the Supreme Court to audit oxygen consumption in hospitals in the national capital during the second wave of Covid-19 said that the Delhi government exaggerated" the consumption of oxygen and made a claim of 1140 MT, four times higher than the formula for bed capacity requirement of 289 MT. The panel in its report pointed out that four model hospitals in Delhi --Singhal Hospital, Aruna Asaf Ali Hospital, ESIC Model Hospital and Liferay Hospital -- have claimed extremely high Oxygen consumption with very few beds and the claims appeared to be clearly erroneous, leading to extremely skewed information and significantly higher oxygen requirement for the entire state of Delhi. The panel, which submitted its interim report to the top court, said that during the meetings of the sub-group, it was repeatedly noted that there was a gross discrepancy in the data recorded from proformas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-32
26-06-2021||India||Top BJP leaders hold meeting at party headquarters||Senior BJP leaders, including Union ministers Amit Shah and Rajnath Singh and party president J P Nadda, held a meeting here on Saturday. The meeting, held at the party headquarters, was attended by several other senior leaders, including those handling organisational charges, sources said. The ruling party leaders have been holding deliberations for some time over a number of issues, ranging from the COVID-19 vaccination exercise to various governance and political matters. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also attended many meetings, which were held at his residence and attended by several Union ministers besides Nadda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-33
26-06-2021||India||Addiction neither cool nor a style statement, says Modi on International Day against Drug Abuse||On the International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for realising the vision of a drugs-free India, noting that they bring darkness, destruction and devastation. He tweeted, "Today, on International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, I laud all those working at the grassroots to eliminate the menace of drugs from our society. Every such effort to save lives is vital. After all, drugs bring with it darkness, destruction and devastation." He added, "Let us reiterate our commitment to share facts on drugs and realise our vision of a drugs free India. Remember- addiction is neither cool nor a style statement." The prime minister also shared an old Mann Ki Baat episode which contained many aspects of overcoming the drugs menace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-33
26-06-2021||India||India logs over 48,000 fresh Covid cases, 1,183 casualties in a day||A single-day rise of 48,698 COVID-19 infections took India's case tally to 3,01,83,143 while the weekly positivity rate declined to 2.97 per cent, according to Union Health Ministry data on Saturday. The death toll climbed to 3,94,493 with 1,183 more people succumbing to the viral disease in a day. The number of active cases has further declined to 5,95,565 and now accounts for 1.97 per cent of the total infections, the data updated at 8 am showed. Recoveries outnumbered daily new cases of COVID-19 for the 44th consecutive day with the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surging to 2,91,93,085. The case fatality rate stood at 1.31 per cent. While the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.72 per cent, the weekly case positivity rate has come down to 2.97 per cent. According to the Health Ministry data, the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.79 per cent. It has been less than 5 per cent for 19 consecutive days. India administered 61.19 lakh vaccine doses in a day taking the cumulative number of jabs given so far under the nationwide inoculation drive to 31.50 crore, according to immunisation data published at 7 am. Also, 17,35,781 tests were conducted on Friday for the detection of COVID-19, taking the total number of tests conducted so far in the country to 39,95,68,448. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore total COVID-19 cases on May 4 this year and three crore on June 23. The total 3,94,493 deaths reported so far in the country include 1,20,370 in Maharashtra, 34,539 in Karnataka, 32,051 in Tamil Nadu, 24,952 in Delhi, 22,381 in Uttar Pradesh, 17,551 in West Bengal, 15,956 in Punjab, and 13,423 in Chhattisgarh. The Health Ministry has stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths reported so far have occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-33
26-06-2021||India||ED summons Anil Deshmukh in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate has summoned former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh to appear before it on Saturday for questioning in a money laundering case related to charges of bribery of Rs 100 crore, officials said. They said the 71-year-old NCP politician has been asked to depose before the investigating officer of the case at the Enforcement Directorate (ED) office in Ballard Estate area here. The summons have been issued under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and state that he should depose by 11 am, they said. The central agency had on Friday night arrested his personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and personal assistant Kundan Shinde after it carried out raids against them and Deshmukh in Mumbai and Nagpur. The two were brought to the ED office following the searches. They will be produced before a special PMLA court in Mumbai on Saturday where the ED will seek their remand for custodial interrogation, officials said. The ED case against Deshmukh and others was made out after the CBI first carried out a preliminary inquiry followed by a regular case being filed on the orders of the Bombay High Court. The court had asked the agency to look into the allegations of bribery made against Deshmukh by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Deshmukh, who had resigned from his post in April following the allegations, has denied any wrongdoing. Singh was shunted out from the post after the role of assistant police inspector Sachin Waze, who has since been dismissed from service, surfaced during investigation into an explosive-laden SUV that was found parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in Mumbai. In his letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray after he was removed from the police commissioner's post, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had asked Waze to extort over Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. Deshmukh, a leader of the NCP, was the home minister of the state in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government headed by Thackeray. The CBI booked Deshmukh and others under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections related to criminal conspiracy and section of the Prevention of Corruption Act for "attempt to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of public duty".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-33
26-06-2021||India||Rahul meets Punjab leaders to end state unit dissension||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday continued his discussions with senior party members from Punjab on the festering issue of factionalism in the state unit and met ministers and MLAs throughout the day. The Punjab ministers who met the former Congress chief included Brahm Mohindra, Vijay Inder Singla, Sham Sunder Arora and Balbir Singh Sidhu. Former minister Rana Gurjeet also met Mr Gandhi. Congress Rajya Sabha MP Shamsher Singh Dullo discussed with Mr Gandhi ways to strengthen the party in Punjab ahead of the assembly elections in the state. Mr Dullo later told reporters that while the country saw lockdowns since the outbreak of Covid last year, "the Punjab government has been in lockdown since the last four years". He alleged that Congress workers were being ignored in the government and "paratroopers" were ruling the roost. Mr Dullo has been a strong detractor of Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. The Punjab Congress is likely to be revamped soon and some changes may be brought in the government too to accomodate all sections and groups, sources close to PTI said. Rahul Gandhi is holding deliberations with all party leaders and has been meeting almost all prominent leaders from the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-33
26-06-2021||India||Prime minister tweets 'Dark Days of Emergency can never be forgotten'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted on Friday, the 46th anniversary of the proclamation suspending civil liberties across India: “The Dark Days of Emergency can never be forgotten.” Few will disagree — Modi and his government are serving up reminder after reminder without pause to keep the memories fresh. Hitting out at the Congress for trampling on the democratic ethos, Modi tweeted: “The period from 1975 to 1977 witnessed a systematic destruction of institutions. Let us pledge to do everything possible to strengthen India’s democratic spirit, and live up to the values enshrined in our Constitution.” This is how Modi has been doing “everything possible” to accomplish his avowed mission: ⚫  Journalist Siddique Kappan has been kept in detention for the past 263 days. He was arrested last October while he was travelling in Uttar Pradesh to do a follow-up report on the gang rape and murder of a Dalit teen that had embarrassed the Yogi Adityanath government. Earlier this month, a sub-divisional magistrate dropped the charge of breach of peace against Kappan who is lodged in a jail in Mathura. Sedition and other charges are pending against him. ⚫ Two days ago, the former Supreme Court judge, Justice Madan B. Lokur, accused the central government-controlled Delhi police of “violating every canon of natural justice and fair play” in dealing with three student activists and anti-CAA protesters who were granted bail only last week. Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and Asif Iqbal Tanha were in jail since May last year, booked under a host of charges including the anti-terror law UAPA. ⚫ Nine months ago, Justice Lokur had deplored how free speech was being tackled with an “iron hand” and thousands were being jailed and accused of sedition for speaking out against the government. ⚫ For 320 days, amid an “iron hand” treatment and vilification, farmers have been protesting on Delhi’s borders against three laws railroaded through Parliament. Last winter, the protest had been described as the largest in history. ⚫ A year and a half ago, the government did little to address the concerns of protests — led largely by poor Muslim women — against a new citizenship law that is accused of discriminating between people on the ground of religion, and therefore violating the Constitution. ⚫ Two-and-a-half years ago, four Supreme Court judges publicly accused the then Chief Justice of assigning sensitive cases to favoured benches. ⚫ Social activists — some of them aged and severely disabled or ailing — are in detention, some students are being hounded under sedition and anti-terror laws, investigating agencies are being unleashed on critics and political opponents, and attempts are being made to browbeat conventional and social media organisations. ⚫ When climate activist Disha Ravi was picked up on the sedition charge, a Delhi court, which granted her bail, had said: “There is not even an iota of evidence brought to my notice connecting the perpetrators of the violence on January 26, 2021, with the said PJF (Poetic Justice Foundation) or the applicant/ accused (Ravi).” The upshot: The world’s largest democracy has turned into an electoral autocracy, the V-Dem Institute based in Sweden said in March. Footnote: Indira Gandhi had publicly apologised for the Emergency, and her grandson Rahul Gandhi had said last March: “I think that was a mistake. Absolutely, that was a mistake. And my grandmother said as much.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-33
26-06-2021||India||Twitter blocks account of IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad||Union minister for electronics and information technology Ravi Shankar Prasad announced on Twitter on Friday: “Friends! Something highly peculiar happened today. Twitter denied access to my account for almost an hour on the alleged ground that there was a violation of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) of the USA and subsequently they allowed me to access the account.” Twitter said it had received a complaint against a tweet that Prasad had posted on December 16, 2017, on Vijay Diwas. Others suggested the action was not as “highly peculiar” as the minister proclaimed although not everyone agreed with what Twitter did. “Raviji, the same thing just happened to me,” tweeted Congress MP Shashi Tharoor. “Clearly DMCA is getting hyperactive.” Journalist Rohini Singh sought to put matters in perspective through multiple tweets: “Calm down. I received a similar notice some days back because of a video I tweeted of doctors dancing. The song was copyrighted and in the West it is a big deal. Happens all the time. Read up a bit on laws and check your email. You will get to know who complained.” She added: “DMCA doesn’t differentiate a VIP and an ‘honourable minister’ from an ordinary citizen. For it, everyone is equal before the law. Pity Twitter doesn’t have a lal batti on accounts of India’s cabinet ministers.” Prasad’s account was blocked at a time the Narendra Modi government and Twitter are locked in a spat over the information technology intermediary guidelines. Twitter said in a statement: “We can confirm that the Honourable Minister’s account access was temporarily restricted due to a DMCA notice only and the referenced tweet has been withheld.” It added: “Per our copyright policy, we respond to valid copyright complaints sent to us by a copyright owner or their authorised representatives.” Sources indicated that a copyright violation had arisen because Prasad’s tweet had carried a video with a background score linked to music director A.R. Rahman’s song Maa Tujhe Salaam, for which Sony Music holds the rights. In the tweet, Prasad had reportedly saluted the martyrs and heroes of the 1971 war with Pakistan. It could not be ascertained who had complained or why the complaint had been lodged three years and a half after the tweet was posted. The minister was livid after the latest run-in with Twitter and accused it of “gross violation of Rule 4(8) of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021 where they failed to provide me any prior notice before denying me access to my account”. “No matter what any platform does, they will have to abide by the IT Rules fully and there shall be no compromise on that,” Prasad said. The contentious intermediary rules have been a red rag for social media giants like Twitter and WhatsApp, which have accused the Modi government of trying to curb free speech in India. Prasad said in a series of posts on Koo, a rival social media platform created by local entrepreneurs, that Twitter’s latest action showed that his recent statements calling out the US micro-blogging platform for its high-handed and arbitrary actions had “clearly ruffled its feathers”. Tharoor said a tweet he had posted attaching a video that included pop group BoneyM’s famous song Rasputin had triggered similar action against him, which was later sorted out. The Congress MP said that Indians “creatively make videos” using short snippets of foreign music, and most people would deem that “fair use”. Tharoor said the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI), which zealously defends Sony Music’s rights to Rasputin, was the complainant in his case. However, Tharoor said that as chairman of the parliamentary standing committee on information technology, he would be “seeking an explanation” from Twitter India for blocking Prasad’s and his access to their accounts. Efforts would also be made to ascertain the rules that Twitter follows in India. Twitter’s latest transparency report says it received 174,000 DMCA takedown notices between January and June 2020, with a compliance rate of 57 per cent. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act was passed in the US in 1998 and blends provisions outlined in two treaties of the World Intellectual Property Organisation (WIPO). The DMCA slaps penalties for copyright infringement on the Internet. N.S. Nappinai, Supreme Court advocate and founder of Cyber Saathi, said: “Twitter’s actions do not really further their case. That a law has extraterritorial jurisdiction by itself does not allow it to overrule local laws of the land. Extraterritorial jurisdiction is built into laws to allow for remedies to victims within the said territory. Hence for India, it’s the Indian Copyright Act that prevails. By their actions in effect Twitter is cocking a snook not at an individual or a Union minister but at Indian laws.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-33
26-06-2021||India||Covid: 'Compulsory' oxygen plants proposed by National Task Force||A task force constituted at the Supreme Court’s behest has recommended “compulsory” oxygen plants in every hospital in the country and efforts to turn every big city self-sufficient in oxygen by enhancing local manufacture and storage. The apex court had on May 5 directed the formation of the National Task Force (NTF) — with experts and bureaucrats — amid a severe oxygen shortage that was claiming hundreds of lives every day during the second wave of Covid. Its mandate was to audit the oxygen demand, manufacturing capacity and system of supply and recommend ways of avoiding future shortages even during crises. A report submitted by the task force on June 22, which was made public on Friday, has made several recommendations such as the establishment of a crisis “war room”. The matter is expected to be heard in the first week of July. The task force, headed by the cabinet secretary, has lavished praise on the Centre whose handling of the Covid emergency has evoked condemnation at home and abroad. Some of the recommendations in the task force’s 38-page report, submitted through Nipun Vinayak, joint secretary in the ministry of health and family welfare, are: ⚫ Make oxygen pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants — which separate oxygen from compressed air — compulsory at every hospital. All district hospitals should have PSA plants with compressors so they can manage their own demand and also fill cylinders for the health centres and ambulances. ⚫ Each hospital with 100 or more beds should be encouraged to have a liquid medical oxygen (LMO) storage tank. A cryogenic LMO storage tank should be insisted on at every hospital in a metropolitan area. ⚫ There should be a strategy to manufacture oxygen locally or in the neighbourhood for big cities to meet at least half their LMO demand. This may be taken up in Delhi and Mumbai on priority because of their population densities. ⚫ All 18 metros must be made self-sufficient in oxygen, with at least 100 tonnes’ storage within the city itself. ⚫ There should be a buffer of at least six oxygen cylinders at each rural health centre to offset supply delays and infection surges. ⚫ Facilities with oxygen concentrators must have a backup power plan, or enough oxygen cylinders for safe transport of patients elsewhere in case of a power cut. ⚫ Non-rebreather masks and non-invasive ventilation should be preferred over high-flow nasal oxygen, Bain circuits or indigenous CPAP machines to optimise oxygen use. ⚫ Once oxygen tankers are allocated to a state, the state should manage the filling and distribution of oxygen to urban and rural areas. ⚫ In a shifting pandemic, some of the states need to shed their allocations as new allocations are made to other states. It must be ensured that the states do not continue to request supplies greater than their need. ⚫ During a pandemic, the war room should monitor the movement of oxygen tankers and manage the oxygen demand, consumption and distribution in real time and in a transparent manner. The report lauded the Centre’s “hard work and efforts” in the management of the pandemic. “The members of the NTF appreciate that many of their recommendations were already under implementation and work on others has also already commenced,” it said. It added that the production of liquid oxygen in the country had been increased by about 3,000 tonnes in April, and that the average daily production jumped from 5,700 tonnes in August last year to 9,690 tonnes on May 13 this year. “The NTF recognised the enormity of the challenge and appreciated the steps taken by the Government of India,” the report said. It said that despite the enhanced daily production of LMO, there were challenges in allocations to the states because oxygen production was concentrated in a few states, mostly in eastern India. The report said that during the beginning of the second wave, there was simultaneous demand from the high-burden states that were mostly concentrated in western, northern and central India. Not all of them manufactured LMO. “This was followed by increased demand in southern states of Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh without appreciable decrease in allocations of other major states,” the report said. It highlighted that the air force and railways had been enlisted in the transport of cryogenic oxygen tankers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-33
26-06-2021||India||Ayodhya: Sadhus ask PM to clarify dubious land deals||Ayodhya’s sadhus have demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi clarify the dubious land deals struck by the Ram temple trust when he addresses a virtual meeting on Saturday with trust members and district officials. “Several plots bought by individuals a few hours or weeks earlier were sold to the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust for much higher rates. In at least two instances, the beneficiaries were associated with the BJP,” said Mahant Dharam Das of Nirvani Akhara, who was a plaintiff in the Ayodhya title suit. “Modi is the Prime Minister and the BJP’s senior-most leader. He must explain why such a scam took place.” Deep Narayan, nephew of Ayodhya’s BJP mayor Rishikesh Upadhyay, bought 890sqm of nazul land (government land leased to someone) for Rs 20 lakh in February and sold it to the temple trust in May for Rs 2.5 crore. The local administration has accepted that any transaction of nazul land is illegal. Sultan Ansari, a property dealer in Ayodhya, bought a 12,080sqm plot in the Bag Bijaisi area on May 18 for Rs 2 crore and sold it to the trust for Rs 18.5 crore the same day. Ansari has said his business partner Ravi Mohan Tiwari is a relative of Upadhyay. These deals have led to allegations that those who swear by Ram are robbing the trust — assigned by the Supreme Court to build the Ram temple — of funds collected from the government and the public. “We are sure that Modi would, as usual, keep mum on this issue and discuss peripheral matters,” Dharam Das said. “However, the sadhus held a meeting in Ayodhya on Friday, demanding Modi speak on this subject and dissolve the trust. He is expected to form a new trust to oversee the temple construction and related issues.” The sadhus’ meeting was convened by Mahant Gyan Das of the Hanuman Garhi temple, located near the Ram temple site, at his ashram. “The 150 sadhus at the meeting were unanimous that the Prime Minister must clarify his stand on the land controversies and dissolve the trust,” Gyan Das told reporters. Mahant Dilip Das, head of the trust that runs the Raghuvansh Sankalp Seva Temple in Ayodhya, said “some people are doing scam after scam in his (Ram’s) name, but we will speak for Ram”. It’s not clear whether Modi’s virtual meeting would be aired over the Internet or whether there would only be an official media release. Ayodhya municipal commissioner Vishal Singh confirmed that Modi would address the virtual meeting on Saturday. R.P. Singh, secretary of the Ayodhya Development Authority, said the meeting would start at 11am. Champat Rai, general secretary of the temple trust, has denied any corruption and claimed the plots have been bought to rehabilitate people who will be displaced during the temple construction. He has not explained the price gaps. Rai, trust treasurer Govind Dev Giri and trustee Anil Mishra attended an RSS meeting in Mumbai on Thursday. Sources said the RSS believes the land deals should be explained or a defamation suit filed against those alleging corruption. The temple trust’s members include sadhus, RSS and VHP functionaries, and senior government officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-33
26-06-2021||India||Lakshadweep: Kerala HC grants anticipatory bail to Aisha Sultana||Kerala High Court on Friday granted anticipatory bail to Lakshadweep filmmaker Aisha Sultana in a sedition case for her reference to a “bioweapon”, observing that there was “not even a suggestion that the applicant did anything as such against the government of India”. Justice Ashok Menon pointed out that Aisha “did not have malicious motive to subvert the government” when she referred to a “bioweapon” while speaking on the proliferation of Covid cases in Lakshadweep and that “words cannot be taken in isolation to suggest a motive”. Participating in a TV debate, Aisha had said a “bioweapon” had been unleashed on the islanders, referring to the Covid outbreak in Lakshadweep after restrictions were eased by administrator Praful Khoda Patel. The complainant, Lakshadweep BJP president C. Abdul Khader Haji, has claimed that Aisha had referred to the central government while mentioning the “bioweapon”. Aisha had later clarified that she had meant Patel and his decision to lift the standard operating procedures (SOPs) that had helped Lakshadweep keep the coronavirus at bay for a year. The case had been filed at Kavaratti, the capital of Lakshadweep. Kavaratti police had booked Aisha under IPC Sections 124A (sedition) and 153B (assertions against national integration). The court pointed out on Friday that the applicant had no criminal antecedents and was not a flight risk. “Prima facie, the offences alleged by the prosecution are not attracted. The applicant has no criminal antecedents. She is not likely to flee from justice…. The prosecution has also not expressed any fear of her fleeing from justice or not cooperating with the investigation,” the court said. It pointed out that the “decisive ingredient for establishing the offence of sedition… is the doing of certain acts which would bring the government established by law in India into hatred or contempt, etc. In this case, there is not even a suggestion that the applicant did anything as such against the government of India.” The court said in its order: “The statement made by the applicant in the discussion will have to be taken in its entirety and words cannot be taken in isolation to suggest a motive. After having considered the submissions made on both sides, and also the transcript of the (TV) discussion, it would suffice to say that prima facie, the applicant did not have malicious motive to subvert the government by merely using the strong word ‘bioweapon’ to express her vehemence in disapproval of the subject under discussion.” “Her intention is explicitly in criticism of the modification of the SOP, introduced by the administrator, forgoing the mandatory provision of subjecting the persons entering the islands to quarantine,” the court added. Senior lawyer P. Vijayabhanu, who represented Aisha, had argued that his client had made the remark since the decision of administrator Patel in December to lift the protocols that included a mandatory quarantine period for everyone entering the islands had led to the outbreak of Covid in January after almost a year when Lakshadweep had zero cases. The court expressed doubt whether even Section 153A would be applicable in the case. “There is no apparent indication in her statement which amounts to imputations or assertions prejudicial to the national interest, nor does it propagate any class of persons against another group of persons. It is therefore doubtful whether the penal provisions of Section 153A would be attracted in this case.”The court noted that the plea was not for quashing the charges, nor was it going into the merits of the case. “This is an application for anticipatory bail and not a petition for quashing the proceedings under 482 CrPC. Neither is this court finally deciding the prosecution case on its merits.” The court said custodial interrogation was also not desirable due to the pandemic. “Custodial interrogation of the applicant and her incarceration in prison, particularly in these pandemic times, may not be required.” The anticipatory bail order came exactly a week after the high court granted interim anticipatory bail to Aisha before she headed to Kavaratti to appear before the police that questioned her for several hours over Sunday, Wednesday and Thursday. Aisha is expected to return to Kochi, where she works, on Saturday. Aisha’s prompt appearance before Kavaratti police for interrogation was also taken into consideration while allowing her plea. “Consequent to granting interim anticipatory bail, the applicant was directed to appear before the investigating officer for interrogation, and there is no report she has not complied with the direction of this court,” Kerala High Court said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-33
26-06-2021||India||Covid: Third wave surge likely to remain lower than second wave||Coronavirus mutations, waning population immunity, or unrestricted person-to-person interactions could drive a third nationwide Covid-19 wave in India, but it is unlikely to be as severe as the second wave, health researchers have said. A study by researchers in India and the UK has suggested that the timing and pattern of a third wave would hinge on such factors, but the size of the surge is likely to remain substantially lower than the second wave in May 2021. The researchers at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Imperial College, London, have cautioned that their study is not intended to predict a third wave, but only illustrate possible scenarios under which a wave could occur. For instance, if there is no change in the characteristics of the virus but the population’s immunity wanes on an average in 12 months, the scenario-building exercise suggests that a third wave’s peak could occur around August 2022 — and the size of the surge will then be roughly midway between the 97,000 new infections per day on September 16 and around 400,000 infections on May 6. If the immunity wanes in four months, the surge could start in November 21. “What we set out to do is to look at scenarios — we don’t have information now to make a scientific prediction,” said Nimalan Arinaminpathy, a study team member and mathematical epidemiologist at the School of Public Health at Imperial College. Arinaminpathy and his ICMR collaborators Samiran Panda, Balram Bhargava and Sandeep Mandal also analysed how a surge might occur due to coronavirus variants that are either highly transmissible or can evade immune responses or from unrestricted public interactions under relaxed lockdown conditions. In one scenario, they simulated a highly transmissible variant that also makes 25 per cent of previously infected people susceptible again. These conditions could lead to a third wave that starts in November 2021 and peaks in February 2022. Health officials have asserted that a third wave is not inevitable. For a nationwide wave to occur, public health experts say, multiple states across the country would need to simultaneously experience large surges — a trend that could be suppressed through rapid local containment measures. “A third wave is not inevitable,” said Panda, chief of epidemiology at the ICMR. Any surge in infections would depend on opportunities the virus gets to spread, the proportion of susceptible people in a given population, and the proportion of people protected by vaccinations or by natural infections. Scientists say a prediction is currently impossible because how the virus might evolve in the coming months remains unknown. “We’re now in the same position we were in around December 2020 — no one could have predicted the size of the surge at the time,” Arinaminpathy said. Public health specialists have attributed India’s second wave to a combination of factors — lack of personal precautions by large sections of the public, potential super-spreader events such as the Kumbh Mela in Hardwar, election rallies, and the emergence of a highly transmissible Delta variant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-34
26-06-2021||India||Congress counters Narendra Modi's Emergency diatribe||The Congress on Friday sought to show the mirror to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to counter his ritualistic diatribe on the Emergency declared on this day 46 years ago, reminding him of the many instances of repression and trampling of democratic principles under him. As Modi led other BJP leaders in recalling the Emergency, saying the dark days could never be forgotten, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala retorted on Twitter: “Says a Prime Minister who is synonymous with three S — Suppress, Stifle & Subjugate. A PM who has undermined Parliament, a PM who has disdain for the Constitution, a PM who has eroded Institutions, a PM who has trampled democracy shouldn’t preach, for India is under ‘Modi-gency’ for seven years.” The Congress was responding to Modi’s tweet in which he had said “the dark days of Emergency can never be forgotten. The period from 1975 to 1977 witnessed a systematic destruction of institutions. Let us pledge to do everything possible to strengthen India’s democratic spirit, and live up to the values enshrined in our Constitution”. BJP leaders dutifully remember the Emergency every year on June 25, hail constitutional values and shed tears over the curbs on freedom of expression during those two years. The Congress, which has formally expressed remorse for imposing the Emergency and held internal debates on that bleak chapter of Indian democracy, now feels emboldened to lock horns with the BJP on the question of assault on democracy post-2014, citing Modi’s own track record on the constitutional values of freedom, equality and justice. The Opposition party has recalled BJP veteran L.K. Advani’s grim caution after Modi became Prime Minister that an Emergency could still be imposed despite amendments to the Constitution to strengthen the legal safeguards. Many Congress leaders on Friday pointed to the atmosphere of fear prevailing in the country and how institutional autonomy had been severely undermined over the past seven years. Party spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said: “Indira Gandhi herself corrected the mistake and even Rahul Gandhi has admitted the Emergency was wrong. But what is this Modiji — the terror in people’s minds today, when FIRs are registered for speaking the truth, anybody questioning the government is branded anti-national? You have surpassed the British regime in repression of the people. This is your sole legacy.” Leaders of other parties who had fought the Congress during the Emergency also joined the debate. RJD Rajya Sabha member Manoj Jha, whose leader Lalu Prasad had been jailed during the Emergency, tweeted: “If the Government 46 years ago had any idea about the wondrous work culture of the Government that came four decades later, they would not have invoked the constitutional provision of Emergency. Today’s rulers don’t even need the cover of the Constitution to create a republic of fear and terror. The snake is dead and the stick is also unused. This is the real emergency.” Jha also retweeted a comment by stand-up comedian and government critic Kunal Kamra who said: “Every year BJP talking about Indira Gandhi’s imposed emergency being an attack on Indian democracy sounds like a snake giving a Ted talk on how poisonous its own venom is…” Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut told journalists: “Emergency should be forgotten. It is over four decades now. We are over with it. That was a direct emergency. But now people are facing an indirect emergency.” Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, without getting sucked into the Emergency debate, posted a tweet to point at the diminishing democratic space in India: “In the Modi Government’s second term, India has slipped from 94 to 111 on the Human Freedom Index (we were at 75 under UPA), from 79 to 105 in the Global Economic Freedom Index & from 129 to 131 in UNDP’s Human Development Report.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-34
26-06-2021||India||Legacy media in Madras High Court against Centre's new digital code||The country’s legacy media has joined the chorus against the government’s new digital media ethics code, petitioning Madras High Court to strike it down as it “opens the door to suppressing freedom of speech and independence of news media in the country”. A bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy on Wednesday issued notice to the Union government, tagged the case along with the one filed by classical vocalist T.M. Krishna against the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, and allowed the petitioners to approach it if any coercive action is taken against them under the provisions of the new regime. The petition was filed by the Digital News Publishers Association (DNPA), a collective of traditional media houses in both print and electronic format with an online footprint. The DNPA seeks to distinguish itself from media entities that operate only in the digital format to make a case that the legacy media does not fall within the ambit of the Information Technology Act, 2000, and that bringing them under its realm will amount to over-regulation. According to the petition, legacy media houses involved in television and print media have been “wrongfully and arbitrarily classified” as part of digital media in the rules. Stating that the rules “impose arbitrary, unjustified, undue and unfair oversight into acts” of the media houses represented in the DNPA, the petitioners argued that it would confer “arbitrary and untrammelled” powers to the State in violation of Article 14 of the Constitution. The ethics code — which is part of the rules — mandates a three-tier structure to deal with consumer complaints. While the first two tiers from the bottom are self-regulatory in nature, the third provides for an oversight mechanism through which the government can exercise control over the media. The petitioners contend that the question of whether a law has been contravened lies solely with the judiciary and not the executive. “Thus the executive has assumed powers which are not vested in the executive as per law,” the petition stated. About the emergency power vested in the information and broadcasting ministry secretary to pass interim orders blocking any content published by a publisher without providing an opportunity to explain, the petition said this was against the fundamental and inalienable principles of natural justice that is a part and parcel of Article 14 of the Constitution. Listing the 13 laws and codes already in place to regulate the content produced by legacy media, the petition pointed out that the mandatory requirement to comply with the IT Rules, 2021, “will lead to a situation of over-regulation and unnecessary complication of a sector that is already well-regulated and compliant”. The DNPA had in March urged the I&B minister to keep digital news platforms linked to print and electronic media houses out of the purview of the new code but it was turned down on the plea of creating a level-playing field. The solely digital entities were not too pleased with the DNPA for seeking exemption for themselves, seeing it as an attempt to throw the standalone websites — fledglings in comparison — under the bus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-34
26-06-2021||India||Covid: DU faculty opposes proposed common entrance test||Delhi University (DU) teachers have joined students to oppose the proposed common entrance test for central varsities on the ground that centralised admission will deprive the poor and socially backward as they don’t have access to coaching for competitive exams. DU admits students to most of its undergraduate courses on the basis of Class XII results. The new National Education Policy has proposed a Central Universities Common Entrance Test (CUCET) for all 45 central varsities. A committee set up by the University Grants Commission has given a report endorsing the CUCET. The UGC has recommended equal weightage to CUCET and board marks for selection to undergraduate courses in colleges. The education ministry is expected to soon take the final call. Officials have said the government was likely to allow conduct of CUCET in August-September. The central universities are waiting for the final decision to start their process. The Academics for Actions and Development (AAD), a DU faculty group, on Friday held a webinar on “CUCET and its perils”. Former Delhi University Teachers Association president Aditya Narayan Misra said a centralised entrance exam would undermine the autonomy of universities. The meeting highlighted concerns such as lack of information on question patterns and the syllabus for the planned test. There is no clarity on criteria of evaluation either. Science students might not be well-equipped for a general knowledge section while humanities and commerce students might need time to prepare for logical reasoning and quantitative ability, more so if there is negative marking, the teachers said. “There will be hardship for poor students and marginalised sections because they do not have access to coaching,” Misra said. The CUCET will also spawn coaching centres, he said. “Coaching centres will mushroom with time and poor students will lose the chance to get admission to DU. Only the best-coached students will get admission, depriving talented students coming from socially and economically weaker backgrounds. Higher education in India has to be inclusive and social justice-based,” Misra said. Other faculty members also expressed their concerns. Former DU Executive Council member Abha Dev Habib said any change in admission policy should be discussed with all stakeholders and the decision taken well in advance. “This last-minute change will increase the hardships of students and undo the relief that the scrapping of board exams have brought. DU has been admitting students through a merit-based policy. Shifting to a common entrance test at the last moment is unfair to students,” she said.Former DU Academic Council member and ex-DUTA executive member Prof. Vijaya Venkatraman said the CUCET might affect admissions in some central universities. “The CUCET will lead to over-centralisation of admission. The admission policies of universities are based on their specific conditions and currently each of the universities has its own policy based on faculty strength and local issues,” she said. “Over-centralisation will lead to vacant seats in many universities as students may want to take admission in institutions in their own region. However, those wanting to go to other states to study have the option even now without the centralised admission test. Centralised entrance will increase demand for admission in specific universities that may be outside their regions and lead to increase in vacant seats,” Venkatraman said. One test based on multiple-choice questions, the preferred format for entrance exams, cannot be considered superior to the holistic evaluation done by the CBSE and other school boards, she said. Last week, students had written to DU vice-chancellor P.C. Joshi against switching from Class XII marks-based selection criteria to entrance exam-based admission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-34
26-06-2021||India||Covid: UN bid to curb rumours and misinformation in Bihar||The United Nations, in collaboration with civil society organisations, has initiated a movement called “Verified” in Bihar aimed at ending the Covid-19 pandemic by empowering people with science-based information and helping them counter misinformation and rumours to build a momentum for a globally coordinated response. The initiative will also target vaccine hesitancy in the state. Vaccination in Bihar has lagged so far, especially in the rural areas, owing to rumours about the jabs causing infertility, blindness, death, black fungus, disfigured babies, and being unsafe for menstruating women. There are also rumours that certain people and castes do not need to take vaccines and eating various herbs and plant-based concoctions will make people immune to the coronavirus. The UN initiative has asserted that the vaccination campaign needs to engage with women and empower them to seek the right information, health services and make a decision with regard to vaccines. Apart from Bihar, the initiative has also been rolled out in Kerala, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. Various e-commerce, fact-checking, media and communication platforms have been roped in for the purpose. Collaborations have been made with organisations such as the Bihar Youth for Child Rights, Teachers of Bihar, Chanakya National Law University, National Alliance Group for Denotified and Notified Tribes to engage 400 youths, 10,000 teachers, doctors and experts from different fields. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has termed the widespread misinformation during the pandemic as an infodemic and has insisted on measures to address the situation. “People think of the menstrual or lactation period of women as a time when Covid-19 vaccines should not be taken. These are two entirely different dimensions with no connection. They need to understand clearly that the vaccine is concerned with the stimulation of the immune system to produce antibodies. Vaccination during menstruation or lactation is safe,” said Setu Sinha, a doctor and assistant professor (community medicine) at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Patna. The initiative also aims to address the significant digital divide between men and women in Bihar. The latest figures from the National Family Health Survey revealed that four out of five women or 80 per cent of the total female population in the state have never used the Internet. This puts them at a disadvantage with regard to accessing healthcare and vaccination information and services. “There is much confusion and mistrust about Covid-19 vaccines in the rural areas. The lack of proper information needs to be urgently addressed across the state,” said Namrata Mishra, a member of Teachers of Bihar. There had been several instances in which vaccine volunteers were not allowed to talk and convince women in different parts of Bihar. “Its not a woman’s decision to take the vaccine. Their family decides for them. Families often do not allow the volunteers to talk to women to give the correct information about vaccination,” said Juhi Kalam, a research fellow at the National Alliance Group — Denotified and Nomadic Tribes, and a Covid-19 vaccine volunteer at Forbesganj in Araria district. The UN Verified initiative will also provide access to healthcare professionals through sessions and tele-consultation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-34
26-06-2021||India||Kerala Women’s Commission chief forced to resign||The chairperson of the Kerala Women’s Commission, M.C. Josephine, resigned on Friday after her insensitivity towards a victim of domestic abuse seeking succour on a television programme created an uproar and landed her party, the ruling CPM, in a spot. The decision to step down came at a CPM state secretariat meeting in Thiruvananthapuram where Josephine, a central committee member of the party, was asked to explain her comments. A huge majority of the secretariat members urged her to quit. Josephine’s remarks that sparked a massive outcry came on Wednesday while she was participating in a programme called “Enthinu Sahikkanam (Why Suffer?)” organised by a Malayalam TV channel. The live phone-in programme was held in light of the spate of suicides in Kerala by newly married women over dowry harassment and domestic violence. When a woman called and narrated her ordeal at the hands of her abusive husband and mother-in-law, Josephine appeared irritated and asked her if she had lodged a police complaint. When the woman replied in the negative, Josephine said: “Then you continue to suffer.” Such a comment, that too at a time when suspected dowry deaths were being reported in the state, immediately triggered a furore against the CPM and its allies. With the Opposition leveraging on Josephine’s remarks, the party was left with no option but to force her to quit, a CPM source said. With protests mounting against her even within the CPM, Josephine, who was appointed to the women’s commission in 2017 and had nine months of service left, had on Thursday apologised after trying to justify what she had said. “It is true I spoke to that woman with the kind of freedom mothers take. It was the outrage on being told she had not lodged a police complaint that made me say so, which I later realised I shouldn’t have. I apologise if my words had hurt anyone,” Josephine had said. But her apology didn’t cut ice, with even her party colleagues objecting to her remarks. Only DYFI state secretary A.A. Rahim defended her, saying she didn’t need to resign since she had apologised. Rahim, too, faced criticism since the DFYI has been running a campaign against dowry. CPM central committee member P.K. Sreemathy told reporters after the party secretariat meeting that anyone who approaches people’s representatives and officials must be treated with love and care. “We have been taught to handle people, especially those having some complaint, with love and care. There will be protests if one departs from that principle, and naturally the party discussed it,” Sreemathy said. “There are thousands of sisters with no door to knock on (to air their grievances and complaints). So they always prefer to approach the women’s commission. Ideally they should get some relief when they talk to the chairperson,” she added. The leader of the Opposition, V.D. Satheesan of the Congress, said Josephine’s remarks “would affect the basic character of the organisation she was heading”. He slammed the DYFI’s Rahim for trying to justify her comments. “Youth organisations are supposed to support women. But the DYFI (secretary) justified her remarks. The CPM forced her out after realising such a position (of the DYFI) would not work in Kerala,” Satheesan said. Left-leaning intellectuals and artistes had also come out against Josephine. Mahila Congress workers protested outside the CPM office when she arrived to attend the meeting. In 2018, Josephine had courted controversy when she had said the CPM was “court and police”. She had said the commission would not be able to register a suo motu case against a CPM legislator accused of harassment by a DYFI member as the complaint had been forwarded to the party. The commission under Josephine had been accused of going soft on complaints against CPM members.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-34
26-06-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu writes to health ministry over fake jab drive in Calcutta||BJP MLA and leader of Opposition in Bengal Assembly Suvendu Adhikari has written to the Union health ministry, demanding a probe by central agencies into a fake vaccination drive conducted in the city by a man who allegedly posed as an IAS officer. In a letter to Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, the BJP leader alleged that the man, who was arrested after his drive was busted by the police, have "influence in the ruling party". Adhikari claimed that Debanjan Deb, the main accused, held illegal vaccination camps in Kasba, Amherst Street and Sonarpur areas under the "watch of the local administration, including police and civic authorities". "Hundreds of people have already been inoculated in these camps...While copies of Aadhaar cards were procured from the recipients in Kasba, none of them received any certificate of vaccination. "The big question is - were these shots really Covishield vaccines as claimed by the accused? If so, then this raises a big question on pilferage of Covid vaccines from the government stock and this cannot happen without complicity of top civic authorities. If these were not Covid vaccines, then immediate investigation needs to be done," Adhikari said in the letter on Friday. The Calcutta Police arrested Deb (28) on Wednesday for allegedly posing as an IAS officer and organising a Covid-19 vaccination camp in Kasba area, and formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) led by the joint police commissioner (Crime). The SIT will investigate how the main accused organised Covid-19 vaccination camps where around 2000 people were suspected to have administered fake doses, a senior officer had said. Actor and Trinamul Congress MP Mimi Chakraborty, who had taken her Covid-19 vaccine shot at one of the camps set up by Deb, was the first one to raise the alarm as she did not receive the customary SMS that is sent to people after they have taken the jab. "Public health frauds like this in the midst of a raging global pandemic are making common people skeptical... I sincerely urge you to order a thorough investigation by concerned central agencies into this vaccination fraud and punish the guilty. "An impartial investigation by central agencies, undaunted by any pressure from the state's ruling party or the government, is the need of the hour to restore credibility of the entire Covid vaccination process in Bengal," Adhikari wrote to the Union health minister. The incident triggered a political storm after purported photographs and videos of the arrested person along with several TMC leaders and ministers at various programmes came into the public domain. PTI could not independently verify the authenticity of the photographs or videos. Adhikari claimed that the main accused held illegal vaccination camps decorated with "trademark blue and white balloons characteristic of the TMC government events". "While Calcutta Police has reportedly started investigating into the fraud, several incriminating photos suggestive of the accused's influence in the ruling party of Bengal have come to the fore," the BJP leader said. The TMC leadership, however, denied any involvement in the matter. Adhikari on Friday led a BJP delegation to Swasthya Bhawan, the state health department headquarters, and questioned officials how a person impersonating as an IAS officer has been organising vaccination camps that remained off the radar of the police and the department for so long. He had also claimed that it was a conspiracy of the TMC as the ruling party in Bengal was trying to tarnish the BJP-led Union government with a claim that the Centre has provided fake vaccines. "We apprehend that the Bengal government and the ruling party have hatched a large conspiracy to implicate the Centre. They are helping people with disputable identity to organise camps where fake jabs were administered to defame the Narendra Modi regime. "If there was any adverse impact on people who were inoculated, the TMC will blame the Centre for providing fake vaccines," the BJP leader had said. According to police officials, Deb allegedly had financially duped several people in Calcutta by impersonating as a joint commissioner of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC). On his social media accounts, he had posted several pictures of organising medical camps and participating in government programmes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-11
26-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Indian Tea Association, Unicef webinar on pandemic today||The Indian Tea Association (ITA) — largest association of tea planters in the country — in association with Unicef will host a webinar on Covid management in Calcutta on Saturday. Sources in the ITA said it was necessary to create awareness among the tea population of north Bengal so that they remain prepared to face any adversity due to the pandemic. “Tea garden managers, welfare and  medical officers, and other health functionaries posted in the gardens of Dooars, Terai and Darjeeling will attend the event virtually. Discussions will be held as to how the industry should function during the pandemic situation. Unicef will provide a team of specialist doctors who will prepare healthcare workers to handle the third wave of Covid-19 in a superior manner,” said Sanjoy Bagchi, secretary of the Dooars branch of the ITA. In north Bengal, the total population that dwells in the member gardens of ITA is over six lakhs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-11
26-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: More beds for children at North Bengal Medical College and Hospital ||A number of beds for newborns and children will come up at three units of the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) to protect children from the third wave of Covid-19. According to Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty of state health and family welfare department in north Bengal, 55 beds would be increased in Paediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU), Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) and Sick Neonatal Care Unit (SNCU) at the NBMCH, which would double the capacity of these units. “We are taking initiatives to increase beds for children across north Bengal,” said Roy. As of now, there are 10 beds each in PICU and NICU, 31 beds in SNCU and four additional beds with ventilator facilities at the NBMCH. “We have nine district hospitals in north Bengal. In each of these hospitals, 20 beds would be increased in the PICU ward,” Roy added. In another development, the authorities of Siliguri district hospital made some decisions on Friday to ensure that there is no anomaly over distribution of coupons for Covid-19 vaccine at the facility. New ambulances The Alipurduar Zilla Parishad has decided to provide an ambulance each to the seven blocks of the district and one to the civic body. Sheela Das Sarkar, the sabhadhipati, made the announcement on Friday as the district celebrated its seventh anniversary. Sarkar also mentioned that the zilla parishad would spend Rs 8 crores, received  from the state, for construction of roads and for drinking water supply in the rural areas. Additional reporting by our Alipurduar correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-11
26-06-2021||West Bengal||Tightrope walk for Duare Tran teams ||Bamboo bridges or boats, they are all in a day’s work for Duare Tran teams. Government officials and employees, tasked with verifying applications for the state’s Duare Tran (relief on doorstep) scheme, have to cross damaged roads and overflowing rivers to reach remote pockets of the Sunderbans to meet people affected by Cyclone Yaas. Officials said at Kakdwip in South 24-Parganas, a team led by government employee Lakshmi Sarkar had to walk for 200 metres on a 10-inch-wide makeshift bamboo bridge. “She (Lakshmi) sent us a video and picture of how difficult it was for them to reach the (potential) beneficiaries. If she had slipped from the makeshift bridge, she would have fallen into waist-deep water from a considerable height. The areas are still under water because of Cyclone Yaas and rain,” said a senior official in the district. Officials said areas under Ramakrishna gram panchayat of Kakdwip, where saline water overflowed on embankments during Yaas, remain inundated. Villagers made a bridge with three bamboo sticks to reach the nearest road. At a few places, officials waded through knee-deep water and muddy embankments to verify beneficiaries. Some had to take boats to reach coastal islands amid rain. Stung by complaints of malpractices over relief in cash and kind after Cyclone Amphan last year, the state government has this time started Duare Tran to make relief distribution transparent. The drive started on June 3 and the government accepted damage-claim applications till June 18. Officials have been asked to finish verifying them by June 30. Once done, money will be sent to bank accounts of the beneficiaries by July 8. Nabanna sources said 3,59,487 applications seeking relief for damage to homes and crops were submitted at Duare Tran camps from  six districts of the state. The worst-hit were South and North 24-Parganas and East Midnapore. “After Yaas, heavy rain worsened the situation in many places. Add to that the threat of high tide on June 26 (Saturday). It is a challenge for us to finish the task within deadline,” said an official in Gosaba, South 24-Parganas. Officials in North 24-Parganas cited remote locations at Sandeshkhali and Hingalganj. “There are many pockets in those areas where our officials can’t reach by bike. They have to walk, which takes a lot of time,” said Sumit Gupta, the district magistrate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-11
26-06-2021||West Bengal||Narada case: Supreme Court asks Calcutta High Court to hear plea by Mamata Banerjee||The Supreme Court on Friday annulled Calcutta High Court’s June 9 order that had refused to entertain counter-affidavits filed by chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Bengal government and law minister Moloy Ghatak in the Narada case. A Supreme Court bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari asked the high court to hear the trio’s pleas to examine the counter-affidavits before holding further proceedings on the CBI’s petition to transfer the Narada case to the high court itself. The counter-affidavits were filed following the CBI’s arrest of four leaders, including two Bengal ministers, in the Narada case. The Supreme Court asked the three petitioners to file their applications in the high court before June 29 giving reasons for filing the counter-affidavits. The bench also asked the high court to examine the matter afresh uninfluenced by any observations made by it. While senior advocate Vikas Singh appeared for the Bengal government, another senior lawyer Rakesh Dwivedi represented Mamata and Ghatak in the supreme court. On behalf of the CBI, solicitor general Tushar Mehta opposed the petition challenging the high court’s refusal to entertain their counter-affidavits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-11
26-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal tourism department guidelines stress Covid safety||The state tourism department has issued fresh standard operating procedures for tourism stakeholders to run their businesses once ongoing Covid-19 restrictions are withdrawn or eased. Nandini Chakravorty, the principal secretary of the department, issued the dos and don’ts for tourism business in Bengal, which include training for transporters, staff and attendants of a hotel, lodge, resort or any other stay facility, stringent safety protocol and more use of the Internet to minimise physical contact. The new guidelines specify that a tourism property must designate a person as the Covid-19 officer or coordinator to deal with health issues in the property and liaise with local authorities. Only asymptomatic visitors should be let in. There should be an isolation room for every 50 rooms. All properties should avoid large gatherings for entertainment. Running facilities like discotheques should be avoided. The guidelines also suggest web check-in and online checking of documents. It stresses the need for regular sanitisation and access to medical services. Relevant information on safety protocols for Covid-19 should be displayed in the reception desk, back seats of vehicles and restaurant tables. House staff and drivers should be trained to obey protocols. The guidelines have rekindled hopes of tourism stakeholders. In north Bengal, around 10 lakh people are associated with the sector. Insiders peg losses at Rs 3,000 crore since last year and Rs 550 crore since April this year, that is, the summer tourist season. “We are ready to follow protocols and hope that the situation improves in the coming months. Like last year, we have lost the summer season again in 2021 because of the second wave of the pandemic. All of us are keeping our fingers crossed for the Durga Puja season,” said Debasish Maitra, president, Eastern Himalaya Travel & Tour Operators’ Association. Samrat Sanyal, the general secretary of Himalayan Hospitality & Tourism Development Network, said the state’s decision to waive penalty for late payment of taxes for vehicles would also help the industry. In a recent notification, the state transport department said those with tax validity of their vehicles till April 28, 2021, can pay taxes minus penalty till July 31 this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-11
26-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal headmasters threatened by outgoing Class X and XII students||Several headmasters and headmistresses in Bengal have been facing agitations and threats, overt and covert, from some outgoing Class X and XII students and their guardians who want these students’ Class IX and XI marks increased. With the pandemic preventing written exams, the marks students have obtained in Classes IX and XI are set to heavily influence their Madhyamik and higher secondary results, respectively. “Besides facing agitations, teachers are being threatened — even with murder — when they refuse to increase the marks unfairly,” said Chandan Kumar Maity, state secretary, Advanced Society for Headmasters and Headmistresses. “Some students who did not take those school exams seriously now want their marks hiked, which is an unethical and illegal demand.” The Society, an association of the heads of schools run or aided by the state government, has written to the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education and the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education seeking security for teachers. Several teachers have also individually informed the board and the council, which have requested the district administrations to intervene. “They (students and guardians) have been assaulting and threatening headmasters, squatting in front of their offices, abusing them. This can’t continue,” Maity, headmaster of the Krishnachandrapur High School in Mathurapur, South 24-Parganas, said. “If the headmasters are forced to yield to pressure, it will send out a wrong message about the state’s education scene.” On Thursday, around 60 outgoing Class XII students and their guardians gheraoed the headmaster of the Damra High School in Mohammedbazar, Birbhum, till late night demanding their Class XI marks be hiked. Headmaster Tushar Mondal was released after police and the local block development officer intervened. The same day, Prafulla Majumdar, headmaster of the Mahishbathan Manindranath High School in Cooch Behar, was gheraoed and allegedly abused by students and their guardians. The agitators demanded “grace” marks in the Class XI final exams and allegedly threatened Majumdar with “dire consequences” if he didn’t comply. Majumdar has written to education department officials about the threats. Sources said the reports of agitations and harassment began arriving after the secondary board and higher secondary council announced a fortnight ago that the Class IX and XI marks would get substantial weightage in the Madhyamik and higher secondary board results, respectively. Several headmasters alleged the threats had deterred them from lodging police complaints. “The guardians and the students have been trying to justify their indefensible demand with a strange logic. They claim the students would have done brilliantly in those exams had they taken them seriously,” the headmaster of a Birbhum school said, seeking anonymity. “They say they did not take those exams seriously because nobody knew at the time that the marks obtained would play a part in the board results.” Sources said that most of the higher secondary schools had already sent the Class XI marks to the council, as instructed. They cannot now increase or decrease the marks even if they want to. “It’s simply not possible to increase the marks now as we have already sent the marks to the council,” said Mondal, the Damra High School headmaster. “I was gheraoed till 11pm on Thursday. I shall write to the council about the students’ demand, as advised by the local administration.” Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-12
26-06-2021||West Bengal||Landslide on NH55, debris on Darjeeling Himalayan Railway tracks too ||A major landslide occurred on NH55, the main link between Darjeeling and Siliguri, near Tindharia in Kurseong subdivision of Darjeeling district on Friday morning, completely halting traffic. Debris lay across 30 metres on NH55 and tracks of the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR) that run parallel to the highway. “Since Thursday evening, the hills saw torrential rain that led to the landslide at Chunabhati near Tindharia,” said Banhisikha Dey, ADM (development) of Darjeeling. The zone, some 30km from Siliguri, is landslide-prone. “It (the affected stretch) is one of the most vulnerable spots along NH55 where landslides occur every monsoon. Incessant rain has led to few minor landslides in some other spots of Kurseong subdivision,” said an official. Among these include Shivakhola, Rajbari-1 and the stretches between the DHR workshop, Tindharia station and Gayabari station. Because of the landslide, those in Rongtong, Tindharia and Gayabari will now have to take detours to reach Siliguri or Darjeeling. “They need to take the Subash Ghisingh Marg (Rohini Road), Pankhabari Road or move via Mirik or Peshok through Mungpoo,” said a Kurseong resident. Officials of the DHR also inspected the damaged spot. The tracks, they reported, are buried under tonnes of debris. “Mud, stones and rubble are piled on tracks parallel to the highway. It appears the tracks are intact. We can examine and restore tracks after state PWD clears the debris and carries out repairs,” said S. Chanda, chief PRO of Northeast Frontier Railway. Since March last year, this heritage rail service, which normally draws thousands of tourists to Darjeeling, has been suspended amid the pandemic. “But because it is a World Heritage Site recognised by the Unesco, we need to conserve every bit of the railways, which includes the tracks,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-12
26-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 1,975 recoveries, 1,933 cases in one day||Bengal on Friday reported the fifth straight day of a drop in its total number of active Covid-19 cases, by 77, to 22,231. The state reported 1,975 Covid-19 recoveries, 1,933 new infections and 35 deaths on Friday. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, the two worst-hit districts, reported six and seven deaths, and 190 and 237 new infections, respectively. “Of all 23 districts, only North 23-Parganas has over 200 daily new infections at the moment. Thirteen districts have two-digit numbers now of daily new infections found. Three of them have single-digit numbers…. The total of active cases in a dozen districts is in three-digit figures,” said a minister. Bengal’s recovery rate is now 97.33 per cent, while the national recovery rate is 96.66. “From over 150-160 deaths, daily, till a few weeks ago, it is now less than 40 on most days. Around 10 districts, on an average, have been reporting zero deaths daily,” he added. The state’s mortality rate is 1.17 per cent, while the national rate is 1.3. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent in the peak of the second wave, was 3.48 on Friday. Positive confirmation rate is the percentage of positive cases out of samples tested. Decreasing positive confirmation rate indicates reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. The total of active cases improved till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702, from the all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21. But over 11 days till Sunday, it rose by over 56 per cent, before starting to fall again over these five days. Bengal currently has 3.7 per cent of the national total of active cases, and remains eighth among states with the most active cases. Bengal now has a total of over 14.91 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was detected on March 17 last year. It includes over 14.51 lakh recoveries and 17,551 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-12
26-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Calcutta High Court poser on rationale of case against Mithun Chakraborty ||Justice Kaushik Chanda of Calcutta High Court on Friday asked the Bengal government’s counsel to explain the rationale behind drawing up proceedings against actor and BJP leader Mithun Chakraborty in connection with his speeches during the Assembly elections. The judge was hearing Chakraborty’s application for quashing of the proceedings drawn up against him by Amherst Street Police accusing him of spreading violence and hatred through his film dialogues at BJP election rallies. Justice Chanda’s impartiality was questioned by chief minister Mamata Banerjee because of “his close association with the BJP since his days as a lawyer”. The judge is hearing Mamata’s petition challenging BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari’s victory from Nandigram and she wants Justice Chanda to recuse himself from a case. During the hearing of Chakraborty’s plea on Friday, the actor’s lawyer said his client had merely delivered some dialogues in his film and sought the quashing of the case registered on the basis of a complaint by one Mrityunjoy Pal. Public prosecutor Saswata Gopal Mukherjee said a superstar like Chakraborty, who had a large fan base, could spread hatred through his dialogues. Justice Chanda wanted to know the rationale behind the case against the actor and asked the public prosecutor to say the dialogues that Chakraborty had reportedly said at his poll rallies. When lawyer Mukherjee quoted some of the dialogues, Justice Chanda asked: “How can film dialogues be the reason behind violence?” Chakraborty’s counsel said the dialogues were in the films that had received due clearance from the Censor Board. The public prosecutor said all details pertaining to the case were still not available and that was why the actor had been served with a notice by police. He urged the judge to fix the next hearing after Monday as the actor was supposed to send in his reply by that day. The court fixed the next date of hearing on July 2. Earlier, the case against the superstar had been assigned to Justice Tirthankar Ghosh who directed Chakraborty to face interrogation by the police virtually. The high court administration, however, later reassigned the case for disposal to Justice Chanda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-12
26-06-2021||West Bengal||BJP opposes Assembly bypolls to prevent Mamata Banerjee from becoming an MLA ||The BJP on Friday said the party would oppose any move to hold Assembly bypolls at a time when the Covid-19 pandemic was raging across the country in an apparent move to prevent Mamata Banerjee from becoming an MLA within six months of her swearing-in as the chief minister. Article 164(4) of the Constitution mandates that in order to continue as the chief minister, Mamata, who lost the Assembly election in Nandigram to Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP, needs to be elected to the Assembly within six months of the swearing-in on May 5. State BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu said: “She has to go. Mamata Banerjee will no longer be the CM. Let her choose someone else from her party who has won the polls. There is no need for bypolls in the state now. We will oppose it.” Mamata had said on Wednesday that the Election Commission should conduct the bypolls in seven Assembly segments at the earliest and at once. To remain as the chief minister, Basu said, Mamata was willing to risk the lives of the people of Bengal by demanding the bypolls at a time when the second wave of the novel coronavirus was raging across the country and a third wave threatened to arrive any moment. He was speaking on the sidelines of a protest rally his party organised to mark the anniversary of the Emergency imposed by then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi in 1975. The rally was supposed to start from BJP’s Bengal headquarters in 6, Muralidhar Sen Lane in Calcutta, but police stopped it citing pandemic restrictions. “The police are not allowing us to hold a rally with merely 50 people, citing restrictions imposed because of the pandemic. If such is the case, we will not allow elections amidst the pandemic either. She (Mamata) cannot risk the lives of the people for the sake of being in power,” he added. There had been deliberations within the BJP on what the party’s stand regarding the bypolls should be. Until Friday, it was being said unofficially that the BJP leadership planned to oppose the idea of holding the bypolls now to create pressure on Mamata. A section within the BJP feels Basu has only demonstrated the party’s frustration over the appalling defeat in Bengal and its desperation to disrupt the smooth functioning of a democratically elected government. The concern over risking people’s lives by holding bypolls amidst the pandemic comes from the general secretary of a party whose top-rung leaders were accused of addressing rallies during the campaign for the Assembly polls when the second wave had hit the nation. “It is a strategy of the party to oppose holding of bypolls to pile pressure on Mamata. If you remember, Suvendu has repeatedly attacked Mamata Banerjee by calling her a non-MLA CM. The party wants to keep it that way. At least create as many hindrances in the way to her election as possible,” a BJP leader said on Friday. “But many of us feel it will disrupt the functioning of the government and trigger a negative reaction from the people,” the leader added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-12
26-06-2021||North East||Assam govt appoints home guard who helped in drug operation||The Assam government has appointed 35-year-old home guard Borsing Bey as a police constable, a first in the state, for his exemplary role in the recovery of contraband worth Rs 12 crore on June 21. The state cabinet on Thursday decided to appoint home guard Bey as a constable in the Assam police for refusing a “huge bribe amount from drug dealers and helped recover drugs valued at Rs 12 crore” in Karbi Anglong district. The cabinet decision came a day after director-general of police Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta felicitated Bey and handed him a cheque of Rs 1 lakh for refusing the bribe offered by the peddlers. The DGP was effusive in his praise for Bey, describing him as the “man Assam can’t stop talking about”, “the toast of the town” and hoped his “honesty will inspire everyone of us” . Two women from Chennai and the driver of an Imphal-Dimapur-Guwahati bus were arrested under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act during routine checking by Karbi Anglong police at Dillai for alleged possession of 3kg crystal methamphetamine worth Rs 12 crore in the international market. “The bus driver had pleaded with Bey to let go by offering a substantial cash amount. Bey not only refused but also informed his superior leading to the huge haul. Bey has shown honesty pays. Credit should also go to the state government and our DGP for recognising Bey’s exemplary role and conduct,” a senior Karbi Anglong police official told The Telegraph. He said the rewards for Bey will further boost the morale of the force in taking the government’s ongoing “zero tolerance” campaign against trafficking of drugs and their consumption to its logical end. Bey told this newspaper that he was “very, very happy” for the accolades and rewards coming his way and hoped to continue in a similar vein. Bey hails from Dokmoka, around 90km from Dillai. He joined as a home guard in 2003 and was getting a monthly salary of Rs 9,000. His family includes his wife, a daughter and son who is in Class V. He will draw a salary of around Rs 27,000 a month as a constable. Home guard is an auxiliary force which assists the police. An official said a home guard is usually employed for six months a year. “Now Bey will have permanent job,” he added. Since May 10, the day the BJP-led government assumed charge for a second time, the police have registered 659 cases, arrested 1,142 people and recovered drugs worth several crores of rupees. Chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted on Thursday that the police have been fighting the drug menace with quiet determination and have made significant progress. The other cabinet decisions included: ⚫ Empowered deputy commissioners to allot land for government institutions in rural areas on the basis of recommendations of land acquisition committees. Henceforth, no proposal for land allocation in rural areas has to be sent to the revenue department for approval. ⚫ Empowered the principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) to clear payment of ex-gratia to kin of victims of man-animal conflict on recommendation of the divisional forest officer (DFO). No compensation file needs to be sent to the forest department. ⚫ Oil companies such as OIL and ONGC will have to pay a minimum of Rs 12 lakh per bigha for land acquisition within a 10-km radius of a town. Similarly, for land acquisition outside the 10-km radius of a town, they will have to pay a minimum of Rs 10 lakh per bigha. ⚫ Approved incentives for waiving micro-finance loans availed by women self-help groups.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-1
26-06-2021||North East||Nagaland: NSCN (I-M) comes down heavily on R.N. Ravi for questioning 'taxation right'||The NSCN (I-M) has come down heavily on Nagaland governor R.N. Ravi for questioning the “taxation right” of the outfit while asserting that the “nominal taxations” it collects will continue. Asserting that it collected taxes to support the Naga people’s political movement, which started in 1929 “even before” India got independence from the British, the outfit on Wednesday said the Centre “opposing taxations” by the NSCN “violates” the Framework Agreement signed in 2015 wherein the “two entities have agreed to coexist peacefully as two different entities sharing sovereign power”. “The Naga nation does not require permission from the Government of India for taxation. The matter remains loud and clear that at no point of time the Nagas became Indians either by conquest or consent. Thus, it is too far-fetched for the governor of Nagaland state to issue such an outrageous statement on taxation,” the NSCN (I-M) said. Ravi is also the Centre’s interlocutor for the Naga peace talks. The NSCN (I-M) response once again brought to the fore the strained ties between Ravi and the outfit which had sought his removal last August. The NSCN (I-M) was responding to the June 21 statement issued by the office of the government of India’s representative and interlocutor for the Naga peace talks. Without naming the NSCN (I-M), the statement issued by the interlocutor’s office said “taxation” is a “sovereign function” which can be exercised “only” by the Government of India or the state government. The statement referred to a claim made by a “Naga armed organisation” engaged in the peace process that they have a right to collect “tax” from the people and this right has been “recognised” also by the government representative having dialogue with them. The NSCN (I-M) had made the claim on June 19. On Wednesday, the NSCN (I-M) also said: “... during the course of Indo-Naga political talks, passing through the hands of three interlocutor-ships, this taxation right was acknowledged indicating that NSCN have the right to tax to carry on its movement and no fuss was made out of it. The press statement issued by the governor’s office contradicts this stand which violates the spirit of the hard earned Indo-Naga talks crossing more than 23 years.” The peace process between the NSCN (I-M) and the Centre started in 1997, and is presently said to be at a very advanced stage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-1
26-06-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Uddhav Thackeray asked to join hands with BJP, Kerala dowry death,||Evil thrives Sir — The recent dowry death case in Kerala, in which a young ayurveda doctor was found dead at her husband’s house in what is suspected to be suicide, has shaken the consciousness of the state as well as that of the nation. The deceased doctor is said to have sent WhatsApp messages to her family, sharing photos of the alleged torture over dowry that she was subjected to. The incident is even more horrific given that Kerala is generally believed to be home to a relatively more progressive and educated society. It is also shocking that around 200 women have lost their lives in the state owing to dowry-related harassment in the past 12 to 13 years. A targeted study in various states would certainly reveal a staggering number of deaths of women and cases of physical violence because of the evil of dowry. The latter was banned in India decades ago; in order to give more teeth to the legislation, the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act was enacted in 2005. Sadly, even though such strict laws exist, in most parts of the country domestic violence still thrives and is often closely linked to dowry matters. Making matters worse is the fact that law enforcement departments and organizations tasked with tackling these problems on time mostly choose to remain mute spectators. Most often, political pressure from various sources result in cases being dropped or not filed at all. Dowry is a massive blot on the image of a modern and progressive society. There is no claiming that India is developing fast and emerging as a global leader while we continue to turn a blind eye to the atrocities being perpetrated against the women of the nation. Dowry must be completely eradicated from our society. Unless our local leaders, the governments at the Centre and in the states, our law enforcement agencies and civil society take dedicated steps to put an end to this social evil, India will continue to witness more dowry deaths. Gender equality and  respect towards women must begin at home and must be actively taught in schools. Young people should be made aware of the consequences of demanding or giving dowry; they must be encouraged to get involved in anti-dowry campaigns and take the lead in ridding their society of this menace. M. Pradyu,Kannur Bad choice Sir — A few days ago, a member of the legislative assembly from the Shiv Sena, Pratap Sarnaik, had urged the Maharashtra chief minister, Uddhav Thackeray, to join hands with the party’s former alliance partner, the Bharatiya Janata Party. He said this would be to the benefit of the Shiv Sena. However, if Thackeray goes back to being on good terms with the BJP by cutting ties with its current alliance partners, the Nationalist Congress Party and the Congress, then, among other things, it will lose the goodwill and the votes of the Christian and Muslim communities in the state. The BJP has made a name for itself as a proponent of intolerance; it has made it clear that it does not support or care about minority communities. Thackeray should think twice before joining hands with the BJP; doing so would only be to his party’s own detriment. The Shiv Sena has done a rather good job in Maharashtra during the last 22 months of its tenure; it has also handled the coronavirus pandemic in the state admirably. It does not need — indeed, Maharashtra does not need — the BJP. Jubel D’Cruz,Mumbai Other side Sir — It was both amusing and thought-provoking to read about the bride in Uttar Pradesh who called off her wedding when she discovered that her groom had weak eyesight, a fact she was not aware of earlier. She found out when the groom failed to read a newspaper without spectacles. It can be claimed that the actions taken by the bride were a bit extreme. On the other hand, it is also interesting to remember that in India, women’s physical attributes have, for decades, been subjected to the most gruelling scrutiny — and rejection — by grooms’ families, often without question. Can we object to the tables turning, however minutely, now? Arko Mitra,Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-4
26-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Jet, set, go||When Jet Airways was sucked into a bankruptcy resolution process in June 2019 — just two months after it was forced to suspend operations because of unsustainable debt and mounting losses — there was a feeling that its collapse validated the popular theory that India simply did not have a viable market for a robust full-service airline. Vijay Mallya’s Kingfisher Airlines had flamed out in late 2012 after drowning in debt. State-owned Air India has been wallowing in losses for years and the move to privatize it seems to be going nowhere. The National Company Law Tribunal has now approved a resolution plan for Jet Airways put forth by the little-known Dubai-based entrepreneur, Murari Lal Jalan, and London-based Kalrock Capital, neither of whom has any aviation experience. The Jalan-Kalrock resolution plan is incredible. It promises to pay out just Rs 12 billion out of the Rs 155.25 billion, a little less than 8 per cent of the dues that the airline owes banks, financial institutions, operational creditors, employees and fliers who have been holding on to ticket refund stubs for well over two years. In effect, the new owners will ride into India’s aviation tarmac at an astonishingly lowball price. The civil aviation ministry and the Directorate General of Civil Aviation — the regulator — seem to have deep misgivings about the rescue plan for Jet Airways. That is why they successfully contested before the NCLT the principle of historicity on the basis of which Jalan-Kalrock was trying to reclaim its rights to airport landing slots without which the airline cannot resume operations. The NCLT has given the new owners a 90-day time limit to seek approvals for the slot allocation with the possibility of extending that deadline. The Jet slots have already been farmed out to rival airlines. But even on the basis of historicity, the new owners cannot win back all the slots. The slot allocation guidelines of the International Air Transport Association, which member nations follow, lay down a narrowly-defined use-it-or-lose-it principle. Historic precedence can only be granted if the airline operated at least 80 per cent of the time in the previous equivalent season. Many believe that Jet should be permitted to take off quickly. The resolution plan, which has not been revealed as yet, apparently builds a case for both domestic and international operations with narrow and wide-bodied aircraft. The plan is to refloat the airline by December. It will be easy enough to get planes on lease and rustle up employees; it will be harder to negotiate the contracts for maintenance, technical support and airport management. The biggest stumbling block will be winning back the slots in Level 3 airports like Delhi and Mumbai where demand usually exceeds supply. The pandemic has forced airlines to operate at 50 per cent of capacity but they are ready to ramp up as soon as the economy recovers. That is when the scramble for slots will become truly messy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-5
26-06-2021||Opinion||Twist in the tale: Twenty years of 'Lagaan'||This is just my theory but I am sure Lagaan — a great movie which is celebrating its 20th anniversary — would have won an Oscar if Aamir Khan, the film’s producer and male lead, and Ashutosh Gowariker, its director, had ensured that the hero, Bhuvan, goes off not with the village belle, Gauri (Gracy Singh), but with the English woman, Elizabeth Russell (Rachel Shelley). Russell is the one who tells Bhuvan of her feelings in painfully learnt Hindi, and she risks the wrath of her brother, Captain Andrew Russell — Paul Blackthorne — and the colonels of the raj by siding with the villagers and teaching them the rules of cricket. In June 2001, I was privileged to attend Lagaan’s world premiere at the Warner Village Cinema in Leicester Square. In March 2002, I was in the lobby of the Wyndham Bel Age in Los Angeles as the stars of Lagaan departed for the Oscar ceremony. Alas, Lagaan lost to the Bosnian No Man’s Land for best foreign language film. In 2005, I went to Eton College where Andrew Robinson, a history teacher and cricket master, was using Lagaan to give his pupils a decidedly pro-Indian view of the raj (remember five governor-generals and 11 viceroys, including Curzon, were educated at Eton). In May 2011, I chanced upon Gowariker at the Cannes Film Festival and offered my reworking of Lagaan. He was taken aback for a second, then laughed: “That wouldn’t work in India!” Maybe not, but the possibility of a radical departure had occurred to the late Roger Ebert, legendary film critic of the Chicago Sun-Times: “[T]here is the intriguing question of whether the hero will end up with his childhood sweetheart, or cross color lines with the Victorian woman...” Dark past Patna couldn’t be further away from idyllic England and yet when the Famous Five — Julian, Dick, Anne, Georgina and their dog, Timmy — landed on Kirrin Island, I joined them on this and other thrilling adventures. How I loved Enid Blyton’s The Famous Five and The Secret Seven stories. As a child I was not aware, however, of some of her racial stereotypes. English Heritage, which puts up blue plaques to mark where notable people such as Tagore, Gandhi and Nehru have lived in London, is updating its website to take note of Blyton’s questionable opinions. Her plaque remains unaltered but her online biography now reads: “Blyton’s work has been criticised during her lifetime and after for its racism, xenophobia and lack of literary merit. A 1966 Guardian article noted the racism of The Little Black Doll (1966), in which the doll of the title, Sambo, is only accepted by his owner once his ‘ugly black face’ is washed ‘clean’ by rain... In 2016, Blyton was rejected by the Royal Mint for commemoration on a 50p coin because, the advisory committee minutes record, she was ‘a racist, sexist, homophobe and not a very well-regarded writer’. Others have argued that while these charges can’t be dismissed, her work still played a vital role in encouraging a generation of children to read.” Celebrate diversity From Columbia University, Vidya Dehejia, the Barbara Stoler Miller Professor of Indian and South Asian Art, tells me of two new books. One, published by Princeton University Press, is The Thief Who Stole My Heart: The Material Life of Sacred Bronzes from Chola India, 855-1280. She estimates that more than 1,000 temples were built over four centuries. “During the Chola period, maybe 10,000 bronzes would have been produced.” The other, brought out by Roli Books, is India: A Story Through 100 Objects. She will be discussing it today, with William Dalrymple, during the Khushwant Singh LitFest (London). Dehejia, one of the world’s leading experts on Indian art who received the Padma Bhushan in 2012, explained: “India’s not just one thing — it’s a mixture of all sorts of things. The multiculturalism of India is my focus in this book. There’s a Koran page in it. There’s an Islamic gravestone and a Jahangir album in it. There’s a Zoroastrian bowl in it, there is the ketubah (a Jewish marriage contract) and, of course, there’s a lot of Hindu stuff in it. Our strength lies in the multicultural mix that we are instead of just talking about Hinduism and Hindutva. We have amalgamated so many streams and taken the best from all of them to become what we are and we should celebrate that.” Power wins The powerful pro-Winston Churchill lobby has registered a notable victory. Churchill College, Cambridge, which has been conducting a year-long programme to examine whether he was responsible for aggravating the effects of the 1943 Bengal famine, has been stopped in its tracks. The halt was announced by Dame Athene Donald, Master of the college, after heavy pressure from Churchill’s grandson, Sir Nicholas Soames, and right-wing newspapers. Its prime mover, Prof Priyamvada Gopal, a Fellow of Churchill College, is furious. She claims that “under pressure from groups like Policy Exchange & some members of the Churchill family, Churchill College has disbanded a group set up to engage critically with Churchill’s complicated legacies”. Footnote This is an important moment for the British Indian community. Shannon Singh, 22 years old, the daughter of a Punjabi father and a Scottish mother and described as “a former glamour model, social media influencer and DJ”, is to the first Indian origin contestant on Love Island, a risqué reality TV show in which photogenic young men and women are isolated on an island and encouraged to endlessly couple and decouple and find “romance”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-5
26-06-2021||Opinion||Different route||The only solace for the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party in a challenging political year is that the year has, arguably, been worse for the Congress. The latter lost all three states — Assam, Puducherry and Kerala — where it could have reasonably expected to win. Worse, it got wiped out in Bengal, losing all the 44 seats it held in the state assembly. In Uttar Pradesh, the party performed poorly in the panchayat elections, reinforcing its marginality in the crucial state. This unstoppable decline of the Congress has prompted another round of a debate that has been going around for a while now: how can the Congress revive itself? A recurrent argument charting the road to revival for the Congress hinges on greater ideological clarity. The Cambridge professor, Shruti Kapila, recently made that case again when she called for a purge of Hindutva elements from the Congress. The party, she argued, needs to frame its politics in terms of a grand ideological clash against the Hindu nationalism of the BJP. This way, it can forge a powerful ideological coalition, bringing together all social groups disenchanted with Hindutva politics. This argument has a strong moral and intellectual appeal among members of the intelligentsia dismayed by the steady ‘Hindutvaization’ of the Indian polity. But is ideological clarity a realistic recipe of revival for the Congress? A careful analysis of the evolution of the Indian electorate as well as the nature of the Congress should lead to serious doubts about this rousing prescription. The first thing to understand about the Congress is that it has always been a broad-tent centrist party. It had a strong representation of conservatives during its heyday of Nehruvian dominance, a legacy of its formation as an umbrella coalition leading the freedom struggle. Even when the Congress veered leftwards economically under Indira Gandhi, it did not give up its mantle of mainstream nationalism. Indeed, on questions of national security and identity, Indira Gandhi’s preferred approach was a hard, hawkish stance. The key to the appeal of the Congress was its claim to be India’s natural party of governance: only the Congress could represent, and unite, all sections of a staggeringly plural society, anchored in a philosophy of ideological moderation. When centrist parties anywhere in the world suffer electoral reverses, they inexorably attract calls for greater ideological clarity. The party can only revitalize itself by moving leftwards or rightwards, the argument goes. However, this strategy does not work for centrist parties, as a recent paper by the political scientist, Roi Zur, demonstrates, using survey data from Canada, Finland, Germany and the United Kingdom. The parties of the Right and the Left can revive themselves with ideological re-positioning, exploiting the divisions of a polarized electorate, but not centrist parties. Since the vote share of centrist parties is more or less evenly distributed across the political spectrum, they gain little by re-positioning — losing right-leaning voters when they shift Left, and left-leaning voters when they shift Right. This centrist dilemma is particularly acute for the Congress as the ideological middle ground of Indian politics has steadily shifted towards Hindu majoritarianism. A substantial majority of voters support policies such as the removal of Article 370 or the Supreme Court judgment on the construction of the Ram Mandir, while a comfortable plurality backs the government’s stand on the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. The Congress has tactfully welcomed the Ram Mandir judgment while lending a muted opposition to Article 370 and the CAA. If surveys are to be believed, were the Congress to ditch its ambiguity and hesitancy and take clear and strident positions on these high-pitched ideological issues, it would only stand to lose electoral support, particularly in northern and western India. Conversely, if the Congress shifts rightwards, it can hardly be expected to outflank the BJP, while opening itself to further erosion of its Muslim support base. A key mistake Indian proponents of greater ideological clarity make is imagining a bipolar ideological landscape, like the United States of America, divided between an almost equally strong right- and left-wing. This is certainly not the case in Indian politics where Hindu majoritarianism presently enjoys a position of dominance, and not many voters are moved by secularism or liberalism. There are indeed spaces for a clearer ideological opposition to the BJP in certain states, where, as I argued in a previous article, regional-linguistic pride can offer a potent antidote to the homogenizing doctrine of Hindu nationalism. But even here, two caveats are in order. One, even regional parties such as the Trinamul Congress frame their opposition in terms of the centralizing aspect of Hindu nationalism while skirting around the aspect of Hindu majoritarianism. And two, this strategy is hard to scale up at a national level, particularly for an all-India party such as the Congress, whose ideological contestation with the BJP draws in trickier issues of national security and national identity. If ideological re-positioning is ruled out as a means of revival for the Congress, how then can the party revive itself? Political parties have two sources of appeal: ideological and valency. Ideological appeal is predicated on the position of the party on a range of policy issues across the right-left spectrum, while valency appeal is based on the image of a party for competence in the realm of governance. The valency image of a party is conceived in terms of non-policy attributes such as competence, integrity and leadership ability. People vote for centrist parties because of their high valency image: ideological moderation is associated by people with the ability to make the necessary adjustments and compromises to ensure the delivery of public goods. The decline of centrist parties is preceded by the loss of their valency image. The decimation of the Congress in 2014 and 2019 owed itself to the dramatic loss of its image as a party of governance. The tumultuous last years of the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance were marked by a succession of scams, steep price rise, large-scale protests, intra-party battles and almost a loss of will to take hard decisions. The Congress has yet to truly shake off the long shadow of that ignominious period and resurrect its valency image. It is also presently provided with a unique opportunity to do so: the valency of the main Opposition party is generally expected to rise as the valency of the governing party registers a fall. The reconfiguration of valency images particularly takes place in the event of a large-scale crisis, such as an economic shock. We see this happening with the BJP as the party has in large part ceded its image of competence: as many as 80 per cent of respondents told a survey that they do not feel that the country is on the right track. If the Congress can project an image of competence, it can realistically hope to own those issues whose ownership can change hands in the short term: unemployment, price control, social welfare. Even if the BJP holds on to its long-term ownership of ideological issues of national security and national identity, a loss in ownership of macro-economic issues to the Congress would see its support plummet in favour of the Congress, as happened in 2009. This brings us to the last part: how can the Congress improve its valency image? First, it needs to settle its leadership question and unite the party’s squabbling ranks. A party that cannot set its own house in order inspires little hope in the electorate in its ability to govern the country. Second, it needs to leverage its control over state governments to demonstrate the competence and integrity of the Congress. Much like the Gujarat Model was used by the BJP, the Congress needs to develop Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan into alternative models of Congress governance. Third, the party needs to act as a shadow government: regularly communicating to the people in a detailed manner how it would solve the pressing problems confronting the country. The well-pointed suggestions and criticisms of Rahul Gandhi over the government’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic is a welcome step in this direction. However, the party needs to expand its channels of communication to make sure these messages actually reach the ground. And fourth, it needs to talk more about the UPA, not just honestly reflect where it went wrong, but also remind the people of some of its many remarkable achievements. The path to revival for the Congress party does not lie in ideological clarity or confrontation, it lies in proving once again to the people that it is indeed India’s natural party of governance. As I had argued in a previous piece, regional parties can profitably employ regional-linguistic pride in their battles with the BJP, as an antidote to the assimilative vision of the saffron camp. However, this option is not available to a national party such as the Congress, vying for power in Delhi, whose contestation with the BJP takes place around national issues. Asim Ali is a political columnist and research associate with the Centre for Policy Research, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-5
26-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Wild bear kills 3 and injures 3 in Garhwa||Garhwa: A wild bear mauled three villagers including two brothers to death and injured three others on Friday night at Barkol village in Garhwa district. The injured including a woman are being treated at Sadar Hospital, Garhwa and are reported to be out of danger. The incident happened at around 8 pm when 38-year-old Anit Gidh came out of his house in Barkol Khurd village.  The village is situated at the foothills of Sonvarsha Mountains surrounded by forest.  After covering a distance of 200 meters from the house, a wild bear attacked him.  In an attempt to escape from the attack, he shouted for help.  Hearing his voice, his elder brother Sunit Gidh, 42, ran towards him.  On reaching the spot, the bear attacked him too.  A third villager, 40-year-old Raju Minj rushed to help the brothers when he was also attacked. All three were seriously injured in the bear attack and died on the spot. Later in the night, the bear attacked three more villagers who were rushed to the hospital for treatment. Civil Surgeon Dr Kamlesh Kumar said, "One of the villagers has suffered a serious injury on his left eye due to a wild bear attack.” “The injured being treated here, are out of danger,” Kumar added. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: Ambedkar Nagar police of Uttar Pradesh caught a woman who had eloped with her boyfriend in a Hazaribagh village. Rashmi Kumari, having an MBA degree, had run away with her daily wage wage earner partner, Haidar Hussain from Ambedkar Nagar. On Friday, police raided a house in Bherwa Dadi village under Barkagaon police station where the duo were caught. Rashmi stuck to her decision to live with Haidar. “We both got married four years ago and we are living together for the last four months,” she said. Haidar, a matriculate, said he and Rashmi are adults and free to take their own decision. Rashmi's father and other relatives were also present in Hazaribagh and officials said they will take a decision after getting directives from the court. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: A life insurance agent duped nine individuals of Rs.80 lakh at SBI main branch of Hazaribagh town. Kahkasa Nisha was newly posted at the branch and was introduced to customers by bank employees after which she started taking money for fixed deposit in the bank for better returns. Three FIRs were registered against her at Sadar police station after she disappeared with Rs 80 lakh. However, bank employees who introduced her to customers are claiming they didn't know her. Subdivisional police officer Mahesh Prajapati said they were probing as how she was allowed to sit and work at the bank's main branch. SBI branch manager Vikas Kant said he had taken charge recently and was not in a position to comment. But he said insurance agents are allowed to continue their business at the bank. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-9
26-06-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city police launch drive to nab under-age bikers||The traffic police will intensify a drive against under-age riding in the steel city from Monday. If any under-age rider is caught at a checkpoint, they will be slapped with a penalty of as high as Rs 25,000. Deputy Superintendent of Police (Traffic) Babban Singh said in the event if any minor fails to pay the penalty amount, the vehicle will be seized and it can be released from the traffic police's custody only after submitting the penalty in court. "We have already started implementing the Motor Vehicle Act as framed by the Central government and approved by the Supreme Court. But from Monday onwards, our focus will be on the under-age driving, "said Singh to The Telegraph Online. The senior traffic cop claimed to have observed that a large number of minors indulged in riding scooters and bikes thus not only putting their lives at risk, but also the lives of other commuters. The traffic DSP said to make the drive against under-age riding effective, the check points will be set up at unusual places and time so that a sense of fear may be instilled in the mind of such minor riders. There are over five lakh two-wheelers in the city. Over five per cent of the two-wheeler riders are minors, most of them being school students. Significantly, the traffic police have started a helmet checking against the pillion-riders and charging a penalty of Rs 1,000 for not wearing one. In the event if the rider too is found without a helmet, the penalty amount is going up to Rs 2,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-9
26-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to prioritise vaccination for truckers plying goods to Bangladesh||Jharkhand will vaccinate truck drivers, helpers and labourers engaged in transportation of goods between India and Bangladesh by road on priority following a directive from the Ministry of External Affairs, officials said on Saturday. “In adherence to a directive from the Ministry of External Affairs, we will start vaccination of truck drivers and other individuals involved in transportation of goods to Bangladesh via road,” said Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer of health department’s Information, Education and Communication (IEC) wing. Truck drivers, Tripathi said, will be provided certificates post vaccination, which they can carry while transporting goods from India to Bangladesh. As per a letter from the Ministry of External Affairs, the Bangladesh government has already started vaccinating truck drivers who move to India for transporting goods and has sought similar initiatives from the government of India. Even though Jharkhand does not share its borders with Bangladesh, several truck drivers from the state are involved in transportation of goods to the neighbouring country, government sources said. The National Health Mission (NHM) has also directed all  districts to ensure vaccination of sportspersons, team members and other staff participating in the Tokyo Olympics and Paralympic games at the earliest. The Tokyo Olympics is scheduled to begin on July 23, and sportspersons from Jharkhand have made it to the national hockey team that would be participating in the Olympics. Besides vaccinating residents who travel overseas, the state government has started preparing for a possible third wave of Covid-19. The state will conduct gap assessment of private hospitals with paediatrics facilities in order to identify infrastructural shortcomings of the healthcare setups and provide oxygen concentrators on rent to the hospitals for tackling a possible third wave of Covid-19, officials said on Saturday. In a letter addressed to  civil surgeons of all 24 districts of Jharkhand, the NHM stated that all district administrations must hold meetings with the representatives of private hospitals within their jurisdiction and start the process of assessing the preparedness of private healthcare facilities in the eventuality of a third wave of the pandemic. The districts will have to prepare a detailed report on the number of hospitals providing paediatrics facilities, whether they have separate Covid wards or not and whether the hospitals have dedicated Paediatrics Intensive Care Units (PICUs). During the assessment,  districts will also have to review  availability of beds and oxygen concentrators in  private hospitals, officials said. “The state has decided to provide oxygen concentrators on rent to private healthcare facilities that have a paediatrics ward in case there is a demand during a possible third wave,” said Dr Tripathi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-9
26-06-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Main Hospital vaccine drive crosses the 1 lakh mark||In its fight against Covid -19, the Tata Main Hospital, a private health hub run by Tata Steel, achieved vaccination coverage of over one lakh on Friday. The hospital has so far administered 1,01,453 vaccines - both Covishield and Covaxin- of which 12,051 people have received both their doses. During a teleconference here on Friday evening, advisor to TMH Dr Rajan Choudhry confirmed that their vaccination figures had crossed one lakh mark. "Increasing the pace of vaccination is the only way to win the battle against Covid. The transmission of the virus was rapid and much higher in the second wave. The vaccination drive will help in developing immunity for fighting the virus," he said. TMH provides vaccines at Tata Auditorium in XLRI campus, Loyola School, at the campus of Kerala Samajam Model School in Sakchi and at its own hospital premises in Bistupur. He appealed to people that even after getting vaccinated one should continue to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour which includes wearing masks, frequent use of hand sanitisers, maintaining social distance and avoiding crowds. Meanwhile, the overall Covid-19 positivity rate continues to decline. TMH has reported a positivity rate of 2.45 per cent. The admissions have reduced to three per day this week while the recovery rate has improved to 84.21 per cent. TMH has also started taking preventive measures to combat the possible third wave. Apart from improving medical infrastructure the hospital has introduced training modules for medical staff to help them prepare to fight the possible next wave. With the onset of monsoon the hospital also sounded a general alert on diseases like dengue, Japanese Encephalitis and other water-borne diseases which is prevalent during this time of the season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-9
26-06-2021||Jharkhand||Ranji batsman Saurabh Tiwary to train in Mumbai ||Jharkhand batsman and Mumbai Indian’s southpaw Saurabh Tiwary will be off to Mumbai on Monday for the much-needed outdoor training ahead of the Indian Premier League (IPL), which resumes in the UAE on September 19. The BCCI has identified a 27-day window to complete the 31 remaining matches, after IPL 14 was suspended on May 4 as an intense second wave of the pandemic hit India. Tiwary had been into fitness drills at home due to the Covid-induced lockdown and was looking for an opportunity to bat. The 31-year-old has decided to fly to Mumbai to find rhythm and get back into the batting groove. "I've been in Jamshedpur since May 5 after the IPL was suspended. I was not able to bat and only did fitness drills at home. There was no other option than to do the workouts at home. I worked out at a gym set up at home. Weight training and cycling comprised most part of the daily indoor training schedule. It was not possible to bat and train outside. But I badly wanted to find my batting rhythm.  That's why I'm flying to Mumbai (from Ranchi) on Monday," Tiwary said. Speaking to the Telegraph Online, Tiwary, one of the batting mainstays of the Jharkhand Ranji Trophy side, said he would train with some local cricketers in Mumbai. "I have friends in Mumbai and will train with them inside the compound of a residential complex. The local cricketers have set up an indoor unit with an astroturf. I will feel motivated working with cricketers. I really need to get back into my batting groove before the IPL," he added. Tiwary said it would take him over a week to find his batting rhythm."I think I'll find my rhythm in over a week's time. After that it would take another week to find my batting peak. I want to be at my peak before the start of our remaining matches in the UAE," the big hitting Tiwary pointed out. Defending champions Mumbai Indian have played seven matches before the tournament was suspended. Tiwary is yet to get an opportunity in the playing XI. The left handed batter wants to make the most of the opportunity of outdoor training before he finds his batting peak. The highly experienced Tiwary, who has played three ODI's for Team India, would like to put himself on a strong batting pedestal in order to get a chance in the Mumbai playing XI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-9
26-06-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad, Bokaro MSMEs struggle to stay afloat||More than 250 MSME industries of Dhanbad and Bokaro operating from Industrial parks of Jharkhand Industrial Area Development Authority, are in deep crisis due to a sharp rise in raw materials like pig iron and raw plastic. The aggrieved industry owners in turn are demanding immediate intervention by the government in the form of tax relief and subsidy. Around 150 industries of Balidih in Bokaro dependent on supply of  spares like rubber etc, to Bokaro Steel Limited  are suffering huge losses for more than a year and some are on the verge of closure. The situation is similar for over 100 industries of Dhanbad including the plastic industry, electrical gadgets producing industries etc. Talking to the Telegraph Online, Mahesh Kejriwal, President of Jharkhand Industries Association  owner of a rubber roll industry at Balidih said, “We are procuring raw materials at almost double the rate of last year but our end product are static due to stiff competition as result of which we are incurring losses.” “While there is no competition in the raw material production, we in the spare production sector are huge in numbers including large corporate, medium scale industries, small and micro industries. “Due to the price war among us, the market of our spare products is slowly getting shifted towards corporate brands,” said Kejriwal. “The situation of MSME industries of Adityapur is slightly better as their contract with steel industry there has provision of price variation clause,” elaborated Kejriwal. “As per the provisions of price variation clause, the  contract is adjusted for both supplier and purchaser as per the increase or decrease in rates and price of labour, cement, steel, plant, machinery, spares, fuel and lubricants and other material inputs, in accordance with the principals and formulae specified,” said Kejriwal. Rajiv Sharma, General Secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association owner of an electrical gadget industry at Kandra Industrial area of Dhanbad said, “The prices of iron sheet which was around Rs 55 to Rs 60 per kg till last year have increased to around Rs 110 per kg and similarly the prices of plastic granules have also increased from Rs 40 per kg of last year to around Rs 75 to Rs 80 this year almost doubling production cost.” “The MSME industries have limited capital thus increase in production adversely affects our cash flow which ultimately affects production,” further said Sharma. “Government should come forward with a subsidy plan to save these MSME industries on the model of other advanced countries, otherwise the international players will come into the scene affecting our industries affecting employment opportunities too,” said Sharma. “Both the central and state governments should come forward with some steps that could be like, decrease in the GST rate for the raw material purchase for the MSME industries. “Last year the Central government had announced some relief in the form of loans but this year there is no such move forward,” said Sharma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-9
26-06-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town real estate sector suffers 80% decline||The real estate sector of Dhanbad, which has been on an upswing for the last three decades, has suffered more than 80% decline since the beginning of the pandemic in  March last year. Out of around 700 ongoing projects of flats, duplex and market complexes, booking of only around 140 projects have taken place since last year while buyers are yet to show interest for 560 other projects. Over 250 property dealers and builders, who are facing extreme tough times, have blamed high registry charges of around 8% and state government new rules requiring registration of builders as dealers of construction materials adding to their difficulties. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Ritesh Sharma, Director of Alokik Group one of the prominent builders of Dhanbad, said “We had a brief period of respite from October, 2020 to February 2021 as we made some brisk sale after the relaxation in lockdown and 85% of projects were sold, but the situation is not good as only around 10-15% projects were sold.” “Two consecutive lockdowns affecting the financial condition of all investors of service class or business class is the primary reason for lack of interest for the downturn but no less is the high registry charges.” “The government could have earned higher revenue by lowering the registry charges and thereby propelling more investors to buy projects rather than increasing the rates and consequently deterring the buyers from investments,” said Sharma. Amresh Singh, a prominent builder and president of Dhanbad unit of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI) said, “Yes indeed the situation is very bad as even before we could recover from the losses suffered during the first phase of lockdown the second phase has knocked us down.” “We request the state government to provide incentives and subsidies to our sector which is one of the biggest employers after public sector that provides jobs to large number of migrant workers who had to return back to their place during lockdown, but instead the government is burdening us with lot of documentation of work and taxes,” said Singh. “What is the logic of enforcing the provision for mandatory registration of builders as dealers of construction materials when we are purchasers of these products rather than sellers,” said Singh and added all these provisions are only leading to officialdom and red tapism and forcing them to make rounds of government offices. He also demanded the restoration of the provision of registry of property at Re 1 for women buyers and added, “Many people who have purchased the houses and flats two to three years ago have still not carried out registration in hope that the government will again restore the old provision of Re 1 registry for women.” Vinay Singh, Director of Ramson Developers said, “Instead of 70-80 customer enquiry calls a day in the pre lockdown period, we are getting only 15-20 calls a day during lockdown which shows the sombre mood of investors due to financial insecurity during the Covid period.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-9
26-06-2021||Jharkhand||Latehar: Community health worker assaulted for alleged witchcraft ||A 40-year-old community health worker, who had been creating awareness against misinformation to get rid of vaccine hesitancy, was assaulted for allegedly practising witchcraft at a village in Latehar district of Jharkhand on Thursday. Sources in Balumath police station, under which Indua village falls, said Hira Devi was assaulted with sticks and rods by neighbours Umesh Yadav, Sanjay Yadav and a few others. Harinath Yadav, Hira’s husband and a small-time farmer, was also beaten up when he tried to rescue her. The injured couple were admitted to the Balumath community health centre on Thursday and were released on Friday afternoon. “I used to go to houses in my village informing people to take vaccines and not rely on superstitions and misinformation. However, some of our neighbours who are distant relatives of my husband had been accusing me of practising witchcraft and being responsible for the illnesses and deaths in their family. On Thursday, they stormed into our house and started hurling abuses at me. When I resisted, they assaulted me. My husband protested and he too was assaulted,” Hira said, adding that she has been actively engaged in administering vaccines to people with the health department team. She said she had lodged a complaint at the Balumath police station and also with the Latehar superintendent of police against the accused persons who had been threatening her for several days, but no action was taken. “Police inaction boosted the morale of the accused and they entered my house and beat us up,” Hira said. Balumath police station officer-in-charge Dharmendra Kumar Mahato termed the incident as a family dispute. “The complainant and the accused persons are related to each other and have been accusing each other of practising witchcraft. On Thursday, both sides got into a fight and both have lodged cases at the police station. We are investigating the incident,” Mahato said. The officer, however, said no arrests had been made as the village was nearly 20km from the police station and was located in a dense forest having Maoist presence. “We will have to go to the village with a large force to arrest the accused persons as it is located far away in a rebel-hit area,” Mahato said. Latehar superintendent of police Prashant Anand said an FIR had been registered. “An FIR has been registered and the matter is being investigated,” he added. Latehar deputy commissioner Abu Imran has ordered Bariatu block development officer-cum-circle officer Pradeep Das to meet Hira and submit a report. He has also directed the Latehar sub-divisional police officer to probe the incident. Latehar civil surgeon Dr S.K. Srivastava said there was no vaccination at Indua village on Friday. “There has been no vaccination in the village. But the health officer has informed that they have formed groups of villages where vaccination drives are being held on a particular day. Indua was not in the list of villages where jabs were administered on Friday,” Dr Srivastava said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-9
26-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: 4 garment shops robbed at Sakchi market||Jamshedpur: Unidentified criminals fled with cash over Rs 10 lakh from four garment shops at Sakchi market in the intervening night of Friday. The shop owners discovered the robberies as they opened their shops in the morning. In all the four places, the thief had entered the shops from the rear side of the shops either by removing window air conditioner or exhaust fans. The garment shops where the serial burglaries took place are Fashion World, Kurti House, M Mart and Abhinandan, all located at Jhanda Chowk considered to be the heart of the Sakchi market. The criminals have taken away amounts starting from Rs 5,000 to Rs 7 lakh by breaking open cash-box of the shops but did not touch stocks of garments. OC of Sakchi thana, Kunal Kumar reached the spot after getting complaint of the burglaries. Soon after, superintendent of police (City), Subhash Chandra Jat also reached the spot and inspected the burgled shops. "Burglaries have taken place at four garment shops in Sakchi market in the night. The criminals used rooftop and rear side I the shops for committing the serial crime. We are trying to detect the case, "Jat said to The Telegraph Online The City SP said forensic experts have been pressed into service for taking finger prints at the scene of crime. He pointed out CCTV camera footage is also being collected for the detection of the crime. (Kumud Jenamani) Hazaribagh: Pratappur police arrested the father of a deceased 15-year-old girl while he was performing the last rites on Friday, after murder allegations were made against him. Police sent the body of Sushma Kumari for post mortem to Chatra sadar hospital. Sushma’s maternal uncle Amod Kumar told the officer-in-charge of Pratappur police station, Naim Ansari that his sister Manju Devi, who was married to Pramod Saw, died in 2008. They had a daughter, Sushma and a son. After his wife’s death, Saw remarried in 2010. Sushma’s stepmother would allegedly torture the children, said Kumar. He said Sushma was poisoned which needed probe followed by action. "Allegation against Saw and his wife is of serious nature. As this case related to death of a minor girl, I sent the dead body for post mortem to know the actual reason behind her death,” said Ansari. Ansari said investigation has started and he interrogated Saw about his daughter’s death. “Our investigation has started and if allegation is found to be true, we will not leave the culprits,” he added. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Dhanbad: Unidentified armed criminals attacked labourers on the coal extraction site of private miner, Dhansar Engineering Company Limited working on behalf of BCCL in Chaitudih Colliery area under Katras Police station on Friday at around 2 am. The 15 masked criminals wielding pistols and lathi sticks arrived at the site and first attacked the coal transporting vehicles including the tipper trucks and then attacked the workers due to which around half a dozen workers received minor injury and somehow saved themselves after fleeing from the site. A team of Katras Police station led by officer in charge, Ras Bihari Lal which reached the site took details from the workers of the company. The agitated workers of the coal company expressed their inability to work in such a situation of fear. Baghmara DSP, Nisha Murmu, who also reached the site this morning inspected the site and held a meeting with the officials of Katras Police station during which she instructed the Katras police station officer in-charge to lodge FIR against 15 persons. Officer in-charge of Katras Police station Ras Bihari Lal said, “We have lodged FIR against 15 unidentified persons and at the same time trying to identify them and some local persons who might be involved in the incident.” (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-10
