27-06-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine scamster set up 8 bank accounts, one in the name of a govt entity||The SIT’s probe into the affairs of Debanjan Deb, the fake IAS officer arrested for fraud, including organising fake Covid immunisation drives,  has unearthed eight bank accounts run by him including one using the name and initials of an existing state government entity. Police sources said he had set up this company named,  M/S WBFINCORP, to pay salaries to his staff. Ten people who were, or are still, in his employment have been summoned for questioning. “Apart from this, we are also examining more people. Some are being cross-examined,” said Murlidhar, joint commissioner of police (crime) on Sunday. Officially, the West Bengal Financial Corporation is run by a board of directors, with representatives from the state government, the Small Investment and Development Bank of India, State Bank of India, Life Insurance Corporation and other organisations in the finance sector. The corporation mainly provides long-term loans for acquiring land, building, machinery as well as project financing. Police suspect Deb had either set up the bank account on his own or received help from influential quarters to run his own account through  the West Bengal Fincorp. Among those who may have helped him were people or officials associated with Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC), they believe. Further investigations are on. "How he made those documents, how those got verified are being probed. Possibly someone or a group of people had helped him create the fake documents,” said a police source. Debanjan and three associates of his have been arrested and are now in custody. The police have identified the three as Sushanta Das (54), Rabin Sarkar (31) and Santanu Manna (44). Deb’s racket of organising fake vaccination camps was discovered last week on Wednesday after Trinamul MP Mimi Chakraborty was given a “vaccine” but did not receive either a message or certificate for it on the Co-WIN portal. Police sources, however, said during interrogation Deb has claimed that he had written to the Serum Institute of India requesting for supplying the vaccine, Covishield. The police are trying to trace the email that Deb claims he had sent to the company. Deb had created the  ID,  deputymanager@kmcgov.org using G Suite. “He has confessed to organising two camps, one at the City College and the other at his Kasba office. He claims he had not organised any other camps,” said a senior police officer of the SIT. Deb was suspected to have organised a similar camp at Sonarpur in South 24-Parganas. To establish the credentials of his company, Deb would write letters to various government agencies and mark them “received.” Stamps of various departments of Calcutta Municipal Corporation, Information & Cultural Affairs Department, Public Works Department, West Bengal State Election Commission have been found with him. “He used these stamps to  'acknowledge'  letters he had written and fabricated replies to. Possibly this is how he convinced people he duped... showing them the fake letters,” said a police officer. Police have included the charge of murder against Deb and his associates who were allegedly part of the fake vaccination camps where hundreds of people were immunised.  Police suspect the liquid used as shots was antibiotic Amikacin Sulphate in some cases. The investigation by the SIT revealed, Deb had swindled traders and private firms worth nearly a crore in the last two years. A private firm paid him  Rs 1.2lakh for vaccinating its 172 employees. From a pharma company, he had received Rs 4 lakh for clearing a tender. A contractor had paid him Rs 90 lakh for constructing a stadium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
27-06-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine fraud: Licence must to procure medicines, say wholesalers||Wholesale medicine suppliers in Bagree market and Mehta Building on Saturday decided to not supply medicines unless the procurer produces a valid licence against the purchase order. Nearly 350 traders, who supply medicines across eastern India, met virtually and resolved that irrespective of whether the customer was well known or acquainted for years, no medicine would be handed over without a drug licence. “If the license holder decides to send someone on his behalf then the person must carry a copy of the drug license to place orders,” said Sankha Roy Chowdhury, the Bengal Chemists and Druggists Association president. “Only when the shop owner is convinced that the license is valid, will he accept the order.” The decision was taken after it came to light that fake IAS officer Debanjan Deb had procured anti-biotics that he passed off as Covid-19 vaccine from Bagree. Several shop owners from the two hubs said Deb had used a shop that had been trading with medicines for generations. “A part of the payment for Amikacin Sulphate injections was left unpaid citing treasury clearances. On the face of it there was nothing amiss,” said Chandresh B. Sanghvi, one of the traders. Insiders in the trade hub said the concerned shop owner was yet to receive around Rs 30,000 from Deb. The part payment was made from an account that was created in the name of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation with a private bank. The scam has put a question mark on the credibility of a section of traders with many pointing fingers at the shop owners supplying medicines without any checks. “The medicine that was handed over was neither banned nor fake. But the recipient is a fraud,” Roy Chowdhury said. “We have now decided on some basic corrections, including checking of drug licences.” A drug licence is mandatory for a bulk purchase but traders admitted that it was usually given a pass. “Many of the buyers are old and some carry an institutional stamp, like Deb in this case, who came as a (CMC official,” a trader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
27-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Bengal govt issues guidelines  for off-site vaccination camps||All outreach Covid vaccination camps, held away from a hospital or health clinic of civic bodies, must display the approval letter to conduct the camp and the Co-Win authenticated code number, the state health department said on Saturday. The chief municipal health officer (CMHO) of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation will give the nod in Calcutta while the chief medical officer of health (CMOH) will give the approval in other districts, said a standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the department. The organisers of all such camps — private hospitals, clubs, social organisations and corporate companies who arrange jab for their employees — must “obtain clearance from local police station”. An official of a private hospital in Calcutta said outreach vaccination camps did not require permission from the CMC or the local police station before Saturday’s SOP. The SOP detailing what Covid vaccination sites must do comes after the arrest of a fake civil servant who ran several fake jab camps using the CMC emblem. Sources said the state government has launched an all out effort to ensure that people should not have any suspicion or confusion about the vaccination programme as it could be the only tool to deal with a fresh surge of Covid infections. Some of the important points in the SOP that may help people planning to take vaccines tell a fake camp from a real one are: ⚫ The vaccination site must display approval letter from the CMOH (for districts) and CMHO of CMC, for Calcutta ⚫ Display the Co-Win authenticated code number. All such sites are given a unique number when they register themselves as a jab site ⚫ Must obtain clearance from local police station ⚫ The state health department will publish a list of all approved outreach camps on its website. Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the CMC’s board of administrators, said, “We will publish a list of all vaccination centres of the CMC in newspapers.” ⚫ A telephone number should be publicised where people can lodge any complaint regarding the vaccination camp. This number should also be used for reporting any adverse events following immunisation. The SOP also said a private hospital that wanted to open an outreach camp in a district where it had no presence must tie up with a local private hospital. In Calcutta, the civic body’s vaccination centres would hang a notice outside the centre informing people that anyone who did not receive text a message after vaccination should inform the CMC. “We will log in to the Co-Win portal and see if the person’s vaccination certificate is there,” said a CMC official. Officials of the CMC also said all off-site vaccination centres run by any organisation would now have to seek permission from the CMC. “Suppose an NGO has tied up with a private hospital and wants to organise an off-site vaccination. It must give us names and contacts of vaccinators, nodal person of the hospital, the cold chain point from where they would procure the vaccines, and name and contact details of the medical officer who would be present at the vaccination site,” said a CMC official. The health department and the CMC organised medical camps at Kasba, Amherst Street and Sonarpur, the three places where fake camps were held. Two hundred and fifty seven people attended the camps, said a health department official. State chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi on Saturday alerted the district magistrates that they should ensure no complaint came up regarding the vaccination programme. “The vaccine vials should have a batch number and date of expiry. The veracity of the same can be done from eVin software,” said a district magistrate. Another district magistrate quoted the chief secretary as saying: “Please alert all your health set up and all municipalities so that vaccination centres run by the government or private hospitals have been duly authorised and are run as per the protocols.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
27-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid crisis: Domestic workers share plight ||Prod for vaccines — yes. Help in getting a jab — no. Prod to cut down on number of workplaces — yes. Fitting raise in pay — no. A group of domestic workers  on Saturday narra-ted what tens of thousands from their fraternity were going through in the wake of the pandemic. Almost everybody shared a similar plight — employers insisted they get vaccinated, but rarely extended a helping hand to find them slots. “They keep asking me, ‘have you taken your vaccine?’ but when I ask them to book a slot for me, they don’t have time,” said a woman who lives in a colony in Panchasayar, New Garia. She works at a few apartments off EM Bypass. Rina Halder, who lives near Ballygunge station, had multiple employers prodding her to work at “only their places”. “When I asked for a hike to offset the loss of income, nobody came forward,” she said. At the slightest hint of any ailment, another maid was prodded by her employers to visit a doctor. When she sought help in finding one, nobody came forward. “I don’t have any extra money to consult a doctor. My income has halved because of the pandemic. My husband’s income has also suffered a blow,” said Seema Naskar, a domestic help who was part of the virtual session. The session was organised by NGO Parichiti. The pandemic and the curbs to combat its spread have crippled the livelihood of thousands of domestic workers. Many domestic workers living in South 24-Parganas used to depend on the suburban train services to come to Calcutta for work. The suspension of train services has rendered them jobless. “Some of them have rented rooms in Calcutta,” said Paramita Chowdhuri, the moderator of the session. Even before the suspension, many employers were wary of allowing maids who used public transport. The session had some employers as well. “The domestic helps are dependent on employers for livelihood. The employers are also dependent on domestic workers to manage their homes... A home for one is a workplace for another,” said Chowdhuri. Ratna Dasgupta, a schoolteacher, stressed the importance of a formalised contract between employers and domestic helps. “I depended a lot on my maid, who used to come from Canning. She was forced to stop coming in March 2020 and has not rejoined. But I paid her full salary till October 2020, when she said that she would not be able to return,” she said. Kakuli Deb of Parichiti said vaccination of domestic workers should be prioritised by the authorities. “We have written to the civic body, requesting their help. Domestic workers should also get priority like traders and auto drivers,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
27-06-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine fraud: Three arrested, ‘attempt to murder’ charge added||Three persons suspected to be accomplices of Debanjan Deb, who had allegedly posed as an IAS officer and organised fake Covid vaccination camps in the city, were arrested early on Saturday. Two of them were purported signatories while opening a bank account in the name of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and the third worked as the “head assistant” at Deb’s Kasba office, police said. Calcutta police on Saturday included the charge of attempt to murder against Deb and others who were allegedly part of the fake vaccination camps where hundreds of people were misled into taking shots of an unknown liquid. The police suspect the liquid was antibiotic Amikacin Sulphate in at least some cases. “It is clear that the organisers had knowledge that people may fall sick if any drug or medicine is injected without knowing the background or medical history of the person. This also proves the intention that they wanted to cause harm to those who were administered the shots in garb of vaccines,” said a senior police officer at Lalbazar. A fresh cheating case to the tune of Rs 4 lakh was registered with Kasba police station by a pharmaceutical company against Deb on Saturday. The police identified the three arrested as Sushanta Das, 54, a resident of Salt Lake, Rabin Sikdar, 31, from Barasat, and Santanu Manna, 44, from Taltala. Investigators have found that Das and Sikdar purportedly signed the documents submitted to a private bank where an account in the name of “Kolkata Municipal Corporation Planning and Development UPD Kasba” was opened. “Das had signed as ‘Deputy Manager (ESTD) The Kol. Mpl. Cropn’ and Sikdar had signed as ‘Administrative Officer, KMC’,” said an officer. Investigators said at least Rs 36 lakh was deposited in this account and then withdrawn or transferred. “This Rs 36 lakh was part of the Rs 90 lakh that Deb had received from a contractor who he apparently bluffed about developing a stadium,” an officer said. Manna, who was known in the Kasba office as Deb’s “head assistant”, was actively involved in the camps and was a direct accomplice in administering fake vaccines to hundreds of people, the police said. Manna was responsible for allocation of work to the other employees at the Kasba office, the police said. “He was a close associate of the prime accused. He would call employees on specific dates and allot them specific tasks. He would ensure that none of the employees spoke or mingled among themselves,” said an investigator. Manna was also in charge of a godown Deb had rented in Taltala to stock sanitisers, masks and PPE kits. Deb and his associates would allegedly recruit people in the office as employees of different government wings. An officer said one person was recruited as an employee of the “West Bengal transport infrastructure and development corporation limited” and later transferred to the “Information and Culture” department on“deputation”, and another person as an employee of a “Gram Panchayat”. The police have found several documents and purported appointment letters printed on the letterhead of government offices including Nabanna from the Kasba office, which cops suspect are fake. Scan on CMC The police on Saturday collated a list of vaccination centres run by the CMC by visiting the offices of borough health officers who head the body’s health services in a borough. Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the CMC’s board of administrators, said that the civic body would publish a list of all its Covid vaccination centres in newspapers for the knowledge of common people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
27-06-2021||Calcutta||Four youths posing as customer care officials dupe people abroad, arrested||Four youths who were allegedly running a call centre posing as customer care officials of global e-commerce giant Amazon to dupe people abroad have been arrested on Park Street, in Tiljala and Topsia. The four, arrested earlier this week, operated from a rented apartment in Tagore Park. “They would call US residents and introduce themselves as Amazon customer care executives and say that the call recipient had erroneously paid extra money while ordering a product through the online portal. The calls were made at random without knowing if the recipient had shopped on Amazon,” an officer said. The racketeers would try to convince the call recipient that they had booked a product and paid extra. “Most would not be convinced but some would start believing that they actually booked the product and agree to take a refund. Once they agreed, the racketeers would send a link and ask for bank details,” the officer said. When the recipient clicked on the link, a spyware would be installed on the device of the person abroad, sleuths said. Through the spyware, the racketeers could have remote access to the device and make online transactions on their own using the bank details given by the customers. The accused — identified as Sheikh Tipu, Ahmed Irshad, Zoha Khan and Kamaluddin — were produced in court and remanded in police custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
27-06-2021||Calcutta||Kasba vaccine fraud: Suvendu Adhikari seeks probe by central investigating agencies ||BJP MLA and Bengal’s Leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari has written to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan demanding a probe by central investigating agencies into the Kasba vaccine fraud. In his letter sent on Friday, Adhikari has mentioned that Debanjan Das, the culprit accused of impersonating as a civil servant and administering fake Covid-19 vaccines to a few hundred people, was seen with ruling party ministers and senior leaders of the Trinamul. “…We have serious doubts about an impartial investigation from Calcutta police that follows instructions of the same government…,” Adhikar wrote. The Nandigram MLA had also met the state’s health secretary on Friday along with a delegation of BJP MLAs. State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh has also demanded a CBI probe into the matter on Saturday. Sources in the BJP said the party had decided to make the fake vaccine episode a political issue once the Assembly session begins on July 2. Reacting to Adhikari ’s letter, state transport minister Firhad Hakim said: “Suvendu can do whatever he wants to. But this is Bengal and Mamata Banerjee will ensure that the culprit is brought to justice.” The Calcutta district Left Front will submit a deputation at Kasba police station on Sunday demanding a thorough probe into the matter. It will also submit a deputation to Firhan Hakim at the Calcutta Municipal Corporation on July 6. “We won’t demand a CBI probe. We just want the culprit to be brought to justice,” said CPM leader Rabin Deb. Congress MP Pradip Bhattacharya said: “We have already demanded a judicial probe by a sitting judge of the high court. There could be a CBI probe as well to determine if the accused had any inside link to the corporation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
27-06-2021||Calcutta||Young woman trapped and molested with job promise, one arrested||A young woman who had allegedly been trapped and molested in a city guest house with a false job promise, dialled 100 to alert the Calcutta police headquarters at Lalbazar and got her assaulter arrested. The 25-year-old victim, who is a resident of South 24-Parganas, had got the number of a job facilitator named Madhab Mondal and contacted him for a job, the police said. “Mondal, whose original name is Sheikh Moinuddin, had called the woman to a guest house in Ekbalpore lane in the guise of an interview. She was detained till late on Friday and allegedly molested by the 57-year-old man between Friday night and Saturday morning,” said an officer of Ekbalpore police station. The woman had managed to access her mobile phone. She dialed 100, the police’s helpline number, and informed them of her location. The Lalbazar control room conveyed the information to the Ekbalpore police station and officers from there went to the guest house and rescued her. Mondal was arrested and has been charged with sections of outraging the modesty of a woman. The charge, if proved, could lead to a maximum punishment of five years in jail. A 58-year-old man died and several people were injured when a small truck in which they were travelling turned over while approaching the Garden Reach flyover on Saturday afternoon. Zakir Hossain, a Naihati resident, was declared dead at SSKM hospital. Six others were admitted to the hospital with multiple injuries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
27-06-2021||Calcutta||Seven venomous snakes rescued in Howrah, one arrested||Seven venomous snakes were recovered from the possession of a man at a village in Howrah’s Shyampur block on Thursday night. The 60-year-old man, identified as Sk Samsad Ali, was arrested and sent to jail. Foresters identified the snakes as monocled cobras (Naja kaouthia). “An airgun was also found. Ali claimed to be a snake charmer,” said Raju Sarkar, the divisional forest officer of Howrah. “Many snakes enter domestic areas during the monsoon. The man had apparently asked local residents to inform him whenever they spotted a snake,” said Suvrajyoti Chatterjee of Human and Environment Alliance League, an NGO that helped the foresters track Ali. Volunteers from a forum of environmental activists based in Howrah were tracing Ali, said Chatterjee. “Ali was apparently hired for the maintenance of a local water body by its owner. The airgun found on him also belonged to the water body’s owner. We are questioning that person for further details,” said a local forest officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
27-06-2021||Calcutta||IIM Calcutta alumni donate portable oxygen concentrator||Some of the IIM Calcutta alumni who had graduated in 2007 have donated a portable oxygen concentrator to the institute in memory of Dharmesh Oraon, an alumnus from the same batch who passed away on April 30 after contracting Covid-19. The equipment is especially for the group C and D staff, canteen workers and the underprivileged employees who may find it difficult to bear the cost of treatment, said some of the former IIM C students. The device will be kept at the medical unit of the Joka institute. Dheeraj Singh, who was a roommate of Oraon, 39, at the new hostel during his two-year stay on the campus, said some of the batch mates put their resources together in memory of their dear friend. After remaining in a private hospital in Mumbai for about a month, Oraon, who was from Ranchi, passed away. “He died from lack of oxygen. We thought why not give this (oxygen concentrator) to  the staff of IIM Calcutta. We know the Calcutta institute in Joka is far-off from the medical facility. It can be fitted into an ambulance, can be taken to home or hospital. We don’t want any more Dharmeshes to happen,” said Dheeraj Singh, who works in Delhi. “No one should die because of lack of basic amenities.” Cases of Covid have been reported in IIM Calcutta among the staff, teachers and students. In April, IIM Calcutta had asked students of its two-year MBA programme and one-year MBA executive programme to vacate hostels because of the developing Covid-19 situation. “This donation of a life-saving device reiterates institute-alumni relations,” said Manish Thakur, dean (new initiatives and external relations).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
27-06-2021||Business||Ashok Leyland earmarks major part of capital expenditure for light commercial vehicles||Ashok Leyland, the flagship of the Hinduja group, has earmarked a major part of its capital expenditure for 2021-22 for light commercial vehicles (LCV). The company has lined up a capital expenditure of Rs 750 crore for fiscal 2021-22 compared with Rs 670 crore last year. “We will be doing some debottlenecking and tooling (of the LCV plants),” Vipin Sondhi, MD & CEO, Ashok Leyland Limited, said while talking to reporters on the recently declared results. The company is betting big on its products Dost and Bada Dost in the LCV segment which will see some “long-term funding”. Medium and heavy commercial vehicles (MHCV) will get some residual funding. For the company, domestic bus volumes have been down because of the pandemic as public transport has taken a hit. “The bus sector will revive when the lockdown situation completely eases,” said Sondhi. Ashok Leyland is also betting on fleet replacement by various state governments planning to replenish their old vehicles. It commissioned its bus plant in Andhra Pradesh in March this year. The company will focus on exports, defence, power solutions, LCVs and auto parts business even as it expands the product reach of its core medium and heavy commercial vehicles. “We will intensify our efforts in Central Asia and African countries to strengthen our presence,” he added. The focus on digital initiatives will help leverage the benefits of efficiency and cost. Customer requirements will be at the core of all the digital initiatives. Emerging businesses such as electric vehicles (EV) and customer solutions will assist in complementing the core business. Ashok Leyland has created a dedicated EV-only entity called Switch Mobility based in the UK. Sondhi said the economy will grow at 9.5 per cent, helping the auto industry to make a comeback. “The tipper has good demand, the demand for mutli-axle vehicle and long haul tonnage will have a come back. M&HCV will b extremely strong in six to 12 months,” said Sondhi. To a question on whether rising commodity prices will lead to a price hike, Sondhi said: “We had increased prices in the third and fourth quarters. We are now internally monitoring the situation.” The company is planning to add shifts and ramp up production in July as “the economy opens up more”. The company also announced the formation of an Environmental, Social & Governance Committee headed by an independent director at the recently concluded board meeting. The role of this new ESG committee will be to provide appropriate oversight and guidance in the company’s journey on organisation-wide ESG initiatives, priorities, and leading ESG practices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-8
27-06-2021||Business||Singapore International Arbitration Centre to start final hearing over plea filed by Amazon ||The Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) will start its final hearing over a plea filed by e-commerce major Amazon against the Rs 24,713-crore deal between Future Group and Reliance Industries from July 2. According to a regulatory filing by Future Consumer (FCL) on Saturday, a tribunal was constituted by SIAC for arbitration proceedings related to the Future-RIL deal on January 5, 2021. The filing noted that “Future Retail Ltd (FRL) has filed two applications before the Tribunal, first being an application challenging the jurisdiction of the Tribunal; and second being an application for vacation of the EA (Emergency Arbitrator) Order”. “According to the schedule finalised by the Tribunal, hearing for both the applications would commence on July 12, 2021,” the March quarter 2021 earnings filing by FCL said. In August last year, Reliance Retail Ventures had said it will acquire the retail and wholesale business, and the logistics and warehousing business of Future Group for Rs 24,713 crore. The scheme of arrangement entails the consolidation of Future Group’s retail and wholesale assets into one entity, Future Enterprises Ltd, and then transferring it to Reliance Retail. The deal has been contested by Amazon, an investor in Future Coupons, which in turn is a shareholder in FRL. In August 2019, Amazon had agreed to purchase 49 per cent of one of Future’s unlisted firms, Future Coupons (which owns a 7.3 per cent equity in BSE-listed Future Retail Ltd through convertible warrants), with the right to buy into the flagship Future Retail after a period of three to 10 years. Amazon had dragged Future into arbitration at SIAC and in October, an interim award was passed by the EA in favour of the US-e-commerce major that barred Future Retail from taking any step to dispose of or encumber its assets or issuing any securities to secure any funding from a restricted party. Amazon and Future Group have also filed litigations in Indian courts, including the Supreme Court, on the issue. Future Consumer, in its filing on Saturday, said both FRL and Amazon have filed a suit/ challenged each other's position relating to the deal/EA order in various courts of India and the matter is sub-judice and currently pending with Indian Courts for disposal. In April, RIL had extended the timeline for completing the deal with Future Group by six months to September 30, 2021. While the deal has received clearance from regulators such as CCI, Sebi and bourses, the scheme of arrangement is now awaiting the nod from the NCLT and shareholders. “NCLT has heard the application relating to the Scheme (deal with Reliance) and the intervention application filed by Amazon and has reserved the order on the said application filed by Amazon,” FCL said in the filing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-8
27-06-2021||Business||Vedanta will not go family way, says Anil Agarwal||Vedanta Resources chairman Anil Agarwal on Saturday said the company will be institutionalised at any cost and will not go to his family. The company, he said, cannot be run on a defensive mode. “Our company will not go to our family. Our family is also an institution, a complete institution ... If it (the family) gets capable of (running Vedanta in the future) then it is a different thing. But a company cannot be run on a defensive mode,” he said. He was speaking during a webinar on ‘Vedanta of Business’ organised by the Ficci Ladies Organisation, the women business wing of Ficci. “We are the largest producer of oil in India, largest producer of silver, zinc... we will at any cost institutionalise it (Vedanta). “In my opinion 75 per cent must go back to society... 25 per cent is more than enough for the family,” the metals and mining magnate said further. India is a land of entrepreneurship with the advantage of location, young talent, natural resources and sea on three sides, the mining baron said, adding that the country is moving towards a self-reliant economy. But the world always looked at India as a market and never wanted to see it grow. But the process of self-reliance has grown and the youth and startups with new ideas are taking the country to newer heights, he said. India has the largest deposit of oil, gold and minerals and it is high time we explore them, Agarwal said. Especially the young and the women entrepreneurs have to do it, he added. Worldwide, an average of 44 per cent women are entrepreneurs and head various companies. In India, it is still about 20 per cent. It is time for women to come up as they are convincing and they deliver, Agarwal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-8
27-06-2021||Business||Singapore court snubs PhonePe||Digital advertising firm Affle claims to have won the initial legal battle in a case filed against it by Walmart-owned PhonePe in a Singapore court in the Indus OS stake sale matter. PhonePe had placed a bid to acquire a 92 per cent stake in Indus OS at a valuation of around $60 million. However, the biggest shareholder in the company, Affle Global Pte Ltd (AGPL), has opposed the deal. AGPL estimates that the valuation of OSLabs, known as Indus OS, is around $90 million and has refused to sell its 25 per cent stake at a lower valuation. The company operates app store ‘Indus App Bazaar’, which comprises over four lakh apps accessible in English and 12 Indian languages. AGPL had filed an injunction suit against the resolution passed by Indus OS approving the stake sale to PhonePe which has been challenged by the fintech firm in a Singapore court. Both AGPL and Indus OS are registered in Singapore. “AGPL has attended more than seven court hearings held in Singapore High Court from May 19, 2020 till June 18, 2021. As on June 18, PhonePe has clearly lost the corporate legal battle in Singapore,” AGPL said. However, Fintech firm PhonePe and OSLabs have refuted the claims made by AGPL that it has won the legal battle. AGPL told PTI that according to the last hearing in Singapore High Court on June 18 , PhonePe has lost its existing voting rights in OSLabs’ general meeting in view of the orders made by the court. According to AGPL, OSLabs' resolutions circulated for PhonePe's 92 per cent acquisition of OSLabs Pte Ltd were deemed invalid by the Singapore High Court. It added that the OSLabs' resolutions for the issuance of new shares that aimed to dilute existing shareholders were also deemed invalid by the court. “It, therefore, follows that any corporate actions taken by OSLabs according to the invalid resolutions may be deemed invalid unless explicitly validated by SIAC arbitration tribunal,” AGPL said. In an e-mailed reply, PhonePe said Omidyar Networks, JSW, Micromax etc have transferred their shares held in Indus OS in conformity with the transaction as agreed to by the parties who signed the term sheet but only AGPL is contesting even though it was one of the signees of the term sheet for the equity sale. AGPL alleged that the term sheet for approval of the Indus OS stake sale had expired on March 12 and the dates and signature pages of the PDF were allowed to be tampered to extend the expired validity without proper amendment or consent. It said PhonePe will not be able to use its acquiring voting right for deciding on resolution. When contacted, Indus OS denied all the statements made by AGPL in their entirety. “All the statements are misleading and replete with misrepresentations. The issues mentioned by AGPL are the subject matter of pending disputes between the parties in arbitration and in the Singapore courts, where these issues are to be determined. Accordingly, given the sub-judice disputes, OSLabs is neither required to nor deems fit to comment on or engage with AGPL’s statements,” Indus OS said. PhonePe said AGPL has issued incorrect statements and the matter is sub-judice and no final finding has been given yet. “The court has merely directed OSLabs to hold an EGM in connection with a subject-matter for which certain written resolutions had been passed,” a PhonePe spokesperson said. PhonePe claims that when Indus OS board approved the resolution for stake sale on May 3 — the day EGM was held — the fintech firm was not a shareholder in Indus OS and that it was not barred. “It is clarified that the court has directed the holding of EGM with old shareholders,” the Walmart-owned firm said. It said all the allegations made by Affle in respect of low-balled valuations in the present transaction are incorrect and a meagre attempt to justify its own illegal and malafide actions. “When Affle and all others signed the term sheet they agreed to the valuation being offered by PhonePe as it was a key term...What changed in a month's time that the proper valuation agreeable to all investors suddenly is being called a low-balled valuation when nothing fundamental changed in the status of OsLabs,” PhonePe said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-8
27-06-2021||India||Police arrest terror suspect in Jammu, seizes 5.5-kg IED from him||The Jammu and Kashmir police on Sunday arrested an alleged terrorist belonging to the Resistance Resistance, a frontal group of Lashkar-e-Taiba and seized a 5.5-kg-IED from his possession. Jammu's Senior Superintendent of Police Chandan Kohli identified the arrested accused as Nadeem-ul-Haq, a resident of Zainhal-Banihal in Ramban and said with his arrest, a major tragedy has been averted. Haq was in contact with his handlers in Pakistan and south Kashmir Shopian, the SSP said. The SSP said Haq was given the task to trigger the blast by the Resistance Force, a frontal group of Lashkar-e-Taiba, by planting the IED at some crowded place. Haq was nabbed by a police team during a routine checking by it at Barmini road where he was spotted carrying a yellow bag and heading towards Bathindi, the SSP said. On seeing the police party, he tried to run away, raising suspicion and was swiftly chased and intercepted, he said. The search of his bag led to the recovery of the IED and he was arrested and booked under various sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and Explosive Substances Act, Kohli said. Terming the arrest as a major success , the SSP said the investigation is still at a nascent stage and more arrests are likely as the probe progresses. He said the success was achieved due to the heightened security and alertness and manual surveillance by police teams through strong checkpoints and intensified foot patrolling at several places for the past several days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-28
27-06-2021||India||Parliamentary Panel summons Facebook and Google officers on Tuesday ||Officials of Facebook and Google have been summoned by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology Tuesday to discuss the issue of safeguarding citizens' rights and preventing the misuse of online platforms, reports NDTV.com. An official agenda was circulated among the members of the panel, which is headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor. It said, "To hear the views of representatives of Facebook India and Google India on the subject 'Safeguarding citizens' rights and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms including special emphasis on women security in the digital space." Earlier, representatives of Facebook had informed the Parliamentary committee that their company's policies do not allow officials to appear in person due to the Covid-19 protocols. But the panel's chairman Tharoor told Facebook that its officials will have to appear in person since the Parliament Secretariat does not allow virtual meetings. The committee in the coming days would also summon representatives from YouTube and other social media platforms to hold discussions on the same issues. Earlier this month, representatives from microblogging site Twitter appeared before the panel. The meeting took place against the backdrop of the US-based social media giant's run-ins with the government on a series of issues. Twitter had tagged tweets by BJP leaders on an alleged "Congress toolkit" as "manipulated media". The government had asked Twitter to remove the label and Delhi Police had travelled to Bengaluru to question Twitter India head Manish Maheshwari. Also, government sources said Twitter "has lost its legal shield" as it failed to comply with the new IT rules that require it to appoint key officers in India. When Twitter officials appeared before the panel on June 18, they faced tough questions and were told bluntly that "Indian laws are supreme and the company has to abide by the laws of India in India", according to sources. A Twitter spokesperson later said that the company was prepared to work with the committee on "safeguarding citizens' rights online in line with our principles of transparency, freedom of expression, and privacy". "We will also continue working alongside the Indian government as part of our shared commitment to serve and protect the public conversation," the spokesperson added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-28
27-06-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections 2022: AIMIM to contest 100 seats ||After showing 'good performance' in the Bihar Assembly elections, the AIMIM party on Sunday announced that it would contest 100 seats in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls in 2022.  All India Majils-e-Ittehadul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) president Asaduddin Owaisi said they will contest the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls in alliance with Om Prakash Rajbhar-led Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) and Bhaagidaari Sankalp Morcha, a front of smaller parties.  The Hyderabad MP, by tweeting in Hindi, announced that his party will contest the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls. He usually sends out his message on the social media platform in English. "Regarding Uttar Pradesh elections we have decided to field our candidates in 100 seats. The party has started the process of selecting the candidates and has also released the candidate/aspirants application forms," Owaisi tweeted. In another tweet, the AIMIM chief said"We are with OP Rajbhar Sahab 'Bhaagidaari Sankalp Morcha'. We did not have any talks with any other party regarding elections or tie-up". Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh are slated for early next year. In last year's Bihar assembly elections, the AIMIM won five seats (it contested 20) in the Muslim-dominated Seemanchal region on the border of West Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-28
27-06-2021||India||Tejashwi Yadav reaches out to Chirag Paswan||Amid signs of chill in LJP leader Chirag Paswan’s ties with the BJP-led NDA, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav on Sunday reached out to him for aligning with the Opposition, saying he can carry forward his father Ram Vilas Paswan’s legacy only by joining the “existential fight” against RSS ideologue M S Golwalkar's thoughts. In an interview with PTI, Yadav also said his party has decided to celebrate “Dalit messiah” Ram Vilas Paswan's birth anniversary to honour his contribution to the state. With Chirag having already gone public with his disappointment with the BJP's silence over his bitter feud with his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras for control of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), Tejashwi Yadav alleged the BJP has "disposed of" and "abandoned" most of its old allies after coming to power and gaining maximum from them. Yadav said his party has always stood by Ram Vilas Paswan and recounted that when the LJP did not even have a single MLA and Paswan lost the election in 2009, it was Lalu Prasad Yadav who sent him to Rajya Sabha from the Rashtriya Janata Dal quota. Has anybody done or sacrificed so much for any other leader or party in the country, he asked. "Our party has decided to celebrate Dalit messiah, Ram Vilas Ji's birth anniversary to commemorate his contribution to the state, I think this itself is self-explanatory," Yadav said. Significantly, Chirag has also announced an “aashirvaad yatra” from July 5, the birth anniversary of his father and party founder Ram Vilas Paswan, from Hajipur in Bihar. Asked about his call last week urging Chirag to quit the NDA, Yadav said the country is at a juncture where pro-Constitution, pro-democracy, pro-farmers and pro-people forces are on one side and those antithetical to this ideology are on the other side. "Late Ram Vilas Paswan Ji was a socialist and a firm believer in the idea of social justice throughout his life. He fought caste supremacy, poverty and inequality during his political journey," the 31-year-old leader said. Ram Vilas Paswan passed away on October 8 last year. "The real tribute to him would be carrying forward his values and legacy and that is possible only when Chirag ji joins this existential fight against Golwalkar's 'bunch of thoughts'," the former Bihar deputy chief minister said, in a play on the title of one of RSS ideologue Golwalkar's books. On Chirag's remarks in an apparent reference to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that it was not right for 'Ram' to remain silent when 'Hanuman' is being killed, Yadav alleged that the BJP "lures" parties and leaders by promising them "the moon but the moment their system' realises they are no longer of utility, they are dumped in a similar manner as a fly is thrown out of milk". Asked about the political tussle between the LJP factions of Chirag and his paternal uncle Paras, the RJD leader threw his weight behind Chirag and took a dig at Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, saying those who have engineered this split were vengeful against Chirag Paswan as he fought against them in last assembly elections. "Late Ram Vilas Ji made Chirag Ji his heir apparent by appointing him as the party's national president and the parliamentary leader in Lok Sabha and it is up to him now as to how he carries forward his father's legacy," Yadav said. Those who are questioning him now, why they didn't do so when he was made national president of LJP, he said in an apparent reference to Paras. On Chirag holding the JD(U) responsible for the turmoil in the LJP, the Leader of Opposition in the Bihar Assembly said Chirag has made it quite clear through his letters that this was staged and the "perpetrators are known to everyone now". "Those who worked to split the party (LJP) way back in 2005 and 2010 have in a sinister manner planned this as well. Nitish ji has a track record of living on borrowed mandate and has always played his game with support of borrowed players," Yadav said in a scathing attack on the chief minister. Nitish Kumar has "spared none and betrayed everyone", he alleged. "Nitish ji conveniently follows the policy of grabbing power by hook or crook by mortgaging principles and ideology," Yadav said. Last week also, Yadav had reached out to Chirag, saying the LJP leader must reconsider his continuance in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). A tussle has been on within the LJP after Chirag's uncle Paras was elected as the party's leader in Lok Sabha by the five of party's six MPs in place of Chirag. Both the factions have now moved to control the party and project their group as the real LJP, founded by Chirag's father Ram Vilas Paswan. While the wing led by Chirag Paswan has expelled the five MPs from the party, the rival group has removed him as its president. A meeting of the LJP national executive last Sunday endorsed Chirag's leadership and hit out at the faction headed by his paternal uncle for working against the party's constitution. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-28
27-06-2021||India||Ashok Gehlot urges PM to ensure adequate supply of vaccines to Rajasthan||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot Sunday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi's personal intervention to ensure adequate supply of coronavirus vaccines to the state to prevent a possible third wave. In a letter to the prime minister, he said the state has created a capacity to vaccinate over 15 lakh people a day, but the pace of inoculation drive is limited to the extent of supplies received from the Centre. “The daily average of vaccine doses received since the start of vaccination drive for 18 years plus has been 3 to 4 lakh only,” Gehlot said. He said that following Covid-appropriate behavior and vaccination are the only ways to effectively counter the threat of coronavirus. “For ensuring 100 per cent vaccination to prevent the Covid third wave and to ensure that people are able to resume their livelihood related activities, I urge you to intervene personally and direct the concerned to ensure adequate supply of vaccines for the state,” Gehlot said in his letter. The chief minister said the current Covid situation in the state is relatively better with cases coming down sharply, but also mentioned the second wave had a far greater impact in the state. He said the state has done exemplary Covid management during both first and second wave, and added that it is equally or even more important to take steps to prevent the occurrence of a third wave. He also said Rajasthan is among the best performer in the vaccination drive. Over 2.36 crore people have already been vaccinated in the state and it has achieved negative (less than 0 %) vaccine wastage, he added. More than 70 lakh people would be due for their second dose by the end of July, he said, requesting supply of more doses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-28
27-06-2021||India||Maha: ‘Level 3’ restrictions in Pune municipal areas from Monday||All malls and auditoriums will remain closed beginning June 28 in Pune in Maharashtra with the municipal corporation imposing fresh restrictions under the level-3 category. As per the order issued by the Pune civic body on Saturday, shops selling essential items will remain open till 4 pm on all days while shops under the non-essential category will operate from Monday to Friday till 4 pm. Restaurants, bars, and food courts will operate from Monday to Friday till 4 pm with a 50 per cent seating capacity. Home delivery of the food is allowed till 11 pm. Gyms, salons, beauty parlours will also operate with a 50 per cent seating capacity from Monday to Friday till 4 pm, the order said. All the public places such as gardens, playgrounds will remain open for people from 5 am to 9 am. Social, religious and entertainment programs are allowed to be held from Monday to Friday till 4 pm in the presence of 50 people. "The duration of such a programme cannot be extended beyond three hours where Covid-19 appropriate behaviour must be followed," it said. Bracing itself against the anticipated third wave of the pandemic, the Maharashtra government recently tightened the unlocking process in the state and announced that restrictions will not be relaxed beyond 'level 3'. The government has effectively done away with level 1 and level 2 which allowed maximum relaxations under the initial five-level unlocking plan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-28
27-06-2021||India||Rahul asks Modi to make Covid-19 jab available to every Indian citizen||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should end the "shortage" of COVID-19 vaccines, which should be available to every citizen, and not make excuses to distract from this important issue. He said this after the prime minister in his “Mann Ki Baat” monthly radio address talked about ending vaccine hesitancy. “The only thing to do is to end the shortage of vaccines. The rest are all excuses for diverting attention,” Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi using the hashtag ‘Mann ki Baat’. “Just make the vaccine available to all fellow citizens. Then you can also say your ‘mann ki baat’,” he said in another tweet with hashtag ‘VaccinateIndia’. Hitting back at the Congress leader, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan accused him of spreading "misconceptions, confusion and lies" about Covid-19 vaccines due to which many people were "putting their lives in danger" by refusing to take the doses. "Shame on you Rahul Baba, it is prime minister Narendra Modi who is getting people vaccinated and not you. "The prime minister is providing free vaccines to all the citizens of the country, and you are only spreading confusion. "Due to your lies, many people refused to get vaccines," Chouhan said on Twitter. Urging people to shed their reservations about vaccines against coronavirus, Modi spoke to residents of Dulariya village in MP's Betul district, and the chat was aired on 'Mann Ki Baat' broadcast on Sunday. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji today spoke to the villagers in Dulariya village of Betul district who were not getting vaccinated due to confusion. Explained it to them in simple words and the villagers started taking the vaccine," Chouhan said. While the PM had removed the clouds of confusion about vaccination, the chief minister said Gandhi was "putting people's lives in danger by lying and spreading misconceptions". Meanwhile, senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh accused the prime minister of doing politics over Covid-19 vaccination. "So much politics in vaccine supply to states to make non-BJP ruled states look bad. Typical of this PM. Says one thing and does exactly the opposite," he said on Twitter. He tagged a tweet of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot that claimed that Rajasthan has been leading among the states in vaccination. "So far over 2.36 crore people have been vaccinated in the state. The state has developed the capacity to vaccinate up to 15 lakh people per day, but on an average, we are getting 3 to 4 lakh vaccine doses per day," Gehlot said on Twitter. "I request the prime minister that an adequate number of vaccines should be provided to Rajasthan for all those, whose second dose has been due so that we can prevent the possible third wave of Corona," he also said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-28
27-06-2021||India||Twitter India’s interim grievance officer quits||Twitter's interim resident grievance officer for India has stepped down, leaving the micro-blogging site without a grievance official as mandated by the new IT rules to address complaints from Indian subscribers, according to a source. The source said that Dharmendra Chatur, who was recently appointed as interim resident grievance officer for India by Twitter, has quit from the post. The social media company's website no longer displays his name, as required under Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021. Twitter declined to comment on the development. The development comes at a time when the micro-blogging platform has been engaged in a tussle with the Indian government over the new social media rules. The government has slammed Twitter for deliberate defiance and failure to comply with the country's new IT rules. The new rules which came into effect from May 25 mandate social media companies to establish a grievance redressal mechanism for resolving complaints from the users or victims. All significant social media companies, with over 50 lakh user base shall appoint a grievance officer to deal with such complaints and share the name and contact details of such officers. The big social media companies are mandated to appoint a chief compliance officer, a Nodal Contact Person and a resident grievance officer. All of them should be resident in India. Twitter in response to the final notice issued by the government on June 5 had said that it intends to comply with the new IT rules and will share details of the chief compliance officer. In the meantime, the microblogging platform had appointed Chatur as interim resident grievance officer for India. Twitter now displays the company's name in the place of grievance officer for India with a US address and an email ID. According to a government official, the company has lost legal protection as an intermediary and will be legally held responsible for all content posted by its users on the platform.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-29
27-06-2021||India||Welfare system needs to redesigned to meet challenge posed by pandemics: Abhijit Banerjee||The Covid pandemic has paved the way for learning many lessons with regard to the country's health situation and preparedness in general as well as highlighted the need to redesign welfare systems, Noble laureate and renowned economist Abhijit Banerjee said on Sunday. While addressing a webinar organised by the city-based National Institute for Implementation Research on Non-Communicable Diseases, Banerjee focused on the economic aspect of the country's health situation, welfare and healthcare systems. On the economic aspect of the health situation, he said that India has a large population afflicted with lifestyle diseases, which are non-communicable diseases (NCDs). “Many young people died in the second and first wave of the pandemic, but their conditions were not detected. Causalities among the young has caught us without any clue,” the economist said, terming awareness about NCDs a key challenge. Banerjee also said that the welfare system of the country has not been designed for a pandemic and stressed on the need for redesigning the welfare mechanism to deal with such situations in the future. The webinar was organised by the institute on its foundation day and Banerjee was chief gusted for the virtual event. Speaking on different aspects of the healthcare system of the country, the noble laureate highlighted multiple consequences of medical practitioners without any qualification (quacks) and indiscriminate and spontaneous use of steroids and their availability. Citing a study, he said, In West Bengal, underweight women frequently take steroids to put on weight for marriage and these steroids are easily available at a local grocer. Terming the practice by quacks in rural areas a fully open phenomena, Banerjee said that there was no enforcement to address this issue and this has triggered a general culture of abusive medicine. Our healthcare system is being handled by those who are left out of the healthcare system, he said. The noble laureate also highlighted the issue of over-prescribing of medicines for very normal ailments. While talking about the public healthcare system, he claimed that sub-centres are empty and nurses are mostly not available, which pushes people to visit quacks. While an average time given by an MBBS doctor to a patient is about two minutes, quacks give adequate time to them hearing their problems, he claimed and argued that this was a likely condition forcing patients go to quacks. Taking a dig at the consumerist culture towards medicine, Banerjee stressed on the need of development of a preventive culture instead of a curative culture. We are exposed to demand of medicines. We go to the doctor and tell him 'Kuchh to de do (give us something)', when he is disinclined to prescribe medicines, he said. There is a need to build a mechanism for prevention and get people aware about it, Banerjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-29
27-06-2021||India||Jammu blast: FIR launched under UAPA, NIA may take over case||An FIR was registered Sunday under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act after two explosives-laden drones crashed into the IAF station at Jammu airport, officials said, while indicating that the case is likely to be taken over by the terror probe agency NIA. The drones crashed into the IAF station at Jammu airport in the early hours of Sunday, perhaps the first time that suspected Pakistan-based terrorists have used unmanned aerial vehicles in an attack, officials said. "The NIA is all likely to take over the case. They are already supervising the investigation at the scene of the blast after joining the probe," one of the officials said. An FIR was registered under relevant sections of the Explosive Substances Act, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Satwari police station on the application of a junior warrant officer of the IAF, the official said. Two Indian Air Force personnel were injured in the explosions that took place around 1.40 am within six minutes of each other. The first blast ripped off the roof of a single-storey building at the high security technical area of the airport manned by the IAF in Satwari area of the city. The second one was on the ground, the officials said. Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbag Singh has termed the incident a "terror attack".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-29
27-06-2021||India||Puducherry cabinet gets five ministers from NDA after month-long suspense||Ending the more than a month-long suspense over cabinet formation, five ministers, including two from the BJP, were inducted in the Chief Minister N Rangasamy-led NDA cabinet on Sunday. A Namassivayam, K Lakshminarayanan, C Djeacoumar, Chandira Priyanga and A K Sai J Saravana Kumar were sworn in as Ministers by Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundarajan in front of the Raj Nivas. All the Ministers took oath in the name of God. Chief Minister Rangasamy, among others, was present on the occasion. The portfolios of the ministers were not revealed. Lakshminarayanan, Djeacoumar and Priyanga represent lead partner AINRC, while Namassivayam and Saravana Kumar are from its ally BJP. This is the first time the saffron party is part of a Ministry in the Union Territory. The exercise also saw a woman member become a minister after a 41 year gap, with Chandira Priyanga being sworn in. Late Congress leader Renuka Appadurai was the last woman minister from the UT during 1980-83 and handled the Education portfolio in the M D R Ramachandran (DMK)-led coalition ministry. Ending more than a month's suspense over cabinet formation, Chief Minister N Rangasamy on June 23 submitted the list of members to be included in his ministry, to Soundararajan, which was subsequently approved by the President. Though the AINRC-led NDA had swept the April 6 Assembly polls in this union territory, cabinet formation dragged on for long as the saffron party initially insisted for a deputy CM post, but later settled for the post of the Assembly Speaker. Soon after leading his alliance to a win, AINRC founder Rangasamy was sworn-in as Chief Minister on May 7 but no other cabinet member was sworn-in. Later, BJP's 'Embalam' R Selvam was elected unopposed as Speaker of the Puducherry Assembly on June 16. The swearing-in ceremony was held at 2.30 PM in front of Raj Nivas, the office cum residence of the Lt Governor. AINRC emerged victorious from 10 segments out of 16 seats it contested in the hustings and heads the NDA in Puducherry. The BJP annexed six of the nine seats it contested. The NDA enjoys the support of three nominated members belonging to the BJP. The House has a total of 33 MLAs, including the three nominated ones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-29
27-06-2021||India||Vaccine availability for children to pave the way for school reopening, says AIIMS chief||Making Covid-19 vaccine available for children will be a milestone achievement and pave the way for reopening of schools and resumption of outdoor activities for them, AIIMS Chief Dr Randeep Guleria has said. He said the data of phase two and three trials of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin on two to 18 years age group is expected by September. The vaccine can be available for children in India around that time following approval from the drug regulator, he said. "If the Pfizer vaccine gets approval before that, then it can also be an option for children," Dr Guleria told PTI on Saturday. According to a senior government official, pharmaceutical major Zydus Cadila is also likely to soon apply to the Drugs Controller General of India for emergency use authorisation for its Covid-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D, which it claims can be given to both adults and children. "So, if the Zydus vaccine gets approval, it will be another option," Dr Guleria said. He stressed that though children mostly have mild infections of Covid-19 and some even are asymptomatic, they can be carriers of the infection. Underscoring that there has been a major loss in studies in the last one-and-half years on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, the AIIMS chief said, "Schools have to be reopened and vaccination can play an important role in that." Vaccination is the way out from the pandemic, he said. The government has recently cautioned that even though Covid-19 has not impacted children greatly till now, that can increase if there is a change in the behaviour of the virus or in epidemiology dynamics. It said that preparations are being made to deal with any such situation. A national expert group has been formed to review Covid-19 infections among children and approach the pandemic in a new way and reinforce the nation's preparedness for it. On the issue of vaccinating children, NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr V K Paul recently said, "Child cohort is not a small one. My rough guess is that if it is between 12 to 18 years, this itself is about 13 to 14 crore population for which we will need about 25-26 crore doses." He further shared that not only Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, Zydus Cadila's vaccine is also being tested on children. "So when Zydus comes for licensure soon, maybe we have enough data to take a view on whether the vaccine can be given in children," Paul said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-29
27-06-2021||India||Twin blast at Jammu Air Force station a terror attack by drone: J&K top cop||Two explosives-laden drones crashed into the IAF station at Jammu airport in the early hours of Sunday, perhaps the first time that suspected Pakistan-based terrorists have used unmanned aerial vehicles in an attack, officials said. An FIR was also registered Sunday under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act after two explosives-laden drones crashed into the IAF station at Jammu airport, officials said, while indicating that the case is likely to be taken over by the terror probe agency NIA. Two Indian Air Force personnel were injured in the explosions that took place around 1.40 am within six minutes of each other. The first blast ripped off the roof of a single-storey building at the high security technical area of the airport manned by the IAF in Satwari area of the city. The second one was on the ground, the officials said. The attack at the IAF station in Jammu is a terror attack, Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbag Singh told PTI. He said the police and other agencies were working together with IAF officials to unravel the plan behind the attack. A team from anti-terror probe agency National Investigation Agency (NIA) was also at the spot. It was not immediately clear from where the drones had taken off and investigations were on to ascertain their flight path, officials said. The aerial distance from the Jammu airport to the international border is 14 km. While officials were investigating the drone attack, another major strike was averted when a person, probably owing allegiance to the banned Lashkar-e-Taiba, was arrested along with an improvised explosive device weighing around six kg, the director-general of police said. "Drones with payload were used in both the blasts at Jammu airfield. Another crude bomb was found by the Jammu police. This IED (Improvised Explosive Device) was received by LeT outfit operative and was to be planted at some crowded place," he said. The person was tasked with triggering the IED in a crowded place. "The suspect has been detained and is being interrogated. More suspects are likely to be picked up in this foiled IED blast attempt," Singh said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh's office said he spoke to Vice Air Chief, Air Marshal H S Arora, over the airport incident. In a Twitter post, the IAF said two "low-intensity explosions" were reported early Sunday morning in the technical area of Jammu air force station. "One caused minor damage to the roof of a building while the other exploded in an open area There was no damage to any equipment. Investigation is in progress along with civil agencies," it said. Earlier in the morning, a defence spokesperson said, "There were reports of an explosion inside Air Force Station Jammu. There is no injury to any personnel or any damage to any equipment. Investigation is on and further details are awaited". Jammu airport is a civil airport with the runway and the ATC (air traffic control) under the IAF. Jammu Airport director Pravat Ranjan Beuria told PTI that there was no disruption in flight operations due to the explosions. "Flights to and from Jammu airport are operating as per schedule," The National Investigation Agency is likely to take over the case after an FIR was lodged regarding the blasts on Sunday, officials indicated. "The NIA is all likely to take over the case. They are already supervising the investigation at the scene of the blast after joining the probe," one of the officials said. An FIR was registered under relevant sections of the Explosive Substances Act, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Satwari police station on the application of a junior warrant officer of the IAF, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-29
27-06-2021||India||Rajnath Singh visits Ladakh amid India-China standoff, thanks Army personnel||The dedication of Indian soldiers and veterans towards the country is an "exemplary example", Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Sunday soon after arriving in Ladakh on a three-day visit aimed at taking stock of India's military preparedness in the region in the face of a prolonged border row with China. In Leh, Singh interacted with senior elected representatives of Kargil, Leh and Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council with a focus on the overall development of the regions, officials said. The defence minister, accompanied by Army Chief Gen MM Naravane, also met a number of armed forces veterans and discussed issues relating to their welfare as well as national security. "The dedication of our soldiers and veterans towards the country is an exemplary example. I express my gratitude from the bottom of my heart to all," Singh said on the occasion. "Our aim is that all of you should be taken care of in the same way you had taken care of the country's security. Despite this, if you have any problems somewhere, then a helpline has been arranged for to address them," his office quoted him as saying. Official sources said the defence minister will carry out a comprehensive review of India's operational readiness in eastern Ladakh amid a stalemate in the next stage of disengagement with China at several friction points. His visit to the sensitive region comes two days after India and China held a fresh round of diplomatic talks to resolve the prolonged military standoff that began in early May last year. The defence minister is scheduled to visit various key formations and high-altitude bases in the region to assess the ground realities as well as to boost the morale of the troops guarding the Line of Actual Control in a hostile environment. It is Singh's first visit to eastern Ladakh after the Indian and Chinese militaries pulled back troops, tanks, infantry and other equipment from the Pangong lake areas in February as part of an agreement. The disengagement process in the remaining friction points including Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang is deadlocked as China is reluctant to withdraw its troops from these areas. At a virtual meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs on Friday, India and China agreed to hold the next round of military talks at an early date to achieve the objective of complete disengagement in remaining friction points. Singh's visit to the sensitive region comes amid fresh sparring between India and China over the standoff. India on Thursday blamed China for the standoff saying its amassing of a large number of troops close to the border and attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo along the LAC last year were responsible for seriously disturbing peace and tranquillity in the region. India's response came after China said its military deployment in the region is a normal defence arrangement aimed at "preventing and responding" to "encroachment and threat" on Chinese territory by India. India and China were locked in a military standoff at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh since early May last year. However, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February following a series of military and diplomatic talks. The two sides are now engaged in talks to extend the disengagement process to the remaining friction points. India has been particularly pressing for disengagement of troops in Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang. According to military officials, each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the Line of Actual Control in the sensitive sector. There was no visible forward movement in disengagement of troops in the remaining friction points as the Chinese side did not show flexibility in their approach on it at the 11th round of military talks. Last month, Gen Naravane said that there can be no de-escalation without complete disengagement at all friction points in eastern Ladakh and that the Indian Army is prepared for all contingencies in the region. The Army Chief also said that India is dealing with China in a "firm" and "non-escalatory" manner to ensure the sanctity of its claims in eastern Ladakh, and that it was even open to initiating confidence-building measures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-29
27-06-2021||India||Delta plus variant has greater affinity for lungs compared to others:  NTAGI chief||The Delta plus variant of Covid-19 has a greater affinity to lung tissues as compared to other strains but it does not mean that it will cause severe disease or is more transmissible, head of coronavirus working group NTAGI Dr N K Arora said. A new viral variant of the coronavirus, Delta Plus, was identified on June 11. It was recently classified as a variant of concern. Till now, 51 cases of Delta Plus have been detected across 12 states, with Maharashtra reporting the maximum cases of this variant. Talking about Delta plus, chairman of Covid-19 Working Group of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) said it has been found that the variant has a greater affinity to lung tissues as compared to other strains of coronavirus but clarified that it does not mean the Delta Plus variant will cause more severe disease or is more transmissible. "Delta plus is having a greater affinity to the mucosal lining in the lungs, higher compared to other variants, but if it causes damage or not is not clear yet. It also does not mean that this variant will cause more severe disease or it is more transmissible," Arora told PTI in an interview. He said the impact of the Delta plus strain will become clear only as more cases are identified but it appears that the disease is generally mild in all those who have got either single or double dose of the vaccine. "We need to keep a very close watch and look at its spread so that it will give us transmission efficiency," he said. Arora said the number of cases identified of Delta plus variant may be more as there may be many asymptomatic individuals also -- those who do not have any Covid-19 symptoms but are carrying the virus and spreading it. "But the important point is that our genomic surveillance component has picked it up rightly and early enough. Now what will happen is that states have already been told that it is a variant of concern and it requires action which means that several states have already started making micro plans for the districts where the virus is identified so that their spread can be contained. Obviously vaccination will have to be increased in these districts," he said. Responding to a question if the Delta plus variant can trigger the third wave of coronavirus, Arora said it is difficult to assess that as of now. "Waves are linked to new variants or new mutations so there is a possibility as this is a new variant, but whether it will lead to a third wave it is difficult to answer as it will depend upon two or three things," he said. "The first thing is we had a ferocious second wave in the last three months and it is still going on, we are seeing for the last 8-10 days the number of cases are stuck at 50,000, while at some places cases continue to come so that wave has not settled down," he said. He said the second wave will influence the community's response to another variant and the third wave will depend upon what proportion of the population got infected in the second wave. "If a large proportion is infected then in the next wave people can develop a common cold-like illness but may not develop a serious or fatal illness," he said. "Secondly, another thing that is important is vaccination -- the rapidity with which we vaccinate...even single dose is effective and the way we are planning, if we rapidly immunise then the possibility of a third wave becomes very less because vaccine plus infection plus Covid appropriate behaviour will save us from next wave, mitigate the next wave and the third wave will not be able to cause the damage as was caused in the first two waves," he added. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-29
27-06-2021||India||Modi asks Indians to shed vaccine hesitancy, get inoculated soon||Cautioning people that the threat of Covid-19 remains, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged them to shed vaccine hesitancy and get themselves inoculated soon. In his monthly Mann ki Baat broadcast, Modi hailed the feat of most vaccination doses administered in a single day on June 21 at the start of the new phase of inoculation under which all adults are being given free jabs. Seeking to make people shed vaccine hesitancy, Modi spoke to residents of Dulariya village in Betul district of Madhya Pradesh and counselled them to take the vaccine amidst their doubts about the exercise. He noted that both he and his nearly 100-year-old mother have taken both doses of the vaccine, and asked people not to believe in rumours and trust science and scientists. "The threat of Covid-19 remains and we have to focus on vaccination as well as follow Covid-19 protocols," he said. With the Monsoon approaching, Modi also stressed on water conservation. In his broadcast, he also paid tributes and remembered the contribution of Indian sprint legend Milkha Singh, who died earlier this month. Modi hailed Singh's contribution to Indian sports and said he will always cherish his interactions with the athlete. Singh died in a Chandigarh hospital after a month-long battle with Covid-19. He also lost his wife Nirmal Kaur, a former national volleyball captain, to the same disease. Modi also shared the struggles and triumphs of Olympics-bound Indian athletes and said that people must not build any pressure on these sportspersons but "cheer for India". "Every athlete who is going to Tokyo has worked hard. They are going there to win hearts. It must be our endeavour to support our team and not put pressure on the team," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-29
27-06-2021||India||1.35 billion Covid vaccine doses by end of the year, Centre tells Supreme Court ||More than 1.35 billion Covid-19 vaccine doses will be available for the public by the end of the year, the government has told the Supreme Court. The pledge comes after the government surprised critics of its sluggish vaccine rollout by administering a record 34 million doses in six days. Until recently, severe shortages of vaccines had been reported around the country. The government’s success in meeting its commitment to the Supreme Court, though, will hinge on at least two domestic vaccines that are still under development clearing key Phase 3 clinical trials. So far, India has vaccinated just over 4 per cent of the population. Experts have warned that unless the government sharply accelerates its vaccination programme, the country may be swamped by a devastating third wave. In its court affidavit, Bar and Bench reported that the government said that the Serum Institute of India would produce 500 million doses of Covishield, India’s version of the AstraZeneca Covid vaccine, between July and December and that 400 million doses of Covaxin would also be available on the market during the same time. The Serum Institute has said it will hike Covishield vaccine production from 65 million doses in June and July to 100 million in August and September. Bharat Biotech currently produces 20 million doses of the indigenously developed Covaxin monthly and has said it expects to produce 35 million doses in July. After that, the figures submitted to the Supreme Court suggest the company expects to hike its Covaxin production steeply to 78.2 million in August and September. Besides Bharat Biotech, several other companies are expected to launch production of Covaxin which was developed by the Indian Council of Medical Research. Bharat Biotech has also said it will activate plants in Hyderabad and Bangalore to produce Covaxin. Saturday’s promise of 1.35 billion doses by year-end is lower than the more than 2 billion doses of coronavirus vaccines which top government advisor V.K. Paul told reporters last month would likely be available between August and December. At that time, Paul said the doses would include 750 million of the Covishield vaccine produced by the Serum Institute, as well as 550 million doses of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. Around 100 million doses of the Russian-made Sputnik V are also expected to be available for distribution to the public between July and December, the government said in its 375-page affidavit submitted to the court. The government told the court it would be receiving 300 million doses of a vaccine from the Indian company Biological E and 50 million doses of Zycov-D vaccine from Zydus Cadila.  The Biological E vaccine is undergoing phase three trials and is expected to be on the market by August. The government is paying a Rs 1,500 crore advance to the manufacturer for the vaccine. The Phase 3 data of Zycov-D has been undergoing analysis. The company is expected to apply for emergency use permission next week. Zycov-D is a three-dose DNA-based vaccine. The government told the court in its affidavit that 1.86 billion vaccine doses will be needed to vaccinate around 940 million Indians above the age of 18. The government last Monday vaccinated more than 8 million people. Most observers at the time said the government would not have enough vaccines to keep up its scorching pace. While the number of doses has fallen, it is still administering five to six million doses a day, far more than the 3 million it was administering for most of the past month. The government had declared in early June that it would deliver 120 million vaccinations during the month. That was up from the 79.4 million doses that were available for the National Covid Vaccination Programme in May. The extra vaccines appear to have become available thanks to 15.7 million doses of vaccines leftover with the states on June 1 when the government resumed control of the vaccination programme combined with a rise in production to about 90 million. Also, 10 million Sputnik V vaccines from Russia have become available though it’s unclear how many have actually been administered to the public. Some leading hospitals in Delhi have just started giving Sputnik V jabs while others say they are about to start administering. The Centre has fixed a price of Rs 1,145 for the vaccines which are currently being imported from Russia. Some of the Sputnik V doses have been imported in a fully finished form and others are being put into vials here. Dr Reddy’s Laboratories is expecting to start production of Sputnik V in India at the beginning of August. Russia has deals with six Indian companies to produce 850 million doses of Sputnik V. The government will need to deliver around 9 million doses daily to vaccinate all adult Indians by end-December, according to experts. China is currently vaccinating about 100 million people a week. In vaccinating the population, the government is not only dealing with supply issues, it must overcome vaccine hesitancy, especially in rural areas, along with logistical problems in reaching remote areas of the countryside. India recorded 48,698 new Covid-19 cases and 1,183 deaths Saturday. It was the lowest daily number of fresh cases since March 24.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-29
27-06-2021||India||Centre to SC: 188 crore doses to be administered by year-end||The Centre Saturday told the Supreme Court that a total of 51.6 crore Covid vaccine doses would be made available by July 31 of which 35.6 crore have already been provided. Giving the status of vaccine availability for children, the Centre said in an affidavit that the Drugs Controller General of India on May 12 permitted Bharat Biotech to conduct clinical trials of its vaccine Covaxin on volunteers between 2 to 18 years of age, and the enrolment process for this trial has also begun. “It informed the court that Zydus Cadila which is developing DNA vaccines has concluded its clinical trial for between the age group of 12 to 18 years of age and, subject to the statutory permissions, it may be available in near future for children of the age group of 12 to 18 years of age. "It is humbly submitted that as of now, the companies' manufacturing Covid-19 vaccination in India have only been given Emergency Use Authorization' for vaccinating people of 18 years age and above. Therefore, Covid-19 vaccines are not recommended for persons/children less than 18 years of age and is due to the fact that the clinical trial cohort during Phase 1, 2 and 3 did not cover the children below 18 years of age," it said. The government said that there would be availability of vaccines to vaccinate the entire eligible population. It said the "biggest vaccination drive in the history" is going on with full swing, reaching even remotest areas of the country by constructive and cooperative collaboration of the Central government, State/UT governments, local authorities, human resources in medical sectors and the citizens of the country. Giving the break-up of vaccines till the date of filing of the affidavit i.e. June 26, the Centre said a total of 35.6 crore doses were made available -- 26.6 crore Covishield, 8 crore Covaxin, and additional 1 crore doses as commodity assistance under COVAX facility. It also said that apart from these supplies, it is expected that around 16 crore doses will also be available during the period of May and July across the country. The Centre further said that 31.5 lakh doses of first component and 60,000 doses of second component of Sputnik V has been received. It said that two vaccines (Covishield and Covaxin) have been a part of the vaccination program since January 2021 and Sputnik V has received Emergency Use Authoridation by the DCGI in April 2021 and is now being administered in the country. The government said, "In addition, some other domestic vaccines such as those from Biological E and Zydus Cadila are in the late stages of clinical trials and subject to the regulatory approvals, will further increase the availability of vaccines." The government in its 375-page affidavit filed in the suo motu matter on Covid-19 management said that in order to further increase vaccine availability and incentivising foreign manufacturers, the regulatory process for the use of foreign vaccines within India has been accelerated and simplified. It clarified that due to the initial assistance provided for developing Covaxin, it has ensured a price of Rs.150 per dose of Covaxin and it is not possible to reduce it any further. "This price is the lowest procurement price in the world." The government said that as per the projected mid-year population for 2020, the total population of the country aged 18 years and above is approximately 93-94 crore and as such, administering two doses to these beneficiaries would require an estimated 186 to 188 crore vaccine doses. "Out of this requirement, 51.6 crore doses will be made available for administration by July 31, 2021, leaving a requirement of approximately 135 crore vaccine doses for complete vaccination to the eligible population," it said. Giving the breakup for vaccines quantity that may be receivable from all sources the Centre said that a total of 135 crore doses will be procured: Covishield (50 crore), Covaxin (40 crore), Bio E Subunit vaccine (30 crore), Zydus Cadila DNA vaccine (5 crore) and Sputnik V (10 crore). It said that the procurement of Bio E Subunit vaccine and Zydus Cadila DNA vaccine will be subject to approval which will come in the near future. "It is submitted that the vaccination drive would obviously get a boost if the Government of India succeeds in its attempts to procure vaccines available outside India such as vaccines of Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, Moderna etc," the affidavit said. The Centre said that for the purpose of procurement of these vaccines from abroad, efforts are ongoing at the level of the highest political executive in the country and also at the highest diplomatic level. "It is submitted that since these efforts are at a very advanced stage, it is neither desirable nor possible to give comprehensive details of these facts. As and when these efforts materialise, the speed of vaccination will be further augmented and enhanced," it said. A 375-page affidavit was filed by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in response to a slew of questions raised by the apex court in its May 31 order while hearing the suo motu case related to Covid management in the country. A bench headed by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud had slammed the Centre's Covid vaccination policy, describing as "prima facie arbitrary and irrational" allowing states and private hospitals to charge those in the 18-44 age group while the jabs were offered free for groups in the first two phases, and ordered its review. Seeking to scrutinise the Covid vaccination policy in detail, the top court had also asked the Centre to provide information including as to how Rs 35,000 crore, earmarked for vaccines, has been spent so far, and to place on record all relevant documents and file notings reflecting its thinking culminating in the policy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-30
27-06-2021||India||India logs 50,040 Covid-19 cases in a day||A single-day rise of 50,040 fresh Covid-19 infections took India's tally to 3,02,33,183, while the number of active cases dipped to 5,86,403, according to the Union Health Ministry data on Sunday. The death toll climbed to 3,95,751 with 1,258 more people succumbing to the viral disease in a day. Active cases now comprises 1.94 per cent of the total infections, the data updated at 8 am showed. Recoveries outnumbered daily new cases of Covid-19 for the 45th consecutive day with the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surging to 2,92,51,029. The case fatality rate stood at 1.31 per cent. While the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.75 per cent, the weekly case positivity rate has come down to 2.91 per cent. According to the ministry data, the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.82 per cent. It has been less than 5 per cent for 20 consecutive days. India administered 64.25 lakh vaccine doses in a day, taking the cumulative number of jabs given so far under the nationwide inoculation drive to 32.17 crore, according to immunisation data published at 7 am. Also, 17,45,809 tests were conducted on Saturday for the detection of Covid-19, taking the total number of tests conducted so far in the country to 40,18,11,892. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore total Covid-19 cases on May 4 this year and three crore on June 23. The total 3,95,751 deaths reported so far in the country include 1,20,881 in Maharashtra, 34,654 in Karnataka, 32,199 in Tamil Nadu, 24,961 in Delhi, 22,443 in Uttar Pradesh, 17583 in West Bengal, 15979 in Punjab and 13,427 in Chhattisgarh. The ministry has stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths reported so far have occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-30
27-06-2021||India||Mayawati refutes claims of alliance with AIMIM in Uttar Pradesh polls||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Sunday refuted claims that her party and Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM will fight in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections together, and said that it will go solo in the state polls, due early next year. Mayawati reasserted that her party had only announced an alliance with Shiromani Akali Dal in Punjab, but in UP and Uttarakhand, it will fight alone. The two parties have also finalised the seat-sharing agreement in the 117-member Assembly, with SAD contesting on 97 seats and the BSP on 20. "This news has been broadcast in a media news channel since yesterday that the AIMIM and BSP will fight the upcoming assembly elections in UP together. This news is completely false, misleading and baseless. There is not even an iota of truth in this and the BSP vehemently denies it. "In this regard, it is again clarified that except Punjab, the BSP will not contest the UP and Uttarakhand state polls early next year in alliance with any party; meaning it will go it alone," Mayawati tweeted on Sunday. Earlier in an interview with ndtv.com, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav had also ruled out making an alliance with BSP or the Congress during the upcoming polls. He also revealed that his party would go for like-minded smaller parties for alliance. "My experience with big parties is not good, I will not get into any alliance with them," Akhilesh told ndtv.com, without naming Mayawati's Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Congress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-30
27-06-2021||India||Twin blasts rock Jammu Air Force station, possible drone attack being investigated||Two consecutive explosions took place at the high security Jammu Air Force station in the early hours of Sunday and the Indian Air Force is probing whether they were part of a terror attack, officials and people familiar with the defence and security establishment said. Investigators are examining the possible use of drones to drop the explosives at the technical area of the Jammu airport that has various assets of the IAF. The first blast, which took place around 1.40 am, ripped off the roof of a single storey building at the technical area of the airport manned by the IAF in Satwari area of the city. The second one, which took place within a gap of five minutes, was on the ground, the officials said. According to sources, two IAF personnel suffered minor injuries. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh's office said he spoke to Vice Air Chief, Air Marshal HS Arora over the explosions. In a Twitter post, the IAF said two "low-intensity explosions" were reported early Sunday morning in the technical area of Jammu air force station and one of them caused minor damage to the roof of a building while the other exploded in an open area". "There was no damage to any equipment. Investigation is in progress along with civil agencies," it said. "Raksha Mantri Shri @rajnathsingh spoke to Vice Air Chief, Air Marshal HS Arora regarding today's incident at Air Force Station in Jammu. Air Marshal Vikram Singh is reaching Jammu to take stock of the situation," it tweeted. The people familiar with the defence and security establishment said all angles including the possible involvement of terror networks in the explosions are being probed. They said Chief of Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria has been apprised about the explosions. The IAF chief is on a three-day visit to Bangladesh from Saturday. Earlier, the defence spokesperson said, There were reports of an explosion inside Air Force Station Jammu. There is no injury to any personnel or any damage to any equipment. Investigation is on and further details are awaited"'. He said the area was sealed by security forces within minutes. A high level meeting was underway at the Air Force station with senior police and Indian Air Force officials in attendance, sources said. Various probe teams including that of the IAF and National Investigation Agency have also reached the Air Force station. Jammu airport is a civil airport with the runway and the ATC under the IAF. Jammu Airport director Pravat Ranjan Beuria told PTI that there was no disruption in the flight operations due to the explosions. The flights to and from Jammu airport are operating as per the schedule, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-30
27-06-2021||India||Protesting peasants march to Raj Bhavans, raise twin flags of ‘Save Agriculture’ and ‘Save Democracy’||The protesting farmers marched on Saturday to Raj Bhavans across the country, reminding the nation that their vigil at Delhi’s borders had withstood the might of the Narendra Modi government for seven months and coped with the devastating second wave of the pandemic that diverted attention from their cause. The farmers indicated they would continue to campaign against the BJP during the upcoming polls in the states, including Uttar Pradesh. The farmers, protesting against three new farm laws, raised the twin flags of “Save Agriculture” and “Save Democracy” as they marked seven months of their agitation at Delhi’s borders, a day after the 46th anniversary of the Emergency. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha’s decision to have farmers march to the Raj Bhavans in every state instead of effecting a big mobilisation around Delhi was a concession to the pandemic. On Friday, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had urged the farmers to end their agitation, saying the government was willing to talk to them about their fears about the new farm laws. He claimed these three laws had the support of many others from the farming community. The Morcha, the collective leading the protests, described Tomar’s remarks as perplexing. “It appears that he has gone back to a position of asking farmers to share clause-by-clause concerns and objections, whereas farmer leaders had already clearly explained by the beginning of January 2021 why they are not seeking some meaningless amendments here and there in the three central farm laws when there are fundamental flaws in the laws and their very objectives,” it said. For the protesting farmers who have lost nearly 500 colleagues during the agitation, the minister’s insistence that the laws are for their benefit amounts to rubbing salt into their wounds. The farmers believe that such a stance completely ignores the apprehensions that have brought tens of thousands of them onto the streets for so long. “It is clear that the Narendra Modi government at the Centre has not given up on its numerous tactics of escaping its responsibility towards farmers of the country,” the Morcha said. “Farmers are ready to put in their energies to educate fellow citizens, and appeal to them to punish the BJP. That is the only lesson that the government seems to be willing to listen to.” The comments suggested the farmers intended to go ahead with their plan to campaign against the BJP in the next round of Assembly elections, too, including the crucial one in Uttar Pradesh. The farmers hope to hurt the BJP particularly in western Uttar Pradesh, where Jat farmers have rallied around Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait, who has been one of the faces of the protest since January. Rashtriya Lok Dal chief Jayant Chaudhury too has been working in tandem, and the protesters hope to keep this dynamic alive till the elections. In the last round of Assembly elections, too, the farmers had travelled to key states, including Bengal, to campaign against the BJP while maintaining they would not canvass votes for any party. “Ours was an issue-based approach where we went and told the people not to vote for the BJP because of what they are doing to farmers, and vote in a manner that would defeat the BJP. We did not campaign for any party,” a farmer leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-30
27-06-2021||India||Ayodhya: Modi stays silent on dubious land deals||The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust was not part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s virtual meeting on Ayodhya on Saturday. A day earlier, the town’s sadhus had demanded that Modi clarify the land scam allegations against the trust at the meeting. A state government official who attended the hour-and-a-half meeting said it had been decided in the morning that the members of the trust, entrusted with building the Ram temple, would not attend it. “We had been told four days ago that chief minister Yogi Adityanath, his cabinet members, senior state and district (Ayodhya) officials and a few trust members would attend the meeting,” the official told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity. “However, the trust members were told in the morning that a separate meeting would soon be held in Delhi with them.” Anil Mishra, a trust member, told local reporters that the meeting was about the “Ayodhya Vision” — a development plan — and not on the Ram temple, and the trust had never been invited to it. “The state and the central government have a plan to develop the town as a heritage city. The trust’s job is limited to building the Ram temple and related issues,” Mishra said. However, the Ayodhya Vision is a 30-year plan to develop the town for religious tourism, with the Ram temple at the heart of it. Adityanath and his deputies Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma attended the meeting, titled Ayodhya Vision 2051, from Lucknow. The trust, which has collected donations from people across India, has recently been embroiled in controversy over its purchase of land. In at least two deals, the trust bought plots at far higher prices than they had been sold for just minutes or a few months earlier. It denies any wrongdoing. On Friday, a meeting of 150 of Ayodhya’s sadhus had demanded that at Saturday’s meeting, Modi should clarify how the dubious land deals were struck “under his nose”, senior sadhus had told reporters. At the time, the widespread impression was that trust members would be part of Modi’s meeting. The media was not allowed to attend or view Saturday’s meeting. A tweet by Modi and a central government media release on the meeting did not mention the temple or the trust. “Chaired a meeting on the Ayodhya development plan. Emphasised on public participation and involving our Yuva Shakti in creating state-of-the-art infrastructure in Ayodhya, making this city a vibrant mix of the ancient and modern,” Modi tweeted. The government release said Ayodhya would be developed “as a spiritual centre, global tourism hub and a sustainable smart city”. An official in Lucknow quoted the Prime Minister as telling the meeting that the major development projects in Ayodhya should be completed in the “next two-three years” before the Ram temple was built and opened to the people. The general wisdom is that the BJP plans to have the temple built before the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. “He (Modi) said the major projects should be completed within two-three years. The minor projects can continue.... He also said that tradition and culture should be highlighted in every project,” the official said. The Rs 20,000-crore Ayodhya Vision includes Rs 14,000 crore to be spent by the state government to upgrade the town’s small airport and build or expand bus stands, cultural and heritage centres, museums to portray Ram’s life and roads to link the town with other parts of the country. The central government release said the plan included “an upcoming greenfield township (with) lodging facilities for devotees, space for ashrams, maths, hotels, bhavans of various states” and “a tourist facilitation centre, a world-class museum” along with river cruises on the Saryu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-30
27-06-2021||India||Covid: Justice Ramana asks law minister to resolve poor digital connectivity in far flung areas||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Saturday expressed concern at “the poor digital connectivity in rural, tribal, remote and hilly areas”, saying this was slowing justice delivery across the country and depriving thousands of young lawyers of their livelihood. Justice Ramana said he had written to Union law and information technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad to address the problem, underscoring the importance of the issue at a time the pandemic has forced all court proceedings to be held virtually. The Narendra Modi government has been claiming that its massive digital push has turned administration into a smooth and seamless exercise. The CJI said he had asked the Union minister to evolve a way of helping lawyers who  had lost their livelihood to the pandemic and urgently needed financial assistance. Justice Ramana’s remarks came at a panel discussion that followed the online launch of a book, Anomalies in Law and Justice, authored by the former Supreme Court judge, Justice R.V. Raveendran. The CJI told the audience that the issue of poor connectivity had figured prominently also at the two-day conference of high court chief justices that he had recently convened. Justice Ramana said that poor connectivity was pushing a whole generation of lawyers out of the system. Justice Ramana said that his letter to minister Prasad requested him to prioritise bridging the digital divide. Further, his letter highlighted the need to declare legal professionals and associated functionaries as frontline workers and prioritise their vaccination, he said. The letter asked the Centre to take the following steps: ⚫  Strengthen the digital network and connectivity beyond the major urban centres, particularly in the rural and tribal areas. ⚫  Vaccinate all functionaries associated with the courts and their families across the country to facilitate full-scale functioning of the courts. ⚫  Recognise all functionaries associated with the courts, including the lawyers, as frontline workers in the context of providing pandemic-related relief. ⚫  Provide financial support to lawyers, especially junior lawyers, who are struggling to survive with the pandemic having robbed them of work for more than a year. “It would be highly appreciated if you could take up these issues with the concerned ministries/ departments at the highest level,” Justice Ramana wrote to Prasad. He also stressed the need to provide the courts with the latest information and communication technology tools to facilitate access to justice, and to revamp the judicial infrastructure to tackle the challenge posed by the huge backlog of cases. “A blueprint of the proposal to set up the National Judicial Infrastructure Corporation (NJIC) is in the final stages of preparation and will be shared with the Union government shortly,” the letter, sent in the second week of this month, said. Justice Ramana said that during his recent interaction with the high court chief justices, he had emphasised the need to speed up the process of sending collegium recommendations to the government to fill up vacancies in the high courts. While releasing Justice Raveendran’s book on the virtual platform, Justice Ramana paid tributes to the former judge. Trained under S.G. Sundaraswamy, a doyen of the Karnataka Bar, Justice Raveendran had developed an ability to relate to the people and issues around him, he said. “Justice Raveendran’s judgments are of great value, not because they are replete with western jurisprudence or are rich in legal jargon, but because of their connect with today’s Indian context and its people,” Justice Ramana said. “He never tried to project himself as the saviour of the judicial process. He continued to be humble and believed that the office which he held did not exist for himself. He discharged his duties with distinction and commitment to the people. He exemplifies all that is great about our institution.” Justice Raveendran’s judgments had set a high standard of excellence and demonstrated that the law can be a force for bringing out the best in the community and making society a better place, Justice Ramana said. He said Justice Raveendran had in his book made an earnest attempt to explain to the ordinary reader in simple words the various deficiencies in the law that need to be overcome so that the citizen does not lose faith in the judiciary and the legal system.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-30
27-06-2021||India||Kerala government to make school textbooks gender-neutral ||The Kerala government has decided to audit and revise school textbooks to make them gender-neutral amid a spate of dowry deaths and violence against women although experts have cautioned about the lack of Malayalam equivalents of some English words. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan announced the plan to revise school textbooks through a tweet on Thursday: “To inculcate a culture of gender equality, Kerala’s school textbooks will be revised and audited to sieve out words and phrases disparaging women. Steps will be taken to turn our schools and colleges into spaces that embrace the idea of gender equality and equal rights.” Education minister V. Sivankutty said gender equality and gender justice would be taken in “all seriousness” while reforming the education system. “All words that stand against gender equality must be changed. This will be taken up in all seriousness while reforming the educational system,” Sivankutty said in a statement issued by his office. An official in the education ministry said a decision would be taken soon on seeking suggestions from educationists and experts in gender justice to scrutinise the textbooks and make them gender-neutral. To cite a few examples, postmen would be changed to mail carriers, stewardesses would become flight attendants, clergymen would be just clergy, salesman would be salespersons or sales executives, and mankind would be re-written as humankind. Academics pointed out that the Malayalam vocabulary might not be broad enough to find equivalents of all English words. Although some English words are transliterated in Malayalam textbooks, the first preference would be to use a word in the native language, sources said. Writer and a senior member of the Progressive Writers Association, Vallikkavu Mohandas, cautioned: “English is a highly evolved language which is truly cosmopolitan in nature and hence has words for everything.” He said it would be easy to re-write English textbooks since templates were available in several countries. “While the English language is so broad and cosmopolitan, Malayalam is not. We don’t even have a feminine gender equivalent of ‘dheeran’ (brave) although ‘dheera’ is used informally. So the first step should ideally be an overhaul of the language by finding appropriate words,” Mohandas said. He said there were innumerable examples where Malayalam did not have apt equivalents for English words. “The bigger danger is the negative connotations ascribed to words like ‘napumsagam’ (transgender),” he said, alluding to the fact that the Malayalam word is also used to describe a coward. The chief minister’s announcement has triggered suggestions that textbooks be also made trans-neutral so that children develop respect for the third gender as well. “Good. Include trans-inclusive and friendly language. Have toilets in schools for trans kids too. Sensitise teachers every 3 months with refresher course on gender equality & justice workshops. Make it a point to employ trans, non-binary folx (folks) as teachers so they get represented,” an user named Ashayy tweeted in response to Vijayan’s announcement. The first state to come out with a Transgender Policy in 2015, Kerala has since taken several steps to provide rations, identity cards, health care and employment to transpersons. But many still complain about the lack of inclusiveness in the state’s ecosystem. A member of the Transgender Justice Board that functions under the department of social justice, Sheetal Shyam, was of the view that textbooks should also be made “trans-friendly” by using non-sexist and gender-fair language.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-30
27-06-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Cong points mandi closure finger at Modi govt||The Congress on Saturday said the Narendra Modi government had been gradually closing down government grain procurement centres (mandis) ever since the three farm laws were introduced while reiterating its support to the agitating farmers who held several protests to mark the completion of seven months of their ongoing movement on the same day. Alleging that the Modi government was working on a sinister plan to harm the farmers for the last seven years, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “Is it not true that the government mandis are being closed down gradually ever since the three farm laws were introduced? Didn’t the Commission for Agriculture Cost & Prices in its report for 2021-22 say that the government keeps the sample size to determine the input cost very small to ensure real cost isn’t reflected?” As Rahul Gandhi reiterated Congress’s support to the agitating farmers yet again, Surjewala said: “The Modi government started tormenting the farmers right after coming to power in 2014, but it crossed all limits of brutality in the last seven months. Nowhere in the world are the farmers treated in this manner like the Modi government has dealt with them during the last seven months. The intention was clear when they tried to kill the Land Acquisition Act in 2014. Then they filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court saying that giving the promised 50 per cent profit on input cost is not possible.” Surjewala also referred to high diesel costs that burdened the farmers. The Congress also demanded restoration of dearness allowance to lakhs of government employees, army personnel and pensioners that was discontinued in the name of the Covid-19 pandemic in April 2020. Party spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said the government’s decision robbed Rs 37,500 crore from 115 lakh employees and pensioners during the pandemic when they needed greater financial assistance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-30
27-06-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh: Woman dies in traffic on President Kovind's trip ||A woman entrepreneur died in Kanpur on Friday evening, allegedly because of a delay in receiving medical help, after police stopped her car to make way for the convoy of a visiting President Ram Nath Kovind. Traffic had been held up for 45 minutes and doctors at Regency Hospital said Vandana Mishra, 45, would have lived if she had arrived even 15 minutes earlier, her husband Sharad Mishra alleged. Kanpur police commissioner Asim Arun, who visited the family’s home to apologise and convey the President’s condolences, said traffic had been halted for 25 minutes despite an order not to stop it for more than 5 minutes. “We have suspended a sub-inspector and three constables for not allowing them (Mishras) to move,” Arun told reporters. Efforts to get a doctor or senior executive take this newspaper’s call to the hospital proved fruitless. Vandana was president of the women’s wing of the Kanpur chapter of the Indian Industries Association. She ran an industrial unit herself, sources said, but its nature could not be immediately ascertained. “She had had Covid a month and a half ago but had recovered. She complained of breathlessness on Friday afternoon and I took her to Regency Hospital,” Sharad told reporters. “The doctors examined her and found her fit. I took her back home but she again complained of breathlessness an hour later. While I was driving her to the same hospital, traffic was stopped near Govindnagar Bridge for the President. Despite my requests, the police didn’t let us move for 45 minutes.” He added: “When we reached the hospital after 6pm, the doctors declared her dead on arrival and said she would have lived had she reached the hospital 15 minutes earlier.” As news of the death circulated on social media on Saturday, police commissioner Arun rushed to the family’s Kidwai Nagar home to apologise to Sharad. “Nikhil Pathak, additional deputy commissioner of police, will probe the matter,” he told reporters. District magistrate Alok Tiwari said: “The President took cognisance of the unfortunate incident and asked us to personally tender our apologies to the family of the deceased.” The Kanpur police commissionerate tweeted in Hindi: “The Hon’ble President was distressed to know the death of sister Vandana Mishra. He called the police commissioner and the district magistrate to know more about it and asked them to convey his condolences to the family. Both officers attended the cremation and conveyed the President’s message. Kovind is on a heavily publicised trip to Kanpur, his home district, where he arrived on a special “Presidential Train” on Friday afternoon. He is to leave on Sunday. It’s been a largely personal visit, with Kovind meeting old friends and visiting the villagers of Paraukh, Jhinjhak and Rura where he had spent his childhood. He has also held a few meetings with government officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-30
27-06-2021||India||‘We orchestrated daring escapes from Indian custody, including one from the IB headquarters in James Bond style’||Zoramthanga is five foot nearly nothing but do not be misled by his diminutive frame, or even his beguiling smile. At 76, the three-time chief minister of Mizoram still packs a punch. Consider, for a start, that he fought alongside the Pakistani army during the 1971 war and was then able to change course to hold extended reign in high public office. On more than one occasion, Zoramthanga tells me with relish, “We orchestrated our daring escapes from Indian custody, including one from the headquarters of the Intelligence Bureau, in typical James Bond style.” It took 20 years of a devastating insurgency to restore peace in the tiny northeastern state of 12 lakh people tucked between Myanmar and Bangladesh; on June 30, 1986, the Mizoram Peace Accord, arguably modern India’s most durable such agreement, was finally signed. Mizoram has never looked back. Zoramthanga recalled to me flashes of the turbulent days leading to the final laying down of arms by the firebrand guerrillas of the Mizo National Front (MNF) led by the legendary Pu Laldenga. Having graduated from a college in Manipur in 1966, Zoramthanga joined the MNF’s armed underground ranks to wage a freedom war against India. He served as secretary for the Run Bung area for three years, living and fighting from the bush. In 1969, he became secretary to Laldenga and accompanied him to East Pakistan. “After the fall of Dhaka in the Bangladesh war, we escaped miraculously to Rangoon [now Yangon] pretending to be refugees headed for Myanmar. In March 1972, we fled from Rangoon to Karachi on a Pakistani charter flight. Laldenga, his family, three others and I then moved to Islamabad for four years,” he recollects. “Around that time, we made contact with the Indian government secretly (behind Pakistan’s back) through Kabul. We landed in Delhi in January 1976 for talks. These ‘talks’ lasted for 10 years and culminated in the accord.” All this while, Mizoram, then a Union Territory, remained wracked by violent insurgency. Zoramthanga went underground and operated from the Chittagong Hill Tracts of Bangladesh. “In 1979, Morarji Desai, then Prime Minister, told us to hand over arms. We said first negotiate, then we will surrender arms.” The Centre responded by detaining the MNF leaders at the IB headquarters in New Delhi. “But we devised an audacious escape route and managed to board a flight to Calcutta. We then flew to Silchar in Assam (there being no airport in Mizoram at the time) and boarded a jeep to reach the Mizo jungles. I remember we walked for 27 days thereafter. Subsequently, I became the vice-president of MNF as Laldenga was in Delhi. Laldenga was incarcerated in Tihar jail, but was finally released and allowed to go to London.” While Zoramthanga oversaw operations from the jungle headquarters in Mizoram, “between 1980 and 1986, we negotiated with the government in Delhi through those whom I delegated. I did not go to Delhi again. I supervised the underground movement.” The chief minister has put down his memoirs — “You will find all the adventures of my insurgent days there” — and hopes to publish them once the pandemic abates. He hopes, too, that some Hollywood producer — “not Bollywood” he is quite sure — will find in them the masala to churn out a blockbuster. In 1986, the Mizoram accord was signed. In his book on this historic event titled Lest We Forget, L.R. Sailo, press secretary to the chief minister of Mizoram for years and now regional director of the Indian Institute of Mass Communication in Aizawl, aptly says this was “the only insurgency in the world that ended with the stroke of a pen”. The view is shared by Zoramthanga’s predecessor and five-time chief minister, Lal Thanhawla, the Congress veteran who had to step down to allow Laldenga to take his place in 1986 to ensure smooth transfer to truce. “The historic accord is the most successful one to have been signed in this country,” the 83-year-old said from his home in Aizawl. Mizoram earned its statehood after the accord, in 1987, with special protection in the form of the Inner-line Permit, land and customary laws. In that interim government, Zoramthanga was a cabinet minister. He became the MNF president when Laldenga died in 1990 and has helmed the party ever since. Asked if all the clauses of the accord had been implemented, he says: “We are yet to get a separate high court. Rehabilitation of the returnees is still unsatisfactory. But our resounding success was that not a single person went underground again. That is why Mizoram is today an island of peace and the accord is a success.” He rues that the accord anniversary this week cannot be celebrated as it ought to be, because of the pandemic. “We will mark the occasion, but we are disciplined,” he adds. On his part, Lal Thanhawla graciously acknowledges his takeaways from the years of governance of a state that was not only disturbed but lacking in economic development. “The civilian population was caught in the crossfire between the insurgents and the army. The forced eviction of villagers and herding them like cattle into cluster settlements resulted in famine and acute poverty. Their homes were burnt down so that the insurgents could not use them for refuge. Finally, the accord ushered in complete peace and saved countless lives.” Asked whether his sacrificing the chief ministerial chair had reaped dividends, Lal Thanhawla says, “Political problems cannot be solved through the barrel of a gun or by military might. They need to be solved through negotiations. We have to create a conducive atmosphere, ensure the people’s co-operation as well as a willing bureaucracy. Whoever comes forward for negotiations should be welcomed with open arms. Finally, there has to be give-and-take… the return of peace was most important for the disturbed state. It is very difficult to restore peace, even more difficult to maintain it. Throughout my five terms as chief minister, I have strived for development. Our per capita income was the highest in India 2017 onwards. The GDP grew significantly.” Mizoram’s remarkable literacy graph and its green initiative have also earned applause. In a nation whose parts remain riven with thwarted aspiration and civil-military strife, Mizoram remains a unique and durable narrative of peace, hinged on an ability to sacrifice power for a larger cause and skillful conflict management. Only such values could enable not one but two armed guerrillas to transition from the jungles to heads of democratically elected governments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-31
27-06-2021||West Bengal||High tide spares Bengal coast, breach floods Sagar Island||Weak wind saved coastal Bengal from the wrath of the high tide on Saturday, but the state government is worried about a 150-metre breach in a river embankment at Ghoramara Island of Sagar Islands in South 24-Parganas. A part of the island has been getting flooded regularly because the embankment has to be built afresh, but no land is available for it as of now. On Saturday, a large part of the coastline in South 24-Parganas remained unaffected by the high tide as many embankments of the district had been repaired after Cyclone Yaas and the wind lacked the strength to lift the tide. However, despite the weak wind, a large part of Ghoramara was inundated, water gushing in from the breached embankment. The island was also flooded during a similar high tide on June 11 . “On Saturday, most of the Yaas-hit areas did not face much trouble because of repaired embankments and weak winds. But Ghoramara faced fresh flooding because of the breached embankment,” said a senior irrigation official. During Cyclone Yaas, a total of 150km of river embankments were either breached or damaged in three coastal districts — South and North 24-Parganas and East Midnapore. Most of the breaches or damages have been repaired, an irrigation department official said. The stretch of 150m of embankment in Ghoramara Island is an exception. Recently, officials of the  irrigation department and Sunderbans development affairs and district officials visited Goramara Island and found that the breached part had to be constructed afresh. “As the stretch of the embankment was washed away completely, a new embankment has to be built on land owned by local people. Now, they are not ready to part with their land. That’s why a new embankment could not be built yet,” said an official. Ghoramara is an island facing regular erosion and that is why many residents have gradually shifted to either Kakdwip or Sagar Island. “Only 7,000 to 8,000 people live in Ghoramara Island these days. But the government cannot leave them unattended. So, efforts are on to set up embankments in the breached part,” said an official. As the state government doesn’t acquire land even for public purposes since Trinamul came to power in 2011, the problem has become critical. “We are trying to make people understand that if they don’t give land for the embankment, they would face inundation with every high tide,,” said a source. In wake of Saturday’s high tide, the state irrigation department used geosynthetic sheets, a type of synthetic fabric that stabilises soil, to protect vulnerable river banks of the Sunderbans. The high tide, however, had little impact in the region as well as in coastal areas of East Midnapore because of weak wind. The high tide arrived at 10.50am on Saturday but there was not much change in water level. Most vulnerable stretches of earthen dams were covered by irrigation officials with geosynthetics sheets in South 24-Parganas. Some breaches did occur in the district, but “nothing major”. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty Bankura: Lightning killed two farmers and 22 sheep in three places in Bankura on Saturday. Lightning struck Budhon Bauri, 40, of Haringara village, Barjora, Bholanath Mollah, 35, of Rajgram, and 22 sheep which were grazing in a field in Bankura’s Patrasayar. Sources said in all 12 persons from Bankura were killed by lightning in one month. Earlier this month, at least 26 people in Bengal were killed by lighting in one day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-10
27-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Gautam Deb keeps watch on jab process in Siliguri||Senior Trinamul leader Gautam Deb, who chairs the board of administrators of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC), on Saturday held a meeting with officials of the Darjeeling district administration, district health department and Siliguri Metropolitan Police to take stock of the vaccination process underway in the city and subdivision as a whole. Deb’s move follows recent protests at the district hospital here in Siliguri and in Bagdogra where people had alleged the influence of brokers in the vaccination process, as well as the recent fake vaccination case in Calcutta, said a health official. District magistrate S. Ponnambalam, police commissioner Gaurav Sharma and chief medical officer (health) Pralay Acharya were present in the meeting along with representatives of North Bengal Medical College and Hospital and Siliguri district hospital. “We discussed in detail the current Covid situation of the city and vaccination process. Though the number of cases have started going down lately, we need to take it to the baseline. I have heard that a racket of brokers is active in NBMCH. From now on, there will be inspector level officers monitoring activities there, right from treatment to vaccination,” said Deb. “Our target is to vaccinate every resident of Siliguri civic area.” He also said that officers of deputy commissioner of police rank will regularly visit all vaccination centres to root out any anomaly in the process. As of now, around 1,400 doses of vaccines are administered to people through 10 urban primary health centres. Also, another 500-odd vaccine doses are provided from NBMCH and Siliguri district hospital. Acharya said they have also discussed the surveillance of vaccination camps. “Without permission from appropriate authorities, no one will be able to organise any such camp,” he said. The state government of Sikkim on Saturday issued a notification, extending the ongoing pandemic-induced lockdown in the state, which was supposed to end on Monday, till July 5. However, with decline in the number of daily Covid-19 infections, the Sikkim government has decided to allow some relaxations from Monday. Movement of public transport between districts of the state will be allowed but vehicles will run on alternate days, based on “odd-even” registration numbers. From Monday, bars and restaurants will stay open till 10pm, with 50 per cent seating capacity, sources added. Additional reporting by Rajeev Ravidas||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-10
27-06-2021||West Bengal||UP ATS squad interrogates  Chinese national held by BSF in Malda ||An anti-terrorist squad team from Uttar Pradesh reached Malda on Friday and interrogated Han Junwei, the Chinese national held by the BSF for allegedly infiltrating the country without a visa through the India-Bangladesh border here earlier this month, on suspicion of him smuggling Indian SIM cards to China. The ATS had arrested another Chinese national, who was known to Han, earlier this year in Lucknow. “The ATS had arrested another Chinese national San Jiang earlier this year in Lucknow. There is information that both of them were instrumental in smuggling hundreds of Indian SIM cards to China. During interrogation, San revealed Han’s name. Also, they are suspected to have links with Chinese intelligence agencies,” said a police source. On Friday, Han was produced at a local court and remanded in jail custody for 14 days. Mehetab Alam, the assistant public prosecutor of the Chief Judicial Magistrate’s Court in Malda, said: “The court on Saturday granted permission to the ATS team to take Han to Lucknow. Charges under section 420 (cheating) and the information technology act have been brought against him.” In another development, Malda police sent Han’s laptop, cell phone and other gadgets to the central forensic science laboratory in Hyderabad for detailed examination. “We believe those might contain vital information,” a state intelligence agency official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-10
27-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh keeps north statehood pot stirring||State BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Saturday said his party had never demanded separate statehood for north Bengal but quickly added that the BJP was sympathetic to identity-based movements as they reflected lack of development in the region. Ghosh’s comments, made during his first visit to the region after the statehood demand was voiced by some leaders in the BJP, suggested that the party was treading with caution on the issue. “We are not in favour of any further division of Bengal. But simultaneously, one cannot ignore the Gorkhaland movement, the Kamtapur movement and some other movements organised in north Bengal for decades now owing to lack of development in the region. People here have voted for our party in large numbers, and thus, the elected representatives have voiced their demand. There is no abnormality in it,” the state BJP chief told journalists. Over the past few weeks, the issue of separate statehood, which has been time and again flagged by organisations and parties representing the Rajbanshi community, has found an echo in BJP MPs John Barla and Jayanta Roy and MLAs such as Shikha Chatterjee. The Rajbanshi people account for over one-third of north Bengal’s population. Some political observers think that the BJP is playing the statehood card to woo this influential vote bank and create unrest in the region to embarrass chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who has this time kept the north Bengal development portfolio with herself. Although the statehood demand evoked sympathetic responses from north Bengal leadership of the BJP, the party’s state leaders had initially delinked themselves from it and said that the party never articulated any such demand. However, Ghosh’s comments on Saturday indicated that the state unit may have done a rethink on the issue. It also in a way lent credence to a view in the saffron camp that the party’s north Bengal leaders would not have raised such a demand publicly without the consent of its national leaders. “One cannot forget that before the elections, a number of central leaders, including Union home minister Amit Shah, were in close contact with some prominent leaders of the Rajbanshi community who have been principal proponents of the demand. So, there seems to be a pattern in which the statehood issue is being played out by the party,” said a BJP source. “Dilipda’s comments hint that the party would not be directly swatting away the statehood demand anymore,” added the source. Ghosh said he understood the rationale behind the demand for statehood. “Had there been adequate development, people wouldn’t have raised such a demand. It is evident that a section of people are exploring options to stay out of Mamata Banerjee’s rule.… While some are moving to other states for jobs, others are raising the (statehood) demand,” he said. Although Ghosh underscored that the BJP does not want any division of Bengal, he added that the party was in favour of smaller states and was instrumental in the creation of new states in the country. “In due course, if any move is made in this regard, it would be done only in consultation with residents of this region. We cannot say what will happen in the future,” the state BJP unit president said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-10
27-06-2021||West Bengal||Indian Jute Mills Association seeks Mamata Banerjee's support ||The Indian Jute Mills Association (IJMA) has sought the support of chief minister Mamata Banerjee to safeguard the interests of the industry and farmers amid fears that the Centre will allow plastic bags to pack foodgrains and sugar for the kharif season starting next month. The Jute Packaging Material Act (JPMA) mandates packing all foodgrains and sugar produced in the country in jute bags. However, the inability of jute mills to meet the demand for jute bags because of a cyclone and the pandemic  had given the Union textile ministry scope to allow the use of plastic bags in the previous rabi season. But this time, the jute industry is excepting a bumper crop, which has prompted the mill owners to write to the chief minister. Raghavendra Gupta, chairman of the IJMA, said in a letter to Mamata on Friday: “Kindly intervene so that Bengal’s jute mills receive 100 per cent jute bag supply orders in 2021-22 for packing food grain and sugar and JPMA 1987 is continued in its original shape.” The industry suspects that the Centre, at the behest of the synthetic lobby, intends to scrap the JPMA. Technically, the fate of the 60-odd jute mills in Bengal, which employ 3 lakh people directly and 40 lakh people indirectly, including jute farmers, depends on the JPMA. There was a drop in the production of jute bags in the previous year because of Cyclone Amphan which destroyed about 60,000 hectares of jute farmland and the coronavirus-induced lockdown forced the closure of 17 mills. This led to a shortfall in supply of jute bags. Hence, the JPMA was diluted to allow plastic bags. However, the IJMA has contended that with the raw jute crop expected to be voluminous this year, the mills would be able to meet the demand for jute bags and no further dilution of the JPMA would be necessary. “Around 17 lakh tonnes of raw jute are expected to be produced this year. On average, the entire demand for bags can be fulfilled by 15 lakh tonnes of raw jute. Hence, we can meet the demand (for bags),” a jute mill owner said. Sources in the jute commissioner’s office said there had been a shortfall of 7.7 lakh bales of jute bags in the rabi season last November. “For the kharif season, the demand for jute bags had been placed at 22 lakh bales. Jute mill owners had earlier said that they will not be able to produce more than 15 lakh bales of jute bags. In order to meet the shortfall, plastic bags have to be allowed,” a source said. However, with the possibility of a bumper crop, mill owners believe that the shortfall of 7 lakh bales will also be recovered. Amphan and Covid-19 were unprecedented and the industry can’t be forced to suffer for those, which is why they sought the CM’s support, Gupta told this paper. The standing advisory committee on jute meets on June 30 and it is represented by the state government. According to the IJMA, the state’s representatives must speak against the use of plastic bags. Sources in the Trinamul Congress sniffed a larger conspiracy behind the intention to further dilute the JPMA. Multiple Trinamul sources pointed out that the BJP had lost in more than 105 of the 114 Assembly segments in the state’s jute belt. “The BJP has fallen flat on its face in the North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly. If the use of plastic is encouraged to pack food grains and sugar, it will be a doom for the jute industry and lead to massive law and order disruption in districts where majority of jute mills are located,” a Trinamul leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-11
27-06-2021||West Bengal||Day’s Covid recoveries outnumber new cases in Bengal||Bengal on Saturday reported the sixth consecutive day of a drop in its total number of active Covid-19 cases, by 132 to touch 22,099. The state reported 1,994 recoveries, 1,894 new infections and 32 deaths, including eight from Calcutta. The total number of active cases had declined till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702, from the peak of 1,32,181 on May 21. But over 11 days till last Sunday, it had risen by over 56 per cent, before starting to fall again. “In an important parameter of case growth (percentage of growth of cases over the past week, compared to the week a fortnight ago), we are 25th among states, with –64.4. That is a very significant statistic,” said a minister. Bengal currently has 3.79 per cent of the national total of active cases, and remains eighth among states with the most active cases. Daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent in the peak of the second wave, was 3.42 on Saturday. A falling positive confirmation rate indicates reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. Bengal’s recovery rate is now 97.34 per cent, while the national recovery rate is 96.72. The state’s mortality rate is 1.17 per cent and the nation’s 1.3. Bengal is 23rd among states with the highest mortality rates. The state has reported over 14.93 lakh Covid-19 cases since March 2020, including over 14.53 lakh recoveries and 17,583 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-11
27-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal peasants express solidarity with protesters on Delhi borders||Bengal peasants showed their solidarity with the farmers’ protest on the Delhi borders that completed seven months on Saturday. State farmers joined the nationwide protest to “save democracy” from the “clutches” of the Narendra Modi government and “save agriculture” by strengthening the demand to repeal the Centre’s three contentious farm laws. While the Left-backed All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee held a two-hour protest at Sidhu Kanu Dahar in Calcutta, farmers led by the CPM’s All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) took the demonstration to the interiors. Convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee and AIKS state secretary Amal Halder said the protest was held at 125 points in rural Bengal. “June 26 is the birth anniversary of Kisan Sabha founder Sahajanand Saraswati and the farmer protest completed seven months. Although the main protest was held in Calcutta, we held demonstrations inside rural Bengal to connect farmers of the state with the all-India movement,” said Halder. The protest coming a day after the anniversary of the Emergency, Halder said: “Modi has imposed another kind of Emergency on us, evident with his government not listening to farmers for seven months.” East Burdwan, the rice bowl of Bengal, held the most number of protests, 50. Abhijit Mondal, a farmer in East Burdwan’s Galsi who took part in the protest, said: “As farmers struggle to survive amid the pandemic, the farm laws seek to open gates to corporate loot.” In Calcutta, ISF leader and Bhangar MLA Naushad Siddiqui and his supporters were arrested from Mayo Road while  expressing solidarity with the farmers’ movement and protesting against alleged incidents of post-poll violence. Police said they did not have permission for the assembly. AIKS leader Tushar Ghosh slammed the police for “highhandedness”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-11
27-06-2021||West Bengal||‘Mamata Banerjee is the real Leftist leader’||Getting hold of Ritabrata Banerjee at a time of organisational ferment in the Trinamul Congress (TMC) is not easy. One moment he is holding a press conference, the next he is meeting trade union leaders or having one-on-one discussions with tea garden owners or industrial bigwigs. In between, he’s busy seeking blessings and guidance from senior party leaders. Banerjee, 42, has a new job; he was recently anointed state general secretary of the Indian National Trinamul Trade Union Congress or INTTUC. The whisper is that the post was reward for his work in the tea gardens of north Bengal the past three years without any fanfare or hype. Banerjee says, “Ever since I joined the TMC in 2018, apart from other organisational work, the honourable chief minister asked me to focus on the tea gardens and tribal welfare in the area.” The assignment, he says, was cathartic. Banerjee was with the CPI(M) till 2018, when he was expelled, allegedly for a lifestyle whose lavish ways didn’t sit well with communist ideology. He was also accused of womanising and speaking against top leaders of the party to the media. Banerjee’s defence had been that he was a “victim of jealousy of leaders who always tried to malign” him. He also said, “Had I been dumb in Parliament, I would not have faced this fate.” Bright, young and well-spoken, Banerjee’s meteoric rise in the CPI(M) had been the stuff of legend. He is said to have been mentored by the former chief minister of West Bengal, Buddhadeb Bhattacharya. And when he was sent up to Rajya Sabha at 34, there was a hubbub of disapproval in party circles. It is said that cutting young leaders down to size is part of the CPI(M) house style. Dynamic young leaders such as Saifuddin Chowdhury, Prasenjit Bose and Jagmati Sangwan (Haryana) were expelled after each of them had a falling out with the party greybeards. Within a month of his expulsion from the CPI(M), Banerjee was appointed  convener of the newly-formed tribal welfare committee of the TMC. The primary task of the committee was to spot lapses in tribal welfare schemes and recommend suggestions for improvement, especially in the tea gardens of north Bengal that are inhabited by adivasis. I ask what his takeaway has been and he replies, “Mamata-i prakrita Bampanthi... Mamata Banerjee is the real Leftist leader.” He continues, “The tea gardens had been languishing in abject poverty. She increased their daily wages from Rs 67 (in 2011) to Rs 202 (in 2020), introduced several revolutionary welfare schemes such as Chaa Sundari to improve their lot... Chaa Sundari is unique in India — not conceived even in the tea gardens of Kerala, a communist state.” The scheme is meant to provide housing for permanent tea garden workers. The logical question is, despite all this, why did the TMC fare so poorly in the tea belt in this year’s Assembly elections? Especially in Alipurduar? Banerjee responds, “It’s true, but our vote share has significantly increased compared to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.” He is confident that when the Chaa Sundari scheme is fully implemented, more people will be drawn towards the TMC. Another challenge in the tea gardens, according to Banerjee, is bringing together the disparate unions under a single umbrella. There are 408 tea gardens across the districts of Darjeeling, Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri — and their workforce, comprising Gorkhas, Mundas and Oraons, is key to 16  Assembly seats. Banerjee is currently working towards knitting all the unions under the Trinamul Chae Bagan Shramik Union. Though traditionally a Left bastion, the TMC grabbed all Assembly seats there in 2016. But in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls it lost all the seats to the BJP, which made a flurry of poll promises — promises that were ultimately never kept. Speculation is that the BJP did well in 2019 because, among other things, a sizeable number of traditional Left votes shifted to its kitty. Those votes, Banerjee argues, are now turned TMC-wards. “It’s an irony that as the Left Front got decimated in the Assembly polls, Left-minded people started looking at Mamata Banerjee as a viable alternative leader.” He stresses that not just in Bengal, but nationally, the working class — farmers, industry workers and migrant labourers — feels only Mamata Banerjee can represent them and fight for their demands. “No wonder farmers fighting the draconian Farm Bill rallied beside her during the recent Assembly polls,” he adds. Does he feel bad that his former party has no representation in the Bengal Assembly now? Banerjee responds, “The party is like the proverbial ostrich that kept its head buried in the sand amidst a desert storm. They started believing that they are the only contractors of Left ideology in India.” 1978: Banerjee is born in Calcutta 1998: Begins political career as an activist of the Students’ Federation of India, the student wing of the CPI(M) 2008: Becomes all-India general secretary of the SFI 2011: Is chosen by the Left Front as its candidate for the by-elections to the Calcutta South Lok Sabha seat, which Mamata Banerjee vacated when she became the chief minister; loses to Subrata Bakshi of the TMC 2014: Is nominated to the Rajya Sabha 2018: Expelled from the CPI(M) and soon after joins the TMC 2021: Made the state general secretary of the INTTUC||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-11
27-06-2021||North East||Covid: Gauhati HC asks Assam govt to reconsider hospital rates||Gauhati High Court has nudged the Assam government to reconsider the rates fixed by the state administration for treating Covid-19 patients in private hospitals as the capped charges “prima facie” appear to be on the higher side. The court issued the direction on June 23 while acting on a public interest litigation petition filed by Advocates Association of Indigenous Rights of Assamese (AAIRA) seeking “reconsideration of the maximum rates” fixed by the state government. The order, passed by a division bench comprising Chief Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia and Justice Manash Ranjan Pathak, said: “ However, since prima facie it appears to be slightly on the higher side, we can only direct the state government that it may reconsider these prices, including the rate of single cabin, after hearing all the stakeholders.” The matter will come up for hearing on July 15. The state government had on June 4 announced the cap on rates for treating Covid patients following discussions with private hospitals and by comparing the rates in other states. According to the rates fixed by the government, a super-speciality hospital will charge Rs 5,000 per day for a general ward bed, Rs 6,500 per day for cabin (share), Rs 10,000 daily for ICU without ventilator and Rs 15,000 daily for ICU with ventilator support. For a general hospital, the rates will be Rs 4,000, Rs 5,000, Rs 9,000 and Rs 12,000 respectively. “The honourable high court has directed the state government to revisit the rates fixed by it, including that for a single cabin, after a discussion with all stakeholders. The rates were also fixed following a PIL filed by us because of the alleged exorbitant prices charged by the hospitals. The rates were capped to provide relief to the Covid-hit but they were not in consonance with the economic condition of the local people,” association member Kaustav Mahanta said. In its petition, the association had contended that “developed” Kerala and Maharashtra, with higher per capita income, have kept the rates for private hospitals lower than those in Assam. “Also there are no different rates for different cities/towns/districts of Assam… Also single cabins are left out in the (government) notification which appeared to be a deliberate attempt to allow the private hospitals to charge exorbitant rates for a single cabin which apparently is not at all in public interest,” the petition said. In another Covid-related development, Congress MP Gaurav Gogoi has requested Union health minister Harsh Vardhan to raise the allocation of ventilators to 5,000 for Assam and 500 each for Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland. “It is critical that these states are provided adequate help and support to be able to cope with the pandemic,” he said. Gaurav moved Vardhan after receiving an RTI reply on the state-wise allocation, delivery and installation of ventilators as on June 22. “After comparing it with the state-wise data of active cases (as on June 23), slanted treatment of states is observed. For instance, Assam recorded 32,975 active cases, amounting to approximately 5 per cent of total active cases in the country. The state was allocated a total of 1,000 ventilators. However, the state of Uttar Pradesh recorded a total of 3,910 active cases (0.61 per cent of the total active cases) and saw an allocation of 6,316 ventilators, the highest allocation in the country,” Gaurav said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-1
27-06-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Judges must not give in to political pressure||Sir — When the second wave struck India, and newspapers were full of reports and images of death and shortages of medicines and oxygen, people finally showed the good sense of following protocols wearing, masks and so on. But such sense seems to have been forgotten as soon as the second wave eased slightly. This is why scientists have said that the third wave is no longer just a possibility but inevitable. Given India’s poor vaccination record, if people do not mend their ways soon, more people will lose their lives. The government should boost both vaccination and awareness drives. Pinaki Bhattacharjee, Calcutta Sir — The request by the chief minister’s lawyer to the judge hearing the Nandigram poll case to recuse himself is rather confusing (“‘Caesar’s wife’ reminder to HC judge”, June 25). Justice Kausik Chanda, who is hearing this case, has been accused by the Trinamul Congress of having close ties with the Bharatiya Janata party. Some TMC leaders have tweeted photographs of Chanda sharing a stage with the state BJP president, Dilip Ghosh. In spite of such ‘evidence’, this seems like a case of unnecessary interference with the judicial process. Judges are oath-bound under the Constitution to be fair and impartial; any link that they shared with any political party before becoming a judge is immaterial. If every appellant who thought that a judgment might go against him requested to shift his case to a different bench, the judiciary would not be able to function. Consider this: if influential political leaders want to transfer their cases to a bench assuming a favourable judgment, would justice ever be served in this country? A similar logic applies to judges who recuse themselves from hearing sensitive cases. Judges must give their reasons for recusing themselves in writing. While taking oath of office, judges promise to perform their duties, to deliver justice, “without fear or favour, affection or ill-will”. They must not undermine the judiciary’s independence by capitulating to political pressure. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — While it is true that appellants should not be allowed to make untoward requests to shift their cases to a different bench, it must be considered why such a request is being made and why many even consider it justified. A slew of judgments has raised questions about the impartiality of the judiciary. It will take time for this trust to be regained. Goutam Pan,Calcutta Sir — Public comments have been sought on the new cinematograph (amendment) bill, 2021. The information and broadcasting ministry intends to make changes to the law which controls the functioning of the Central Board of Film Certification. The proposed amendments will allow the Central government to re-examine a film, subdivide the existing unrestricted public exhibition (UA) category into age-based groups, prohibit unauthorized recording and list penalties against offenders to curb piracy. Apart from this, no person shall be permitted to use any audio-visual recording device in a place to make or transmit or abet the making or transmission of a copy of a film or part of it. Provisions will also be introduced to penalize those involved in film piracy. While it is true that laws need to change to keep up with the times, the bill has provisions that leave scope for unwarranted government intervention. This is likely to lead to controversies. Take, for instance, the provision which grants the government powers to order re-examination of films. Given the temperament of the current dispensation — in fact, any regime that has too much power — this rule can be used to target film-makers who are critical of the government. It can also be used to curb freedom of speech when the government does not agree with a film ideologically — violence surrounding films about Hindu myths or history is not unheard of. The Cinematograph Act must not try to cut down expression, instead allow scope for creativity. Venu G.S., Kollam, Kerala||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-4
27-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Haunted by truth ||The dead can tell tales about the living. Charles Dickens brought to light many an unsavoury truth about human nature with his Christmas spirits. The authorities, too, cannot do without a friendly ghost or two. Take the case of the powers that be of Gwalior’s Gajra Raja Medical College. A group of RTI activists examining alleged irregularities in the MBBS admission process were recently informed by the authorities that a ghost was haunting the room where documents related to the matter are kept. Could this be a dead end for the pursuit of truth in this case? This is not the first time that ghosts have come to the rescue of errant public servants. A few years ago, there were reports of law-keepers refusing to work in a police station in Jharkhand after 11 pm; wrathful spooks, apparently, were responsible for cutting down their duty hours. Bengali babus — not the bravest of souls — have been known to turn down night shifts at Writers’ Building, which is believed to be a citadel of the dead. Of course, such news is staple for mirth. But what gets lost amidst all the laughter is the ingenuity of institutions to resist demands for accountability and, in turn, adherence to the democratic ethos. For the dearly departed are not the ones standing in the way of transparency; it is the living that pose a far greater threat to veracity. Be it official data on the army of unemployed or rising poverty or the shocking death toll claimed by a virus that fattened itself equally on public complacency as well as on the ineptitude of the Central government, any fact that shows the ruling regime in poor light is spirited away from the public eye. The institutional burial of truth has also been accompanied by the exhumation of untruth. The prime minister denies incursions into Indian territory by China even though ground realities suggest otherwise; the slaying of India’s economy, especially its nebulous informal sector, at the hands of the spectre of demonetization is couched in the rhetoric of purging corruption; allegations of the weakening of key edifices that are the sentinels of an inclusive democracy are, similarly, denied. Unsurprisingly, India performed exceptionally poorly in Transparency International’s assessment in 2020, scoring just 40 out of 100. The assault on the Right to Information Act needs to be read in this context. An amendment to the legislation has empowered the government to set the service conditions, including salaries, of information commissioners, effectively eroding their autonomy. Critical positions in the RTI hierarchy are allowed to lie vacant while attacks on and deaths of RTI activists remain unaddressed. What is particularly ironic about these transgressions is that this democracy has had a valorous tradition of independent agencies collating facts to resurrect ghosts from the past — independent investigations into the riots in Bombay after the demolition of the Babri Masjid made a significant contribution to prosecution and conviction. There is thus an urgent case to bolster independent fact-finding enterprises in order to reintroduce a degree of accountability in public life. Otherwise, truth will not have a ghost of a chance of survival.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-4
27-06-2021||Opinion||Jairam Ramesh and the poem that defined the Buddha||The Congress leader, Jairam Ramesh, is one of those rare politicians who are also prolific writers. Although many politicians, some of whom are not known for their intellectual prowess, are writing edit page articles in English newspapers these days, Ramesh, like some of his party colleagues — for instance, Salman Khurshid and Shashi Tharoor — is truly a man of scholarly traits. He has created waves with his latest book, The Light of Asia: The Poem that Defined The Buddha, after winning the 2020 Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay award for his much-acclaimed work, A Chequered Brilliance: The Many Lives of VK Krishna Menon. His wonderfully researched book, Intertwined Lives: P.N. Haksar & Indira Gandhi, also earned high praise from critics. A Rajya Sabha member and an important part of the Congress high command, how Ramesh finds so much time for research and writing has always baffled party leaders and academics. But he carries on quietly with his creativity and hard work, producing a unique work debating The Light of Asia, the 1879 book by the British poet, Sir Edwin Arnold. The Dalai Lama wrote the foreword of the book, saying, “What Sir Edwin’s poems showed was that the message of the Buddha is timeless, eternal and relevant.” By choosing such a complex, apolitical subject, Ramesh demonstrated a new aspect of his persona which nurtures interests beyond politics. Sir Edwin’s book had shaped people’s perceptions about the Buddha across the world; Ramesh has given the subject a fresh lease of life. He also gave a glimpse of his own philosophical understanding of life, religion and culture, a rare phenomenon in an era where politicians’ spiritual knowledge is limited to hollow slogans. It is good to see a politician laying stress on the importance of human values and personal ethics in this age of brutal power games. The growing disquiet in the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party in Tripura has led to the party setting in motion steps not only to keep its flock together but also to keep its disgruntled ally, the Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura, in good humour. There is an apparent urgency to sort things out before the 2023 state assembly polls, more so after a ‘rumour’ claimed that several unhappy BJP MLAs could soon join the Trinamul Congress. This rumour saw senior Central leaders rush to Agartala and hold wide-ranging parleys with state and IPFT leaders. An IPFT team and disgruntled MLAs were also invited to Delhi for discussions. A cabinet reshuffle is said to be on the cards. A meeting of BJP MLAs was also held to mobilize support for the embattled chief minister, Biplab Kumar Deb, and to shore up the image of the state government. Deb’s in-your-face style of functioning remains a sore point within his party and beyond. But the cracks in the state BJP unit run deep. Reports suggest that neither Deb nor the party is out of the woods yet. Sudip Roy Barman, who is leading the charge of the dissidents against Deb after his own axing as a minister, skipped the meeting of BJP MLAs. Moreover, a few MLAs who support Deb also did not turn up, indicating that there are some challenging times for the BJP ahead of the state assembly polls. Karnataka’s assembly elections are almost a year away. But discussions on who will lead the party and its government if the Congress manages to win are already heating up the political landscape. The conversations were triggered by the loyalists of PC Siddaramaiah who want their leader to helm the next government. But supporters of the state Congress president, DK Shivakumar, didn’t take it lightly. The two groups have since been issuing statements about why the Congress high command would pick their respective leaders as the next chief minister. This made the former party chief, G Parameshwara, claim that even his name was doing the rounds too. But these leaders and their die-hard followers are perhaps missing the demands of party workers, who simply want the grassroots network to be strengthened and to not count the chickens before they hatch. For a chief minister, Pinarayi Vijayan faltered by playing into the hands of the Kerala Congress president, K Sudhakaran, in a verbal duel over their decades-old campus politics. While Sudhakaran started it with his claim to a Malayalam weekly about “kicking” Vijayan during a campus fight between the youth wings of the Congress and the Communist Party of India (Marxist), the CM took the bait by giving a minute-by-minute account of the alleged incident that occurred over half a century ago. Both leaders appeared to relish those moments when they led rival unions. Although Vijayan decided to clam up upon realizing his folly, Sudhakaran is definitely the winner in the eyes of his supporters. Many in the CPI(M) now blame some brat-pack advisers of the CM for landing him in an unenviable position. By all accounts, the Union defence minister, Rajnath Singh, is the most acceptable face in the council of ministers when it comes to dealing with the Opposition. So it was a surprise to many that he was missing from the high-level meeting with the Kashmir political leadership convened by the prime minister. Officially, Singh was out of town, visiting the Karwar Naval Base in Karnataka. But given that the national security adviser was present, the absence of Singh, who is also a former home minister, was most conspicuous, especially as Ajit Doval headed for the meeting straight after landing from Dushanbe where he had gone for a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation conference. Surely, Singh could have been present if the powers that be wanted him there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-4
27-06-2021||Opinion||Cheering Shafali||Last week I watched — for the first time — a women’s Test match between India and England. The competition was intense and in a curious way the players looked like throwbacks to the (male) Test teams of my youth when cricketers of every shape and size played the game with surpassing skill. Shafali Verma and Smriti Mandhana are the most exciting Indian opening bats I’ve seen since Sehwag retired. Remarkably, over many days of play, I didn’t once hear exclamations about forbidden congress with close female kin (or male kin for that matter). The absence of bearded faces continuously dropping F bombs was curiously restful. There was real needle though. Katherine Brunt, England’s formidable fast bowler, had steam rising from her ears as Shafali Verma smacked her bowling back over her head for boundaries. Shafali is 17; Brunt began playing international cricket the same year this prodigy was born and she wasn’t amused. At peak-frustration, she stuck her tongue out at the young opener. In an all-women’s podcast hosted by the BBC called No Balls, Kate Cross, one of the English bowlers in this riveting Test, laughed about how she and her teammates cracked up on the field when Brunt began pulling faces at Shafali. The ability to laugh at on-field standoffs when players regress to yah-boo confrontation doesn’t exist in men’s cricket. Not because male cricketers aren’t juvenile; we have just come to accept potty-mouthed machismo on the field as adult behaviour. The run-of-the-mill male cricketer behaves absurdly all the time, only it isn’t his tongue that he sticks out, metaphorically speaking. If you think toxic masculinity in men’s cricket isn’t real, you should watch high-class cricket played by women: the absence of strutting rage in these contests makes the very air relax and brings the cricket to a sharper focus. Like most desi cricket followers, I knew women’s cricket existed without knowing much about it. If pressed, I could have dredged up the names of a few famous women cricketers like Shantha Rangaswamy and Diana Edulji from the pioneering past and Mithali Raj and Jhulan Goswami from the present, but I didn’t know their achievements and records in the way that I knew Kapil Dev’s career stats or Tendulkar’s or, for that matter, Shubman Gill’s. This isn’t because their records aren’t accessible; they are easily available on cricket’s marvellous online databases. It’s the simple absence of live television coverage that stifles interest in the women’s game, not the quality of play. That and the fact that the Indian women’s team barely ever plays a Test match. The match in Bristol against the English team was the first Test that India had played in seven years! The perverse result of this is that women’s cricket is devalued by its absence. The fact that it isn’t on our screens is taken to mean that it isn’t worth watching. There is no reason why I or anyone else should have been surprised by the quality of play on show in Bristol. We’ve watched Evonne Goolagong and Martina Navratilova and Serena Williams for decades, glued to our radios and then our television screens. Watching Shafali Verma hit a fast bowler for six is like watching Williams unload: it’s riveting. The difference is that you hardly ever get to watch Verma or Jhulan Goswami bat or bowl because they don’t play often enough and when they do, there’s often no commentary or television coverage. Even when the stars align and the women’s team gets to play a Test against England in a pretty English setting, the powers-that-be schedule it for the same week as the final of the men’s World Test Championship! One reason why the Bristol Test attracted the television audience that it did was that the first day of the WTC was rained off. Some thwarted viewers began to watch the women play simply because it wasn’t raining in Bristol and there were players in white on screen going through the long game’s timeless motions. And then we were hooked. I learnt that the Indian team was stuffed with players who were both Test debutantes and veteran India players. So Smriti Mandhana was a name to reckon with as an international cricketer and Shafali Verma was the top-ranked batter in the world in the T20 format. This was their first Test match because the last one was played seven years ago. Watching Shafali smash her way to 96 and then perish going for the big century hit in the style patented by the Great Sehwag, I couldn’t believe that the bean counters at the BCCI weren’t busy trying to turn her genius into money. It’s worth noting here that unlike their male counterparts who managed to lose a severely rain-curtailed Test in three-and-a-half days, the Indian women, having been made to follow-on by a much more experienced English team, staged a rearguard action for the ages and saved the match. Sneh Rana and Taniya Bhatia were unbeaten on 80 and 44, respectively, when play was called off in the last hour of the match. This was their first Test and batting isn’t even their main skill: Rana is a bowling all-rounder while Bhatia is the team’s wicketkeeper. The team will play a hybrid tour made up of a Test and three T20 and ODI matches, with points assigned to each contest and a tally at the end to decide the winner. On the evidence of the first match of both tours, it’s clear which team will be more rewarding to follow; that would be the non-bearded lot whose on-field manner doesn’t suggest that sport is war minus the shooting. One reason why women’s team sport, even when the team in question is a representative national team, doesn’t give off a rah-rah, drum-beating nationalist vibe is that modern team sport was historically organized around men’s bodies. Most modern sport was institutionalized in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. The clubs, the rules, the regulatory bodies, the major tournaments were set up at that time. It was an unselfconsciously patriarchal time; women couldn’t vote in national elections in most Western countries before the end of the Great War, so it wasn’t surprising that athletes nominated to represent the nation in this new world of nation states were men by default. Nationalism and modern sport were, in their origins, ideologically male. Baron de Coubertin’s athletic beau idéal was an ancient Greek jock and the modern Games were meant to be festivals of fraternal brotherhood. Eric Hobsbawm, the great British historian, summed up this connection between male team sport and modern nationalism brilliantly: “What has made sport so uniquely effective as a medium for inculcating national feelings, at all events for males, is the ease with which even the least political or public individual can identify with the nation as symbolized by young persons excelling at what practically every man wants, or at one time in his life has wanted, to be good at. The imagined community of millions seems more real as a team of eleven named people [Emphasis added].” In recent times, we have seen Indian cricket and Indian cricketers willingly assimilated into the politics of nationalism. Whether it was wearing fatigue caps on the field or acting as a twitter chorus for the Central government, India’s male cricketers encouraged us to think of them as nationalist mascots. Those of us who want to root for a desi team not made up of performative patriots should consider following and cheering the eleven named women who made us proud in Bristol. Tests without testosterone... now, there’s a thought. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-4
27-06-2021||Opinion||Skin and game||From the looks of it, nearly everyone has got the wrong end of this stick — or should I say needle. It is not a just case of a man arrested for fraud or fake vaccination camp busted or MP duped or buck being passed from civic body to police to administrators. The sting of the matter is that unsuspecting citizens have been put at risk. When Debanjan Deb, the fraudster posing as an IAS and a joint commissioner of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, pushed something that was not coronavirus vaccine while making false exhortations, he breached the epidermis and law. But the system breached way more. It is not difficult to imagine how this will play out. The ruling party will deny and rule. The Opposition will blame and hope to reap dividends from this poll, that poll, bypolls. All the while something other than a coronavirus vaccine would be galloping through many bodies. Something, which until lab reports arrive, is feared to be anything from an antibiotic to a measles or BCG vaccine to distilled water. Something these people never consented to let into their system. Something whose very unexpectedness alone is enough to compromise the heart, forget liver, kidney and what have you. Television channels continue to zoom in on photographs of the fraudster in the company of administrators and politicians; on government plaques bearing his name — albeit one of many; and report how Deb interviewed X candidates for this job and that job; how he has a degree in genetics, how he is the son of a retired excise officer and so on and so forth. Of course, there is no consolation in the knowledge that this is no one-off. There have been cases of fake vaccination in Maharashtra and reports from Bihar of vaccination callousness. And yet think of it this way, when China pulls a Doklam we summon our forces. When Pakistan breaches the Line of Control it precipitates armed conflict. Intolerance for outsiders is what CAA-NRC is all about. But tax-paying citizens are supposed to have their bodies broken into and violated through fraud and still go about their business!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-4
27-06-2021||Opinion||So often we see our bits of sky||Beware of walls. Walls protect, we are fond of walls, we feel secure within walls. That would take five walls, not four as is usually believed. Four walls built along angles so they enclose but also one on top, that’s what is called a safe complement of walls, the idiomatic roof over one’s head. But walls do other things. They separate, although they also join. They divide. They imprison. They trap. They release. They hide. They fracture. They truncate. They blind. They suppress. They muffle. They suffocate. They can kill, and not only when they happen to collapse upon us. Beware of walls, even though walls are also what have brought us here. To this grandiose pass of high civilisation. Such as it is, if you know what I mean. We built walls around ourselves and that is how we began to become settled and that is how we made home and that is how civilisations began to prosper. But you know what walls later did, or are still doing. Having come to this pass, we are still crying out “build that wall!” And that does not ring like a civilised cry at all. Or the cry, very often, that seeks to put folks behind walls because we don’t like those folks or what they have to say. We put them behind walls; it’s a tradition. There was a time we tied up and stood up such folks and summoned the masons and watched them slowly vanish behind piling brick and mortar, layer upon layer, inch upon inch until they could no longer be seen, and what they could only see was a patch of sky, nothing else. But that was only until the four walls around them became plinth for the fifth wall crafted on top. The roof. And when that closed, a muffling darkness closed upon the person banished within, a forever darkness. We became protected by those walls and what they enclosed. What they enclosed swiftly perished, having been afforded as last glimpse, a patch of the sky. But you don’t have that sky, we took that away. You have a fistful. It may be a parched bit, like a wasted parchment. Like a piece stuck to your roof, or your lookout window. Not even the sky, merely the illusion of it. And just beyond your fistful may be floating a caravan of clouds. Or a constellation of birds. Or the coiffure of a tree in bloom. Or a slice of the moon or even its fullness. None of it may ever come to cross your given quota of the sky, the view the walls around you can afford. Imagine then what walls can do, and what walls you’d do without. The rest will come easy. From the walls of a jail Escapes a haunting wail Give me wings, let me fly I can see there a bit of sky.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-4
27-06-2021||Jharkhand||Record blood collection during pandemic in steel city||State Health minister Banna Gupta on Sunday donated blood at a camp organised by Arpan, a city-based philanthropic outfit at the Red Cross Bhavan in Sakchi. Gupta who was the chief guest, donated blood soon after inaugurating the camp which had set a target of collecting over 1,000 units of blood. Chief patron of the outfit Amarpreet Singh Kale, Jamshedpur MP Bidyut Baran Mahato and several social workers were present at the camp to inspire and motivate people to donate blood for a noble cause. Despite the lockdown the blood donation camp witnessed a large turnout of donors. The organisers confirmed that 905 units of blood were collected at the camp which is a record collection by any outfit in the state during the last one-and-half years of the pandemic. Even those getting Covid-19 vaccination a fortnight ago were eligible for donating blood at the camp which was assisted by volunteers and staff of Jamshedpur Blood Bank and Voluntary Blood Donor's Association. "The purpose of organising such a mega blood donation camp was to overcome the crisis of blood usually seen during this time of the season. Our objective is to provide blood timely to the poor and needy patients both in private and government hospitals. Because of the lockdown several other donors could not turn up,” said Amarpreet Singh, who is also the founder of the six-year old outfit. The outfit has been organising such a blood camp for the sixth year in a row. Last year too, the outfit has organised a blood camp during the pandemic. In his brief address the health minister thanked the outfit for organising the camp and the donors for donating their blood for a noble cause. "The rate of blood donation is very high in Jamshedpur as compared to other cities, thanks to the enthusiasm of the blood donors who despite a lockdown had turned up in such large numbers," said the minister. The philanthropic outfit also distributed 2,100 saplings on the occasion. The blood camp which kicked off at 9 am continued till 5 in the evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-7
27-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC sign Australian striker for upcoming ISL||Jamshedpur FC has bolstered its forward line by signing Australian striker Jordan Murray on a two-year deal. The Tata Steel-owned club was in talks with the 25-year-old player last month and the deal materialised after Murray's nod. He will stay with the JFC till the end of the Indian Super League 2022-23. An official in the JFC management revealed that Murray has come in for Australian winger Nick Fitgerald. With Jordan on board, JFC has fulfilled the league's criteria for an AFC (Asian Football Confederation) Asian player among foreigners. Murray began his football career with the youth team of New South Wales-based Bulli FC. Later, he joined Wollongong Wolves, who feature in the National Premier League (NPL), the second division league in Australia. He began his stint there as part of their youth setup, before getting promoted to the senior team in 2014. That year, Murray found the back of the net on 10 different occasions, leading to him signing with Sydney outfit APIA Leichhardt. At Leichhardt, the striker scored 43 goals across 64 appearances and also won the NPL Golden Boot for the 2017-18 season. A-League side Central Coast Mariners came calling for the 25-year-old later that year. He ended up making 43 appearances for them in the top flight across two seasons, registering seven goals and four assists. Murray also shared the pitch with Usain Bolt at the Mariners, when the latter joined the club for trials during pre-season in 2018. Earlier last year, Kerala Blasters roped in Murray for ISL 2020-21, in what was his first-ever stint outside his home country. He ended up performing well in terms of numbers, scoring seven times and registering an assist in 19 matches. He was the club’s top scorer of the season and is only the second KBFC player to score seven or more goals in a single league campaign. Jamshedpur have already signed young Sikkimese winger Komal Thatal. Among domestic players, most have multiple-year contracts. Jamshedpur, who stitched out a crack unit in the last ISL by signing top players, including goal machine Nerijus Valskis, managed an ordinary show  by finishing sixth in the cash-rich tournament held in Goa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-8
27-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand archery troika win Gold in World Cup ||Jharkhand troika of Deepika Kumari, Komalika Bari and Ankita Bhakat made the country proud by clinching  gold in the World Cup Stage 3 in Paris on Sunday. The Indian women's recurve team aced with a comfortable win over Mexico. In a repeat of the World Cup Stage 1 final, the troika of world No. 3  Deepika, Ankita and Komalika, who failed to qualify for Tokyo following a shock loss to minnows Colombia, defeated fancied Mexico 5-1 without dropping a set. This was their second successive gold medal in the World Cup this year, and sixth overall (Shanghai-2011, Medellin-2013, Wroclaw-2013, Wroclaw-2014, Guatemala City-2O21). The Indian team,  which had stuttered to win the gold against the same opponents in Guatemala City two months back, was at its best, shooting four 10s with one X (closest to the centre) for a 57-57 score in the first set. The Indians’ flawless shooting put pressure back on the Mexican team of London 2012 silver-medallist Aida Roman, Alejandra Valencia and Ana Vazquez. They shot a poor 52 to lose the second set by three points. Leading 3-1, the Indians had another round of consistent shooting with a 55 but the Mexicans failed to equalise and lost the third set by a slender one point to suffer a second successive defeat this year. Olympian and Padma Shri Deepika, who hails from Ratu Chhati near Ranchi and is a former cadet of Tata Archery Academy in Jamshedpur, has moved to Pune after her marriage to archer Atanu Das. Komalika is a cadet of the elite Tata cradle while Ankita has joined Tata Steel on contract. Deepika, along with her husband and ex-Tata archery cradle cadet Atanu Das, also claimed gold in the  mix recurve event at the World Cup in Paris. She has already qualified for the Tokyo Olympics in the individual round. The ace archer clinched three gold medals, winning every recurve event she was a part of at the World Cup Stage 3 tournament. Deepika also won her second individual women’s recurve World Cup gold of 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-8
27-06-2021||Jharkhand||In Jharkhand, 400 children have lost one or both parents in the pandemic ||At least 400 children of Jharkhand  have been orphaned or have lost one of their parents due to the Covid-19 pandemic, figures compiled by the state legal service authority and the child development department indicate. At a webinar organised on Sunday, Jharkhand Legal Services Authority (Jhalsa) said it had, with the help of  district administrations, helped rehabilitate 208 children, while the state women and child development department said it had identifed 234 of these 400 children and that the process to reach out to them was still on. Sunday's webinar was held to launch Jhalsa's Project Sushi under the aegis of which it had extended rehabilitation benefits to 208 children by way of scholarships and school enrolments. Chief minister Hemant Soren, in his address, said  that while the pandemic had indeed turned many children into orphans, but unfortunately, many children have ended up losing their parents  at a tender age even at other times. Recalling his own experience before the pandemic, he said, “I met an eight-year-old  in Barhet block in my constituency two years back. He had lost both his parents. For a few months, he was being taken care of by his brother and sister-in-law but unfortunately they too died. The child had vast swathes of land, a good house but no one to take care of him, making him highly vulnerable. Eventuality,  I managed to trace his nani (grandmother) with whom he is living now.” Hemant said the state government was working out modalities to provide incentives to those who can  raise orphans properly in their own village and panchayats. “My aim is to completely phase out the orphanage concept. Rather, my dream is to identify widows with, say, one child who can  raise another child (orphan)  of the same village. This will ensure that the child lives in his own native environment. We will provide financial incentives to such foster parents. I have directed the social welfare department to prepare an action plan,” he said. He said the state government was also planning  to constitute women SPOs ( special police officers) to curb trafficking, an inherent risk with such vulnerable children. Project Sishu,  a special campaign initiated by the Jharkhand State Legal Services Authority (Jhalsa), was started at the end of May to trace Covid orphans and work towards their comprehensive rehabilitation in coordination with the state government. It was formally launched on Sunday in the presence of the chief minister and Jharkhand High Court Chief Justice Ravi Ranjan and other dignitaries from the judiciary and state administration. The seminar also discussed a roadmap for the comprehensive care for such children. As a symbolic gesture, four children of Ranchi district — three in Sohanatu and one in Bero _  were linked with various  welfare schemes and provided sponsorships for a period of three years while they live with foster parents. Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh, who is executive chairman of Jhalsa, said so far Jhalsa has managed to provide help to about 208 beneficiaries and that the process for the rest was  underway. “Personally, it was a humbling experience to visit and interact with such children in Gumla and Ranchi... they are eager to study and make a mark for themselves. While the pandemic has rattled the world, it is everyone’s responsibility to work towards such children who are the most vulnerable today,” he said. Hailing the efforts of Jhalsa and the state government, Chief Justice Ravi Ranjan asked the  authorities to be humble while dealing with such children. “I urge officials and all those who are involved in this project to think that they are not extending any help to such children. In fact, work with the feeling that you are giving these children their  due rights. We all have to work for them by being humble towards them,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-8
27-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand radar on passengers from states that have reported Delta plus variant||RT-PCR test samples of passengers travelling to Jharkhand from states that have reported the Delta plus variant of SARS-CoV-2 virus will be sent for whole genome sequencing within 24 hours if they test positive, the health department has decided in a bid to keep the more infectious strain of the virus at bay. The Delta Plus variant of the coronavirus, which has affected people in at least 12 states, including Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, is said to have 60 per cent more transmissibility than the Delta variant and the potential to reduce monoclonal antibody response, which compromises the patient’s ability to respond to some of the medications, health officials said on Sunday. “Such passengers, who come to Jharkhand from the 12 states that have reported prevalence of the Delta plus variant and test positive for Covid-19, will have to mandatorily be hospitalised,” said Dr. Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer of health department’s Information, Education and Communication (IEC) wing. Ranchi has direct air connectivity with cities in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Gujarat – all affected by the Delta plus variant. The new mutated variant of coronavirus was particularly dangerous as it has stronger binding capacity to receptors of cells in the lungs, which may lead to fibrosis and premature deaths even in young and healthy people, officials said. Besides strengthening the screening process for passengers coming to the state from Delta plus-affected states, the Jharkhand government has also intensified the process of sending samples of Covid patients for whole genome sequencing to Institute of Life Sciences (ILS) in Bhubaneswar. The health department recently asked the civil surgeons of all the 24 districts to ensure at least 300 swab samples were sent to Bhubaneswar for genome sequencing every month. As per the directive, each of the 10 sentinel sites for collection of Covid samples will have to send 15 samples every fortnight to Bhubaneswar for genome sequencing – a practice that is likely to help in identification of mutated strains of coronavirus. Genome sequencing of samples collected from April 1 to June 9 showed that the Delta variant of coronavirus was most prevalent in five districts of Jharkhand – Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Hazaribag, Palamu and Dhanbad. At least 204 of the 364 samples sent for genome sequencing were found to be affected by the Delta variant. The only way to prevent the entry of the Delta plus variant in the state was to follow Covid appropriate behaviour and speed up the process of genome sequencing, health officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-8
27-06-2021||Jharkhand||Monsoon weakens over Jharkhand||The southwest monsoon has become weak over Jharkhand and this will result in subdued rainfall activity across Jharkhand in the next five days at least, said IMD officials on Sunday. Statistics revealed that only a few IMD observatories recorded rainfall during the past 24 hours. Only a few places in Palamau and Ranchi districts including Manatu and Mandar recorded moderate rain while as many as half-a-dozen IMD observatories recorded light rain below 10 mm during the last 24 hours. Head of Ranchi Met Centre  Abhishek Anand said, "Monsoon currents have become weak. Jharkhand would witness reduced rainfall activity in the next five days." The Ranchi Met Centre, however, issued an alert of lightning and thundershowers in isolated pockets of the state during the next 72 hours due to formation of local cumulonimbus clouds. Sunday's satellite pictures suggested a trough at mean sea level from northwest Uttar Pradesh to northwest Bay of Bengal across East Uttar Pradesh, southern Jharkhand and northern Odisha. A cyclonic circulation was also hovering over neighbouring north Chhattisgarh extending upto 3.1 Km above mean sea level. The Met office forecast says that heavy showers are expected again from July 3 because of the revival of monsoon trough. Meanwhile, so far Jharkhand has actually received 266 mm of rain against a normal of 167.6mm, a surplus of 59 per cent. Weathermen said the rain surplus figure would witness a fall due to reduced rainfall activity in the next few days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-8
27-06-2021||Jharkhand||Twin ponds of Tata Steel township to undergo extensive desiltation after decades||The two ponds C1 and C2 at the township of Indian Steel and Wire Products (ISWP), a Tata Steel subsidiary near Telco will undergo massive desiltation work supposedly being carried out after about five decades. The desiltation work has already begun at the two ponds - C1 pond covering an area of 18,300 sq mt  (square meter) and C2 pond covering an area of 29, 300 sq mt. ISWP, a leading steel and wire products manufacturer of the country, has roped in a Chennai based firm for executing the desiltation as well as beautification work of the twin ponds. Officials of the company supervising the project said the desiltation -cum-beautification work is expected to take two months time. "About 14,000 tonnes of silt have been taken out from the C2 pond," said an official deputed at the project site to oversee the desiltation work adding that the process of clearing silt from the C1 pond, located close to the newly built Naval Tata Hockey Academy will begin soon. Regarding the beautification work, the official said a children’s park with swings and other facilities of entertainment would come up at one corner of the C2 pond, which is bigger in area. Moreover, they have plans of installing sprinklers and fountains at the C2 pond. As part of the beautification of both ponds, they will have sitting arrangements for visitors, landscaping and proper barricading for safety. The silt taken out from the ponds would be used for gardening and other related activities. Local residents used the ponds to dump garbage and other waste apart from immersion of idols. Several cases of suicides have also been reported in the past in both the ponds, the maximum being at the C2 pond. "We appeal to the local people of the township not to dirty the ponds once the desiltation work gets completed. We need their co-operation in proper upkeep of the twin ponds, "said a company official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-8
27-06-2021||Jharkhand||Dhaba owner shot dead by assailants in Steel city||Unidentified criminals shot dead a 40-year-old dhaba owner at Hasadungri under Kapali thana out post area about five kms away from the heart of the steel city on Saturday night. The victim, Shamim Ahmed, used to run a dhaba at Kamargora was returning home in Kapali after closing the eatery around 10 pm when the incident took place. An auto-rickshaw driver, Mohammed Tanvir, found him lying in a pool of blood. Soon along with some other local residents he rushed the victim to Bramhanand Narayan Super Speciality Hospital in Tamulia. But as the condition of the victim was extremely critical, the doctors of the hospital referred him to Tata Main Hospital, about a 20 minutes drive. At the Tata Main Hospital emergency, he was declared dead. Ahmed was also a key functionary of Jharkhand Pool Cars Association who had been shot in his temple from close range. OC, Kapali TOP, Binod Singh had rushed to the scene and subsequently to Tata Main Hospital in the night for investigation of the murder. Singh had gone to the spot and to the victim's house on Sunday morning to know if the victim had enmity with anyone. Family members have told the police that Ahmed had no enmity with anyone, but recently he had scolded a local youth, Chhotelal, after an inverter went missing from the dhaba. "As of now, we have got no clue why the criminals shot him. We are trying to detect the case by interrogating the suspects," said the Kapali TOP OC to The Telegraph Online. The police are also looking into the loot angle behind the murder as Hasadungri located on Dobo-Kanderbera Road connecting Sonari through the Domuhani Bridge is a crime-prone area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-8
27-06-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town rifle shooter sees hope, thanks to friends and actor Sonu Sood ||Dhanbad based award winning woman rifle shooter Konika Layak has procured a German made 10 meter rifle with financial support of the local community and actor Sonu Sood. Konika, 26, daughter of a small time trader and house maker, while expressing happiness after receiving the rifle said, “I received help of around Rs 1.8 lakh through the local community of Dhanbad at the initiative of some social organisations last year itself out of which Rs 51,000 each was provided by Jharia based trader Sumeet Khaitan and an NRI Prakash Kumar.” “A shortage of around Rs 45,000 was still there after the local community helped and I am thankful to Sonu Sood sir who provided this remaining amount which helped me procure the rifle for starting my practice,” said Konika. Dhanbad based social worker Ankit Rajgarhia who tweeted to Sonu during during March this year highlighting problems faced by Konika said, “I am happy because Sonu Sood sir has also assured me to bear the cost of her training at Joydeep Karmakar Shooting academy at Calcutta after the improvement in Covid situation.” Giving details of her shooting journey, Layak said, “I was always inclined towards the defence service since my school days and joined NCC team of BSS Women’s College in 2013 and during the stint with NCC team started learning rifle shooting. “I started participating in open rifle shooting competitions in 2014 and since 2016 started participating in national level events representing the Jharkhand team at senior level,” said Konika. “In 2017 national senior rifle shooting championship I won maximum points (404 points) among all players of Jharkhand and also took part for trials of senior national team twice during2018 but could not make into the team due to lack of practice owing to deficiency of rifle,” said Konika and added that they carry out practice at IIT-ISM on every Sunday but due to Covid constraint practice is lying suspended April thus carry out the practice at home itself. “Though mine is the 10 meter rifle, I also take the help of our coach, Rajendra Singh Vidhi who has a 50 meter rifle during the practice at IIT-ISM,” said Layak.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-8
27-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports first single-day spike of less than 100 Covid cases in second wave||Jharkhand reported a single-day spike of less than 100 Covid cases on Saturday for the first time since the second wave of the pandemic hit the tribal state earlier this year, figures released by the state health department highlighted. However, the state reported three more Covid casualties on the day, which took the Covid toll to 5,110, a bulletin from the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As per the NHM bulletin, as many as 98 fresh cases of Coronavirus infection surfaced in Jharkhand on Saturday, while at least 166 Covid patients recovered from the infection, bringing the active caseload in the state down to 1,113. East Singhbhum, Khunti and Bokaro reported one Covid casualty each on the day. While none of the 24 districts in the state reported a spike of more than 20 cases, at least six districts – Chatra, Godda, Pakur, Palamu, Saraikela and West Singhbhum – did not report fresh cases of Covid-18 on the day, the NHM highlighted in its daily Covid-19 bulletin. Ranchi reported the highest spike of 18 cases on Saturday, and the active caseload in the district rose slightly as only nine Covid patients recovered. At least 352 people were battling the viral infection in Ranchi by the end of Saturday. Simdega reported the second-highest spike of 12 cases, but 13 recoveries brought the active caseload there down to 88. As many as seven people were found infected in East Singhbhum, and 16 patients recovered there, bringing the active caseload down to 125. One casualty took the toll in the district to 1,036. Dhanbad reported seven cases against 11 recoveries, while eight people were found infected in Chatra and 12 patients recovered there. Deoghar also reported seven fresh cases against two recoveries on the day, while four people were found infected in Hazaribag and 15 patients recovered there. The state on Saturday tested swab samples of 52,645 residents and 0.18 per cent of them were found infected. As per government data, over 3.45 lakh people have been infected by coronavirus in the state and 98.19 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.48 per cent of the patients could not survive. The growth rate of cases in the state remained 0.03 per cent on the day against the national average of 0.12 per cent, while the doubling rate jumped to 2337.24 days against the national average of 588.27 days. The state on Saturday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 114343 residents and almost 94,000 of them were younger than 45 years, a separate report from the NHM stated. The second jab was administered to 16,970 beneficiaries on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-8
27-06-2021||Jharkhand||Land pact for cricket stadium with Bokaro Steel Plant||The Jharkhand State Cricket Association has signed an agreement with Bokaro Steel Plant, a unit of Steel Authority of India Ltd, for transfer of land to construct an international cricket stadium on the outskirts of Bokaro. The JSCA, which is affiliated to the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI), plans to construct the stadium in the next four years, in the process becoming the first cricket body in the eastern region to have three cricket stadiums. Jharkhand already has a 45,000-capacity international cricket stadium at Ranchi and the 19,000-capacity Keenan Stadium in Jamshedpur (owned by Tata Steel), which has also hosted one-day internationals. “The stadium will boast of international standards with a sitting capacity of 25,000. We hope to complete the construction work in three-four years,” said JSCA secretary Sanjay Sahay. On Friday, the JSCA entered into a lease agreement with SAIL-BSL for transfer of land to construct the stadium at Balidih, around 10km from Bokaro city near National Highway 23 and 5km from Bokaro railway station. “The agreement entails transfer of 20.17 acres of land by SAIL-BSL to the JSCA at Bokaro on long-term lease initially for 33 years, with the provision for further renewals as per the SAIL board-approved guidelines and other necessary approvals. The said land is located in the erstwhile mouza Narkara to the south of NH 23 and southwest of existing Visthapit College,” said a BSL spokesperson. The lease agreement was signed in the presence of SAIL-BSL director in-charge Amarendu Prakash, former BCCI secretary and former ICC director Amitabh Choudhary, JSCA president Dr Nafis Akhtar, Sahay and others. A request for allotment of land for construction of the cricket stadium in Bokaro was received by SAIL-BSL from the JSCA in January 2018. The proposal was put up for approval before the SAIL board and Union steel ministry. After obtaining necessary approvals and clearances, all other formalities prior to signing the lease agreement were completed by both parties. Prakash termed the signing of the agreement as a proud moment for all. “The proposed international cricket stadium at Bokaro will facilitate grooming of local cricketing talent,” he said. Choudhary told the media that the proposed stadium at Bokaro will be state-of-the-art in terms of facilities and will have a seating capacity of around 25,000. Further activities for construction of the stadium will now be taken up by the JSCA. “Construction of the stadium will start tentatively from July and will be completed in a record time of less than four years as it happened in the case of the JSCA International Stadium in Ranchi,” said Choudhary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-8
27-06-2021||Jharkhand||Three mauled to death by bear in Jharkhand||Three persons, including two brothers, were killed in a bear attack at a forest in Jharkhand’s Garhwa district on Friday night. Three more persons, including a woman, were injured by the same bear at Sonbarsa forest near Barkol Khurd village under Tehri panchayat of Bargarh block. The deceased have been identified as Anit Giddh, 38, his brother Sunit, 42, and Raju Minj, 40. Kamlesh Giddh, 35, Chotte Giddh, 25, and Mariam Giddh, 24, are critically injured and undergoing treatment at the Garhwa Sadar Hospital. According to reports, Anit had gone to Barkol village for husking paddy but got stuck because of incessant rain. Around 7.30pm on Friday, he tried to return to his village located in the dense forest, after the rain stopped. However, he was attacked by the bear merely 200 metres from his house. Hearing his screams, brother Sunit ran to rescue him but was also attacked. When their neighbour Raju tried to drive away the animal, he too was attacked and died on the spot. Kamlesh, who was returning home with his wife Manita Lakra and their two kids, was also not spared. Tehri panchayat mukhiya Prabha Kujur expressed resentment at the delay by forest officials in reaching the spot. “We live in forest areas. Last month, a wild bear had injured a villager. On Friday, we had informed the forest officials at around 1am, but they did not arrive at the village till noon,” Kujur said. Garhwa deputy commissioner Rajesh Kumar Pathak said the forest officials had been directed to pay a compensation of Rs 1 lakh each to the families of the deceased according to the norms. Bargarh block development officer Bipin Kumar Bharati gave Rs 5,000 as ex-gratia to the families of the deceased and also assured pension to the families of the victims apart from houses under the Ambedkar Awas Yojana. The bodies were sent for post-mortem to the Sadar Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-9
27-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Sadar Hospital in Ranchi lauded after recovery||Purushottam Kumar from Bihar, a critical Covid-19 patient who was admitted to the Sadar Hospital in Ranchi, Jharkhand, for nearly two months, has been impressed by the facilities offered at the government-run facility after he recovered. “Had I not experienced it myself, I would never have believed that a government facility can offer such excellent treatment to a critical patient,” said 34-year-old Purushottam after being discharged from the hospital on Saturday where he was admitted in the ICU since May 2, a span of 56 days. Purushottam, a resident of Nawada in Bihar, had tested Covid-positive on April 22. “I got myself admitted to a local hospital on April 27 when my fever didn’t subside,” he said. “When my lungs were found to be infected badly and I needed oxygen support, the attending doctor advised me to shift to a better facility,” he said. “I got admitted to a private hospital in Ranchi on April 30 but my oxygen saturation level started dropping. My condition did not improve despite paying around Rs 25,000 per day,” he added. “My relatives then came to know about Dr Ajit Kumar of Sadar Hospital (in Ranchi) and approached him for help,” Purushottam further said. “He was in a bad condition with chest infection and poor oxygen saturation when he came here. He was admitted in the ICU on arrival,” said Dr Kumar, adding that all necessary medicines were provided immediately to the patient. “But still he didn’t improve much and his oxygen saturation level started dropping alarmingly when he was put on non-invasive ventilation,” the doctor further said. The patient was on ventilator for 25 days, often with deteriorating condition when the medical team had to stay beside him till small hours of the day, he added. “However, his condition started improving slowly. He was taken out of ventilator support after 25 days and put on high-flow oxygen support that was also gradually reduced and finally withdrawn,” Dr Kumar said. “I desperately wanted to remain alive as I have two small kids to look after,” Purushottam said, adding that his strong will and the care provided by the doctors and other hospital staff gave him a fresh lease of life. “I would never have believed that a critical patient could get such treatment at a government hospital and also return home after recovery until I experienced it personally,” he further said. “Words would short fall in praising and thanking the doctors and all others who gave me a second life,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-9
