28-06-2021||Calcutta||Kabir Suman hospitalised with breathing issues, tests negative for Covid ||Bengali singer-composer and former Trinamool Congress (TMC) Lok Sabha MP Kabir Suman was admitted to the SSKM Hospital’s Woodburn Block in Calcutta on Monday after he had complained of sore throat, high fever and breathing issues. Doctors said his oxygen level was at 90 and is currently on oxygen support. Though the rapid-antigen test conducted on him proved negative for Covid-19, doctors at the hospital also carried RT-PCR test, he added. His family members are now waiting for the reports of CT scan, X-Ray of his chest and other requisite blood tests. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had also visited him in the hospital and conveyed her best wishes for his quick recovery. A two-member team under Dr Arunava Sengupta was formed to treat Suman, an official said, adding CT Scan, X-Ray of his chest and other requisite blood tests would be conducted on the singer soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-7
28-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Back to school  for vaccination||Vidya Mandir Society recently organised a vaccination camp for all its units that included Sushila Birla Girls’ School, Birla High School, Birla High School Mukundapur and JD Birla Institute. The vaccination camp was held in collaboration with Techno India Dama on the premises of Birla High School, Moira Street. It was meant for all the teachers, staff members and their family members or dependants. “This drive was important. We need to safeguard all the people in our organisation, so that at this critical juncture we can continue to render our service to the society,” said Koeli Dey, principal of Sushila Birla Girls’ School. Vidya Mandir Society secretary-general Virendra Nath Chaturvedi said: “A small contribution towards health and wellness in these difficult times shows that the Vidya Mandir Society cares for its employees.” Delhi Public School Newtown, in association with Fortis Healthcare, recently organised a vaccination drive to ensure the safety of its staff members and students. The initiative covered over 100 support staff, including security personnel, house-keeping team, gardeners, electricians, drivers and office peons. The school has also inoculated its teachers and their family members and 60 Class XII students, who are eligible for the vaccine. The management bore the project cost. “DPS Newtown has always been mindful about the welfare of its students, teachers and staff members. We conducted the vaccination camp to ensure that the teachers, their family members and eligible students were vaccinated safely with no crowding or waiting. We hope that this endeavour will play a part in safeguarding our society from this disease,” said principal Sonali Sen. Shikshayatan Foundation and Charnock Hospital joined hands to organise a vaccination drive for over 100 staff members of the foundation’s four units. “Our staff members are our warriors. We value their contribution. We collaborated with Charnock Hospital managing director Prashant Sharma to conduct the event. All the staff members of Marwari Balika Vidyalaya, Shri Shikshayatan School and College and Calcutta Business School have received their jabs. We would like to conduct a similar drive for our students, who are over 18 years,” said the foundation’s secretary-general Bratati Bhattacharyya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-7
28-06-2021||Calcutta||Elderly woman’s decomposed body found in Tangra||The decomposed body of a 71-year-old woman was found in her house in Tangra's Sil Lane late on Saturday after residents complained of a stench emanating from the house. The woman's 40-year-old unmarried daughter was found lying on the floor close to her mother's body with two water bottles near her head. She was unconscious. Police identified the deceased as Krishna Das, widow of Dhiren Das. Officers said the woman had possibly died three days ago. Preliminary investigations have revealed that Krishna had been staying with daughter Soma at the Sil Lane house for a few years. On June 5, some neighbours had called in the police and rushed the mother-daughter duo to hospital after they complained of illness. “With the hospital refusing to admit Soma, she returned home with her ailing mother. Over the last few days, whenever we inquired about her mother's health, Soma kept saying she was fine,” said a neighbour. A few neighbours said Krishna used to lie on the bed covered with a mosquito net and Soma would attend to her needs. “We have sent the body for post-mortem. Primarily it appears to be a case of malnutrition,” said a senior officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-7
28-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Residents organise vaccination camp for housing complex staff||Over 1,000 people who work at a housing complex on the southwestern fringes of Calcutta got free Covid-19 jabs at a camp organised by the residents’ association. The four-day camp at Greenfield City in Sibrampur, around 4km from Behala Chowrasta, started on Thursday. The vaccine recipients included housekeeping staff, guards, help, car cleaners, drivers, milkmen and electricians. “My protection is essential for my family members. If I cannot come to work, I cannot sustain my family,” said Animesh Sardar, a 26-year-old guard who was among the recipients. Kanchan Dey, 43, a domestic help employed at three apartments in the complex, was another recipient. “My husband had taken the jab but I could not take it so far,” she said. The recipients got Covishield. On Sunday, The Telegraph reported on the plight of many domestic workers — employers kept insisting they got vaccinated but rarely extended a helping hand to find them a slot. At a virtual session on Saturday, a group of domestic help had narrated what tens of thousands from their fraternity were going through during the pandemic. “These people are the lifeline of the complex. Their safety is paramount,” said Saurav Chandra, the chairman of the Greenfield City Foundation. “In this phase, we vaccinated 1,076 people. We had organised vaccination camps for residents. We provided doorstep vaccination for senior citizens as well,” said Arnab Sarkar, the joint secretary of the foundation. India Restaurant in Kidderpore organised a vaccination drive for its employees last week. Restaurants in Calcutta reopened for diners on June 16.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-7
28-06-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s University admission test: Steps to bridge divide||St Xavier’s University will allow undergraduate course aspirants who lack devices to write tests online to take the exams at computer labs on the campus, officials of the university said. If an aspirant who has a smartphone or a laptop faces any connectivity problem, he or she can stay at a hostel on the New Town campus and use the university’s Wi-Fi and LAN connections to write the test. Vice-chancellor Father Felix Raj said that while they had been forced to hold online tests because of the Covid situation, they were taking as many steps as possible to bridge the digital divide. In the middle of June, St Xavier’s University had announced that it would admit students to its undergraduate programmes through online tests, marking a departure from the practice of selecting students based on their marks in the Class XII board exams, which could not be held this year because of the pandemic. “The aspirants will be informed over email about the options we are offering to overcome the digital divide as far as possible,” Father Felix Raj said. He said special arrangements would be made for the aspirants from far-off places, like north Bengal, who are handicaped by the digital divide. “There are several schools and other institutions that are part of the Xaverian family. They (such students) can use the computer facilities there to write the tests…. They don’t have to come to our New Town campus,” said Father Felix Raj. The admission tests will be held between July 10 and 12.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-7
28-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid surge: Micro-containment zone near VIP Road||A micro-containment zone has been set up in Baguiati's Ashwininagar, a 15-minute drive from VIP Road, following a sudden spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases in the area. On Sunday, traffic guardrails were put up to demarcate the zone near the Ashwininagar post office. Police made announcements through loud-hailers asking residents on either side of a 200m-stretch not to step out except during an emergency. The Telegraph reported on Saturday that several pockets in Baguiati, Salt Lake, Bangur, Jyangra and Kestopur were turned into micro-containment zones. The board of administrators of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation decided to set up micro-containment zones following an alert from the health department on a rise in the number of Covid cases. The cops also monitored the entry and exit of residents to and from the micro-containment zone in Ashwininagar. Outsiders, including vendors, were allowed till the guardrails. “We are only allowing people to step out to get essentials. The limited relaxation is being extended to families that do not have any Covid-19 patient,” said an officer who was making the announcements. An official in the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation's health department said nearly all houses had multiple Covid patients in home isolation. “We are setting up micro-containment zones in areas that are witnessing an upsurge in the number of cases. We want to break the chain of infection by setting up such zones,” the official said. The civic body and the police have given the residents of the micro-containment zones the contact numbers of officials who they can get in touch with to source groceries, medicines and other essentials. “Our medical teams are also in touch with the residents,” said the official. Shops shut Two markets in Shyamnagar and Kankinara and all shops -- barring those under essential services — across six of the 35 wards of Bhatpara Municipality, on the northern fringes of Calcutta, will remain shut for three days from Monday. The decision was taken after health department officials in North 24-Parganas alerted the authorities about a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in those pockets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
28-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Private hospitals seek SOP approval for off-site jab drive||Some private hospitals have put on hold their outreach Covid vaccination camps scheduled at least for Monday following an order from the health department that such camps need to have approvals from the chief municipal health officer and the local police station. The requirement of the approvals was part of the standard operating procedure (SOP) on off-site vaccination, issued by the health department on Saturday. According to the new SOP, the outreach vaccination camps — workplace camps as well as the ones conducted by organisations and clubs —must “obtain clearance from local police station” and “display approval letter” from the chief municipal health officer of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC). In districts, the approval has to be obtained from the chief medical officer of health. The SOP follows the arrest of Debanjan Deb, who had allegedly posed as an IAS officer and a joint commissioner of the CMC and organised a series of “Covid vaccination” camps without the mandatory approval of the state health department. Police suspect that at least some of the recipients at Deb’s camps were administered an antibiotic.  “We have kept on hold outreach vaccination camps that were scheduled for Monday and Tuesday. The camps were to be held at workplaces for employees and in housing complexes,” said R. Venkatesh, the regional director of Narayana Health, whose flagship unit in the city is the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS). “We held one free outreach vaccination camp for the underprivileged on Sunday. It was held at our hospital (RTIICS) with permission from the government.” AMRI Hospitals, too, have put on hold all outreach camps till all necessary documents are obtained. “No off-site vaccination camps will be held tomorrow. We are in the process of informing all partners with whom such camps have been planned that these stand postponed till further instructions from the state government,” said an official of AMRI. Charnock Hospital will take a decision after attending a meeting with the state government on Monday morning. Ipsita Kundu, the CEO of the hospital, said that based on discussions at the meeting, the hospital will take a decision whether to go ahead with outreach camps on Monday or postpone them. A senior official of the state government told Metro on Sunday evening that since the SOP mentioned the requirement of additional documents to run an outreach vaccination camp, private hospitals would have to keep such camps on hold at least for Monday. “The SOP was issued on Saturday and Sunday was a holiday. It would not be possible for private hospitals to obtain the documents mentioned in the SOP by Monday morning. So hospitals have to keep on hold outreach camps scheduled for Monday and also possibly Tuesday. Hopefully, they will get the necessary documents by Tuesday,” said the official, who is part of the team managing the Covid vaccination programme in the city. Saturday’s SOP also mentioned that the outreach camps must also display the charges for vaccination and the CoWIN-authenticated code number. Officials managing Covid vaccination sites said all such sites were given a unique number when they registered on the portal. Such steps will help prospective recipients tell a genuine vaccination camp from a fake one. A few hospitals, however, will go ahead with their outreach vaccination programme on Monday. Woodlands Hospital will keep copies of a letter of approval from the state government at their outreach camps. “No new camp will start on Monday but the existing ones will continue to run. Any recipient can ask for and go through the letter of approval. New camps start only after we get all necessary permissions mandated by the SOP,” said Rupali Basu, the managing director of Woodlands Hospital. As for the vaccination on the hospital premises, there is no change in rules.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
28-06-2021||Calcutta||Shut stalls, quieter roads… Covid-19 curbs rob Calcutta’s office hub of its signature buzz||Deserted pavements, shut stalls and negligible traffic on the road, the Covid-19 curbs have left an indelible impact on what used to be one of the busiest parts of the city, Dalhousie. A tour of the area — better known as office-para — on Friday afternoon seemed like a different world. Food stalls Office-para is inseparable from the hundreds of food stalls that dot its pavements. The spread is a testament to the cosmopolitan nature of the city, or so it was before the pandemic. From biryani to dosa and from machh bhaat to pasta, everything was available at the food stalls. On Friday, The Telegraph found less than a third of the stalls open. One of them was behind the high court on Old Post Office Street, selling rotis and four types of curries. A couple of people had lunch at the stall during the 15-odd minutes The Telegraph spent there. The owner, Muhammad Kalim, said the footfall had dropped substantially. “The fact that I am able to talk to you for a long time on a weekday afternoon says everything. On a usual weekday, I don’t have time for even a cup of tea between 1pm and 4pm,” said Kalim. Before May, he needed 40kg of atta daily to make rotis. Now, he hardly needs 12kg. Three out of five stalls were shut in the high court area. The owners of the few that were open echoed Kalim. The footfall was so low because only a few litigants were arriving at the court, they said. “Trains and buses are suspended. How will people come? Only litigants of emergency cases are coming. Otherwise, it is just lawyers and clerks and court staff,” said Biswajit Maiti, a tea seller down the same road. Around one kilometre away, a biryani stall was among the few that had opened at Fairlie Place. “The running customers, our backbone, are almost gone,” said Subhajit Das, the owner’s son. Surjyakanta Ghosh, who sells sweets on RN Mukherjee Road, said many offices had reopened but the employees were turning up in rotation, once or twice a week. He needed 8kg of chena to make sweets before the curbs were announced. Now, he needs barely 3kg. Parking lots One or both flanks of roads, the usual parking spots in the Dalhousie-BBD Bag area, were far from empty. The reason — a large section of people coming to work are using private vehicles. Many others are sharing a car. Around 1pm on Friday, both flanks of Esplanade Row West were choked with parked vehicles. Most of the cars belonged to people who had work to do in the Small Medium Enterprises City Credit Centre (where business loans are processed) of the State Bank of India and Calcutta High Court, a stone’s throw away, said parking attendants. Most of the cars pay a monthly fee to the vendor, who collects the amount on behalf of the civic body. “Our income has gone down because cars other than the ones that pay a monthly fee are missing,” said Abhimanyu Nayek, one of the attendants. Nayek, from Habra in North 24-Parganas, has been living at Babughat since the suspension of local trains. He spends most of the day on the road and sleeps the night on the landing berth of the ghat. Scores of cars were parked on NS Road, Strand Road and Fairlie Place. But missing were the double rows. “The roads were deserted even two weeks ago. The cars started coming once private offices were allowed to reopen,” said a parking attendant at the intersection of Strand Road and Fairlie Place. Private offices have been allowed to resume with 25 per cent of the workforce from 10am to 4pm. Pavements and people The expansiveness of the pavements of the office-para is usually lost on people because they are overcrowded. Not now. Around 1.30pm on Friday, a pavement along Church Lane had less than 15 people. Only a tea stall and a couple of eateries were open. Usually, there are at least 20 stalls, selling tea, food, fruits and cigarettes. Across office-para, the cacophony made of the constant honking of cars and clamour of people was missing. The hawkers were few and far in between. Walking on the pavements, usually brimming with pedestrians and hawkers, was like a breeze. Around 1.45pm, the pavement along GPO was deserted. Three men sitting on plastic chairs on the pavement outside the Reserve Bank of India looked expectantly at every pedestrian, waiting for someone to ask for small change for a Rs-500 or Rs-2000 note. “Demonetisation had sent us to the ICU. The pandemic has landed us in a coma,” said one of three, a 65-year-old man who did not want to be named. On the pavement in front of the New Koilaghat building of Eastern Railway, Muhammad Kamal, another hawker, was sitting idle. Kamal sold new and repaired old umbrellas and belts. “Since morning, I have repaired only a couple of umbrellas,” he said. Before the pandemic, he earned Rs 500-600 almost every day. Now, it is Rs 200 on a lucky day, said Kamal, who walks to Dalhousie from his home in Howrah’s Pilkhana, around 3km away.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
28-06-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine scam: Police find eight bank accounts through which Debanjan Deb paid salaries ||Police have found at least eight bank accounts, including one in the name of the West Bengal Finance Corporation, through which vaccine scam accused Debanjan Deb allegedly paid salaries to his employees. Till Saturday, the police had information about three accounts allegedly linked to Deb, one of which had been opened in the name of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. “We have come to know about the remaining accounts following prolonged questioning of Deb and his employees,” an officer said on Sunday. The employees who got their salaries through accounts opened in the name of the CMC and the finance corporation were under the impression that they were on the payroll of the state government, the officer said. “We have examined 10 former and current employees of Deb, who ran an office in Kasba,” he said. Members of the special investigation team that is probing the case visited Deb’s home on Sunday afternoon and talked to his family members. His house was searched for evidence related to the case, an officer said. Apart from Deb, three of his alleged associates are in custody. Deb had allegedly posed as an IAS officer and a joint commissioner of the CMC and organised a series of what he claimed Covid vaccination camps, without the mandatory clearance of the state health department. The police suspect that at least some of the recipients were given amikacin sulphate, an antibiotic. An investigator said Deb was claiming ignorance about the composition of the purported vaccines that had been administered at his camps. He is said to have told the investigators that he had written to the Serum Institute of India — the manufacturer of Covishield — seeking doses for his camps. “He is saying he purchased genuine vaccines from Bagree Market and the supplier handed him the doses in Kasba,” an officer said. Investigators have found rubber stamps purportedly of the CMC, information and culture department, PWD and the West Bengal State Election Commission in Deb’s Kasba office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
28-06-2021||Calcutta||Meeting to review security of senior citizens staying alone in Salt Lake ||The Bidhannagar commissionerate and the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation jointly held a meeting with residents of at least a dozen blocks in Salt Lake on Sunday to review the security of senior citizens staying alone. The Bidhannagar police commissioner, Supratim Sarkar, and the chairperson of the board of administrators of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, Krishna Chakraborty, were among those who attended the meeting, held in the BJ Block community hall near the tank number 9 island. Sarkar told the residents that the police had stepped up patrolling and surveillance in all three sectors of the township with a special focus on guest houses. "The two gangsters from Punjab who were killed in a police operation at the Sukhobrishti housing complex in New Town earlier this month had put up at a guest house in Salt Lake for a few days,” said Sarkar. “A probe has revealed that the person who had booked the room at the guest house did not stay there. Instead, the two gangsters did. Those who let out the rooms did not inform us about this," said Sarkar. The police chief urged the residents to keep the nearest police stations informed about their tenants and their background. The police asked the block committees to hand them a profile about the block containing details such as the number of houses, contact numbers of the office-bearers and an approximate number of tenants. The committees also have to send details of private guest houses, paying guest accommodations, and the number of CCTV cameras and their positions. The police also issued forms to the block committee that residents who let out their houses have to fill in. "We need information from.you so we could help you,” Sarkar said. A section of residents requested the police officers to ensure that "outsiders" were prevented from gathering in the parks of Salt Lake in the evening. The residents also complained that several pockets plunged into darkness after sundown as street lights did not function. Some drew the officers’ attention to untrimmed tree branches and shrubs along roads, which they said were a cause of worry. "Many outsiders enter Salt Lake every evening. They gather in block parks and create nuisance. We often protest but these youngsters argue with us," said Arun Biswas, the president of the AK Block committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
28-06-2021||Calcutta||Lives of others: Masters of spices, markers of time||A passage quoted often on mid-19th century Burrabazar describes how grand the market was. “Here may be seen the jewels of Golkanda and Bundelkhand, the shawls of Cashmere, the broad cloths of England, silks of Murshidabad and Benaras, muslins of Dacca, Calicoes, ginghams, Chintzes and beads from Coromandel, fruits and firs of Cabul, silk fabrics and brocades of Persia, spices and myrch from Ceylon, Spice Islands and Arabia...,” writes artist Colesworthy Grant in his book An Anglo-Indian Domestic Sketch, published in 1849. Spices were always important: the spice trade had opened up the first world routes, on sea and land. Grant, of course, is talking about exotic spices along with other global luxury items. But Burrabazar is, and was, a great leveller. Alongside fine, expensive and even borderline-mythical products —tiger’s milk is also available here, it is said — the everyday stuff exists here with a fierce abandon, giving Burrabazar its character. Three years before Grant’s account was published, in 1846, Krishna Chandra Dutta, a resident of Saptagram, Hooghly, had settled down in Sutanuti and set up his shop with his brother in Dormahata in Posta, a part of Burrabazar. They sold whole spices that were used in day-to-day Bengali cooking: chillis, turmeric, cumin, getting their supplies from other parts of Bengal. One of the branches of this business, now 175 years old, is the well-known Calcutta brand Cookme, which has done its bit to transform the Bengali kitchen over the years. From the Fifties, the brand has been making powdered spices, as well as pastes and ready-to-use mixes, moving away from the original business of whole spices, and the innovations, though not exclusive to this brand alone, have had a salutary effect on the kitchen. Subhamoy, 34, who belongs to the fifth generation of the family since the start of the spice business, and runs Cookme now, tells the history of the brand modernising itself. It is also a short history of the Bengali kitchen and a glimpse into a rapidly changing society. After Krishna Chandra started the spice shop, “Keshto Duttar dokan”, as it was locally known, flourished. The business advanced when Subhamoy’s grandfather Judhisthir Dutta and his brothers took over. They began to procure spices, mainly red chillis, from outside Bengal. The shop turned into an “aaurodh (aarat)/gaddi”, a dealer’s centre. This was in the 1950s. Then one day, at home, Judhisthir had a brainwave. “My grandfather saw how harassed his wife was, unable to give time to her family, because of her work in the kitchen,” says Subhamoy. Grinding a huge amount of spices on the stone slab was one of the most cumbersome, difficult things. He thought of a solution: ground spices, ready to use. “At first the spices were ground manually by about 20 to 30 people on large sheel nodas (grinding stones).” The items included basic spices, turmeric, chillis, cumin. In the early 60s, the powdered spices brand was registered as Cookme. The name of the company Krishna Chandra Dutta (Spice) Pvt Ltd, of which Subhamoy is one of the four directors. The company could possibly be the first such brand in the country to make and market ground spices. The quest to free the kitchen continued. The 70s saw another innovation: curry powder, a handy blend of spices for every curry. The 80s saw the introduction of pastes. “Powder, blend, paste,” Subhamoy sums up Cookme’s journey. They seem to have corresponding landmarks in social history. The kitchen changed, Subhamoy points out, radically from the 70s. The joint family broke down and the nuclear family emerged. Women began to join the workforce in larger numbers. There was far less time to spend in the kitchen, which began to convert to readymade powders. Now these products have entered rural markets, including areas like Jangalmahal. Hands-on at his job, Subhamoy travels to Bangalore once a month to be at the main Cookme factory, which shifted to Bangalore 27 years ago. A smaller factory is located in Cossipore in Calcutta, but there are plans to set up another near the city. When in Bangalore, he cooks and gets a taste of his own, well, spices. When the result is not rewarding, Shubhamay sees in it an opportunity. “We have to know our shortcomings. Otherwise we don’t grow,” he says. “Once in Bangalore, I tried to cook chilli chicken with our own ready-to-mix spices, and I realised that I needed tomato sauce, chilli sauce, soy sauce as well to prepare the dish.” That was inconvenient. On his return he asked his R&D team to come up with a mix that would not require any additional ingredient. As always, the Cookme range aims at the Bengali palate still, but now has 40 products to its credit, from the simple turmeric, to posto paste, to two kinds of biryani masala. In between there is shukto, egg curry, chana masala, pav bhaji, tandoori chicken spices. If contemporary Bengalis show true diversity somewhere, it is their choice of food. Subhamoy studied at Calcutta Boys’ School and The Goenka College of Commerce in the city. He is a qualified company secretary and was studying chartered accountancy. He was toying with the idea of gaining work experience outside the family business, but had to take charge of it in 2013. “The company has always been self-funded and debt-free,” he says proudly. Though Covid has taken its toll. The one thing he cannot stress enough is the quality of his products, which never use any preservatives in the primary ground spice products, like turmeric and chilli. For some of the pastes, such as posto, which is delicate and does not last long, he uses natural preservatives. He says they are a secret, but suggests that they are not hard to guess. The brand avoids artificial preservatives. The company is vigilant about maintaining its standards. It had discontinued its ground pepper product for two years in 2013 after it felt a pesticide using alpha toxin was being applied on the crops at a level that was not acceptable by the brand. But what about our continuous suspicion about inedible, dangerous stuff being mixed with spices as “bhejaal”? Subhamoy laughs. “You mean the hanikarak laal rang? That doesn’t really happen.” Maybe a not-so-scrupulous brand will mix papaya seeds with peppercorns. Or, as far as chemical processes are concerned, a not-so-cautious use of oil extracted through acitone extraction process to enhance value of a ground spice. “Cookme does not use any extraction process. The spices are ground in machines,” says Subhamoy. In any case, the future belongs to the ready-to-cook, he says. We can see its shapes already.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
28-06-2021||Business||Sensex drops 189 points to close below 53,000 ||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled 189 points on Monday led by losses in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, TCS and HDFC amid a negative trend in global markets. After touching a lifetime high of 53,126.73 in opening session, the 30-share BSE index ended 189.45 points or 0.36 per cent lower at 52,735.59. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty settled 45.65 points or 0.29 per cent down at 15,814.70. It touched a lifetime intra-day peak of 15,915.65. Titan was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by TCS, HCL Tech, Reliance Industries, UltraTech Cement and Bharti Airtel. On the other hand, Dr Reddy's, Tata Steel, Tech Mahindra, Sun Pharma and HUL were among the gainers. "After opening at a record high, the domestic markets slipped into the negative zone tracking cues from global peers due to spike in COVID cases across Asia," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. PSU banks were in focus in anticipation of progress in privatisation, he said, adding that the market got volatile in the closing hour during the FM's announcement on fresh stimulus, though it was focused on COVID-19 relief package mainly for healthcare and stressed sectors, which will benefit the broader economy. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with losses. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading in the red in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.16 per cent lower at USD 75.26 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-7
28-06-2021||Business||Sitharaman announces relief measures to offset economic downturn amid Covid second wave ||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday announced Rs 1.5 lakh crore of additional credit for small and medium businesses, more funds for the healthcare sector, loans to tourism agencies and guides, and waiver of visa fees for foreign tourists as part of a package to support the pandemic-hit economy. Together with previously announced Rs 93,869 crore spending on providing free foodgrains to the poor till November and additional Rs 14,775 crore fertiliser subsidy, the stimulus package - mostly made up of government guarantee to banks and microfinance institutions for loans they extend to Covid-hit sectors - totalled up to Rs 6.29 lakh crore. Addressing a press conference, Sitharaman said, "Economic relief measures are being announced today." She provided Rs 23,220 crore of additional funding for setting up children and paediatric care/paediatric beds at hospitals to prepare healthcare infrastructure to deal with any emergency arising for Covid wave hitting children. To incentivise job creation, the government committed to paying the employer and employee's share to provident fund (PF) for all new recruitments done till March 2022. Previously, the government paid Rs 902 crore for 21.42 lakh beneficiaries of 79,577 establishments. With the tourism sector being hit hard by the pandemic, Sitharaman  announced up to Rs 10 lakh loan to tourist agencies and Rs 1 lakh loan to tourist guides while waiver of visa fee for the first five lakh foreign tourists visiting India after travel restrictions ease. Tourist visa fee waiver will cost the government Rs 100 crore. Other announcements included an additional Rs 19,041 crore for providing broadband internet cover to all village panchayats, an extension of tenure of production linked incentive (PLI) scheme for large scale electronics manufacturing by a year and Rs 88,000 crore of insurance cover for goods exporters. The support measures were announced as states start lifting restrictions after new coronavirus infections showed a decline. The economy seems to be on a recovery path after being hit by a devastating second wave of infections that was dubbed as the world's worst Covid-19 surge. Sitharaman said the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme is being expanded to Rs 4.5 lakh crore from Rs 3 lakh crore. Under the scheme, a collateral-free loan is provided by banks to small businesses and the government stands guarantee for any default. The ECLGS, launched last year, has helped cash-starved small businesses raise funds during the Covid-19 lockdown for working capital and to meet their orders. As much as Rs 2.73 lakh crore has been sanctioned under the three previous ECLGS programmes, of which Rs 2.10 lakh crore has already been disbursed. Another Rs 1.1 lakh crore loan guarantee scheme for Covid-affected sectors was announced. This included Rs 50,000 crore for the health sector, with a three-year single loan of Rs 100 crore carrying an interest of 7.95 per cent. Loans to other sectors such as tourism and hospitality would come at 8.25 per cent per annum interest rate. Also, micro-finance institutions will extend 25 lakh small borrowers loans of up to Rs 1.25 lakh at an interest rate that is 2 per cent lower than the benchmark lending rate, she said. The government also extended the loan guarantee programme to the tourism sector, after last month widening it to airlines and hospitals. Credit at low cost Financial Services Secretary Debasish Panda said the objective of credit guarantee is to encourage banks to lend to enterprises so that they get credit at low cost. The measures announced Monday are "to ensure money comes into hands of small, medium and large enterprises," he said. The credit programme supplements separate measures announced by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) last month to boost credit for health care services and provide fresh lending to vaccine-makers. It provided an on-tap liquidity window for banks worth Rs 50,000 crore to extend credit to health services and vaccine manufacturers until March 2022. The extension of free foodgrains to 80 crore poor till November will cost Rs 93,869 crore more, bringing the total cost of the programme to more than Rs 2.27 lakh crore, Sitharaman said. Free foodgrains The government had last year announced the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) to provide free 5 kg per month of foodgrains to over 80 crore poor to help them tide over the impact of stringent lockdown imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus infections. Stating that the wheat procurement has touched an all-time high of over 432 lakh tonnes in the Rabi marketing season of 2021-22, she said the government will provide an additional subsidy of Rs 14,775 crore to farmers directly for buying DAP and other complex fertilisers. The additional amount will raise the fertiliser subsidy to Rs 42,275 crore. DK Srivastava, Chief Policy Advisor, EY India, said the thrust of this package is to stimulate the sagging growth in credit offtake mainly by providing interest rate concessions with a focus on priority sectors such as health, power and other infrastructure. Additional outgo of over Rs 93,000 cr Of the measures announced, the Centre will see an additional outgo of Rs 93,869 crore on free food grains, Rs 15,000 crore on health (its share out of Rs 23,220 crore spending) and Rs 9,520 crore for village broadband connectivity (Rs 19,041 crore for two years). This totals to Rs 1,18,390 crore or 0.5 per cent of estimated GDP for 2021-22, Srivastava said. While Samantak Das, Chief Economist and Head Research & REIS, JLL,  said the measures announced are "timely booster shots to keep the economy afloat", Aditi Nayar, Chief Economist, ICRA Limited, said the announcement contained a mix of new schemes focussed on relief for the pandemic-affected sectors, extension of earlier schemes, as well a reiteration of recent announcements such as free food grains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-7
28-06-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 150 points to fresh high||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty scaled fresh intra-day records in opening trade on Monday, tracking gains in heavyweights Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank and HDFC. After touching a lifetime high of 53,126.73, the 30-share BSE index was trading 142.85 points or 0.27 per cent higher at 53,067.89 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty was trading 42.25 points or 0.27 per cent higher at 15,902.60. It touched a lifetime intra-day peak of 15,915.65 in the opening session. Asian Paints was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 1 per cent, followed by Dr Reddy's, NTPC, Axis Bank, Sun Pharma, Kotak Bank, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, Titan, TCS, UltraTech Cement, Bharti Airtel and L&T were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index Sensex closed 226.04 points or 0.43 per cent higher at record 52,925.04, and Nifty advanced 69.90 points or 0.44 per cent to 15,860.35. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 678.84 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic markets look modestly good as of now. A sharp fall in daily caseload and satisfactory ramp up in vaccination process overshadowed concerns emerging from higher crude prices and weakening rupee, he said, adding that better-than-expected 4QFY21 earnings performance of companies has also supported the market's uptick. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.17 per cent lower at USD 75.25 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-7
28-06-2021||Business||Twitter interim grievance officer for India steps down||Twitter’s interim resident grievance officer for India has stepped down, leaving the micro-blogging site without a grievance official as mandated by the new IT rules to address complaints from Indian subscribers, according to a source. The source said that Dharmendra Chatur, who was recently appointed as the interim resident grievance officer for India by Twitter, has quit from the post. The social media company’s website no longer displays his name, as required under Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021. Twitter declined to comment on the development. The development comes at a time the micro-blogging platform has been engaged in a tussle with the Indian government over the new social media rules. The government has slammed Twitter for deliberate defiance and failure to comply with the country’s new IT rules. The new rules which came into effect from May 25 mandate social media companies to establish a grievance redressal mechanism to resolve complaints from the users or victims. All significant social media companies with over 50 lakh user base shall appoint a grievance officer to deal with such complaints and share the name and contact details of such officers. The big social media companies are mandated to appoint a chief compliance officer, a nodal contact person and a resident grievance officer. All of them should be resident in India. Twitter in response to the final notice issued by the government on June 5 had said that it intends to comply with the new IT rules and will share details of the chief compliance officer. In the meantime, the microblogging platform had appointed Chatur as interim resident grievance officer for India. Twitter now displays the company’s name in the place of grievance officer for India with a US address and an email ID. According to a government official, the company has lost legal protection as an intermediary and will be legally held responsible for all content posted by its users.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-7
28-06-2021||Business||Haryana govt pays IL&FS Rs 1,925 crore as interim termination payment in Gurgaon metro project case||Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services (IL&FS) on Sunday said that it has received Rs 1,925 crore from Haryana Shehari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) as an interim termination payment in the Gurgaon metro project case. The payment received in the escrow accounts comes in compliance of the Supreme Court’s March 26 order that ruled in favour of IL&FS in the project. The project was developed through IL&FS subsidiaries and special purpose vehicles (SPVs) — Rapid Metro Rail Gurgaon Ltd (RMGL) and Rapid Metro Rail Gurgaon South Ltd (RMGSL) — a company statement said. The apex court in its order had directed HSVP to deposit 80 per cent of the total debt due amounting to Rs 1,925 crore within three months into the escrow accounts of the two SPVs.  The dues are more than Rs 2,400 crore on basis of audit conducted by the CAG. IL&FS had bagged the two-phased Gurgaon Metro Project developed through RMGL and RMGSL in 2009 and 2013. Due to multiple unmet obligations by HSVP, the special purpose vehicled had terminated the concession agreements in September 2019 and demanded termination payments as per the concession agreement under authority event of default, IL&FS said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-7
28-06-2021||Business||States concerned about proposed e-commerce rules, fear negative impact on jobs, MSMEs||Some states, mostly those ruled by non-BJP parties, are apprehensive about the new set of e-commerce rules proposed by the Union consumer affairs ministry to check mis-selling and fraudulent discounts as they fear there could be a negative impact on jobs and market access for MSMEs. These state governments plan to suggest strong safeguard measures in the proposed rules to ensure that any changes in the Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules, 2020 do not hamper their economic growth engines and revenue collections, officials from those states said. However, it would be kept in mind that their suggestions do not come in the way of the proposed rules enhancing the overall consumer protection framework, they asserted. These officials said it is a sensitive matter that needs to be tackled carefully as protecting consumers’ interest is as important as safeguarding jobs, MSMEs and lakhs of self-employed individuals, including artisans, weavers and those in the agriculture and allied sectors who have been benefiting immensely from the e-commerce platforms. The officials said formal suggestions on the draft rules would be made to the Centre, which has invited suggestions till July 6. A senior official of a big non-BJP-ruled state said there is a view that the proposed rules can disturb the state’s business ecosystem, especially with regard to MSMEs and small entrepreneurs and will also limit the choices for consumers, rather than safeguarding their interest. He pointed out that MSMEs contribute almost two-thirds of the annual revenues generated on just two major platforms — Amazon and Flipkart —- while there is a big chain involved comprising businesses, self-employed individuals, warehouses, farmers etc and these platforms have created lakhs of jobs in the recent years. A large number of foreign and domestic investors and other business entities, who have either invested in various e-commerce platforms or are doing business with them, are also said to be wary of the proposed rules which were released last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-7
28-06-2021||Business||Mixed trend in credit card use: report||Consumers are not warming up to credit cards like before. In December, the central bank had barred HDFC Bank from issuing new cards because of various service outages. While HDFC Bank has been barred from onboarding new customers, its rivals have not been able to take advantage of the curbs to expand their credit card base. HDFC Bank remains the largest player with 1.49 crore cards as of April 30 against 1.54 crore outstanding cards in November 2020. According to the Digital Payments report of Motilal Oswal Financial Services, Kotak Mahindra Bank, HDFC Bank, Amex and Citi reported a fall in their outstanding cards till April. Others such as ICICI Bank reported a strong year-on-year growth of 18 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank (15.2 per cent), RBL Bank (14.4 per cent), and SBI Cards (13.6 per cent). Sources said the lockdown may have played a part in some of the banks showing a drop in the number of outstanding cards, but they can catch up once the restrictions are lifted. The lockdown also had its impact on another front with card spends falling 18 per cent to Rs 59,400 crore in April. On a per card basis, the monthly spend declined to Rs 9,500 from an average of Rs 10,500 over the past six months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-7
28-06-2021||Business||Delay in issuing term life insurance policy in April and May||The number of days taken by an insurance company to issue a term life insurance policy has gone up in April and May. A combination of factors such as the time taken to obtain a medical report and tightening of guidelines by the reinsurers led to the delay. Insurance intermediaries and aggregators said that normally it would take around 10 days on an average to get a term life insurance policy issued from the submission of a proposal form. This has gone up to around 15-16 days over the last couple of months. Once the documents are submitted, verified and payments made, prospective buyers are required to undergo either a physical medical test or a telemedical test.A  co-ordination team from the insurance company sets a date for the tests to be done at home or diagnostic centres. The tests may range from ECG, blood sugar to TMT for people in a higher age bracket and cotinine tests to evaluate tobacco use. If an individual has declared a past ailment, additional tests may be required. “There are multiple factors such as age, sum insured, past ailments, family ailments, existing insurance policies which are taken into account to determine whether a telemedical check-up is adequate or a physical check-up is needed,” said Sajja Praveen Chowdary, business head, term life insurance, Policybazaar.com With re-insurers tightening regulations in the Covid pandemic, many insurance companies are preferring a physical check-up before issuing policies. But  the diagnostic centres are under stress because of the pandemic, while there is a paucity of lab persons to do the check-ups at homes. This has increased the time taken to obtain the reports which has led to the delay in the issue of the the term policies. The delay, however, has not impacted the growth rate both in the number of policies issued or new business premium collected net of free-look cancellation. According to Irdai data, while the number of policies in April and May has gone up by 30.40 per cent, premium has gone up by 11 per cent for the entire industry, including 23 private players and LIC, over the corresponding months of the previous year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-8
28-06-2021||Business||Linde plea to ramp up liquid oxygen facilities||Linde India, the largest producer of industrial gas in India and the world, has called for building liquid oxygen storage plants in hospitals to meet the future surge in demand if a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic hits India. The company cautioned that installing PSA oxygen plants, some of which are being put up under PM Cares Fund, is not the “panacea” to tackle the future surge and advised complementing them with liquid storage facilities deep down to the district level as an effective solution. “Just a word of caution…PSA is not a panacea. It is a machine that produces oxygen of a particular grade. It cannot take care of any surge demands,” Abhijit Banerjee, managing director of Linde India, said. After being grossly under-prepared to anticipate the surge in demand of medical oxygen (MO) during the peak of the second wave of the pandemic in May, the Centre as well as various states are now trying to enhance the capacity of MO in the country. The PM Cares Fund has released funds to set up 551 such PSA units. Banerjee pointed out that there have been instances in the past when oxygen generation through pressure swing absorption (PSA) plants were found to be unreliable. They were either producing less than the rated capacity or oxygen of purity below Indian medical standard. The plants, which require rigorous maintenance, can also be rendered useless during power outage or unscheduled and scheduled maintenance. “PSAs do reduce the base demand of liquid oxygen to an extent but they are not the end solutions. We have been telling the governments and hospitals to enhance liquid storage capacity,” Banerjee said during a virtual interaction organised by the Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Linde, which emerged as one of the largest suppliers and facilitators of MO during the second wave, has also urged governments to change the rules for setting up storage plants. The safety requirements are now obsolete and not prevalent in many parts of the world. Apart from limiting the storage capacity, they also prevent many hospitals from having them in their premises. Before the pandemic, the requirement of MO was about 800-850 tonnes per day (tpd) in India. In September-October last year during the first wave, the requirement went up to 3,000tpd. In May, the all-India demand was a bit less than 10,000tpd. Moreover, most of the installed capacities to produce oxygen were in the east while demand drove up in the north, south and west of India. It threw up a logistics challenge of quickly moving the MO to the region which needed it most. Supply of oxygen to industry was completely cut off, barring a few exceptions. Corporates such as Tata Group and ITC Ltd has partnered Linde, procuring ISO containers from overseas markets on rent and airlifted them to India for faster supply. These 20-tonne containers were then filled up and put up on Concor rakes to reach destinations faster than the road network and thereby increasing supply. Learning from the experience, some of the states are also setting up cryogenic air separation plants. Banerjee, however, noted that viability gap funding from the governments may be needed as the quantum of oxygen needed for a hospital or even a cluster of hospitals is not big enough to commercially justify investment in a cryogenic air separation plant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-8
28-06-2021||Business||Cairn to target more state-owned firms to recover money due from Indian government||After Air India, Britain’s Cairn Energy plc plans to target assets of more state-owned firms and banks in countries from the US to Singapore as it looks to ramp up efforts to recover the amount due from the Indian government after winning an arbitration against the levy of retrospective taxes. A lawyer representing the company said Cairn will bring lawsuits in several countries to make state-owned firms liable to pay the $1.2-billion plus interest and penalties that are due from the Indian government. Last month, Cairn brought a lawsuit in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York pleading that Air India is controlled by the Indian government so much that they are “alter egos” and the airline should be held liable for the arbitration award. “There are a number of state enterprises which we are considering for enforcement action. Enforcement action will be soon and it may not be in the US,” Dennis Hranitzky, head of the sovereign litigation practice at Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan, a law firm representing the company, told PTI. A three-member international arbitration tribunal that consisted of one judge appointed by India had unanimously in December overturned the levy of taxes on Cairn retrospectively and ordered refund of shares sold, dividend confiscated and tax refunds withheld to recover such demand. The government of India, despite participating in the arbitration proceeding over four years, has not accepted the award and has filed a “setting aside” petition in a court in Netherlands - the seat of the arbitration. Pressed by its shareholders — some of whom are big global investors — Cairn is seeking to recover the award by confiscating assets and bank accounts of state-owned entities in foreign countries. “The (arbitration) award is registered and either recognised or soon to be recognised in several countries, and Cairn will continue to ramp up enforcement proceedings around the world to pursue the value of the award for its international shareholders,” he said. He, however, refused to either name the companies that Cairn will target or the countries where lawsuits will be filed. Cairn has already got the arbitration award registered and recognised in the US, the UK, Netherlands, France, Canada and Singapore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-8
28-06-2021||Business||Cabinet secretary-led panel holds crucial meeting on bank privatisation||Inching a step closer to the privatisation of two public sector banks, a high-level panel headed by the cabinet secretary recently held a meeting to thrash out various regulatory and administrative issues so that the proposal could be placed with the group of ministers on disinvestment or Alternative Mechanism (AM) for approval. Following the announcement made by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her 2021 budget speech, the Niti Aayog has suggested a couple of bank names for privatisation to the core group of secretaries on disinvestment headed by the cabinet secretary in April, sources said. Central Bank of India and Indian Overseas Bank are reported to be probable candidates for privatisation. The meeting of the high-level panel deliberated on the recommendation of Niti Aayog on June 24, sources said, adding the panel would after tying up all the loose ends will send the names of the shortlisted PSU banks to AM for consideration. Headed by the cabinet secretary, the members of the panel include secretaries in the departments of economic affairs, revenue, expenditure, corporate affairs and legal affairs, as well as the secretary of administrative department. The panel also has secretaries in the department of public enterprises and the department of investment and public asset management (Dipam) as its members. According to sources, the panel also examined issues pertaining to the protection of interests of workers of banks which are likely to be privatised. Following a clearance from AM, it will go to the Union cabinet headed by the Prime Minister for the final nod. The government has budgeted Rs 1.75 lakh crore from stake sale in public sector companies and financial institutions, including two PSU banks and one insurance company, during the current financial year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-8
28-06-2021||Business||Cabinet ready to clear bad bank proposal with govt guarantee of Rs 31,000 crore||The Union Cabinet is likely to clear the proposal to set up a bad bank — National Asset Reconstruction Company Limited (NARCL) — with a government guarantee of about Rs 31,000 crore. Sources said the proposal, announced in the budget, could be taken up at the meeting of the council of ministers this week as the plan is to start work on the formal structures of the bank from next month. They said the actual transfer of NPAs from the banks to NARCL would take place by the end of this fiscal. Banks have reviewed 101 non-performing assets (NPAs) in the first phase and now plan to transfer 22 accounts amounting to roughly Rs 89,000 crore to the bad bank. Punjab National Bank managing director S. S. Mallikarjuna Rao has said the bank has identified stressed assets worth Rs 8,000 crore in its book for transfer to this asset reconstruction company. The PNB managing director expects the bad bank to be operational from July this year. “We are expecting everything to be put in place by June 30 and from July 1 onwards things will start functioning. The Indian Banks Association has already indicated this,” Rao added. Public sector banks together are expected to pick up a 51 per cent stake in the bad bank. Rao said that PNB shareholding will be less than 10 per cent. The bad bank was initially proposed by the Indian Banks Association, and later endorsed by the government in the budget. In her budget this year, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said an asset reconstruction company would be set up to consolidate and take over the existing stressed debt of PSU banks that will enable them to clean up their books. It will then manage and dispose of the assets to alternate investment funds and other potential investors for eventual value realisation, she added. Security receipts National Asset Reconstruction Company Ltd (NARCL) will pay up to 15 per cent of the agreed value for the loans in cash and the remaining 85 per cent would be government-guaranteed security receipts. The government guarantee would be invoked if there is loss against the threshold value.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-8
28-06-2021||Business||Borrow wisely: Options to consider for borrowing in pandemic-affected times||Ongoing economic and pandemic-related challenges have pushed household finances to the brink for many. Many have had to dip into savings to meet ends; many others have had to borrow. Borrowing is relatively straightforward for the privileged few whose incomes have been stable through the pandemic. The borrower’s financial stability assures lenders that their loans will be repaid on time. But for those without stable income or a good credit history, opening a new line of credit is relatively tougher. The income instability signals to lenders that you may struggle with your repayment, and the weak credit history says you’ve had problems with loan payments before. A stable income and a good credit score allow you to borrow at low interest rates. If you don’t have these, you could still borrow — but the rules of the game change. Here are some options you could consider as you look to borrow in these pandemic-affected times. Personal loans These are term loans without any collateral or guarantees, typically given to borrowers with steady incomes and good credit scores upwards of 750. The bank where you have your salary account has most likely already created a pre-approved offer for you. You could contact the bank, access your netbanking website or app, or check loan aggregator platforms to know about your pre-approved offers. You’ll need to meet the lender’s eligibility criteria such as stable income through salary or pension above a defined limit (for example Rs 30,000 a month). If your credit score is low, you could still get a personal loan. However, your may have to pay a much higher rate of interest. Covid loans Several public sector banks have created unsecured loans for customers looking for liquidity to deal with their Covid-related problems. One large government bank has, for example, announced a loan of up to Rs 5 lakh with a three-month moratorium. The repayment needs to be done in 57 months after the moratorium. The loan is given to salaried and non-salaried bank customers or pensioners who’ve had covid cases in their family after April 1, 2021. This is a collateral-free loan aimed at making it easy for Covid-impacted borrowers to meet their medical expenses. Credit card borrowings A credit card is a versatile credit line. During a financial crunch, you could meet short-term needs by shopping with your card and paying only minimum dues (normally 5 per cent of the total outstanding). Once you have liquidity, pay your dues as a lump sum. Don’t forget that the interest rate on your credit card (3-4 per cent a month) is much higher than a personal loan (typically 9-24 per cent per annum). Therefore, quick repayment is key to stop the snowballing of debt. If you don’t have a credit card but have a good credit score and stable income, you can apply for one with a preferred bank after due comparison of features. If you don’t have stable income or a good credit score, you could take a card against a fixed deposit with a spending limit of up to 90 per cent of the deposit. Home loan top-up This is a smart way of borrowing but often overlooked. If you have an ongoing home loan towards which your payments have been regular, you could approach your lender for a top-up loan. This would allow you to borrow over and above the home loan through the same loan account. The advantage? You’re borrowing from the same lender and, therefore, can avoid much paperwork. Being a secured loan, it’s also cheaper than a personal loan or credit card debt. For example, a large private lender sells home loans at 6.75 per cent and home loan top-ups at 7.60 per cent. With this, you have a single consolidated, low-cost loan that will be easier for you to manage. Loans against property Loans can be taken against fixed deposits, shares, mutual funds, gold, and immovable assets. These are typically for borrowers with unstable incomes or poor credit scores which make it tougher for them to get other kinds of loans. When the borrower provides a security, the risks to the lender reduce. If the borrower is unable to repay his dues, the lender can simply liquidate the security to recover them. Each lender, be it a bank or a non-banking financial company, has its own terms and conditions. Against gold and fixed deposits, it may be possible to get up to 90 per cent of the asset’s value as loan. With market-linked securities such as gold, mutual funds, and shares, a fall in prices would lead to an increase in the margin money requirement, which you’ll have to fulfill. With any loan — secured or unsecured — there is the obligation to repay in full. In collateralised loans such as gold loans, non-payment can lead to forfeiture of the security. Full and timely repayment would help your credit score, making future borrowings easier. A loan could meet your funding requirement and can bail you out of an emergency. However, irregular repayments could complicate matters and deteriorate your financial health. So carefully compare your options and evaluate the affordability of repayments before taking a decision. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-8
28-06-2021||India||Jammu: Alert soldiers thwart another attack by drones on Army station||A fresh attempt to target a military installation here with drones was foiled by alert soldiers even as a preliminary probe into the attack by two unmanned aerial vehicles on the nearby IAF station by terrorists hours earlier on Sunday indicated the possible use of a cocktail of chemicals including RDX in the first of its kind incident in the country. Investigators were yet to determine the flight path of the drones that dropped two bombs at the Indian Air Force(IAF) station in the early hours of Sunday, causing minor injuries to two IAF personnel, sources said on Monday, as they scanned the CCTV footage, including from cameras installed on the boundary walls of the airport. However, all the CCTV cameras focused on the roadside, the sources added. Officials said the drones that dropped the explosive material at the technical area of Jammu airport in the outskirts of the city were either flown back across the border or to some other destination during the night. The aerial distance from the Jammu airport to the international border is 14 km. The IAF attack is the first instance of suspected Pakistan-based terrorists deploying drones to strike at the country's vital installations. Punjab Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta also held a meeting with senior officials of Border Security Force (BSF) and the state police to chalk out a strategy to deal with the national security challenges posed by drones. According to central security agencies, over 300 drones and unidentified flying objects have been sighted along the sensitive border with Pakistan post the August 5, 2019 abrogation of Article 370 that granted special status to Jammu and Kashmir, even as they grappled to find a suitable technology to check these lethal sky-floaters. Army sentries at the Ratnuchak-Kaluchak military station in Jammu fired at the two drones that later disappeared, an incident that came hours after the nearby IAF station witnessed the first terror attack using quadcopters. The first drone was spotted at around 11.45 pm on Sunday followed by another at 2.40 am the next day over the military station, which was targeted by terrorists in 2002 in which 31 people were killed including 10 children. Officials said on Monday that alert Army troops fired nearly two dozen rounds in a bid to bring down the drones hovering over the Brigade headquarters of the military station. "...two separate drone activities were spotted over Ratnuchak-Kaluchak military area by alert troops," Jammu-based Army PRO Lt Col Devender Anand said in a statement here. He said a high alert was sounded immediately and Quick Reaction Teams (QRTs) engaged the drones with firing. "Both the drones flew away. A major threat was thwarted by the alertness and proactive approach of troops," he said, adding the security forces are on high alert and the search operation is in progress. The officials said the whole area outside the military station was cordoned off immediately and a massive search operation was going on when last reports were received. Nothing objectionable has been found on the ground so far, the officials said. The military station at Kaluchak has been on high alert ever since the 2002 terror attack. Military personnel, family members of Army men and civilians were among the 31 killed in the deadly attack. Forty-eight people were also injured. A day afer the attack, the IAF station continued to remain out of bounds for all but the probe teams including one from the National Investigation Agency(NIA), which picked up every bit of evidence available on the ground. Officials said the explosive material dropped by the drones might have been manufactured using a cocktail of chemicals including RDX but a final confirmation was still awaited. They said an NSG post-blast analysis team has been sent to the IAF station to examine the material. This team will share its findings with the Jammu and Kashmir police and the NIA after completing the task. The explosions took place around 1.40 am on Sunday within six minutes of each other. The first blast ripped off the roof of a single-storey building at the technical area of the airport manned by the IAF in Satwari area on the outskirts of the city. The second one was on the ground. The investigations are going on but the teams are still clueless about the path taken by the drones before dropping the bombs, sources said. Various probe agencies and senior officers of the army, police and other security agencies visited the IAF station for the second day on Monday, while the Army's Quick Reaction Teams were seen patrolling the areas outside the base at regular intervals. J&K Director General of Police Dilbag Singh has termed the incident a "terror act" and said the police and other agencies were working with the IAF officials to unravel the plan behind the attack. Vehicular movement recorded around the site of the attack at the time when the drones dropped the explosive material was also being scrutinised minutely, officials said. Drones cannot be detected by radars deployed at border areas to monitor enemy activity, they said, suggesting that a different radar system that can detect drones as small as a bird be installed. Jammu airport is a civil airport with the runway and the ATC (air traffic control) under the IAF. The Jammu and Kashmir Police has registered an FIR under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, officials said, indicating that the case is likely to be taken over by the NIA. A Border Security Force(BSF) official said Indian habitations and important bases all along the Pakistan border are the most vulnerable when it comes to attacks by a single or a swarm of drones. This is because, the official said, infiltration has become very tough due to the effective domination by security forces in anticipation of the terrorist designs post August, 2019, regular unearthing and plugging of the under-ground tunnels and a ceasefire recently agreed upon by the two neighbouring countries. In October 2019, the Union Civil Aviation ministry had issued a policy document primarily to deal with possible security challenges from rogue drones to key installations like nuclear power plants and military bases. Titled 'National Counter Rogue Drones Guidelines', the document said it was a matter of concern that small drones were proliferating at a rate that has alarmed battlefield commanders and planners alike. "The utilisation of armed drones by extremist groups to carry out reconnaissance and targeting strategic Israeli installations during Israel-Lebanon war is an example of escalation of terrorist and insurgent drone capabilities," according to the document.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-25
28-06-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh: BSP pulls out of zila panchayat chairpersons' elections||BSP president Mayawati on Monday said her party will not contest the zila panchayat chairpersons' elections so that it can focus on next year's assembly polls, drawing accusations from the Congress that she is pulling out to help the ruling BJP.  She said people wanted the Bahujan Samaj Party to form the government next year --- and it will go to the polls with the slogan that Uttar Pradesh must be saved .  Instead of contesting the zila parishad chairmen's elections, the party has decided to channelize its efforts on strengthening the organisation and expanding its base, Mayawati told reporters.  At the same time, she said her party would have fought the zila chairpersons' elections if they were being held in a fair manner.  Polling for the district panchayat chiefs in Uttar Pradesh will take place on July 3. About 3,000 recently elected district panchayat members across UP will vote for these posts.  Mayawati's decision prompted a sharp response from the Uttar Pradesh Congress.  "The statement by Mayawati that her party will not contest the zila panchayat chairmen's elections makes it clear that whenever she has to help the BJP, she pulls back from contesting the polls," UP Congress spokesperson Ashok Singh tweeted in Hindi.  But Mayawati claimed that once the BSP forms its government in the state, the majority of the zila panchayat chairmen will themselves join her party as they cannot function without power .  We have kept this fact in mind and so decided not to contest the election," she said.  Alleging misuse of state machinery in the panchayat polls, she said the BJP is using the same tactics deployed by the earlier Samajwadi Party government.  "I also want to make it clear that if we were sure that these elections will be impartial, then the party would have fought them and at many places the BSP candidates would have won," she said.  The former chief minister claimed that during the BSP government's term there had never been a fraud in the big or small elections so that people kept faith in democracy.  She asked BSP workers to be wary of wary of rival parties tactics .  Mayawati charged that these parties are acting according to a conspiracy and spreading rumours that the BSP is not as actively preparing for the assembly polls as it should.  She alleged that this was being done to demotivate BSP workers.  Mayawati said she has been in Lucknow since the first coronavirus wave subsided, holding regular meetings to strengthen the party at every level.  But unlike other parties, I don't invite the media to show what all is being done. Meetings with party men of other states are also being held. The media, which is a strong pillar of democracy, should also not underestimate the BSP," she added.  The Samajwadi Party has alleged that BJP workers prevented its candidates from filing nominations for the June 3 elections. The SP also sacked at least 11 district-level leaders, suggesting that they colluded with the BJP||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-25
28-06-2021||India||Maharashtra reports 6,727 fresh Covid-19 positive cases, 101 fatalities||Maharashtra on Monday reported 6,727 fresh coronavirus positive cases and 101 fatalities, taking the tally of infections to 60,43,548 and the toll to 1,21,573, the state Health department said. A total of 10,812 patients were discharged during the day, which raised the count of recoveries in Maharashtra to 58,00,925, leaving the state with 1,17,874 active cases, it said. Maharashtra's case recovery rate now stands at 95.99 per cent while the fatality rate is 2.01 per cent, as per the department. Currently, 6,15,839 people are in home quarantine and 4,245 others are in institutional quarantine. Wardha district in east Maharashtra didn't report a single COVID-19 case during the day. Mumbai reported 611 fresh cases and 18 deaths, taking the overall count of infections to 7,20,960 and the toll to 15,414, the department said. Mumbai division saw 1,578 fresh infections and 28 fatalities, taking the overall count of cases to 15,91,447 and the toll to 31,990. Nashik division reported 510 cases including 221 from Ahmednagar district and 176 from the Nashik district. Pune division reported 1,429 cases including 479 in Satara and 375 in Pune district. Kolhapur division saw 2,750 new infections including 917 in the Kolhapur district and 605 in the Sangli district, as per the department. Aurangabad division added 106 fresh cases, Latur division 193, Akola division 102, while the Nagpur division added 59 infections during the day. With 1,66,163 new tests, the total number of samples tested so far in Maharashtra went up to 4,12,08,361. The COVID-19 tally in Maharashtra is: Positive cases 60,43,548, deaths 1,21,573, recoveries 58,00,925, total tests 4,12,08,361, active cases 1,17,874, tests today 1,66,163.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-25
28-06-2021||India||Supreme Court refuses to entertain plea against overcharging for cremations, ambulances||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to entertain a plea raising issues of alleged overcharging for cremations, burials as also ambulance services during the Covid-19 pandemic and seeking a direction to the Centre to consider formulating a policy to protect the rights of the dead. The plea, which had referred to the reports about several bodies found floating in the river Ganga during the pandemic, came up for hearing before a bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Hemant Gupta. The bench said the petitioner, a Delhi-based NGO trust, has referred in the plea about recommendations of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on the issue. The apex court said that petitioner can approach the NHRC. The plea, filed through advocate Jose Abraham, had said the Centre should be directed to advise all the states and Union Territories to frame guidelines prescribing rates for cremation or burial of those who have died due to the virus and also for ambulance services along with penal actions for non-compliance at the earliest. It is deeply depressing to see people putting bodies of their beloved ones in rivers like Ganga due to lack of money, it said. It is primarily due to exorbitant amounts asked for cremation and ambulance services that scores of people decided to put the bodies of their beloved in the river Ganga, it said. It also said that NHRC had issued an advisory last month for upholding the dignity and protecting the rights of the dead. The plea had alleged that no cogent action has been taken by the authority to tackle the issue of undue profiteering by unscrupulous caretakers at crematoriums because of which many are unable to cremate or bury their beloved. It had referred to earlier verdicts of the apex court which had said that dignity of the dead must be maintained and respected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-25
28-06-2021||India||Sofia Khan Disbursing Humanitarian Aid Amid Pandemic||The world is engulfed in chaos due to the pandemic and the situation in India is no different. An astonishing amount of social work has surfaced to help the people of our country who are crippled financially and emotionally. Sofia Khan has devoted her life to social work and her approach to battle the pandemic is turning head among the community. She is helping people desperate for medical supplies and ration by arranging these via her NGO, Sufi Humanity Foundation. She also helped many Migrant labors stuck in pandemic to send their native place with all safety gear. Sofia Khan is a multifaceted individual who does far beyond her bit to help humanity thrive. A government school teacher by profession, Sofia Khan was always an academically sound student. She was the zonal toper of the coveted School Service Commission exam and currently teaches to students. Sofia Khan achieved so many professional milestones while contributing to many social work organizations and as a general secretary, such as Udaan and National Human Rights Organization. Sofia Khan lost both of her parents at such a tender age but mustered the courage to stand tall and do social work rather than only focusing on her career. Being born and raised in Kolkata, she always has a soft corner for the people of the state. West Bengal and Orissa were caught on two devastating cyclones over the past two years and she raised awareness, funds and supplied ration and tarpaulin to help the affected seek temporary shelter while the help arrived. Her foundation distributed water to the shoreline areas where fishermen and families live. Sofia Khan has actively worked to raise the concern over shrinking oxygen supplies in the State and arranged for many oxygen cylinders as well for the needy. She says, "Medical oxygen was in short supply and there was a lot of commotion in distribution. Rather than pointing fingers, I and my team worked with the manufacturers to issue oxygen cylinders for patients gasping for breath. Our goal was to ensure hospitalization and oxygen support for the patients who need it the most and we succeeded in it by maintaining active conversation with both the patient families and hospital staff."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-25
28-06-2021||India||DarshanKumar Joshi: The story of a Technopreneur||Technopreneur DarshanKumar Joshi has made quite an impression by persisting in the face of hardship. His organisation, GraymatterOnline LLP, is one of the greatest digital marketing agencies. Aquaman, The Invisible Man, The Last of Us Part 2 and Ad Astra are just a handful of the numerous projects on which this technopreneur has collaborated. This was done largely to guarantee that a permanent dent was made in the field of entrepreneurship, or as he prefers to call it, technopreneurship. Darshan brings his creativity and vision to create the marketing experience for the production one to remember. As his career as a well-known Art-Director took him to new areas, Darshan had the opportunity to work with one of the best animators and graphic artists in the industry. DarshanKumar, a native of India's silk city, is one of those individuals admired by the younger generation. The list of accomplishments this man has amassed would be enough to make any creative person giddy. The majority of his childhood was spent succeeding in school and appreciating all sorts of visceral stimulation, such as art, music, and gastronomy. DarshanKumar is a tech expert who also lives a life that represents all of the traditional Indian principles. Keeping this in mind, he went to the University of Greenwich, one of London's most prestigious educational institutions, to learn more about the areas he was enthusiastic about. The marketing agency's goal is to bring out the best in him, which he has gathered throughout his past employment. The entertainment sector has included augmented reality, virtual reality, and machine learning in its marketing strategies. It won’t be wrong to say that he has a long way to go as a technopreneur and can shine brighter to influence the people around him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-25
28-06-2021||India||Gyms open up in Delhi after three months||The wait to hit the gym was finally over for Delhiites on Monday as gyms and yoga centres opened in the national capital after a gap of three long months. These centres were shut to check the spread of coronavirus. The Delhi government Saturday allowed them to operate at 50 per cent capacity. Gym-owners and instructors have devised plans including frequent sanitisation and slots allowing only up to 50 per cent of their establishment's capacity in accordance with the Covid guidelines. The city government has also allowed weddings at banquet, marriage halls and hotels with 50 people in attendance under the phased unlock process initiated with an improvement in the city's COVID-19 situation. Chirag Sethi, the vice president of Delhi Gym Association, said the fitness industry welcomed the opportunity to reopen while following the guidelines. Sethi, also the owner of Anytime Fitness in Malviya Nagar, said they were allowing gym members to come in about 16 slots of 50-60 people from 6 am till 9 pm. "People are excited about coming back as they have realised it's important to be healthy to fight COVID-19," Sethi told PTI. Along with segregating groups of gym-goers, Sethi has also vaccinated his staff and directed them to sanitise all the equipment frequently. "We are also giving discount offers for members who have been vaccinated. We have placed a bottle of sanitiser and a cloth next to each equipment so anyone who uses it can clean it," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-25
28-06-2021||India||Twitter drops distorted map of India||After drawing flak over displaying a distorted map of India that showed Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh as separate country, Twitter has now removed the wrong map.  The glaring distortion, which appeared on the career section of Twitter website under the header 'Tweep Life', had triggered a heavy backlash from netizens on Monday as they demanded strict action against the microblogging platform that has flouted various rules on multiple occasions in the past.  #TwitterBan was trending on Twitter with almost 17,000 tweets.  This is not the first time that Twitter has misrepresented India's map. Earlier, it had shown Leh as part of China.  The global map, which grossly misrepresented India's boundaries, was removed on late Monday evening by Twitter following social media outrage.  Sources said the government is seriously looking into the matter. In this case, since the wrong depiction is on Twitter's website, the case is not that of an 'intermediary' but of a publisher which is responsible for content.  When something is clearly wrong it has to be tackled, or consequential action will follow, they said.  Twitter -- which has an estimated 1.75 crore users in India -- has remained mum on the entire episode. Emails sent to the company did not elicit any response.  The US digital giant has been at loggerheads with the Indian government over the new social media rules. The government has confronted Twitter over deliberate defiance and failure to comply with the country's new IT rules, despite repeated reminders.  Notably, the microblogging platform has lost its legal shield as an intermediary in India, becoming liable for users posting any unlawful content.  In October last year, Twitter came under heavy criticism and faced backlash after its geotagging feature displayed "Jammu & Kashmir, People's Republic of China" in a live broadcast from Leh's Hall of Fame, a war memorial for fallen soldiers in the Union Territory of Ladakh.  India had issued a stern warning to Twitter that time, making it clear that any disrespect of the country's sovereignty and integrity is totally unacceptable.  In November, Twitter again showed Leh as part of Jammu and Kashmir instead of the Union Territory of Ladakh, following which the Centre issued a notice to the US-based company for disrespecting the territorial integrity of India by showing an incorrect map.  Twitter's apparent heavyhandedness has come under government scrutiny, given that the platform has not complied with the new IT rules, called intermediary guidelines, that mandate setting up a robust grievance redressal mechanism and appointing officers to coordinate with law enforcement.  The rules became effective from May 26 and Twitter, even after the expiry of the additional time, had not appointed the requisite officers, leading to it losing the 'safe harbour' immunity.  Even in the backdrop of heightened strained relations with the Indian government, Twitter on Friday briefly blocked IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad from accessing his account over alleged violation of US copyright law -- a move that was immediately slammed by the minister as being arbitrary and in gross violation of IT rules.  Meanwhile, Twitter's interim grievance officer for India, Dharmendra Chatur, has quit within weeks of taking over the key role.  California-based Jeremy Kessel has now been named as India's grievance redressal officer on the platform's website -- although the appointment does not meet the requirements of new IT rules that clearly mandate key officers including the grievance officer, to be resident in India.  Twitter and the government have been on a collision course on multiple issues in the past months, including during the farmers' protest and later when the microblogging platform tagged political posts of several leaders of the ruling party BJP as "manipulated media", drawing a sharp rebuke from the Centre.  Other major flashpoints included rampant proliferation of fake and harmful content against India and the platform's 'discriminatory' practices in dealing with them, as well as no action being taken on a type of coronavirus being called the 'Indian variant'.  IT Minister had earlier said that it is "astounding" that Twitter, that portrays itself as the flag bearer of free speech, chooses the path of deliberate defiance when it comes to the intermediary guidelines.  The ministry has called out Twitter on a number of occasions for attempting to dictate terms to the world's largest democracy.  "Twitter needs to stop beating around the bush and comply with the laws of the land," IT Ministry has stated in the past.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-26
28-06-2021||India||Twitter appoints US national as greivance officer amid tussle with Centre||In the midst of a battle with the government, Twitter has appointed Global Legal Policy Director Jeremy Kessel as the grievance officer for India to follow the centre's new rules for social networking websites, NDTV.com reported. The new rules, however, require an Indian resident for the role. This comes a day after the social media giant's interim grievance redressal officer in the country, appointed less than a month ago, resigned amid the firm's prolonged feud with the government. Twitter had told the Delhi High Court on May 31 it was appointing Dharmendra Chatur, partner at a law firm that represented Twitter, as the interim officer for the role. But the centre said it could not accept the appointment of outsiders to statutory posts, as a result of which Chatur resigned on Sunday. With the new rules or the so-called Intermediary Guidelines, the government aims to regulate content on social media websites that have more than 50 lakh users such as Facebook and Twitter, making them more accountable for the content. The guidelines include appointing India-based compliance executives and other conditions. Critics have raised concerns that Twitter may no longer enjoy protection against user-generated content.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-26
28-06-2021||India||Delhi oxygen row: BJP stages dharna at Jantar Mantar seeking Kejriwal's resignation||Delhi BJP leaders sat on a dharna at the Jantar Mantar here on Monday, demanding Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's resignation over his government "inflating" the city's oxygen need during the second wave of coronavirus. Leading the protest along with MPs, MLAs and office bearers of the party, Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta also said Kejriwal should be "arrested for criminal negligence". "The interim report of a Supreme Court committee has said that the Kejriwal government raised a four-time higher demand of oxygen than actual consumption that caused shortage in other states and led to deaths of Covid patients. Kejriwal himself is responsible for this and should step down from his post," Gupta said. New Delhi MP Meenakshi Lekhi alleged that Chief Minister Kejriwal raised a "false" oxygen shortage issue to "hide the failures" of his government in tackling the second wave of the virus. The ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has charged the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of "cooking up" the report and trying to blame the Delhi government on the basis of it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-26
28-06-2021||India||HC refuses to stay new IT rules regulating digital news media||The Delhi High Court on Monday refused to stay the new Information Technology rules which seek to regulate digital news media, saying it was not in agreement with the petitioners on passing such an order at this stage. Foundation for Independent Journalism, The Wire, Quint Digital Media Ltd and Pravda Media Foundation, parent company of Alt News, sought a stay on the Information technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, on the ground that a fresh notice has been issued to them to comply with the rules or else coercive action will be taken. A vacation bench of Justices C Hari Shankar and Subramonium Prasad said the notice has been issued to them only for implementation of notification on which there was no stay. "We are not in agreement with you. If you want we will pass a reasoned detailed order or if you want we can renotify it before the roster bench. You take instructions and let us know," the bench said. After taking instructions, senior advocate Nitya Ramakrishnan, representing the news portals, urged the court to list the matter on reopening of courts after vacations. The court listed the applications for stay before the roster bench on July 7. According to amended IT rules, social media and streaming companies will be required to take down contentious content quicker, appoint grievance redressal officers and assist in investigations. Meanwhile, the court issued notice and sought response of the Centre on a fresh petition by Pravda Media Foundation challenging the vires of IT Rules.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-26
28-06-2021||India||India overtakes US in total number of vaccines administered, informs govt||India has overtaken the US in the total number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered so far, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. While India launched the COVID-19 vaccination drive on January 16, and has administered over 32.36 crore doses till date, the US which started its inoculation drive on December 14, 2020 has given over 32.33 crore doses. "India achieves another milestone in COVID-19 vaccination and overtakes USA in total number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered," the ministry said.India's cumulative vaccination coverage exceeded 32.36 crores on Sunday. A total of 32,36,63,297 vaccine doses have been administered through 43,21,898 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am on Monday, the ministry said. It said 17,21,268 vaccine doses were administered in the last 24 hours. According to the data, so far 1,01,98,257 healthcare workers have taken the first dose while 72,07,617 have taken the second dose. As many as 1,74,42,767 frontline workers have received the first dose while 93,99,319 have taken the second dose.In the 18-44 age group, 8,46,51,696 individuals have taken then first dose, while 19,01,190 have received the second dose. In the 45-59 age group, 8,71,11,445 people have been administered the first dose, while 1,48,12,349 have taken the second dose. Besides, 6,75,29,713 people aged above 60 years have received the first dose, while, 2,34,08,944 have taken the second dose. The new phase of universalization of COVID-19 vaccination commenced from June 21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-26
28-06-2021||India||Jammu: Army sentry guns down suspected drone over brigade headquarters||An Army sentry opened fire on noticing a suspected drone hovering over brigade headquarters in the outskirts of Jammu in the early hours of Monday, official sources said. The drone was seen by the sentry of an Army Garrison at Kalu Chack around 3 am and he swiftly opened fire to bring it down, the sources said. They said the whole area outside the military station was cordoned off immediately and a massive search operation was going on when the last reports were received. Nothing objectionable has been found on the ground so far, the sources said. The latest incident comes barely a day after a drone, in a first-of-its kind strike, dropped two bombs at Indian Air Force (IAF) station here, causing minor injuries to two personnel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-26
28-06-2021||India||SC closes plea on trial in sexual assault case against Tarun Tejpal||The Supreme Court on Monday closed the case related to extension of time after noting that a trial court in Goa has completed the trial by rendering acquittal verdict in the sexual assault case against Tehelka magazine founder Tarun Tejpal. On May 21, a trial court of Mapusa town of Goa acquitted Tejpal, the former editor-in-chief of the Tehelka magazine, in the case where he was accused of sexually assaulting his then woman colleague in a lift of a five-star hotel in Goa in November 2013 when they were attending an event. The state has also filed an appeal in the case. The apex court, in October last year, had extended till March 31, 2021 the time for completing trial in the sexual assault case at the request of the trial judge. The Goa government had also earlier moved the top court seeking extension of time to complete the trial. "The trial is concluded, Now, no order is required (on extension)," a bench of justices Ashok Bhushan, Vineet Saran and M R Shah said while closing the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-26
28-06-2021||India||Maharashtra tightens curbs amid fear of 3rd Covid wave||Amid fears of a third wave of coronavirus and cases of its highly infectious 'Delta Plus' variant emerging in Maharashtra, the state tightened restrictions with effect from Monday, with essential shops allowed to remain open only till 4 pm on all days. Non-essential shops and establishments can remain open till 4 pm only on weekdays, as per a Maharashtra government notification issued last week which said the entire state will have 'level 3' restrictions. Restaurants are allowed to operate dine-in facility with 50 per cent capacity till 4 pm on weekdays and takeaways and home deliveries after that, according to the order. The suburban trains will operate only for medical staff and personnel engaged in essential services, while gyms and salons are allowed to remain open till 4 pm at 50 per cent capacity. The new order will impact cities like Nagpur, Thane and Pune as they had seen more relaxations than Mumbai, which continued to be under 'level 3' restrictions, despite qualifying for 'level 1' where all curbs are allowed to be lifted. The state government on Friday announced a 'state-level trigger' for imposing restrictions in administrative units irrespective of the weekly positivity rate and oxygen bed occupancy percentage. The weekly positivity rate regarding levels of restrictions will be determined on the basis of RT-PCR tests, and not rapid antigen or other tests, the state government had said while describing the 'Delta Plus' as a variant of concern. Restrictions in administrative units will remain at a level not below 3, the government had said, and also called for pushing for 70 per cent vaccination of eligible population in the state. Earlier this month, the state government had introduced a graded system of easing the lockdown-like curbs in each district, considering the COVID-19 weekly positivity rate and occupancy of oxygen beds. Districts and municipal corporations were then classified under levels 1 to 5. Accordingly, some cities and districts in the Marathwada and Vidarbha regions had lifted restrictions and some were in 'level 2'. However, last week, the Maharashtra government modified the graded system and said the entire state will have 'level 3' restrictions. District administrations have been asked to take various steps, including testing, vaccination and enforcement of COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and penalty for violators. If there is an upward trend in number of coronavirus positive cases, the district disaster management authority will impose higher-level of restrictions, the order said. Attempts must be made to achieve 70 per cent vaccination of eligible population and focus should on test, track and treat methodology to contain the spread of COVID-19, it had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-26
28-06-2021||India||SII asks govt to take up inclusion of Covishield in vaccination passport with EU||Serum Institute of India (SII) has requested the government to take up the matter of inclusion of Covishield vaccine in the EU COVID-19 Vaccination Passport with the European Union and other countries, citing this will affect students and business travellers and cause severe disruptions to the Indian and global economy. Only four vaccines -- Comirnaty of Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna, Vaxzervria by AstraZeneca-Oxford and Johnson & Johnson's Janssen -- have been approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) and only those vaccinated by these vaccines will be given vaccination passports and will be allowed to travel within the EU during the pandemic. "India has a large population. However, not including Covishield into the EU COVID-19 Vaccination Passport will not allow Covishield vaccinated people to travel to European countries and this will affect students, business travellers back and forth, and cause severe disruptions to our economy and to the global economy," a source quoted Adar C Poonawalla, CEO of SII, as having communicated in a letter to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar. Sources said referring to Poonawalla's letter, Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at SII, Prakash Kumar Singh, has also sought Jaishankar's intervention at the highest level, saying, "It will be in the national interest as well as in the interest of people at large globally if Covishield vaccine is included in the EU COVID-19 Vaccination Passport." Poonawalla in his letter is learnt to have mentioned that nearly 30 crore people have already been vaccinated with Covishield in India and it is expected that more than 50 per cent of Indian population will be protected with Covishield vaccine finally. The letter also mentions that AstraZeneca-SII Covishield has been manufactured under technology transfer from Oxford/AstraZeneca and that clinical trials of the vaccine have been conducted successfully abroad and has been approved by MHRA for emergency use approval. Poonawalla on Monday said he has taken up the issues faced by Indians who have taken the Covishield jab travelling to the European Union at highest levels and hopes to resolve them soon. "I realise that a lot of Indians who have taken Covishield are facing issues with travel to the EU, I assure everyone, I have taken this up at the highest levels and hope to resolve this matter soon, both with regulators and at a diplomatic level with countries," Poonawalla said in a tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-26
28-06-2021||India||India logs over 46,000 fresh Covid cases in a day||India saw a single day rise of 46,148 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,02,79,331, while daily fatalities were recorded below 1000, taking the total death toll to 3,96,730, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. India saw 979 fatalities due to COVID-19 in a day, the lowest in 76 days. According to the data published at 7 am, the cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country has reached 32.36 crore under Nationwide Vaccination Drive. "India achieves another milestone in COVID-19 vaccination and overtakes the USA in total number of Covid vaccine doses administered," the ministry said. The active cases declined to 5,72,994 comprising 1.89 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.80 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A net decline of 13,409 cases has been recorded in the active caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 15,70,515 tests were conducted on Sunday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 40,63,71,279. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.94 per cent. It has been less than 5 per cent for 21 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.81 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 46th consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,93,09,607, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.31 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4 and 3 crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-26
28-06-2021||India||SPO, his wife and daughter shot dead by militants in J&K||Militants shot dead a special police officer, his wife and daughter in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama district, officials said on Monday. The ultras barged into the house of SPO Fayaz Ahmad at Hariparigam in Awantipora area at around 11 pm on Sunday and opened fire on the family, the officials said. The injured were rushed to a hospital where the SPO succumbed. His wife Raja Begum and daughter Rafia also died later on. Security forces cordoned off the area and launched a search operation to track down the assailants but no arrests have been made so far, the officials said on Monday. Militants have intensified attacks on cops and security forces. While an inspector and a constable were killed in Nowgam and Eidgah areas of Srinagar last week, a civilian died in a grenade attack on security forces at Barbarshah in the heart of the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-27
28-06-2021||India||Drive in Navi Mumbai to inoculate potential super-spreaders||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation, which recently undertook a drive to vaccinate homeless persons and beggars against COVID-19, has now started a campaign to inoculate potential super-spreaders in the township, a civic official said on Monday. In the first phase of the new campaign, 250 employees of various medical stores in Navi Mumbai were administered vaccine doses at a special camp organised on Sunday, civic spokesperson Mahendra Konde told PTI. He said those working at medical stores come in contact with a large number of people, including sick persons, frequently. Hence, the NMMC undertook the special drive to protect them from the coronavirus infection, he said. In the first round, 169 men and 81 women working at medical stores in Sanpada area of Navi Mumbai were covered, the official said. NMMC Commissioner Abhijit Bangar said medical shop staffers have been risking their lives in the fight against COVID-19. "The special camp was organised to protect them from the infection," he said. He further said the NMMC will soon organise special camps for vaccinating those working in hotels/restaurants, petrol pumps, milk and other delivery persons, auto-rickshaw and taxi drivers, and those employed in theaters. The civic body has also been vaccinating workers of various quarries within the civic limits, Konde said. "Efforts are being made to ensure all Navi Mumbai citizens aged 18 and above receive at least one shot of the anti-COVID-19 vaccine by July 31," the official said. He said 78 vaccination centers are currently operational in the township for citizens. A mass awareness drive highlighting the need for vaccination has also been undertaken, he said, adding that volunteers who are part of the campaign are given Rs 10 as special allowance for each person they reach out to, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-27
28-06-2021||India||Fire breaks out in room in AIIMS||A fire broke out in a room adjacent to the operation theatre of Emergency Department in AIIMS here on Monday morning, Delhi Fire Service said. No one was injured, they said. A call was received at 5.04 am about a blaze in the operation theatre (OT) of Emergency Department and seven fire tenders were rushed to AIIMS, Delhi Fire Service Director Atul Garg said. The fire was brought under control very quickly, he said, adding it broke out in the store room adjacent to the OT. According to police, a PCR call was received at Hauz Khas police station at around 5.15 am about the blaze and on reaching AIIMS, sparking and smoke was observed in a dummy room near the casualty area. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said, "All the patients in the vicinity were evacuated. Seven fire brigade vehicles reached at the spot and extinguished the fire." The situation is now normal and under control, and there is neither any casualty nor any injury to any person, he said. Casualty area has been reopened for patients, the police said, adding an investigation is underway to ascertain the exact cause of the blaze. Another minor blaze was reported at Safdarjung hospital, fire officials said. A call was received at 7.58 am about a fire near the canteen area of the hospital. Three fire tenders were rushed to the spot, said Garg. The fire broke out in an underground cable. It was brought under control very quickly and no injuries were reported, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-27
28-06-2021||India||Ex-VC killed over Rs 100 by intruder in Odisha’s Jharsuguda district||An 83-year-old former vice-chancellor was axed to death at his home by a suspected drunk intruder who demanded Rs 100 from the octogenarian’s wife in Odisha’s Jharsuguda district on Sunday afternoon. The victim has been identified as Dhruva Raj Naik, 83, former vice-chancellor of Sambalpur University. Prabin Dharua, 20, the suspect, has been detained. The accused belongs to Naik’s village Kuanrmal in Jharsuguda, Odisha, about 340km from here. Naik’s son-in-law Sapan Kumar told local reporters: “The accused barged into the house in an inebriated condition at 11.30am and demanded Rs 100. He had an argument with my mother in-law. Hearing the noise, others and I rushed to the spot following which he started retreating.  At that point, my father-in-law, who had gone to the market, entered the house, confronted the accused and threatened to call the police.” Dharua started retreating and Naik followed him to the gate, which he wanted to lock up to stop trespassers like him. “But suddenly Dharua, who was carrying an axe, attacked Naik with it. The accused fled leaving him bleeding profusely,” the relative said. Naik was rushed to hospital where he was declared dead. Family members said there was previous enmity between the accused and Naik. Jharsuguda SP Bikash Chandra Das told The Telegraph: “There was a heated argument between Naik and the accused. Naik was furious as the accused had entered his bedroom. We have arrested the accused from a nearbyforest.” Naik started out as a lecturer in 1962 and retired in 1998. Later, he was appointed as the vice-chancellor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-27
28-06-2021||India||Low-intensity blasts hit IAF station at Jammu airport||The heavily guarded Indian Air Force Station at Jammu airport was hit early on Sunday by two low-intensity blasts that police suspect were the first drone attacks on Indian soil and had been carried out by militants. The air force had not till Sunday night confirmed the use of drones. The IAF said two of its officials were injured but no equipment was damaged in the attack, which appears to have shaken the country’s security establishment and led to calls for a revamp of the security infrastructure at key installations. Police sources said one of the blasts occurred at 1.47am and ripped off the roof of a building in the IAF station’s technical area, injuring two officials. The other blast took place minutes later on open ground, reportedly causing no damage. Police and intelligence officials said the intended targets seemed to have been Mi17 helicopters and transport aircraft parked at the airport as well as air traffic control, but they had escaped unharmed. One bomb, however, landed not far from the ATC, operated by the air force. Police officers said the remnants of drones had been found, implying that remotely operated unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) had been turned into improvised explosive devices to target the installation. Former director-general of Jammu and Kashmir police S.P. Vaid said the attack had “added a new dimension” to the threat to India, and steps must be taken to protect “from the air” installations that are “protected from the ground”. Investigations — led by the National Investigation Agency with the participation of the IAF, police and others   — are on to ascertain whether the purported drones had been launched from across the Pakistan border, which is 15km away, or from nearby areas on the Indian side. The blasts took place hours before defence minister Rajnath Singh and the army chief, General M.M. Naravane, began a visit to neighbouring Ladakh. The attack came three days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi held talks with Kashmir leaders in the first outreach since the special status was revoked. Jammu airport is a dual-use facility that is under the air force’s control but operates passenger flights. Officials said there was no disruption in flight operations because of the explosions. Jammu and Kashmir DGP Dilbag Singh said it was a terror attack and later told agencies that drones with payloads were suspected to have been used. A PTI report said investigators had scanned footage from security cameras installed on the airport’s boundary walls to try and determine where the drones had come from, but the cameras were all focused on the roadside. Sources in the security establishment said the armed forces had already procured some kind of anti-drone technology and were in the process of getting anti-drone systems in large numbers from Israel. The technologies include radio-frequency jammers that can sever communications between drones and their handlers. The police said an FIR had been registered under the anti-terror Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The NIA has taken over the probe. Drones had earlier too been used in Jammu and Kashmir but for allegedly dropping weapons, not to carry out blasts. Additional reporting by Imran Ahmed Siddiqui from New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-27
28-06-2021||India||Vaccine: Alarming gap in available and ordered doses||An affidavit filed by the Centre in the Supreme Court suggests it has ordered 346 million Covid-19 vaccine doses for delivery up to July 2021 and received another 10 million doses from a global facility, the total still over 30 per cent lower than the projected available 516 million doses. One possible explanation for the gap between the 516 million doses projected as available until July and the 346 million actually ordered by the Centre and the 10 million received from Covax might be that the balance doses were ordered by the states and private hospitals between May 1 and June 20. Private hospitals could directly place orders till June 20. An email query sent to the health ministry by this newspaper seeking a clarification on the gap between the projected available doses and the supplies received has not evoked a response. In the new policy that kicked in from June 21, the Centre has said 25 per cent of vaccines will be set aside for the private sector but the procurement will be facilitated by the government. If indeed the gap between 516 million projected available doses and  356 million ordered and received doses till  July is accounted for by orders placed by states and private hospitals, little seems to be amiss legally. But perception-wise, any confirmation that a part of such a huge quantity of doses — 160 million or 16 crore — was diverted to the private sector could escalate a political storm, especially when a Rajya Sabha MP and an academic have approached the Supreme Court challenging the Narendra Modi government’s vaccine private quota policy. If the quantity given to the private sector is minimal, the Centre would find it easier to weather any questions linked to this particular affidavit. But since the gap figure of 160 million doses or 30 per cent in just less than two months (May 1 to June 20) is closer to the 25 per cent quota in the new policy, it is also an indication of the quantities the private sector will be handling if the quota remains intact. The doses dispensed by the private sector are far more expensive than the government-administered ones. On June 8, a government table had indicated around 180 million or 18 crore doses would be procured by the states and the private sector till July. But it did not draw too much attention until the matter reached the court. Anecdotal evidence so far suggests most of the doses would have been procured by the state governments and on payment till June 20, which will again bring under stress the Centre’s boast of “free vaccination”. The June 26 affidavit, in a section describing future availability of vaccines, says the Centre has procured 346 million doses and an additional 10 million doses has been received from Covax, an international mechanism for the supply of vaccines. Apart from these supplies, the health ministry document says, it is expected that around 160 million doses “will also be available” from May through July 2021. This would raise the total available doses from January through July to 516 million doses. But in another section describing funds utilisation, supply timelines and supply status, the affidavit shows that the Centre has through three purchase orders, the last one dated May 5, ordered 346 million doses for delivery from January to July 2021. And that the supplies from a fourth purchase order on June 5 for 440 million doses (250 million doses of Covishield and 190 million doses of Covaxin) are expected to start in August. The affidavit also says the Centre had until June 12 received 221 million doses in five months since mid-January, with 75 million doses of Covishield and 50 million doses of Covaxin expected to be received through July that would take the total to 346 million. Experts said the supplies shown appear inconsistent with the Serum Institute’s production capacity of 65 million Covishield doses per month and Bharat Biotech’s 20 million doses per month described in an earlier affidavit filed by the health ministry. At a production capacity of 85 million doses per month, the country’s vaccination campaign should have had access to 255 million doses in just three months, instead of 221 million doses in five months. Spokespersons for Serum and Bharat had said earlier this year that both companies had stockpiled doses prior to the vaccination campaign. A Serum spokesperson had said it has stockpiled 50 million doses and could provide 100 million doses a month by March while a Bharat Biotech spokesperson said it stockpiled 20 million doses and could supply 120 million doses by July. “The numbers in the new affidavit suggest that the actual supplies have not been in line with claimed production capacity,” said R. Ramakumar, professor of development studies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai, who had earlier raised questions about vaccine supplies. Ramakumar is one of the petitioners in the Supreme Court against the vaccine private quota policy. The June 26 affidavit says 1,350 million doses (500 million Covishield, 400 million Covaxin, 100 million Sputnik V and 350 million doses of two new vaccines yet to be approved) are expected to become available from August through December. Senior health officials have said the Centre is hoping to procure sufficient doses to vaccinate by the end of the year nearly all of the estimated 930 to 940 million people, 18 years or older, eligible for vaccination. This would require 1,860 million to 1,880 million doses. The vaccination campaign had until Sunday administered more than 321 million doses. Nearly 56.6 million people (about 6 per cent of an estimated eligible 940 million) have received both doses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-27
28-06-2021||India||Tamil Nadu: ‘Union govt’ reference angers Centre-struck state BJP unit||Does calling a spade a hoe blunt its edge? The Tamil Nadu BJP is in uproar because the new DMK government has been referring to the Government of India as “ondriya arasu” (Union government) instead of the conventional “mathiya arasu” (central government) in all official communication. William Shakespeare would surely not have objected if he knew Tamil, since both terms refer to the same entity and are interchangeable in common parlance. But to the state BJP, the change of wording does not smell so good. The DMK has explained that “Union government” emphasises the federal nature of the Indian Union while “central government” inspires visions of “over-centralisation” — of a concentration of all power in one entity. It’s precisely this that’s got the BJP’s goat. The party has attributed the change of phraseology to sinister “motives” of “demeaning” the Government of India and passed a resolution condemning it at a meeting attended by Union minister of state V.K. Singh. Party hardliner Karu Nagarajan has threatened to move court while senior functionaries such as state unit general secretary K.T. Raghavan have trained their guns on chief minister M.K. Stalin. They have claimed that Stalin’s predecessors in the DMK, such as his father M. Karunanidhi or party founder C.N. Annadurai, did not use “Union government” to refer to the government in Lutyens Delhi. An unruffled Stalin replied to the charges in the Assembly on Wednesday, saying: “Some are trying to portray the use of ‘ondriya arasu’ by us as some kind of a social crime. It is not so. Our usage is legal and perfectly in accordance with the letter and spirit of the Indian Constitution.” Stalin underlined that “India that is Bharat shall be a Union of States” is the very first line in the Preamble to the Constitution.“We are using the words (‘Union government’) precisely in that sense and not as something that is not there in the Constitution,” he said. He denied that the usage was a departure from past DMK practice. “The DMK had used the term ‘Indian Union’ in its very first election manifesto in 1957 to refer to the Government of India,” Stalin said. The Government of India is not known to refer to itself as “Union government” in its orders or communications, using mostly “Government of India” but also “Union of India” in legal contexts and “Republic of India” in foreign affairs. Stalin’s reply did not end the controversy. Two days later, the state BJP’s executive committee met and passed a resolution accusing the DMK of “demeaning the central government” by referring to it as “Union government”. “The BJP considers that while there is no crime in saying ‘Union government’, there is some other intention behind the DMK’s use of that term,” the resolution added. Observers suggested the BJP’s stand reflected the RSS notion of India as “one entity” from Kashmir to Kanyakumari, with the states having been formed only for “administrative purposes”. A retired bureaucrat in Calcutta drew a parallel with the decision by the framers of the Constitution to drop the use of “province” — as was the practice under British rule — for “state”. He said the Founding Fathers believed that “province” connoted remoteness from the centre of things and denigrated the states’ sovereignty, picturing them as mere administrative divisions whose powers could be taken away at will. The veteran civil servant, who did not wish to be quoted, added that in its communications with the Bengal administration, the Government of India “more often than not” referred to itself as “central government”. Some observers suggested that the BJP’s anger stemmed partly from a longstanding perception among some that any emphasis by the DMK on the states’ powers or autonomy was imbued with a desire for “secession”. However, the DMK had under Annadurai given up its “Dravida Nadu” demand way back in 1962 following the Chinese aggression and fully supported the war efforts of the then Congress government in Delhi. In his Assembly reply, Stalin cited a speech Annadurai had delivered in the Rajya Sabha in December 1963 (during the debate on the Constitution’s 16th Amendment Bill that sought to ban political parties advocating secession from contesting elections) that had made the DMK’s position on Centre-state relations clear. Quoting from Annadurai’s speech, Stalin said: “The Preamble to the Constitution says that the political sovereignty rests with the people. Then ‘legal sovereignty’ is divided between the federal union and the constituent units (states).” Annadurai had stressed in his speech that the framers of the Constitution “wanted a federal structure and not a unitary structure”. Stalin also recalled the words of the late C. Rajagopalachari, the only Indian to hold the post of governor-general and who later became a minister in Jawaharlal Nehru’s cabinet, that “true federalism” would become a reality only when the “enormous powers concentrated at the Centre” were diluted. “There is nothing illegal in our use of the term ‘ondriya arasu’ and there need be no hue and cry about it,” Stalin said. He said the expression succinctly captured the “federal” spirit of the Constitution and emphasised his government would “continue to use it”. Additional reporting by our Bengal bureau||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-27
28-06-2021||India||Covid: Lockdown turns Odisha bus owner into vegetable seller||Panchanan Sahu, a 42-year-old bus owner from Kandhamal with a fleet of five minibuses, now sells vegetables with the pandemic having frozen the transport business. Sahu said one of his problems was that while his income from his buses had plummeted to zero, he still had to pay the insurance premium and permit fee — both of them hiked during the pandemic — and road tax. “Most of my 20 employees have left, their dues unpaid. Only five have stayed on, selling vegetables with me and looking after the buses, which are in poor condition,” Sahu told The Telegraph. “Whatever the earning from selling vegetables, I share with them.” Sahu, whose buses plied within Kandhamal district, said he had started his transport business with loans in 2004. “Within 15 years, I had bought five buses for myself and two for my brother. But things began getting complicated with the hike in insurance premium and the prices of fuel, tyres and other bus parts,” he said. “Still I managed to remain afloat. But the pandemic has spelt doom for the transport business.” Sahu fears that even if the government lifts the lockdown on July 1, as expected, he might not be able to run his buses. “None of the buses are in fit condition. Their tyres, batteries and engines are damaged from prolonged non-use. It will take Rs 40,000 to Rs 50,000 to get even one bus roadworthy,” he said. “I have survived the past one year selling vegetables. Now I shall have to take a loan to have the buses repaired.” During the last 15 months, Sahu’s buses have run only from October 2020 to April 2021, that too at half capacity. Another bus owner from Kandhamal, Tulu Patnaik, 56, said: “Panchanan Babu is young and started his career as a support staff member in a bus. He may be selling vegetables for a living but that’s not possible for everyone. I, at least, cannot do it. Age is a factor.” Patnaik too complained that apart from the lockdown, the high insurance premiums and permit fees and the rising fuel prices have “made life miserable for a bus owner”. Debasis Nayak, a senior member of the All Odisha Bus Owners’ Association, said: “Bus owners have begun evading their own staff because they can’t pay salaries. Many bus owners have failed to pay their EMIs for their new buses, which come to at least Rs 30,000 a month. Sometimes it crosses Rs 1 lakh.” Nayak, whose transport business is based in Bhubaneswar, added: “Besides, the road tax varies between Rs 10,000 and Rs 20,000 depending on the nature of the bus. Insurance money is another headache for a bus owner. You can’t imagine how the bus owners, especially those from lower-middle-class backgrounds, have survived in these times.” The government should give Odisha’s nearly 14,000 bus owners “a consolidated amount of Rs 1 lakh as interest-free loan which can be repaid in a year”, said the general secretary of the association, Debendra Kumar Sahoo, a bus owner from Cuttack. Sahoo said the government should also exempt bus owners from paying road taxes at least for the period between July and September this year. Prodded by the association, the Odisha government has written to the Centre asking that bus owners’ EMIs on bank loans be deferred by a year. Transport minister Padmanabha Behera said the state had also sought an interest waiver on bus owners’ bank loans for the period between April and June this year. “We have further requested that their insurance coverage be extended without the payment of any extra premium,” Behera said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-27
28-06-2021||India||Mumbai Samachar, India's oldest newspaper, turns 200 ||In the heart of south Mumbai's heritage Fort precinct, a bright red building houses the unassuming offices of an enduring institution that will soon turn 200 -- Gujarati daily Mumbai Samachar'.  Still going strong despite reverses in the print media industry the last few years, Mumbai Samachar will celebrate its 200th year on July 1 after seeing through two pandemics, two world wars, and the growth of a city thriving in myriad avatars, from a textile and mercantile hub to a buzzing financial and film industry capital.  Mumbai Samachar's director Hormusji Cama says that 20 years ago the newspaper conducted research and found that it is the oldest surviving publication in India and the fourth oldest in the world.  Bombay Samachar (as it was called then) started as a weekly in 1822 to primarily inform the readers about ship movements and commodities, and gradually evolved into a true city newspaper with a focus on trade that it is today.  Fardunjee Marzban, a Parsi scholar, started the publication four years after the Bengali newspaper Samachar Darpan was launched, to become the second non-English newspaper published in India. Then named Moombina Samachar, it was a weekly for the first 10 years, then a bi-weekly and has been a daily newspaper since 1855.  The paper exchanged several hands before the Cama family took over in 1933.  Cama Norton and Co. was a supplier of newsprint and ink to Mumbai Samachar, then owned by the Belgaumwala family. The Camas had approached the court against non-payment of arrears by Belgaumwalas and sought liquidation proceedings. The court instead asked Camas to take over the newspaper and salvage it, citing the livelihoods of employees that would be lost if the paper were to shut down. The Camas agreed.  Since then the publication has steadily grown and today it boasts of the most advanced technologies available in the field of publishing.  Cama, its present director and a passionate vintage car collector, insists that placing the reader in the centre is the key to the newspaper's success.  As long as your content is in demand, you will be around, he told PTI.  A variety of factors led the newspaper to increase its cover price to Rs 10 per copy Cama quips it is not just the oldest newspaper but also one of the most expensive in the middle of the coronavirus pandemic. But it continues to be supported by a loyal readership despite a dip in circulation that used to be 1.5 lakh before the pandemic.  Even with the fall in circulation, the newspaper is among the few which delivered profits in the fiscal year 2020-21, said Cama, who is also a director on the Board of The Press Trust of India, a not-for-profit private news cooperative.  (PTI is owned by several newspaper shareholders, who do not receive any dividends from the company's profits, as their purpose is to ensure that the country has a thriving, independent, neutral news agency that can serve all media organisations).  To limit the impact of the coronavirus pandemic, Mumbai Samachar increased the cover price by Rs 2, reduced the number of pages and imposed cost control measures like a salary cut for senior management and no emoluments at all for those at the top to ensure that the business thrives, Cama said. He added that not a single staffer of the family of 150 people was retrenched.  We do not believe in retrenching people at all. People who have given us the prime of their lives cannot be asked to go because of things beyond their control like technology changes. We train them, and they adapt, says the proud director.  The Cama family believes in giving complete freedom to the editors. Cama desists from speaking on editorial strategies, directing queries on such matters to editor Nilesh Dave. The newspaper has always been apolitical, believing in constructive criticism and focusing on positivity, Cama says.  The newspaper has never been sensationalist in its coverage, Cama says, ruing the tendency among some journalists to embellish news stories for grabbing attention. When told that the bright red exteriors may lead someone to assume that it is a fiery newspaper's office, Cama points out that the name of the building is Red House' and it cannot be coated in any other colour.  Seated in the ground floor newsroom, Dave says he has never received a single call from the management with any request. Despite the Gujarati readership, which tends to favour the current government, the paper's editorials are critical of some government policies as well, he says.  Its ability to continue doing so may lie in a decision the Cama family took long ago and has followed diligently. The proprietors do not have any other business interests beyond the newspaper, and this helps ensure the newspaper's independence is never compromised.  The strategy to make the reader pay for content Cama says the reader should not value it less than a cutting chai' (Mumbai lingo for half a portion of tea mostly served in a special kind of glass instead of a cup) acts as a safety valve.  Cama says Mumbai Samachar has never sold space to quacks or those making dubious claims like curing COVID-19, while Dave says the space devoted to ads stays within 20 per cent.  In the last few years, with regional language publications coming under pressure, Mumbai Samachar has started initiatives to grow its Gujarati readership and keep Gujarati theatre thriving, Dave says. He adds that such initiatives were a major driving factor for a 35 per cent growth in the newspaper's circulation in the pre-pandemic days.  The other initiatives include holding Gujarati book fairs, which have led to the sale of titles worth over Rs 4 crore till now, Dave says.  The newspaper had planned a mega event to commemorate the 200th anniversary, but such a celebration was not possible amid the second wave of the pandemic, Dave said. Other initiatives, especially the unsung heroes' project will continue and to mark the special anniversary, Mumbai Samachar will felicitate health workers for their stellar services in the pandemic.  Asked about the broad changes the newspaper has outlined for its new century, Cama says, We are not very ambitious and our set of values have worked well for us till now. We will continue on the same path that has made Mumbai Samachar what it is.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-27
28-06-2021||India||India-China: Rajnath Singh in Ladakh amid Beijing build-up||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday met the military leadership in Ladakh amid massive Chinese build-up at the remaining friction points inside India-claimed lines along the Line of Actual Control. Accompanied by army chief General M.M. Naravane, Rajnath arrived in Ladakh to take stock of India’s military preparedness in the region in the wake of the border standoff with China that started in May last year. Rajnath’s visit comes at a time China is said to be resisting the Indian demand for the restoration of status quo ante. The Chinese army is reluctant to disengage from the remaining friction points — Hot Springs, Gogra and the Depsang Plains. “Leaving New Delhi for Ladakh. During my visit, I shall be interacting with the troops and attending the inaugural function of several infrastructure projects constructed by Border Roads Organisation (BRO). Looking forward to it,” Rajnath had said in a tweet earlier in the day. This is also the first visit by the defence minister to Ladakh after India and China had moved back from their positions on the lake’s north and south banks by creating a buffer zone within India-claimed lines under the disengagement process in February. Earlier this month, a ground assessment by Indian forces suggested only a “partial” disengagement by the Chinese from the Galwan Valley and the Pangong Lake. “After the partial disengagement from Pangong Lake in February, the Chinese army has now been iterating its claim that the occupied zones in the Depsang Plains, Hot Springs and Gogra is their territory. They want Indian troops to retreat further within India-claimed lines, as at the Pangong Lake and the Galwan Valley,” said a defence ministry official. Sources in the security establishment said the Chinese army had been building up considerably along the LAC over the past one year, raising tension in the region. Chinese continued to occupy areas within India-claimed lines also at Hot Springs and Gogra and the strategically crucial Depsang Plains where they were preventing Indian patrols from accessing the Line of Control. So far, 11 rounds of military talks have taken place without any breakthrough. “The defence minister is scheduled to visit various key formations and high altitude bases in the region to assess ground realities and boost the morale of the troops deployed at the LAC,” said an army official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-27
28-06-2021||India||Sangharsh Morcha proposes extra 50-day work under NREGA||A civil society group has demanded an extra 50 days’ work per person under the rural job guarantee scheme over and above the provision of up to 100 days’ work per family every year. Under the NREGA Sangharsh Morcha’s proposal, communicated in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a family with one job card holder will be entitled to 150 days’ work while one with two will get 200 days’ work and so on. The Morcha has sought the relief only for financial year 2021-22, citing the pandemic-fuelled rise in unemployment. Debmalaya Nandi, a social activist associated with the Morcha, said the government must make additional fund allocations for the scheme, implemented under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act. “The scheme’s implementation has been poor in many states because of erratic funds release by the Centre. The government must make additional allocations and increase the permissible workdays,” Nandi said. According to the job scheme’s website, more than 1.07 lakh households had exhausted their 100 days by June 14, that is, 75 days into the new financial year. Nandi said that various government and private projects had stopped or been drastically reduced in rural areas, drying up employment opportunities. He said the joblessness across sectors had increased the demand on the rural job scheme, turning it into families’ main source of livelihood. “This will continue till the start of the rabi season (in November),” Nandi said, referring to the winter when more labour-intensive crops are grown, necessitating the hiring of farm hands. In its letter, the Morcha has quoted data published by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), a private research group that surveys the job situation in the country. According to the CMIE, the monthly unemployment rate in the country in May this year was 11.9 per cent — 14.73 per cent in urban areas and 10.63 per cent in rural areas — with over 1.5 crore jobs lost that month. With businesses shut, jobs lost and salaries slashed, many people are pledging their gold savings to borrow money for essential expenditures and medical emergencies. According to the latest Reserve Bank data, loans against gold have jumped 82 per cent since March last year. Migrant labourers are struggling to find work because of local lockdowns. A survey by the Stranded Workers Action Network, a civil society group, between April 21 and May 31 found that 82 per cent of the respondents had at most two days’ rations left and 76 per cent had at most Rs 200 left with them. Swan had surveyed 1,396 workers’ groups made up of 8,023 people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-28
28-06-2021||India||Covid: Lack of supplies chokes Bihar’s vaccination drive||Jamui district, with a population of around 20 lakh, received 260 vaccine vials on Saturday. Begusarai district, where over 30 lakh people reside, got 200 vials on Friday and none on Saturday. Bihar’s vaccination drive has slowed down to a trickle because of lack of supplies, but the Nitish Kumar government that has the BJP as its dominant partner has been silent, showing nothing of the urgency the other states have been displaying while demanding increased supplies from the Centre. The majority of the 38 districts of Bihar have been getting a meagre supply of vaccines since early last week, with no consignment having arrived from the Centre in the past two days, sources in the state government said. Officials said Bihar needed to have a stock of 25 lakh vaccine doses to run its vaccination drive. They could not say how many doses were currently available as the state does not maintain an inventory, but said the stocks were “negligible”. Vaccination camps have had to be called off in many places across Bihar because of the shortage. With the number of shots administered dipping sharply, the state government discontinued its daily vaccination bulletins from Thursday. “The supply of vaccines has been decreasing over the past few days. The last batch contained just 200 vials and we could inoculate people at just a couple of places in the district. Before that, we had received 700 vials,” Begusarai civil surgeon Vinay Kumar Jha told this newspaper. Several civil surgeons fear that calling off vaccination camps or schedules would hobble the drive to inoculate all eligible people by this year-end. “There was much hesitation among people over taking Covid vaccines in the initial phases, but the momentum had picked up after we took several measures, including publicity campaigns. However, the lack of supply is impeding the flow of the drive,” Khagaria civil surgeon Ajay Kumar Singh said. Nitish had on June 21 announced a campaign to vaccinate six crore people in the state in six months. Bihar is languishing towards the bottom of the vaccination chart in terms of coverage. It has been able to administer at least one shot to just over 1.5 crore people, or around 12.5 per cent of its 12 crore population. Close to 20 per cent of India’s population has received at least one dose of Covid vaccine. Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey told The Telegraph that the supplies would “improve from tomorrow (Monday)”. “Only 10 crore vaccines were produced in June. It will go up to 17 crore in July. Naturally its availability will improve,” he said. Health department special secretary Manoj Kumar acknowledged that Bihar was facing a situation of “irregular supply of vaccines, which has created a scarcity. We are not getting them, which is why we are facing the problem.” “The Centre does not hold consultations with the states about their requirement of vaccine doses. It allots them on its own. We don’t know about its criteria. However, we have been told that the supplies will become all right from June 29,” Manoj Kumar told this newspaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-28
28-06-2021||India||Covid: Study shows Delta strain is a threat even after vaccination ||Fresh lines of evidence have amplified concerns among health researchers that the highly infectious Delta variant driving India’s second Covid-19 wave also has the capacity to cause infections in people believed protected by vaccination or by previous Covid-19 episodes. Researchers have found that the Delta variant, which now makes up over 50 per cent of sequenced viruses from new Covid-19 cases in eight states including Bengal, dominated infection clusters among vaccinated healthcare workers in three Delhi hospitals. While severe disease in fully vaccinated healthcare workers was rare, the clusters of infections among the vaccinated individuals are “concerning”, the researchers from multiple institutions in India and the UK have said in a new study. Their study has also suggested that the Delta variant has spread fast through its high transmissibility and capacity to evade immune responses and is able to dodge 20 to 55 per cent of immune protection provided by prior Covid-19 infections. Lab measurements have indicated that antibodies generated by Covishield and Covaxin, among other Covid-19 vaccines, show reduced activity against the Delta variant, but the Indian Council of Medical Research has said residual activity is strong enough for both vaccines to work against the variant. Senior ICMR officials have also underlined that vaccines work not only through antibodies but also through other arms of the immune system that can help mitigate the impact of a viral infection. The new study by researchers at the University of Cambridge, India’s National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, and collaborating hospitals in Delhi has provided fresh insights into how the Delta variant contributed to the second wave. In a set of biological experiments, the researchers also observed that the Delta variant showed increased replication in tissues designed to mimic human airway cells, a feature they believe could lead to higher viral loads and easier transmission. The Delta variant’s footprint has expanded in India alongside the second wave. The variant spread from one district in December 2020 to 52 districts by March 2021 and 174 by June, said Sujeet Singh, director of the NCDC, a lab coordinating a nationwide coronavirus genome sequencing effort. In eight states — Andhra Pradesh, Bengal, Delhi, Haryana, Kerala, Maharashtra, Punjab and Telangana — the Delta variant now makes up more than 50 per cent of viruses sequenced from samples of new Covid-19 cases, Singh said. Singh and other officials have asserted that irrespective of the variant in circulation, the response measures remain the same — early testing, treating, contact tracing, precautions such as masks and crowd avoidance, and vaccination. The India-UK researchers hypothesised that given its capacity to evade immune responses, the Delta variant might compromise vaccine efficacy and sequenced so-called breakthrough infections among vaccinated healthcare workers. In one Delhi hospital, they observed 30 Covid-19 infections among its 3,800 vaccinated staff and found on sequencing that the majority were caused by the Delta variant. They probed two other large hospitals and found the Delta variant similarly dominating infections among vaccinated staff there. Their study observed 10 infection clusters during April and May caused by Delta in inoculated healthcare workers, most of whom had been fully vaccinated with two doses. But those infected after vaccinations did not develop severe disease — none needed ventilation, only one needed oxygen. While the findings raise concerns about breakthrough infections, medical researchers not associated with the study said the absence of severe disease underlined the need for India to quickly accelerate its vaccination campaign. However, independent studies have indicated that the coronavirus is gaining strategic mutations that might allow it to escape immune responses and that vaccines would require continual redesign. The ICMR’s director-general, Balram Bhargava, said on Friday that vaccine redesign was an option, should that become necessary in the future. “If need be, the vaccine composition can be changed as per the circulating variants of concern,” Bhargava said. “That can be done easily, more easily with the mRNA vaccines (such as Pfizer or Moderna), but also with whole virion vaccines (such as Covaxin) or other vaccines.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-28
28-06-2021||West Bengal||Four members of West Bengal Bar Council claim chairman acted on his own for CJ removal||Four West Bengal Bar Council members Monday wrote to the Chief Justice of India claiming its chairman and TMC MLA Ashok Deb acted on his own in seeking the removal of Calcutta High Court Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal. Registering their dissent, the four elected members of the Bar Council jointly wrote to the CJI that the letter by Deb is "highly derisive and by no figment of imagination represents the sentiments of the majority of the bar". The letter came a day after Deb, a six-term MLA, demanded Bindal's removal on the alleged ground that he was "biased" in his approach. "The contents of the letter was neither discussed as an agenda in any meeting of the council, nor we the below members were aware about it until through some social media posts," the letter signed by Kailash Tamoli, Rabindranath Bhattacharya, Samir Paul and Mihir Das said. "The chairman has acted on his own, without consulting the elected members of the Bar Council of West Bengal," they claimed. The four alleged the June 25 letter was written by Deb to "please" the ruling party of which he is an MLA. Deb's letter to the CJI, meanwhile, came in for criticism by also the BJP, which sought to know if the move was an attempt to "browbeat the judiciary". The saffron party claimed that Deb made the demand as the high court is holding the Mamata Banerjee administration to account for alleged post-poll violence. Deb, in his letter to CJI N V Ramana, said, "We beseech your Lordship to take immediate steps for removal of Hon'ble Justice Rajesh Bindal as a Judge of Calcutta High Court. Referring to some recent matters being heard by the high court, including the assignment of Mamata Banerjee's election petition against BJP's Nandigram candidate Suvendu Adhikari to Justice Kaushik Chanda and the Narada sting tapes case, Deb alleged that the acting chief justice, who is the master of roster, is "biased". BJP national IT department chief Amit Malviya claimed in a tweet that the reasons for seeking Bindal's removal are purely political. "Just because Calcutta High Court is holding the Mamata Banerjee administration to account for the post poll violence, the CM is using Ashok Kumar Deb, TMC MLA from Budge Budge, under the garb of Bar Council to seek removal of acting Chief Justice. Bid to browbeat judiciary?" Malviya tweeted. Justice Chanda, who was assigned Banerjee's election petition, had on June 24 reserved his order on her application seeking his recusal from the case on account of his old association with the BJP. Banerjee has claimed Justice Chanda had been an active member of the BJP till his appointment as the Additional Solicitor General in 2015.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-9
28-06-2021||West Bengal||Lies and misinformation: Bengal Governor hits back after Mamata calls him 'corrupt'||In yet another face-off with Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Monday alleged he was involved in the Jain Hawala case, provoking a sharp rebuttal from the latter who accused her of propagating "lies and misinformation". Banerjee, who called Dhankhar "corrupt", also criticised him over his recent visit to North Bengal, claiming a conspiracy was being hatched to divide the region. The TMC supremo said she has written to the Centre thrice seeking his removal. Infuriated over her remarks, Dhankhar, locked in a running feud with Banerjee, rejected the accusations as a "knee-jerk reaction" to his raising questions over the contents of the speech he is supposed to read out at the start of the upcoming assembly session. "The allegations levelled by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee don't have an iota of truth. It is unfortunate that she is spreading misinformation and misinterpreting facts. It doesn't suit a chief minister to make such allegations," he told a hurriedly called press conference at Raj Bhavan. According to sources close to the two, the chief minister was livid over Dhankhar's call for a special audit of the accounts of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) and his objections to the contents of the draft speech that he is supposed to read at the start of the inaugural session of the newly elected assembly. Banerjee was also miffed at Dhankhar meeting BJP leaders in North Bengal, especially party MP John Barla, who recently demanded Union Territory status for the region. "He is a corrupt man. He was named in the charge sheet in the 1996 Jain Hawala case. Why has the central government allowed a governor like this to continue?" she told reporters. Jain Hawala Case was a huge politial and financial scandal in the 1990s in which money routed through hawala channels was claimed to have been given to top politicians across various parties. Those named included L K Advani, V C Shukla, Sharad Yadav and many more. However, the charges against them didn't stand legal scrutiny and the case fell through. Banerjee dubbed Dhankhar's visit to North Bengal a "political stunt" as he only met BJP MLAs and MPs. "Why did he suddenly tour North Bengal? I can sense a conspiracy to divide North Bengal," she alleged. Rejecting Banerjee's allegation that he was a "corrupt" man who was charge-sheeted in the Jain Hawala case, Dhankhar accused her of spreading "lies and misinformation". "The allegations levelled by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee don't have an iota of truth. It is unfortunate that she is spreading misinformation and misinterpreting facts. It doesn't suit a chief minister to make such allegations," he said. Terming Banerjee's accusations against him a "knee- jerk reaction" to his raising questions over the contents of the speech he is supposed to read out at the start of the upcoming assembly session, Dhankhar said he will not "cow before such malicious remarks" and continue to perform his constitutional duty. "She should name the charge sheet in which I was named. I was never named in any of the charge sheets in the Jain Hawala case," he said while referring to Banerjee as her "younger sister". The governor, however, mentioned the names of two TMC leaders, who were then with other parties and their names figured in the case. "Wonder how a leader of stature @MamataOfficial can level baseess and false allegations-perhaps too confident the sensation narrative would find takers in pliable media. "Allegations are categorically denied as baseless, FALSE and diversionary cover up tactics," he later tweeted. Dhankhar said, "Just 10 minutes before her press conference, I received a call from her. I had put forward some questions regarding the governor's speech. She said she has nothing to do (with the speech) as the cabinet had passed it. It seems her comment at the press conference was a knee-jerk reaction." He had raised objections to some of the contents of the governor's address last year too but later read out what was given to him by the state government. Earlier in the day, before wrapping up his week-long visit to Darjeeling, the governor alleged that GTA had turned into a "den of corruption". "I will ensure that there is a full special audit by CAG (Comptroller and Auditor General of India) of GTA accounts so that those who were on the board of administrators are made duly accountable," he had said. The sharp exchanges between the two top constitutional authorities in the state saw the Bengal BJP leadership firmly stand behind the governor and the ruling TMC accuse him of speaking "half-truths". "The governor is saying that he was not named in the charge sheet. But he is not saying that he was never named in the scam. Tomorrow, we would come out with more details. The governor should be the last person to talk about constitutional norm as it is he who has been violating it," TMC Rajya Sabha deputy leader Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said. State BJP vice-president Jaiprakash Majumdar backed Dhankhar and accused the TMC of trying to humiliate him. "The TMC, to hide its sins and corruption, is maligning the constitutional post of governor. This is unprecedented and shameful. We condemn it," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-9
28-06-2021||West Bengal||I will ensure full special audit by CAG of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration: Bengal Governor||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Monday said that he will ensure a special audit of the accounts of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), an autonomous body that looks after the development of Darjeeling hills, by the CAG, as he has received several complaints in this regard. In the complaints made by representatives of the people and others to him, the GTA was levelled as a "den of corruption" and though crores of rupees were allotted to it, there has been no matching development, the governor said. Dhankhar said that the representations he received claimed that there has been no audit in the GTA for several years. "I will ensure that there is full special audit by CAG (Comptroller and Auditor General of India) of GTA accounts so that those who were in the board of administrators are made duly accountable," he told reporters, wrapping up his week- long stay at the Darjeeling Raj Bhavan here. Dhankhar said that since 2017, there has been no elected body, terming it as "decimation of democracy". As per the Gorkhaland Territorial Act of 2011, the GTA was established for the region comprising Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Kurseong subdivisions and some mouzas of Siliguri subdivision in Darjeeling district. The GTA Sabha was constituted on August 2, 2012 with 45 elected members and five members nominated by the governor. The Hill Affairs Branch of the state government's Home and Hill Affairs Department is the nodal branch to look after the matters of the GTA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-9
28-06-2021||West Bengal||Narada case: Mamata, others file fresh pleas before Calcutta HC for submitting affidavits||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Law Minister Malay Ghatak and the state government on Monday filed fresh applications before the Calcutta High Court for submitting affidavits before it in connection with the CBI's plea for transfer of the Narada sting tapes case, as per a direction of the Supreme Court. Annulling the high court's June 9 order refusing to take reply-affidavits of the state, the chief minister and the law minister, the apex court had on June 25 asked a five-judge bench of the high court to decide afresh their pleas before making a decision on the CBI petition seeking transfer of the case. The investigating agency has sought transfer of the Narada case from the special CBI court here to the high court. The next hearing of the Narada sting tapes case in the five-judge bench headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal is scheduled on Tuesday. Following the apex court's order, the state government, the chief minister and the law minister filed fresh applications on Monday for filing affidavits. Three appeals including one by the state government were filed before the Supreme Court challenging the high court's denial for filing of affidavits by Banerjee and Ghatak in their role on the day of arrest of West Bengal ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, Trinamull Congress MLA Madan Mitra and former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee on May 17 by the CBI in the Narada sting case. In its transfer application of the Narada case from the special CBI court here to the high court, the investigating agency has made the chief minister and the law minister parties in the matter. The probe agency claimed that while the chief minister had sat on a dharna at the CBI office here soon after the arrest of the four accused, Ghatak had been present at the Banskhall Court premises during the virtual hearing of the case before the special CBI court there on May 17. The five-judge bench of the high court, comprising ACJ Bindal and justices I P Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Arijit Banerjee, had granted interim bail on May 28 to the four Narada scam accused. The special CBI court had granted them bail on May 17 itself, but the order was stayed by the high court, which remanded them to judicial custody They had been placed under house arrest on May 21 by the high court, modifying its earlier order of stay on the bail. The Narada sting operation was conducted by journalist Mathew Samuel of Narada News, a web portal, in 2014 wherein some people resembling TMC ministers, MPs and MLAs were seen receiving money from representatives of a fictitious company in lieu of favours At that time, the four arrested politicians were ministers in the Mamata Banerjee government. The sting operation was made public ahead of the 2016 assembly elections in West Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-9
28-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata calls Bengal Governor 'corrupt', asks for his removal||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday called Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar a "corrupt man" and questioned the purpose of his recent tour of North Bengal, alleging that a conspiracy was being hatched to divide the northern part of the state. "He is a corrupt man. He was named in the chargesheet in the 1996 Hawala Jain case. Why has the central government allowed a governor like this to continue?" she told reporters at the state secretariat, without elaborating. Banerjee said Dhankhar's visit to North Bengal was a political stunt as he only met MLAs and MPs of the BJP. "Why did he suddenly tour North Bengal? I can sense a conspiracy to divide North Bengal," the CM alleged. The Trinamool Congress supremo also said she has written multiple letters to the Centre for the removal of Dhankhar. "As per the Constitution, I will continue to meet him, talk to him. and follow all the courtesies... But, the union government should act based on my letters," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-9
28-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal tightens rules for private firms organising vaccination camps||The West Bengal government health department has revised procedures for private organisations running Covid vaccination centres throughout the state in the light of fake immunisation drives that were busted after a man posing as an IAS officer was arrested for organising them. A meeting was held on Monday afternoon after which the state health department came up with a fresh set of rules that have been framed to ensure that beneficiaries are not duped. Private organisations running vaccine centres would have to keep an inventory, specifying the source of the vaccines and cold chain maintenance mechanism for storing the vaccines. Besides, each organisation will have to send a daily update to Swasthya Bhawan on the number of doses being administered at the camp. A nodal officer, to be appointed by the organisation, will have to submit weekly reports to the health department on the safety and tolerability of the vaccine. A list of people who took the vaccine, either first or second dose, would have to be updated every Sundays. For running camps, permission has to be obtained from the local police station, along with an approval from the chief medical officer of health in Calcutta and district health authorities. The price of vaccines must also be displayed at the site. Clubs and private firms that want to organise vaccine camps  will have to apply to the district health authorities and also submit an agreement letter from the organisation appointed to administer the vaccines. The organisers would also have to submit a plan for post-vaccine care at the centres and submit it to the health department. Before camps become operational, health department officials will carry out an inspection. How the vaccines would be transported will also have to be shared in advance with the authorities. Ultimately, permission for running a vaccine centre would be given only after heath department officials inspecting the site are satisfied that every single norm has been adhered to. On Sunday, Swasthya Bhawan had asked for a list of all vaccination sites being run by private hospitals. Jolly Choudhuri, the nodal officer for vaccinations in the state, had pulled the plug on all outdoor camps and off-site Covid vaccination centres for Monday till the list was submitted to the health department. Police investigations into the fake vaccine camps organised by Debanjan Deb, a Calcutta resident posing as a joint commissioner of Calcutta Municipal Corporation, revealed that more than 1,500 people were administered an antibiotic, Amicacin, that was purchased in bulk from Bagri market. Deb also had a huge stash of fake labels of Covishield, a vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India. One of the vaccine camps that Deb had organised was held near the Kasba police station. Yet, police did not have a clue that fake vaccines were being administered at the camp till Trinamul MP Mimi Chakraborty raised a red flag. She received her vaccine there, but got suspicious after she did not receive a message on the Co-WIN platform to confirm her status as vaccinated. The new state government guidelines specify that organisers of all vaccination camps must use the Co-WIN web platform and the authenticated code from the app would have to be displayed prominently at the site.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-9
28-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid lockdown: Bengal announces some relaxations from July 1 ||Buses, run by both state and private operators, will be back on the streets from July 1, while gyms and salons will be allowed to open as the Bengal government decided to introduce further relaxations to lockdown curbs imposed nearly two months ago amid the second wave of the pandemic. Partial restrictions will, however, remain in effect till July 15, barely six days short of the Trinamul’s annual July 21 rally. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who announced the relaxations on Monday, said that a decision on the rally will be taken later. The state government has decided to allow 50 per cent of the bus fleet to be on the road from July 1. These will be allowed to run with 50 per cent capacity.  But train services will continue to remain suspended. In the last seven days, there were violent demonstrations in localities around Calcutta with the local residents demanding resumption of train services. While the state government had earlier allowed private offices to open for a specific number of hours, unavailability of public transport had led to resentment among people as relaxations in several sectors appeared to have been made keeping the affluent in mind _ like allowing those with private cars to go to vaccination centres. The government has also allowed salons, parlours and gyms to open with 50 per cent staff  with the condition that both the staff and customers would have to be vaccinated. It is not clear whether those who haven’t received vaccines yet will be allowed to visit parlours or gyms. So far, there has been no restriction on people visiting malls where high-end salons and parlours are located. For vegetables, fruit, fish and meat sellers, the state government has decided to keep  markets open for six hours from 6am to noon. Restrictions on movement of people after 9pm will remain into effect. While there was no fresh directive issued for private taxi and autorickshaw operators, in most part of Calcutta, three-wheelers have been operating without any check.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-9
28-06-2021||West Bengal||Deb faked his 'official status' all along, yet no one suspected a thing ||The Special Investigation Team of the Calcutta Police’s detective department has seized stamps, forged documents of various departments of the state government and the Calcutta Municipal Corporation during a raid carried out  at the residence of Debanjan Deb, who was masquerading as a civil servant while organising fake Covid vaccination camps. The search operation was carried out late on Sunday night at the Madurdah residence of the Deb’s where the accused’s father Manoranjan, a retired excise department official, is in quarantine after testing Covid positive. It is not known whether Deb’s family members too were given the fake vaccine doses in camps that he held where over 1,500 unsuspecting citizens were duped. During the raid, the police  also recovered three debit cards and bank passbooks, which are being verified. Reacting to the fake IAS officer case, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said that although the state government was in no way involved, police and  Calcutta Municipal Corporation(CMC) cannot deny their responsibility. “Those who play with people’s lives are worse than terrorists. I am surprised at his audacity. Such frauds go around clicking selfies with important people and use them elsewhere. Police and CMC cannot say they were unaware what was going on. The BJP could have provided support too,” Mamata said. Investigations have also revealed that Deb had a brush with the law in the past and a deeper probe could have helped prevent the fake camps. In March last year, the Electronics Complex police station had interrogated him after an oral complaint of  cheating during a job recruitment. The police let him go for want of enough  evidence against him. But his encounter with the police did not dampen Deb’s spirit who appears to have stepped up his nefarious activities. The Coronavirus outbreak provided Deb the opportunity to delve  into social work, distributing masks, sanitisers while interacting with top leaders of the ruling party and getting close enough with some of them to  be clicked alongside. A student of Taki House in Sealdah, Deb completed his graduation from Charuchandra College in zoology. Though he had enrolled for a post-graduate degree in genetics from Calcutta University, he never completed it. He had appeared for the civil services exam in 2014 but could not clear  it. To his parents and many others, he was a government officer who would move around in a blue beacon carrying car, with security. "When he was interrogated by the Electronics Complex police station, his parents came to know he had lied about being an IAS officer,” said a police officer. “For more than a year they knew their son was faking as a high-ranking official with the Calcutta Municipal Corporation," he said. Posing as a joint commissioner in the civic body, Deb had even carried out raids in several establishments. Some of these exploits had even made it to the pages of some Bengali dailies, along with his photographs. "In spite of  the photographs and news of  raids he was carrying out in the name of the CMC, nobody lodged any complaint against him. Either CMC officials were completely unaware, or someone had turned a blind eye,” said a police officer. During his interrogation, Deb claimed that  last year in September-October, he had taken on rent an office space from one Ashok Roy for which he paid a rent of Rs  65,000. The police are verifying his claim.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-9
28-06-2021||West Bengal||Active Covid-19 cases drop for a week in Bengal||Bengal on Sunday reported the seventh consecutive day of a drop in its total number of active Covid-19 cases, by 215 to 21,884, less than 22,000 again after June 8. The state also reported 2,022 Covid recoveries, 1,836 new infections and 29 deaths. The total of active cases had fallen till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702 from the all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21. But over 11 days till June 20, it had risen again by over 56 per cent, before starting to fall again over the week. In these seven days, there has been decline in active cases by around 5 per cent. Nearly 2.96 lakh people were vaccinated by the state on Sunday, with close to 81,000 getting fully vaccinated. “Nearly 21 per cent of the state’s population has received at least one dose of vaccine, while around 4.7 per cent of the population is fully vaccinated… this is very, very important,” said a minister, adding Bengal was ahead of the national averages of 19.9 per cent (at least one dose) and 4.2 per cent (fully vaccinated). Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent in the peak of the second wave, was 3.34 on Sunday. On Sunday, Calcutta logged 191 new infections and North 24-Parganas 206. Eleven Bengal districts logged double-digit figures of new infections, and Malda, Birbhum and Purulia single-digit figures. Bengal’s recovery rate is 97.36 per cent, while the national rate is 96.72. Of the 29 deaths reported on Sunday, six each were from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, the two worst-hit districts. Fourteen of the state’s 23 districts reported zero deaths on Sunday. “We have managed to arrest deaths in the 46-60, 61-75 and 75-plus age brackets,” the minister added. The 61-75 age bracket of the Covid infected has a mortality rate of 3.4, but nearly 7,400 (42 per cent) of total deaths. In Bengal, men accounted for around 11,900 (67.5 per cent) of all deaths.The state’s mortality rate is 1.17 per cent, while the national rate is 1.3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-10
28-06-2021||West Bengal||Three held for e-gambling with ‘links to China’ in Nadia’s Karimpur||Police arrested three youths for online gambling and cash fraud from Nadia’s Karimpur early on Sunday and seized some 800 SIM cards and several Paytm barcodes from them. The police acted on a tip-off on the syndicate allegedly involved in online gambling purportedly linked to operations in China. Sources said nearby residents had tipped off the police after becoming suspicious of the three youths who stayed in the same house. Accused Ramen Karmakar, Mujibur Sheikh and Manabendra Sarkar, in their early 30s, were produced in a court in Tehatta on Sunday and sent to five days of police custody. The police said the trio, in their early thirties, were charged with deception and forgery. The cyber crime wing of Krishnagar district police has been asked to interrogate them on the root of the racket. Police sources confirmed that during preliminary interrogations, the trio confessed to duping people of money through UPI-based interfaces including Paytm.. They also admitted to their links to online gambling associates operating from China. This prompted sleuths to call up  the cyber crime wing. “The trio also said they had cheated innocent people of their credit or debit card details and card verification values (CVV) by posing as bank officials,” said a police official. A sleuth said it could not be immediately ascertained who their victims are. “But since we noticed several cases that registered for online illegal gambling with signs pointing to Chinese links across the country in the recent past, we took the matter seriously.” A police officer from Karimpur said they were trying to find out the sum of money siphoned so far in this case and bank accounts where remittances have been deposited. “The source of the SIM cards and Paytm barcodes and how they procured those in such huge numbers are also being investigated,” he added. “It is too early to comment on their involvement. But it appears the trio has deep-rooted links (to the racket). At least the huge quantities of SIM cards and PayTM barcodes indicate so. We have taken them on remand and will begin interrogations to track the network,” said additional superintendent of police (rural) Krishanu Roy. A police officer with expertise in cyber crime said online gambling was generally done by creating secure groups on WhatsApp or Telegram. “The group admins refer to websites, on which group members can play games and place bets. To skip the surveillance of Indian authorities, domains of these sites are generally located in China and payments are routed through India-based gateways like Paytm. The benefit remittances are usually transferred to several linked bank accounts to avoid scanners of income tax,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-10
28-06-2021||West Bengal||Northeast Frontier Railway to introduce vistadome coaches to enable passengers enjoy scenery||The Northeast Frontier Railway will introduce vistadome coaches on two routes by August to enable passengers enjoy the natural beauty. According to NFR sources, trains with vistadome coaches will run on the Siliguri Junction-Sevoke-Alipurduar Junction route and the Lumding-Badarpur route in Assam. “The vistadome coaches will be added to passenger trains running between Alipurduar and Siliguri junctions. Similar coaches will be attached to trains which run along the Lumding-Badarpur route. The plan is to introduce the coaches in August provided that existing Covid-19-related restrictions are withdrawn and the situation becomes normal,” NFR chief public relations officer S.Chanda said. Railway minister Piyush Goyal had launched similar coaches on Mumbai-Pune Deccan Express special train. From the coaches, which have huge window glasses, and even a glass roof, one can enjoy the rivers, valleys, waterfalls and scenic beauty of Western Ghats during the journey. “We believe such coaches would equally attract people to travel on the two routes in the NFR zone. Passengers can enjoy the pristine forests, hills and rivers across the Dooars,” said a railway official. The Dooars tracks cut through Chapramari and Mahananda wildlife sanctuaries and the Buxa Tiger Reserve and through the fringes of Jaldapara and Gorumara forests. The NFR sources said each train would have two vistadome coaches. “The coaches will be ready in Chennai and will reach us by next month. There will be 44 seats in each coach and can revolve 180 degrees,” Chanda said. Around three years ago, the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway had launched vistadome coaches on its trains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-10
28-06-2021||West Bengal||Email scam: Professor of Kalyani University duped of Rs 90,000||A professor of Kalyani University was allegedly duped of Rs 90,000 by an email scam that used her university vice-chancellor Manas Kumar Sanyal’s name. Hindi professor Biva Kumari, a resident of Rishra, purchased 12 gift cards for Rs 7,500 each from an e-commerce site mentioned in the email. “I couldn’t imagine the email was fake....the gift cards were meant to help a children’s trust,” she said, adding she bought the cards in response to three emails. When after refusing the fourth time, she called up Sanyal to apologise, she came to know he knew nothing about it. On Sunday, she filed a complaint with Kalyani police, which was added to the original complaint lodged by registrar Debansu Ray on Saturday. Starting Saturday, many staff, students and officials said they received the email, prompting the registrar to lodge the complaint against unidentified persons. Some like Amalendu Bhunia, the dean of the arts faculty, became suspicious of the email and called up Sanyal to ask if he had indeed sent it. The university has issued a notification asking people to not respond to such emails. VC Sanyal said: “It is quite obvious that the email ID has been created with ill intentions and to malign the office of the vice-chancellor.” Kalyani police have begun a probe. Sources said investigating officials are trying to locate the internet protocol address from where the purported mail was sent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-10
28-06-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress courts Rajbanshi leader close to BJP||Trinamul is trying to win over Ananta Maharaj, a leader of the Greater Cooch Behar People’s Association (GCPA) with clout among the Rajbanshis, who has backed the BJP in recent polls, to get the influential community on its side. Trinamul leaders have started communicating with Ananta, who was living in Assam in recent years. Administrative sources said decks are being cleared to drop some old cases against him. “Senior Trinamul leader Rabindranath Ghosh met him. Then, he (Ananta) returned  home in Barogila of Chakchaka (on the outskirts of Cooch Behar town) a few days back from Assam. There is information that curbs on his bank accounts have been relaxed and there is no indication that warrants pending against him will be executed,” said a source. Ghosh, the most prominent Trinamul face in Cooch Behar, did not reveal much. “All I can say is that Ananta Maharaj is a nice person,” he said. A senior Trinamul leader in Alipurduar said this clearly indicated that Trinamul’s distance from Ananta, believed to be instrumental behind the BJP’s stellar show in north Bengal in recent Lok Sabha  and Assembly polls in Rajbanshi-dominated belts, is about to be bridged. The Rajbanshis play a key role in the outcome in half of eight parliamentary and 54 Assembly seats in north Bengal. “We got leaders like Bangshibadan Barman (leader of another faction of the GCPA) and Atul Roy (who headed the Kamtapur Progressive Party) on board while the BJP managed to get Ananta on their side. Eventually, it was found that Ananta matters more,” said a Trinamul leader in Cooch Behar, alluding to his party’s poor poll performance  in the region. That is why, though Ananta is a principal proponent of the demand of separate statehood, Trinamul wants him. Insiders say the timing is right. “Before Assembly polls, even home minister (Amit Shah) met him (Ananta)....But now, discontent is brewing as the BJP has not done anything for the Rajbanshis,” said the leader. Dilip Ghosh, the state BJP president who was in Cooch Behar on Sunday, scoffed. “We have good relations with Ananta Maharaj and he is with us,” he said. Hundreds of posters allegedly of banned Kamtapur Liberation Organisation (KLO), formed in the 1990s by some Rajbanshi youths, were found in Chopra block of North Dinajpur on Sunday. Each had a text in Rajbanshi: “In Chopra, Trinamul should stop torturing Rajbanshis, who are sons of the soil, or else we are there (KLO).” Police are trying to ascertain the authenticity of the posters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-10
28-06-2021||West Bengal||District administration takes initiative to develop community healthcare unit near Buxa fort||Residents of the tiny hamlets in and around Buxa hills of Alipurduar will finally have access to basic healthcare in their locality. For the first time, the district administration has taken the initiative to develop a community health unit near the historical Buxa fort. The unit, to be manned by paramedics and health workers, will have three beds. “The idea is to provide primary treatment to people in hilly villages that one can’t access by car. The health unit is likely to be ready by next month,” said Prashanta Barman, the BDO of Kalchini block under which the area falls. So far, the residents of these hilly hamlets carry patients in bamboo cots and trek for 10-15km to reach locations where they can put the patient in a vehicle and finally head for the district hospital in Alipurduar. “In March this year, a patient brought to the hospital was pronounced dead. The doctors that time had commented that he would have stayed alive if he had been  provided with some primary treatment. It is good that the administration has finally thought of opening a community health unit in Buxa,” said a source in the district health department. A few days back, Barman, along with Surendra Kumar Meena, the Alipurduar district magistrate, and a small team had trekked 11km across hills to reach Adma, a remote village in Buxa hills, to initiate the Covid-19 vaccination process. The Alipurduar  district administration has also decided to build a concrete gallery on the ground of Buxa fort that was used as a detention centre by the British, for tourists to sit, relax and enjoy the pristine natural beauty. Every year, hundreds of tourists, especially trekkers, visit the fort surrounded by lush green forests, with the Bhutan hills forming the background. “However, there is no proper place for them to sit and relax. That is why the gallery has been planned,” Barman, the Kalchini BDO, added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-10
28-06-2021||North East||Assam forest dept cautions as 200 egret chicks die in Udalguri district||The death of hundreds of egrets in a lower Assam town has prompted the state forest department to write to all deputy commissioners to “inform” urban and rural civic bodies in their districts to “consult” local forest officials before taking any step that may harm wildlife or any protected animals/birds. Over 200 egret chicks died after their bamboo grove habitat in ward no. 1 of Tangla town in Udalguri district was partially destroyed following an order by the Tangla Municipal Board, sparking off not only widespread condemnation of the “inhuman act” but also raising questions about the awareness level of urban and rural civic bodies when it came to protection of wildlife/bird habitats in such areas. Multiple FIRs, including two by the forest department, have been filed against municipal board executive member S. Das, who had served notices on June 8 to five residents of wards 1 and 2 to clear the bamboo groves nesting the egrets and their fledglings as their “droppings” were “creating unhygienic environment which may increase the risk of Covid-19 infection in the area”. The role of board chairman Dilip Boro is also under the scanner. Shajid Khan, a law student and a resident of ward no. 3 in Tangla, was the first to highlight the egret deaths on social media. Principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) Amit Sahai, who was directed to probe the “ unfortunate” incident, told The Telegraph that the department will be writing to all the deputy commissioners by Monday to apprise the town, municipal and panchayat bodies that they need to consult local forest officials before taking any decision regarding animal/bird habitats. Egrets are listed under Schedule IV of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. “Had the Tangla Municipal Board consulted the local forest officials, the egret deaths could have been avoided. There are ways to deal with wildlife/scheduled animals. To prevent a repeat, we will formally write to the deputy commissioners to apprise the elected civic bodies about our concern and what they need to do if a Tangla-like situation arises. All of us will have to work together to prevent a repeat,” Sahai said. Tangla forest officials are also planning to hold awareness meetings with leading citizens, NGOs and government officials on the need to protect wildlife. Conservationist Bibhab Kumar Talukdar of Guwahati told this newspaper that the recent incidents of bird deaths in Tangla and earlier in Rampur in Kamrup district reflect the need for wider awareness and orientation among the masses, including government officials, civic bodies, social and public leaders. Awareness is required because Assam is “bestowed” with diverse wildlife and many of its cities, towns and villages “still house” many species of wild animals, he said. Talukdar and other wildlife experts also questioned whether the municipal board has any proof that a bamboo grove or birds spread Covid-19. In Guwahati alone, there are more than 130 species of birds and 44 species of wild mammals, according to a study by researchers of the animal ecology and wildlife biology lab, department of zoology, Gauhati University, Talukdar said. “The misinformation sometimes spreads among masses, even servants now require wildlife and legal orientation. Dadara in Kamrup district is an important example where villagers have come forward to save hargila (greater adjutant stork) and the trees. It is not impossible to live in harmony, we need to have the right mindset,” said Talukdar, CEO of the wildlife NGO Aaranyak. According to Talukdar and Golaghat-based environmentalist Apurba Ballab Goswami, Guwahati has elephants and leopards among big mammals besides large bird colonies. One can also find bat, duck, stork, butterfly, parrot and vulture habitats. “There is an immediate need for an awareness drive among local elected bodies because they are often the first point of contact for local residents when they have a problem or a demand,” Goswami said. Altogether 88 egret chicks have been rescued and sent to the Centre for Wildlife Rehabilitation and Conservation at Kaziranga, around 460km from Tangla.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-1
28-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Wrong jab||The list of dangers that Indians have been facing during the Covid-19 crisis seems to be endless. Lives and livelihood have been lost on account of a marauding virus. It now appears that citizens are at risk even when they are purportedly receiving ‘vaccines’. In April, three elderly women in Uttar Pradesh were administered the rabies vaccine instead of the Covid shot; last month, it was discovered that around 20 people had been given different Covid vaccines for their first and second doses, even though the mixing of vaccines is disallowed in India at present. Matters have grown murkier since then. Over 2,000 people in Mumbai have been duped into taking fake Covid jabs at fraudulent vaccination camps; in Calcutta, 600-odd shots of an anti-bacterial drug were administered to people in the name of Covishield; the victims include a parliamentarian from Bengal’s ruling party. The deceit — especially the scale of it — is consistent with some of the basic problems that continue to plague public healthcare. First among these is institutional oversight. It beggars belief that fraudulent individuals and agencies have been able to get away, thus far, with such mischief-mongering during an unprecedented health crisis. In Calcutta, the accused — he has been arrested for conducting illegal vaccination centers — even had access to an emblem used by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation; a thorough investigation must be conducted to reveal whether he had any accomplices in the municipality. Profiteering could well have been the motive here and this points to the shocking erosion of morality and ethics. This only underlines the need for greater scrutiny of the veracity of vaccination camps run by voluntary organizations and self-proclaimed philanthropists and the new guidelines for off-site jab camps should have come earlier. The administration may, understandably, be stretched at a time like this but the safety of citizens cannot be left to the mercy of unscrupulous elements. The other, equally formidable, challenge concerns the skill sets of frontline workers. This point is not being made to belittle this community. Indeed, the little success that India has had in its unequal battle with the coronavirus can be attributed to the untiring services of its frontline workers, most of whom are overworked and underpaid. But as the examples of lapses certify, there is scope for better training for the personnel. This is because a slip on their part could further intensify the scourge of vaccine hesitancy among the people which, in turn, could heighten the risk of yet another deadly wave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-3
28-06-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Indian men's cricket team loses WTC, a feminist's matrimonial ad||Crushing defeat Sir — After the massive defeat in the inaugural World Test Championship match, Virat Kohli tried hard to defend the indefensible (“Not a test for the best: Kohli”, June 24). The Indian men’s cricket team is overhyped by the media and by Indian commentators. They consider Kohli to be the best batsman in the world while his approach to batting is nothing compared to the likes of Steve Smith, Kane Williamson and Devon Conway. India’s batting is as brittle as a pappadam and a far cry from the line-up that was presented by Sourav Ganguly, Rahul Dravid, Sachin Tendulkar and V.V.S. Laxman. Instant money and stardom owing to the Indian Premier League are creating a batch of cricketers who are upstarts and not dignified players who know how to keep their heads down and focus on the game. Fans are not expecting anything better in the games against England. Kalyan Ghosh,Calcutta Sir — There is no denying that Virat Kohli is one of the best batsmen in the world. He is a successful captain who has taken Indian Test cricket to great heights, triumphing over teams like South Africa, England and Australia on their home grounds. After the result of the WTC, there is talk about a change of guard. But as an ardent lover of cricket, I hope Kohli continues as captain. This cricketing legend will bring the Indian team success in the future. Phanseng Singphoo,Jorhat Sir — The Indian men’s cricket team’s defeat at the WTC against New Zealand is heart-wrenching for fans. The media and cricket pundits had predicted India possibly winning the tournament. Arguably, the Indian side looked better than before and the expectations of the general public were feverishly high. But Kohli and his team have let them down. The brash attitude of the Indian captain was in complete contrast to his New Zealand counterpart. Kane Williamson was a picture of calmness. It must be noted that the present Indian men’s team has failed to deliver the final winning punch at a crucial juncture many times in the past as well. India’s reputation as a great cricketing nation has now been dealt a severe blow. Compare this with the situation in the Uefa Euro Cup. Portugal — the defending champions — got a drubbing at the hands of Germany. But they bounced back against France, the world champions. The team and its captain, Cristiano Ronaldo, delivered when it mattered the most. Portugal did not let their nation down and dash the expectations of millions of fans. Tapamay Lahiri,Calcutta Sir — Virat Kohli seems to think that a ‘one-off’ championship is not a ‘test for the best’. But one would have to ask why Kohli did not object when the International Cricket Council came up with this format. Why is Kohli voicing this opinion after India’s decisive loss to the Black Caps? Would he have said the same thing had India won? Facts speak for themselves. India have lost four one-day internationals and three Test matches consecutively and convincingly to the Kiwis. The outcome of the WTC is thus not a ‘one-off’ by any stretch of the imagination. It cannot be denied that New Zealand has a better-balanced team than India. While the Kiwis are a group of unassuming achievers, the Indian team comprises highly overrated stars. It might not be out of place to mention here that the last time India won an ICC tournament was the 2013 Champions Trophy. Team India ought to cast a searching look at the composition of the team before the five-Test series against their old foes, England. As cricket lovers, we fervently hope that our beloved team proves itself soon. Dipak Banerjee,Calcutta  Tit for tat Sir — A matrimonial ad — it later turned out to be a prank — that has Indians in splits asks for a ‘handsome’, ‘well-built’, ‘non-farting’, ‘non-burping’ groom strictly between 25 and 28 years of age. Other requirements include an established business, a bungalow or at least a 20-acre farmhouse. While it may seem amusing at first, it reveals a deeper problem. Feminism — the woman in the advertisement claims to be a ‘feminist’ — is not about imposing the unrealistic expectations that patriarchal society has of women on men. In fact, this kind of attitude is quietly exploited by patriarchy to counter actual feminism. Ria Ghosh,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-3
28-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Hidden battle||The Centre has circulated for public comments a set of draft rules for regulating e-commerce. The rules aim to tighten regulatory oversight on e-commerce companies. They prescribe a discontinuation of flash sales on e-commerce platforms, effective preclusion of ownership of suppliers by the platform, and the carrying of a liability in the event the supplier fails to deliver the product. In order to promote Indian producers and create a level playing field, the draft rules suggest that platforms must offer similar products sourced from local producers whenever they offer any imported item for sale. It could become mandatory to declare the country of origin of all goods sold. Flash sales cannot be held as they are considered to be against the spirit of competition with a bias against small suppliers. Hence, deep discounts for a certain specified period of time would not be allowed. This is standard practice in international retail business and a ban might affect differential pricing strategies adopted by goods and services aggregators like Zomato, Swiggy, Ola and Uber. Regarding the ownership of the sources of supply, some platforms do have ownership of key supply sources and tend to favour sourcing supplies from them. If this is ruled out and the platform has to carry a residual liability on defaults by the supplier, the cost of doing business could rise significantly. Declaring the country of origin is fair enough, but would there always be an equivalent locally produced substitute, especially for goods such as high-end electronics? It is interesting to ponder whether books written by foreigners and published abroad would require Indian substitutes to be offered for a more complete choice-set faced by the consumer. Large platforms do wield considerable market power. However, trying to rein them in at the cost of shrinking business volumes or raising operational costs would only have adverse effects on consumers. Buyers are invariably interested in the quality and in the price of products. The country of origin is hardly a matter of concern. In reality, the battle that the Indian government is waging with big-tech and e-commerce has nothing to do with improving consumer welfare or facilitating swadeshi development. It is about the exertion of greater power over consumers and citizens. The issue at stake is the large and useful database in the hands of big-tech indicating customer preferences and habits. These can be used to persuade purchases by business. It can also be used for exerting coercive control on the citizenry by the State.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-4
28-06-2021||Opinion||Try harder: Vaccine diplomacy||Ahead of the recent G7 summit, the president of the United States of America, Joe Biden, promised to distribute 500 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines free to the poorer countries by the middle of next year. That’s more than a drop in the bucket, but not much more. A tablespoon in the bucket, perhaps. And the other six ‘Gs’ (Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, and the United Kingdom) have pledged around the same number of free jabs for poor countries on the same timetable. So around a year from now the richest Western countries will have given out around one billion free doses of Covid vaccines. Pretty generous, no? No. China leads all the G7 countries combined in the number of doses it has delivered to poorer countries in Asia, Africa and Latin America. Most are sold at close to cost price, and sometimes, for the poorest, with cheap credit as an added attraction. Around half of all the doses going to the less-developed countries are Chinese. Well, good for China. Sure it’s buying influence with its generosity, but what’s wrong with that? If the G7 countries want to counter it, they shouldn’t resort to cheap propaganda about Chinese vaccines being ineffective (they’re not), and they shouldn’t claim that they have to vaccinate all their own people first. Instead, try being equally generous. But ‘generous’ is actually the wrong word. ‘Self-interested’ is a better word, because leaving large populations unvaccinated anywhere guarantees that new variants will arise, some of them more infectious and/or more deadly, and will spread to the countries that think they have made themselves safe. Take India, for example. It had a quite good ‘first wave’, with apparently low Covid casualties. Everybody knew that there was some under-counting of fatalities, but the worst-case estimate was that the real Indian death rate might be five times higher — which would still be no worse than France. Only about 3 per cent of Indians are vaccinated, but Narendra Modi’s government got so cocky that it authorized all sorts of crowd events like election campaigns and religious festivals — and then in early 2021 the ‘Indian variant’ arrived. (Modi doesn’t like that phrase, so we’re now supposed to call it ‘Variant D’.) The new variant swept through India like a scythe, with daily death tolls as high as Brazil or the US in their worst moments. But of course India has four times as many people as the US, so it wouldn’t really be all that extraordinary even if its true death toll from Covid were up to five times higher. Recently, however, an enterprising Indian data journalist called Rukmini S., writing for Scroll.in, checked out the official statistics in the state of Madhya Pradesh. It turned out that total recorded deaths from all causes, known or unknown, had tripled in April and May. Since there was no war, no natural disaster, no other plague striking Madhya Pradesh at that time, it makes sense to assume that the huge surge in deaths was mostly due to Covid. But on that assumption, Covid deaths in Madhya Pradesh in May were not five times higher, but up to 42 times higher than the recorded Covid mortality figure. She did a similar investigation for Andhra Pradesh, and got similar results (34-fold higher). This is what happens when you have a still largely unvaccinated population and you take your eye off the ball. The virus mutates, and it spreads like wildfire. Even a half-vaccinated population is not safe. The first ‘Variant D’ infection was only detected in England in April, but it already accounts for 90 per cent of new infections there, and the UK has just extended its lockdown measures for another month. Nobody is safe until everybody is safe. Relative safety would require having 40 per cent of the world vaccinated by January, and 60 per cent by mid-2022 — at a total cost, according to the International Monetary Fund, of around $50 billion. The billion doses promised by the G7 for mid-2022 just don’t cut it, and even an extra billion from China is not enough. Two doses each for five billion people is what’s needed. Or we can choose to live with the killer variants instead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-4
28-06-2021||Opinion||The early years||I can do no better than quote I.G. Patel, the famous economist of his time, about the situation which India faced in 1991. In a talk he had delivered in Bangalore sometime in 1991, he had referred to the earlier Rajiv Gandhi regime, which was in power between 1984 and 1989, and said that it appeared as if “money did not matter” because during those five years India splurged like never before. That had led to a huge fiscal deficit in the Government of India’s budget without anybody realizing that these deficits had to be met by borrowing — within the country and abroad. So we went on borrowing merrily. Soon, the fiscal deficit of the GoI’s budget, as expected, spilled into the current account, leading to huge current account deficits year after year. Both the budgetary deficit and the current account deficit created an unsustainable situation as far as India’s foreign exchange reserves were concerned, which, in those days, were only around five billion US dollars. This was soon consumed by essential imports and we had very little foreign currency reserves in our kitty when I took over as the finance minister at the end of 1990. These twin deficits created not only a balance of payments crisis for us but also an economic crisis because inflation went up, shortages of all kinds started taking place and, as if that was not enough, we had the first Gulf War with American troops attacking Iraq. As a result, prices of petroleum crude shot up and put an unbearable burden on the meagre foreign exchange resources of the country. Therefore, in December 1990, when I took over as finance minister in the Chandra Shekhar government, I was confronted with a situation of sharply diminishing foreign exchange reserves, a looming balance of payments crisis, inflation in the domestic economy, and shortages of essential commodities all around. In addition, the non-resident Indians started withdrawing their money in foreign exchange which further depleted our reserves. It was a very difficult situation politically also as our minority government was entirely dependent on the support of the Congress in Parliament. I wanted to present the budget on the appointed date — namely, February 28 — but politics and not the critical economic situation was of greater importance to the Congress. The party did not allow me to present the budget. The presentation of the budget would have enabled us to approach the International Monetary Fund for a more substantial loan of maybe around five billion US dollars. It would have sustained the economy and addressed the balance of payments situation at least in the short term until we unleashed the much-needed reforms in the budget, as indeed Manmohan Singh did when he presented the budget in July 1991. I learnt my first bitter lesson then of public life in India — that in India economics does not matter, politics is always supreme. Be that as it may, we got a couple of billion dollars worth of facility from the IMF, which enabled us to carry on until about June of that year. Then we demitted office and the P.V. Narasimha Rao government took office. Singh became the finance minister. Earlier, when Chandra Sekhar was the prime minister, Singh was the economic adviser to the prime minister. He was fully aware of the dire situation the economy was in. In his budget of July 1991 — it became a landmark budget, famous for the economic reforms it unleashed — he was able to take control of the situation. After that, the situation kept improving. But the point I would like to make here is that the political climate in India was still hostile to economic reforms. So while Singh started with economic reforms in his budget of 1991, he was able to carry them forward only in the budget of 1992 and only partly in the 1993 budget. After that, he faced so much opposition to them from within the Congress that by 1993-1994, he had to largely give up on economic reforms and we were back to the ‘no economic reforms era’. Then the Narasimha Rao government lost office and the H.D. Deve Gowda government took power. This was also a politically unstable government, but P. Chidambaram became the finance minister. He presented his first budget in 1996. Deve Gowda was replaced by I.K. Gujral but Chidambaram continued as finance minister and presented the 1997 budget. This was considered a landmark budget largely on account of the rationalization of direct taxes. But then came the East Asian crisis right in our backyard and things started getting tough for India on account of its adverse impact on our balance of payments situation. I took over as finance minister under the first Atal Bihari Vajpayee government in March 1998. The situation that I faced then was as follows — first, the East Asian crisis was raging; second, we went for nuclear tests in May that year. The May nuclear tests led to the imposition of economic sanctions on India by the major countries of the world, including the United States of America, which completely ruined the economic sentiment in our country and abroad and we became a pariah in the international community. Our foreign exchange reserves were at a reasonable level — if I remember correctly at about 25-26 billion dollars. But that was not enough to tackle the adverse sentiment that prevailed within and outside about India. So those foreign exchange reserves had to be shored up and, therefore, I went for the Resurgent India Bonds. It was a bond that was issued in the international market but was open only to NRIs and Persons of Indian Origin. We had hoped to get a couple of billion dollars, but within a week or 10 days we had topped four billion dollars. When we reached a figure of 4.25 billion dollars, I decided that that was enough. Although there were still some days left for the scheme to close, I closed it prematurely. That was a turning point because it restored the confidence of foreign investors in India and that of doubters at home. We did not really look back after that. In the 1998 budget and the subsequent ones, I decided to carry on the pending economic reforms programme. In budget after budget, I introduced major economic reforms. I am not boasting when I say that there was not an area in the economy that my reforms did not touch. In 1999-2000, we issued the Millennium Development bonds, which got us another five billion dollars. So our foreign exchange reserves remained stable and the economy started moving forward on the basis of the reforms that we were carrying out. But we had other major problems. The economic sanctions took some time to be lifted by those countries that had imposed them and the economic reforms programme took a while to make a difference on the ground. We also had natural calamities to tackle — the supercyclone of Odisha of 1999, the Gujarat earthquake, as well as a series of droughts in India that badly affected the agricultural economy. But we were able to weather the storm. I remember that during a discussion in Parliament on the budget, I told the members of the Lok Sabha, “Main laya hun toofan se kashti nikaal kar.” It really was one storm after another through which we had to navigate our course. By 2004, when the Vajpayee government demitted office — I left the ministry of finance in July 2002 — the growth rate of the Indian economy was over 8 per cent. In the first Economic Survey, the United Progressive Alliance government admitted that it had inherited an economy, which was firing on all cylinders. Then came the UPA’s reform programmes and policies; we had already provided a base for the UPA to have a very comfortable period of high growth. The highest growth period of the Indian economy was between 2004-2009, which was around 10 per cent. But we had our own problems within the country. The first tenure of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was marked by a great deal of corruption, which came to light subsequently. I am not going into the details. Then the international situation changed and we had the global financial crisis, beginning with the US, that affected India too. So we went through another phase of declining growth rate until 2013. But on the economic front, the National Democratic Alliance government, which succeeded the UPA, did not do very much with the result that our growth rate declined, once again. Some measures like demonetization and the introduction of the goods and services tax without adequate preparation had a very bad impact on the economy. Even before Covid-19 struck India, our growth rate had declined to a meagre 4 per cent. Covid has only added to our woes. What is worse is that government figures have become dubious. I do not believe the figures which come out any more. What happened to the Statistical Commission, an independent body, which I had set up to independently collect and disseminate economic and other statistics? It was not allowed to function independently and was put under continuous pressure either to conceal unflattering data or dress them up. The acting chairman and the only other member of the Commission resigned. The government’s statistics have now become extremely suspect as they are often dressed up. The economy, as a result of the virus, is in very poor shape. I do not know how long it will take for us to get out of it. The economic reforms programme, which was started in 1991, spluttered and came to a halt after three years. It was revived again during the Vajpayee era, when I became the finance minister. The fruits of economic growth were enjoyed by the UPA government. Since then, there has not been much reform. The Indian economy is languishing as a result of the absence of reforms and some of the mindless steps taken by this government like demonetization. Yashwant Sinha is a former Union finance minister of India||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-4
28-06-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren encourages tribals to thrive in businesses||Chief minister Hemant Soren on Monday emphasised the need to change the mindset of the tribal population to encourage them to become entrepreneurs at the fourth edition of Tribal Development Meet organised by the Jharkhand State Council of the Confederation of Indian Industry. In his address, the chief minister congratulated CII for organising the meet for four years consecutively. According to Soren, since the majority of tribal populace are into agriculture business, there is a need for creating a market for them, eliminating middlemen in order to help them earn more profits. He went on to say that  Jharkhand government is taking special initiatives towards overall growth and development of  tribal community such as single window system for ease of doing business, special focus on agri farming, cage fish farming,  development of tourists spots and also trying to attract manufacturing companies (especially that of sports equipments as Jharkhand is endowed with talented sports personalities) to set up their industry in the state especially to generate employment opportunities. Addressing the virtual tribal meet, Chanakya Chaudhary, chairman, CII Jharkhand State Council and vice- president (Corporate Services), Tata Steel said tribal community in the Indian Constitution is known as scheduled tribe (ST) and it accounts for 8.6 percent of the total population of the country as per 2011 census. "Jharkhand holds the sixth position among all states in terms of Scheduled Tribe (ST) population. Tribes by nature are rich in culture and resources and they have strong community bonding. Youth of tribal communities are a pool of mixed talents which needs to be harnessed for creating a strong workforce. CII and industries of Jharkhand are committed to the development of the tribal community," he said. Sanjay Sabherwal, immediate past chairman, CII Jharkhand State Council and managing director, Metaldyne Industries Ltd during his address said that the tribal’s are facing several serious problems. "The major among these is their poor economic condition. As they have no regular source of earning, most tribals live below the poverty line. They do not have adequate finance to start their own small ventures. While development processes are making inroads in terms of localization of industries apart from mining and quarrying, agri and tourism sector should be the focus areas," he pointed out. The meet was also addressed by Baidyanath Mandi, state president, Tribal Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry,  N L Vhatte, CEO and whole time director, ESL Steel Limited,  Amarendu Prakash, director in - charge, SAIL- Bokaro Steel Plant,  Jiren Xavier Toppo, head - Tribal Culture, Tata Steel Limited and several other tribal experts. The Tribal Development Meet elaborately deliberated on challenges and opportunities for the economic development of the tribal society and their success stories.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-7
28-06-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town traders asked to vacate shops for civic polls||More than 150 food grain wholesalers and fruit traders of Dhanbad operating from Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) market complex at Barwaddah are apprehending huge losses after the district administration served notices to 21 shop keepers to establish strong room to keep ballot boxes for the upcoming civic elections. The shopkeepers under the banner of Dhanbad Jila Khadyann Vyavasi Sangh are planning to meet Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh in a day or two apprising him about their concern of huge losses due to the sealing of the market complex as it happened during the last assembly election of 2019. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, Vinod Kumar Gupta, President of  Dhanbad Jila Khadyann Vyavasi Sangh said, “Though, the Government Polytechnic College campus at Babudih was used as strong room and counting centre till 2014 assembly and parliamentary elections but since 2019 elections, APMC Market was designated as strong room and counting centre aggravating our difficulties.” ‘Though, our trade was not greatly affected during the Lok Sabha elections of 2019 when the entire market complex was not sealed but only a few number of shops were used as strong room but the difficulties surmounted during the assembly elections of 2019 when the entire market complex remained sealed for more than 15 days completely affecting the trade and causing losses worth several hundred crores,” said Gupta. “As the 21 shop keepers who have been given notices last week have so far not been told by the administration whether the entire market complex will be sealed or only their shop will be used, it is difficult for other traders like us to make necessary preparations to avoid losses,” said another food grain trader Vikash Kandhway. “Last year, we faced double blow in the form of demurrage charges paid to transporters due to abrupt sealing of the market complex as the trucks carrying foodgrains who reached from other parts of country immediately after the sealing of market complex had been kept waiting for 15 days outside the market complex to unload” said another trader requesting anonymity. “We also faced rotting of good grains lying in the market complex due to sealing of the market on short notice during last assembly elections,” said another food grain trader. “We also want to cooperate with the administration and just wanted that the sealing of the entire market complex should be avoided and instead only required shops may be used as a strong room,'' said a wholesale fruit trader operating from APMC Market complex at Barwaddah. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner while interacting with media last week during an inspection of APMC market complex as part of preparations for upcoming civic body elections sympathized with the concerns of the traders but said the election is more important.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-7
28-06-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town archers highlight plight, seek government help||More than a dozen national and international archers of Dhanbad, who rejoiced at the achievement of state archers Deepaika Kumari, Komalika Bari and Ankita Bhakat in the world cup stage III at Paris, rued over the lack of facilities for training and equipments in the coal town. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, 23-year-old Sulekha Singh, an international level archer of Mahuda Bazar of Dhanad who represented India in 2013 Archery World Cadet Championship in China said,“We are happy at our state players achievement but at the same time want to draw the attention of the government to the plight of Dhanbad archers.” Sulekha helped the Indian team qualify for the 2014 Youth Olympic. “We don’t even have bows and arrows for practice and consequently I am compelled to carry out training at Dumka Archery Academy as a cadet which is closed since last year due to the pandemic and thus seating idle at home” said Singh whose father owns a road side tea shop in Mahuda. Sulekha also worked at Kasturba Gandhi Balika Mahvidyalaya Govindur as a coach to support the family income in 2016. Sulekha started her archery career with selection at Tata Feeder Centre at Jamadoba and later got selected for Tata Archery Academy in 2011 where she practiced along with Deepika Kumari. “If I had the facility of any bow for our practice being there I would not have been required to stay at Dumka for training,” she said. Naziya Parween (21) a national level archer of Dhanbad who also represented the state in National archery championship in 2015 and won silver medal for the state said, “Belonging to an extremely poor family background I always struggled for recurve of compound bow for carrying practice and compelled to practice with a broken bow of my own.” Naziya who underwent training at Tata Feeder Centre of Digwadih and was attached with centre till the temporary suspension of training since March 2020 said, “As the centre is closed due covid constraint I am compelled to help my father at his road side show shop as all promises of job by several politicians and other proved hollow.” Md Shamshad, a Dhanbad based archery coach who himself is an award winning player, said, “I trained more than a dozen Dhanbad archers at Tata Feeder Centre at Digwadih stadium since 2009, many of whom represented the state and nation at national and international level competitions but all  of them are deprived of equipments and many talented players are still deprived of job.” “We can’t understand that why an archery academy cannot be set up in Dhanbad which has so many talented archers, while the same can be set up in places like Silli and Dumka besides Ranchi and Jamshedpur,” said Shamshad who is also joint secretary of Dhanbad Archery Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-7
28-06-2021||Jharkhand||To tackle third wave, experts suggest Jharkhand set up 1,000 ICU beds ||A team of experts and doctors formed by the Jharkhand government for advice on ways to tackle a third wave Covid infections has recommended that the state set up at least 1,000 ICU beds and ensure availability of medicines for treatment of flu in children in all medical stores across all 24 districts, officials said on Monday. Following the empowered committee’s recommendation, Dr Bhuvnesh Pratap Singh, who heads the Third Wave Covid Control Room in the state, addressed letters to the civil surgeons of all 24 districts of the state, directing them to hold meetings with hospital representatives and increase the number of ICU beds in private as well as government hospitals. As per the recommendation of the expert committee, 50 per cent of the ICU beds could be set up in private hospitals and the remaining half in government-run healthcare centres. The state is also setting up child-friendly ICUs with cartoons painted on the walls to prepare for the third wave, officials said. The Empowered Committee for Prevention of Third Wave, set up by the Hemant Soren government, comprises over a dozen clinical experts and health department officials. The committee also considered suggestions from Dr Roderico Ofrin, WHO representative to India; Dr Ashok Deorari, HOD Paediatrics, AIIMS Delhi; DR Neelam Mohan, Director of Paediatrics, Medanta and Dr Pardeep B S, HOD Epidemiology, NIMHANS while preparing the roadmap to tackle the pandemic. In accordance with the committee’s recommendations, district civil surgeons have been asked to hold meetings with chemists and druggist associations and ensure surplus availability of medicines that are used particularly for treating fever and viral infection in children. The list of medicines prepared by the expert committee includes paracetamol drops, vitamin C drops, Amoxycillin drops, ranitidine syrups, cough syrups, oral rehydration solution (ORS) and combinations of injections to be administered to patients who show severe symptoms of Covid-19. The expert committee has estimated that around 7 lakh of the 1.43 crore population in the age bracket of 0 to 18 years may get affected by Covid-19 in the third wave. While 2.86 lakh of the patients are estimated to be symptomatic, about 8,610 of them may show severe symptoms  needing intensive care, the committee has predicted on the basis of trends in India and across the world. Even though the Indian Academy of Pediatrics (IAP), a body representing over 32,000 pediatricians across India, has said that 90 per cent of Covid cases among children are asymptomatic, the rising fear of Delta plus variant of the coronavirus and its ability to dodge medicines and vaccines have led to widespread concern. However, Jharkhand may have more time in hand to make arrangements for a third wave, if at all it hits the state. According to experts from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a third wave may occur after six to eight months, giving all states the time to prepare.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-7
28-06-2021||Jharkhand||Bike-ambulances for steel city govt health centres||Bike-ambulances will soon be introduced in at least three government-run health hubs in the steel city. The three bike-ambulances had been provided to the district health department by the then Jamshedpur West's legislator Saryu Roy in 2018, meant for carrying patients from a place having unmotorable roads. However, the ambulances were never used until the legislator himself wrote to the district civil surgeon recently. The ambulance has a covered bed and is fitted with a siren. Its most significant feature is it can move through narrow roads which a regular ambulance may face difficulty in maneuvering. Having received Roy's letter on Thursday, the civil surgeon A.K. Lal is getting the bike-ambulances ready and will shortlist the names of the health hubs that will receive them. "We had got three bike-ambulances from MLA fund of the Jamshedpur West legislator Saryu Roy. These vehicles were to get operational under National Urban Health Mission. As there was shortage of manpower, these vehicles lay unutilised. But now we have decided to put them into use at the earliest," said the district civil surgeon to The Telegraph Online. Lal admitted that they were prompted to utilise the bike-ambulances after getting a reminder letter from the legislator recently and have decided to hand one of the vehicles to the Jugsalai Primary Health Center. "We are looking into the options for using the remaining two bike-ambulances to other health hubs soon," said the civil surgeon. Roy, a former BJP leader and presently the Jamshedpur East assembly constituency legislator, said he had recommended the bike-ambulances as there are many congested localities in the steel city where a regular ambulance cannot pass through. "It would have been better if the district health department had started using the bike-ambulances a year ago when the city was reeling under the first wave of the pandemic, "observed the Jamshedpur East legislator while talking to The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-7
28-06-2021||Jharkhand||IIT-ISM student launches a farm produce supply start-up ||A final year B. Tech Computer Science Engineering student of IIT-ISM, Sanjeet Kumar, has launched a start-up that provides fresh farm produce at his hometown in Arrah, Bihar. The start-up, Urban Reach, was launched on February 7, 2021 and has over 1500 mobile app downloads. “Difficulties faced by people for daily essentials, including milk, fruits and vegetables during the first lockdown in 2020 and pathetic conditions faced by farmers of spoiling their produce due to lack of outflow sparked off the idea for launching the supply chain,” said Sanjeet. “This apart, the problem faced by almost every family due to job losses during the pandemic also propelled us to launch the business model based on agriculture,” said the 22-year-old whose father K.K. Singh is a private company employee while mother, Indu Devi is an Anganbari sevika. “Our aim is not only serving customers fresh farm produce to earn money, rather empowering farmers with technology as the farmers are using our web portal to update information about their produce on a daily basis,” said Sanjeet who is being helped by his friend, Avinash Kumar, a MCA student of Veer Kunwar Singh University of Arrah, Bihar. “Our work model is based on forecasting, pricing, farmer harvesting and collection centres,” said Kumar. “Based on farmer’s information of their crop and harvesting date we provide weekly indent to them,” said Kumar explaining forecasting and added that farmers get reconfirmation messages about the quantity of produce to be brought a day before distribution. “We decide the sale and purchase price of products after analysing the price data of different markets and generally the farmers get more profit by selling products to us rather than in the open market,” explained Kumar. “After the arrival of goods at our collection centre which generally takes place from 10 am to 2 pm, these are quality checked and weighed in front of farmers to ensure transparency,” said Kumar and added that they have an e-rickshaw and three bikes to supply the produce to the customers. “While the web portal is used to update the information about farmer’s produce, the mobile app helps to get daily information about customer’s demand,” said Kumar. “As we are doing business in higher volume we have reached a break-even position within four months where there is neither loss nor much profit but we are aiming to develop India’s fastest supply chain for fresh produce and will soon move out to other towns of Bihar,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-7
28-06-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi shops offer discounts to those who are vaccinated||Unwilling or hestiant to take the vaccine? Think again, for several shops are offering discounts to those who take the jab in capital Ranchi and possibly,  in days to co come, elsewhere in Jharkhand. On Sunday, the Ranchi district administration tied up with various trade outfits in the capital to announce discounts on purchases made by those wo have taken their Covid-19 vaccine shot in an attempt  to bolster immunisation coverage. The health department has decided to double daily vaccinations by setting a target of 2.5 lakh jabs per day in the wake of fresh concerns centred around the spread of the Delta plus variant in a few states. Deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan released a list of about 26 shops across sectors to announce a range of discounts residensts can avail  depending on the status of their vaccination. Those who have taken both doses are eligible to for more discounts than those who have taken just one. The discounts for single dose recipients start from one per cent and goes up to 30 per cent across various shops. For second dose recipients, the discount window is between 5 per cent and 45 per cent. Some shops, however, are offering gifts in place of discounts. Shops offering discounts covers wide range of sectors, namely, books, electronic appliances, optical stores, parlours/saloons, garments, cosmetics, etc. Ranjan said, “We are starting it as a joint initiative of the district administration and Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) to encourage people to get vaccinated. It is one of the various measures that the administration is working on to achieve cent per cent coverage against the deadly virus.” Another district administration official added that more shops will be added to the list of those offering discounts in the coming days. “One can’t force shops to offer discounts as business is badly affected due to the pandemic. But we are persuading more shops to work out packages as part of their social responsibility, he said, adding that discounts could also help shops to boost sales. On Sunday, Jharkhand reported a spike of less than 100 Covid cases for the second day in a row, while recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection, bringing the active caseload in the state down to 1,030, according to the health department. As per a National Health Mission (NHM) bulleting, as many as 81 people were found infected by SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday and 163 Covid-19 patients recovered on the day. Only one Covid casualty was reported (Khunti) taking the Covid toll in the state to 5,111 and that in Khunti to 96.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-7
28-06-2021||Jharkhand||State's daily Covid caseload stays below 100 for second consecutive day ||Jharkhand on Sunday reported a spike of less than 100 Covid cases for the second day in a row, while recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection, bringing the active caseload in the state down to 1030, figures released by the health department highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 81 people were found infected by SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday in Jharkhand and 163 Covid-19 patients recovered on the day. Only one Covid casualty was reported from Khunti on the day, which took the Covid toll in the state to 5111 and that in Khunti to 96, the NHM bulletin further stated. At least three districts – Saraikela, Pakur and Chatra – did not report fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, while none of the remaining 21 districts report a double-digit-spike, the NHM highlighted in its daily bulletin. Hazaribag reported nine cases of infection – the highest in the state. The active caseload in Ranchi, the worst-affected district in terms of caseload and casualties, dropped to 304 on Sunday as the district reported 55 Covid recoveries against seven cases of coronavirus infection. The number of active patients in East Singhbhum dropped to 110 as 22 patients recovered there while eight people were found infected on the day. The state on Sunday tested swab samples of 39,629 residents and 0.2 per cent of them were found infected by the lethal virus. As per government data, over 3.45 lakh people have been infected by coronavirus in the state so far and 98.22 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of the patients could not survive. The doubling rate of Covid cases in the state further increased to 2479.94 days against the national average of 562.36 days, the bulletin from NHM highlighted. The growth rate of cases in the state was 0.03 per cent against the national growth rate of 0.12 per cent on Sunday. Meanwhile, four fresh cases of suspected mucormycosis surfaced in the state in the past 48 hours, taking the total count of suspected cases to 63, figures with the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) highlighted. As per data with IDSP, the state has reported 84 confirmed cases of the fungal infection and 26 patients have died, while 58 have recovered. Jharkhand on Sunday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 98,214 residents, including more than 80,000 beneficiaries in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years, a separate report from NHM stated. The second jab was administered to 16,397 beneficiaries, mostly above the age of 45 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-7
28-06-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad special educator visits students' homes||Jharia based speech therapist and special educator Akhlaque Ahmad on Sunday visited the houses of four disabled children from his centre on the occasion of the 141st birth anniversary of renowned disability rights activist, Helen Keller and provided them educational kits. Ahmad distributed separate kits meant for differently-abled children and also kits for hearing impaired. He took stock of their health conditions. Ahmad also tipped their parents about the special care to be maintained during their training at home. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, “On the birth anniversary of Helen Keller, American author, political activist and lecturer besides being the disability rights activist, we decided to reach out to those for which she worked for her entire life.” “Her work has had an influence everywhere and in India it has inspired people with deaf blindness that we work with and pushed them to for the sky,” said Ahmad and added that the deaf community was widely impacted as she travelled to more than 25 countries giving motivational speeches. “I first reached the house of Nargis Parveen, 10, a visually challenged girl followed by the visit to the house of a hearing impaired girl Shahin Parveen, 11, and then reached the house of two mentally retarded Arpita Kumari, 16, and visually challenged Md Kaif, 12,” said Ahmad. “Though, we are already providing some periodic tips to our students through online sessions held through the video calling etc but since majority of around 170 students enrolled at our centre belong to extremely poor financial background, it is very difficult to carry out online session and many no not functional smart phones,” said Ahmad. “The kit provided to visually challenged students, Nargis Parveen and Md kaif comprised of Braille strip, Braille slate, some toys,” said Ahmad and added the kit for the mentally retarded children comprised Abacus and other things while the kits for hearing impaired comprised an Alphabet and number chart. Beli Khatoon, mother of Nargis Parween, said, “My husband deserted me a couple of years ago and I somehow eke out the living of my family by making paper packets and had the support of teacher like Ahmad been not there I would not have been able to educate her visually challenged daughter, Nargis Parveen.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-7
