29-06-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta vaccine scam: Family members aware of Debanjan Deb’s false claim, say cops ||Police said Debanjan Deb’s family came to know that he was a “fake IAS officer" as early as March 2020 when a verbal complaint about a false job promise was lodged against him with the Bidhannagar commissionerate. Till Saturday, the family of the vaccine scam accused had allegedly been claiming before the police that they were unaware that he had been posing as an IAS officer. They apparently told the cops that they were under the impression that the 28-year-old had indeed cracked the UPSC exam and was posted as joint commissioner in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. “We learnt on Sunday night, when a team of officers took Deb to his Madurdaha home and searched the premises, that the family came to know in March last year that Deb had been duping people masquerading as an IAS officer,” an officer at Lalbazar said on Monday. “We have found evidence that there was a verbal complaint against Debanjan Deb, for giving false assurance of a government job, at the Electronic Complex police station. He was not arrested because there was no formal complaint. But his family came to know about his misdeeds at that point of time. They were lying all along,” the officer said. Sources at the Bidhannagar commissionerate said the verbal complaint was lodged in March 2020 by a youth, who alleged that Deb had pretended to be an IAS officer posted at the CMC and promised him a government job. “No formal complaint was filed because Deb had submitted a written undertaking about his mistakes and the statement was purportedly signed by his family members,” an officer in the commissionerate said. Two persons, including a relative of Deb, were detained for interrogation late on Monday, sources said. Posing as an IAS officer and joint commissioner of the CMC, Deb had allegedly organised a series of “Covid vaccination camps” in the city, without the mandatory approval of the state health department. The special investigating team that is probing the illegal vaccination camps examined some of Deb’s employees on Monday. Sources said a peon and another employee whose designation was “executive officer” of the “Apellete Authority of the Information and Cultural Affairs department” were questioned on Monday. “Deb took a loan of Rs 20 lakh from a private bank after submitting forged documents and is yet to repay it,” an officer said. A complaint of cheating and forgery has been lodged against him with Hare Street police station. The complainant has alleged that Deb purchased masks and sanitisers worth Rs 1.2 crore from a stockist and allegedly did not pay. Staff at Deb’s office got salaries through a bank account in the name of “WBFINCORP”, giving them the impression that they were on the payroll of the West Bengal Finance Corporation, which functions under the finance department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-6
29-06-2021||Calcutta||51-year-old morning walker collapses, dies in Southern Avenue||A 51-year-old woman collapsed to death during her routine morning walk on a footpath along Southern Avenue on Monday. She was declared dead at SSKM Hospital, police said. Subhra Ghosh, 51, a resident of Jatin Das Road, had been visiting Southern Avenue and Rabindra Sarobar regularly for her morning walks. On Monday, around 8.40am, she was walking alone near Lake Kalibari when people saw her collapse on the footpath. Morning walkers alerted the local police station. The police took her to SSKM Hospital in an ambulance. “We also alerted her family members through her mobile phone. They reached the hospital with their family physician. We learned from the family members that she had undergone a heart surgery recently,” said an officer at Rabindra Sarobar police station. She was examined by her family physician and declared dead at SSKM Hospital. “The family physician gave the death certificate stating the woman had a heart ailment and that she died because of a cardiac failure,” said the officer. The body has been handed over to the family. Hundreds of men and women, especially elderly persons, visit Rabindra Sarobar and other lake areas across the city for their morning and evening walks. Senior officers at Lalbazar said that it was always advisable for them to carry some kind of identity cards so their families could be contacted during an emergency. “It is best not to allow the elderly to step out of home alone. If they do, they should carry identity cards mentioning all contact details,” said a police officer in Lalbazar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-6
29-06-2021||Calcutta||Principal of Ramakrishna Mission Blind Boys’ Academy holds campaign to help visually impaired ||Hundreds of people with visual impairment, who did not have regular jobs but worked hard to earn money, have been devastated because of the Covid curbs. A drive, led by a blind man, is reaching out to such people, in Calcutta and neighbouring districts. One of the recipients is Kartick Majhi, a 36-year-old man who lives in the Briji area of Garia. For the past six years, Majhi has been selling mushrooms outside the Kavi Nazrul Metro station. His daily earnings ranged between Rs 400 and Rs 500. But 90 per cent of his customers were Metro passengers. Along with suburban services, the Metro fleet has remained suspended since May 6. “I still come every day with mangos to sell. But there is hardly any buyer,” Majhi told Metro. Many people like Majhi received a kit containing rice, salt, soaps, milk powder and other stuff, alongside financial support as part of the campaign. The drive has been led by Biswajit Ghosh, the principal of Ramakrishna Mission Blind Boys’ Academy in Narendrapur. The pandemic has put hundreds of thousands of people out of work. Among such people, the differently able have been hit the hardest. The Society For The Welfare Of The Blind, of which Ghosh is the secretary, had provided dry ration and financial support to over 1,000 such families across eight districts of Bengal in the wake of the Covid-19 curbs last year. This year, the work started since May, when the state government imposed a fresh set of curbs to check the second surge of the virus. Over 400 families have received aid. “Our objective is to support people who had been trying hard to eek out a living,” said Ghosh. Many of the recipients made, and sold, stuff like incense sticks, chanachur, beaten rice and phenyl. A few recipients who had completed higher education used to earn money as private tutors. Biplab Chakrabarty, 32, a resident of Chakdaha in Nadia, is another recipient. Chakrabarty used to make phenyl and sell them in 500ml bottles to retailers and wholesalers. Many of his buyers live in Kalyani and Kanchrapara, both over 70km from his home. He used to take a train earlier. In the second week of June, he had hired an e-rickshaw to go to Kalyani. His margin from selling 40 bottles was around Rs 200. Hiring the vehicle cost him Rs 500. “We were poor people. But we lived a life of dignity. But this pandemic has come nearly as a fatal blow to us,” said Chakrabarty. This year’s journey has been “doubly difficult” because finding donors was more challenging, said Ghosh. His friends, some of them former students of the Narendrapur Ramakrishna Mission, have spearheaded the contribution. A senior officer in the state transport department, also a part of the society, has been helping Ghosh in the drive. Every Saturday and Sunday, the two head out to a handful of destinations in a car, followed by a mini truck loaded with ration. “We have partnered with multiple organisations who help us in finalising the list of recipients,” said Ghosh. The drive has already covered Calcutta, North and South 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly, Nadia and East and West Midnapore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-6
29-06-2021||Calcutta||Forest guards at remote camps in Sunderbans get Covid tools||Forest guards at dozens of remote camps in the Sunderbans are now slightly better equipped to deal with Covid-related emergencies. In a month-long drive, an NGO that works to reduce human-wildlife conflict provided medical kits and oxygen concentrators to forest camps and range offices in the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve. The reserve has four range offices — Sunderbans National Park East and West, Sajnekhali and Basirhat. Last week, an oxygen concentrator was provided to each range office. Earlier this month, health kits were provided to around two dozen forest camps, some of them on rivers. Each kit contained oximeters, oxygen canisters, blood pressure monitoring machines and digital thermometers, among other things. “These kits and concentrators will make us slightly better equipped to deal with emergencies,” said Tapas Das, the field director of the STR. “It becomes very difficult to arrange primary treatment at these camps during an emergency,” said Joydip Kundu of the Society for Heritage & Ecological Research (SHER), the NGO that provided the help. Affected residents, too, can take help of oxygen concentrators during an emergency, said Kundu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-6
29-06-2021||Calcutta||Loreto College alumnae take initiative to create mobile phone bank for students||The alumnae of Loreto College have made an appeal to those who can donate unused and spare smartphones or devices to enable students of the college to attend classes and submit assignments. Loreto College is creating a mobile phone bank to hand the devices to the students as the pandemic continues unabated and resources in some homes are stretched. “There are students who are unable to attend regular classes because of their old, worn out mobiles. There are also homes where siblings are sharing one mobile phone. It has been on my mind for some time but it crystallised some time ago and the alumnae have taken it as a project,” said Sister Christine Coutinho, the principal of Loreto College. “More importantly we don’t know how long it (the pandemic) is going to continue,” she added. The appeal has been made by the Loreto College Alumnae Association on social media. “Loreto College is creating a mobile phone bank for students who need smartphones in these unusual times. We urge you to help our students who are in urgent need of your unused smartphones/tabs/laptops to attend classes and submit assignments,” the post reads. “Any model will be helpful as long as it is a 4G smartphone/tablet/laptop in working condition. Let us bridge the digital divide and empower all our students to achieve their true potential,” it says. For more than a year now colleges are closed and institutions have been conducting classes and exams online, making the possession of devices mandatory for students. Students have to upload assignments and answer scripts, for which they need a functional device. Teachers have noticed that there are students who are going through tough times financially but have not spoken about their problems. “With the pandemic stretching so long, people are facing unexpected difficulties. The need of the hour is to assist as many people in need as possible, which is the ethos of the college. The suggestion came from Sister (principal) and we took it up. The empathy is towards people who are struggling,” said Sharmila Ray Kumam, honorary secretary of the alumnae association and associate professor in the department of geography. “Any device that comes to us will be used properly and given to somebody who needs it badly,” said Ray Kumam. A college official said a register would be maintained to record who gave the device and whom it was being handed over to. The device can be submitted to the main office of the college between Monday to Friday (10am to 1pm). “As former students we feel we need to step in when there is a requirement,” said Indrani Ganguly, of the 1980 batch of the college and a former principal of Loreto Day School, Bowbazar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-7
29-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Howrah markets shut for three days, several areas declared as containment zones||Markets in Salkia, Liluah and Belur in Howrah were shut down on Monday for three days and several pockets in the district have been declared as containment zones as part of the effort to break the chain of coronavirus infection. The Harganj market at Salkia Chowrasta, the market on Rabindra Sarani in Liluah and one in Belur were shut down early on Monday. Police were deployed to ensure no trader violated the order. These three markets are among the biggest in Howrah and each of them draws hundreds of people throughout the day, the police said. The Naskarpara market, the biggest in the Malipanchghora area of Howrah, and a few in Domjur and Sankrail were closed for three days from Sunday. Guardrails have been erected to demarcate the containment zones and the police made repeated announcements through loudhailers asking residents to strictly adhere to the Covid-19 protocols. “The idea is to reduce the spread of the coronavirus by preventing congregations at markets and other places,” said a senior officer of the Howrah commissionerate. “We are identifying places where more than four persons have tested positive for Covid over the past few days. They were declared as micro-containment zones.” On June 17, the district administration in Howrah had identified 18 containment zones following reports of a surge in Covid cases from those areas. The district has been reporting over 100 Covid cases every day over the past few days. Monday’s case count stood at 92, more than that of Hooghly. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had earlier instructed senior officials of all districts recording over 100 positive cases to draw up a plan to curb the spread of the virus. With the infection continuing to spread, senior officials in Howrah decided to reinforce restrictions beginning this week. Based on data from the health department on the spread of infection, the district administration brought areas in Bally, Salkia and Liluah under containment zone rules. “The police stations concerned have been asked to draw up rosters for deployment of personnel around the clock and place guardrails to check movement of people,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-7
29-06-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine scam: Debanjan Deb more dangerous than terrorists, says Mamata Banerjee||Mamata Banerjee on Monday ended her public silence on vaccine scam accused Debanjan Deb, refusing to take his name in condemnation and calling him “more dangerous than terrorists” before asserting that police and the Calcutta Municipal Corporation could not evade responsibility in the matter. The chief minister was asked at a news conference at the state secretariat regarding Deb, who had allegedly posed as an IAS officer and organised illegal “Covid-19 vaccination camps”. The police suspect that at least some of the recipients at Deb’s camps were administered an antibiotic called amikacin sulphate. “No, no… by talking about him, is there any need to popularise him…? Those who are thieves, robbers, frauds, their names should not be given publicity. Call him a protarawk (cheat),” said an infuriated Mamata. “The cheat who has been caught, such is his daring, audacity, arrogance, that he forged everything... there was no role of the government in this…. Those who do such things, I consider them neither human, nor inhuman,” she added, in her first public reaction on Deb. “They should be called big terrorists…. They are more dangerous than terrorists…. I am at a loss for words in trying to condemn this.” The police have booked Deb and others allegedly involved in the vaccine racket for attempt to murder. “As soon as we were alerted, strong action was initiated. An SIT has been formed. I have spoken to the police commissioner personally regarding this, three-four times. No excuse will be entertained. Unimaginable audacity, arrogance… and those who helped him, whoever it is, from A to Z, no compromise will be tolerated,” said the chief minister, who heads the home and health departments. The BJP-led Opposition in Bengal has been going to town over Deb, alleging that he had been hand in glove with the state government and Trinamul. The BJP and the CPM have been demanding answers on the role of the police and the civic authorities in the matter. The chief minister said the civil and police administration have been alerted. “Right under the very nose of the police, such offices, such businesses are being run… they should conduct surprise visits every now and then, I think,” she said. “In this matter, police cannot evade their responsibility. The (Calcutta Municipal) corporation too cannot evade its responsibility…. They have already been alerted.” She said a database had been prepared of all those who were administered jabs at Deb’s camps. A team of experts set up by the health department is closely monitoring each of them. “I have spoken to Mimi (Chakraborty). She has a gallbladder problem. That is why she was ill,” Mamata said, apparently ruling out the possibility of the actor and Trinamul MP having fallen ill from side-effects of the shot she received at a camp organised by Deb in Kasba. She then urged people to exercise greater caution, warning them against being gullible and trusting people simply because they appear presentable. “Sometimes they forge the chief minister’s signature, sometimes that of the Prime Minister, sometimes that of governments…. Have you forgotten that the terror attack on Parliament (2001) took place using government vehicles, with red beacons?” she said. The Trinamul chief apparently tried addressing the issue of Deb’s alleged hobnobbing with top-tier leaders and elected representatives of her party and the state administration, which the Opposition has been critical of. “Suppose I am going somewhere, to somebody’s residence, a person comes up and takes a picture, keeping me in the frame. That does not mean I know that person,” she said, in an oblique reference to numerous photographs that have emerged of Deb with seniors in her party and the administration. “That is why I often don’t allow (requests for selfies)…. I am sitting in aircraft, sitting far away, somebody is taking pictures and doctoring them. Showing pictures will amount to nothing,” she added. Asked to respond to the BJP’s demands for a CBI probe, she said: “If the CBI must probe this, it should first probe the countless bodies of the Covid-19 victims that were seen floating in the Ganga (from Uttar Pradesh), the vaccination exercise from BJP offices in Gujarat, the Shiv Sena’s complaint on land-related irregularities related to the Ram Mandir (in Uttar Pradesh).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-7
29-06-2021||Calcutta||Gokhale Memorial Girls’ College offers fee relief for students with financial distress||Gokhale Memorial Girls’ College has waived 80 per cent of the laboratory fees and some other fees entirely after hearing about financial distress the families of many students are suffering from amid the pandemic, officials of the college said. Those who have paid the fees will get refunds, the officials said. Teachers of the college have bought three students smartphones as they were not able to attend online classes in the absence of the device. Following the 80 per cent waiver on laboratory fees, a student of chemistry honours in the second, fourth and sixth semesters will now have to pay Rs 240 as laboratory fee. “The usual fee is Rs 1,200,” said principal Atashi Karpha. A student of physics or geography honours in the second, fourth and sixth semesters will now have to pay Rs 210 as laboratory fee, instead of Rs 1,050. “In addition, the college authorities have decided not to charge building and development fees (Rs 1,200), magazine fee (Rs 100) and sports fee (Rs 60) because of the financial hardship. Those who have already paid will be refunded following submission of applications,” principal Karpha told The Telegraph. “What really concerns me is the growing financial distress…. Waiving off fees or buying a student a smartphone constitutes a very small part. The larger picture is this economic distress, which is on the rise,” she said. The college will continue to collect tuition fee, computer maintenance fee and the internet fee. Half the income from the tuition fee is sent to the higher education department by the colleges. Gokhale college, on Harish Mukherjee Road in south Calcutta, was established in 1938 as an extension of Gokhale Memorial Girls’ School. It’s a government-aided college affiliated to Calcutta University. An official of the university said an affiliated college is entitled to take decisions on waiving fees to provide relief to the students. A teacher of the college said the financial constraints brought about by the pandemic-induced closure of economic activities have impacted several students. “Many people have suffered pay cuts or job loss. There is also an exponential rise in medical expenses. Families are increasingly finding it difficult to bear the cost of education for their children,” she said. Earlier, Scottish Church College had decided to waive fees for the ongoing and forthcoming semesters for students who have lost a parent to Covid. The Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology has waived the hostel fees, library and laboratory fees for “its in-house students” till the resumption of in-person classes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-7
29-06-2021||Calcutta||Ongoing off-site Covid vaccination camps by private hospitals with approval letters to continue||The ongoing outreach Covid vaccination camps by private hospitals that have approval letters from the health department will continue, a state government official said on Monday. “We want private hospitals to conduct outreach vaccination camps as that will add pace to the vaccination programme. All such camps that have permission from the state health department will be allowed to go ahead. But we have introduced some additional screening,” state health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam said. The additional checks include physical inspection by the health department before granting permission for any outreach camp. So far the department used to create a unique name and code for each outreach camp on the CoWIN portal. Now, the health department will issue a formal letter of approval after a screening. The state health department had on Saturday issued an SOP containing a fresh set of guidelines on outreach vaccination camps. The SOP was issued after it came to light that a man named Debanjan Deb had posed as an IAS officer posted as joint commissioner in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and organised several “Covid vaccination camps” without the mandatory approval of the health department. Police suspect at least some of the recipients were administered an antibiotic. The new SOP will help people tell a genuine Covid vaccination camp from a fake one. Several hospitals are yet to resume their outreach vaccination programmes, awaiting a formal letter from the health department. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences has stalled four outreach vaccination programmes lined up over the next few days. More than 1,500 doses were to be administered at those camps. “We have told the intended beneficiaries that we need some more time for due diligence from the state government before the approval is given,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, which runs the RN Tagore hospital. The AMRI Hospitals group has also decided to keep on hold some of its outreach vaccination camps that were scheduled for Tuesday and Wednesday. “Eight outreach camps were to be held in workplaces and housing complexes on Tuesday and Wednesday. The health department earlier used to give online approval. Now they will physically inspect the places and give an approval letter that we will display at the sites. We will start these camps on Thursday,” said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. Two ongoing outreach camps by AMRI – at South City and Acropolis malls - will continue, though. Officials running the CMC’s Covid vaccination sites have been asked to ensure that no recipient steps out before a text message confirming that he or she has been vaccinated comes. If a recipient does not get the text message after vaccination, officials at the centre have to hand him or her a printed copy of the certificate downloaded from the CoWIN portal, an official of the CMC said. The CMC runs about 190 Covid vaccination sites in the city, which include ward health clinics of the civic body and centres opened only to administer Covid vaccines. “It was decided at a meeting at the civic headquarters on Monday that all Covid vaccination sites of the CMC will display the name and the unique ID in the waiting area, vaccination room and observation area,” a CMC official said. “We will provide a vaccination certificate if any recipient does not receive a text message confirming the vaccination status. There have been instances of recipients not getting a text message after vaccination,” said the CMC official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-7
29-06-2021||Business||Google most attractive employment brand, finds study||Technology giant Google India has emerged as the most attractive employer brand', followed by Amazon India and Microsoft India, says a survey. According to the findings of Randstad Employer Brand Research (REBR) 2021, Google India scored high on financial health, strong reputation, and attractive salary and benefits parameters -- the top three Employee Value Proposition (EVP) drivers. Amazon India emerged as the runner-up, followed by Microsoft India. Others in the top 10 most attractive employer brands in India for 2021 include Infosys Technologies at fourth place, Tata Steel (5th), Dell Technologies Ltd (6th), IBM (7th), Tata Consultancy Services (8th), Wipro (9th), and Sony (10th). Moreover, the survey findings this year reflect a shift in employee sentiments, where work-life balance has taken center stage, making it as important as financial compensation while selecting an employer. The research captures the views of over 1,90,000 respondents (general public, aged 18-65) on 6,493 companies in 34 countries. It provides insights into the perceptions and drivers of choice of potential employees. The research revealed that in 2021 too, work-life balance (65 per cent) trumps attractive salary and benefits (62 per cent), as the most important driver for the Indian job seekers while choosing an employer. This is followed by a COVID-19 compliant work environment (61 per cent) and job security (61 per cent). "The parameters they (job seekers) consider while choosing an employer are truly evolving over the last few years, especially post the pandemic, hence the idea of employer branding itself has gone through a drastic transformation," Viswanath PS, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer Randstad India said. Now, these job seekers are more likely to accept jobs and stay in those organisations where they are valued, supported with compassion, and where the culture aligns with their own beliefs and purpose, he added. "In the coming years, we foresee a clear trend of employees seeking benefits beyond monetary aspects and attributing more importance to other EVP drivers like provision for full-time remote work, a COVID safe environment at physical workspaces, mental wellness support, etc," he said. The survey noted that the good reputation of the employer along with the financial health of the organisation were considered key factors for both male and female respondents. A higher percentage of female respondents (54 per cent) also accorded more importance to the possibility of working remotely/from home compared to their male (49 per cent) counterparts. The survey further noted that 21 per cent of Indian employees changed their employer in the last half of 2020 and 36 per cent intend to switch employers in the first half of 2021 and this behaviour is more so for those employees aged 25 to 34. Additionally, 21 per cent of those affected by COVID changed their employer in the past six months. Around 66 per cent of white-collar employees consider attractive salaries and benefits almost of equal importance to strong management (67 per cent) and job security (67 per cent). In terms of blue-collar workers, 64 per cent of them consider a COVID-19 safe work environment as the most important driver. This is different from the average employee who considers work-life balance the most important driver while choosing an employer, the survey said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-5
29-06-2021||Business||Sensex drops 186 points on profit-booking||Equity benchmark Sensex declined 186 points on Tuesday, tracking losses in ICICI Bank, Kotak Bank and Infosys as investors booked profits at higher levels. The 30-share BSE index ended 185.93 points or 0.35 per cent lower at 52,549.66. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tumbled 66.25 points or 0.42 per cent to 15,748.45. Kotak Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, Tech Mahindra, Bajaj Auto, Mahindra and Mahindra, SBI and Axis Bank. On the other hand, PowerGrid, HUL, NTPC, Dr Reddy's and Nestle India were among the gainers. According to Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities extended losses as profit-booking in financials, auto and metals dragged benchmark indices down. Weak cues from global markets also weighed on sentiments, he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with losses. Stock exchanges in Europe were, however, trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.27 per cent lower at USD 73.94 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-6
29-06-2021||Business||Cabinet may soon clear proposal for government guarantee on bad loans ||The Union Cabinet may soon clear a proposal to provide a government guarantee to security receipts issued by the National Asset Reconstruction Company (NARCL) as part of the resolution of bad loans. Indian Banks' Association (IBA), entrusted with the task of setting up a bad bank, has pegged the government guarantee to be around Rs 31,000 crore. The proposed bad bank or NARCL will pay up to 15 per cent of the agreed value for the loans in cash and the remaining 85 per cent would be government-guaranteed security receipts. The government guarantee would be invoked if there is a loss against the threshold value. According to sources, the proposal is before the Cabinet and its nod is required to extend the sovereign guarantee to security receipts issued by NARCL. Approval from the Cabinet that is expected soon will pave the way for operationalisation of the bad bank announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the Budget this year, the sources added. The Finance Minister in Budget 2021-22 announced that the high level of provisioning by public sector banks of their stressed assets calls for measures to clean up the bank books. "An Asset Reconstruction Company Limited and Asset Management Company would be set up to consolidate and take over the existing stressed debt," she had said in the Budget speech. It will then manage and dispose of the assets to alternate investment funds and other potential investors for eventual value realisation, she had said. Last year, IBA made a proposal for the creation of a bad bank for swift resolution of non-performing assets. The government accepted the proposal and decided to go for an asset reconstruction company and asset management company model in this regard. Meanwhile, state-owned Canara Bank has expressed its intent to be the lead sponsor of NARCL with a 12 per cent stake. The proposed NARCL would be 51 per cent owned by PSBs and the remaining by private sector lenders. NARCL will take over identified bad loans of lenders. The lead bank with an offer in hand of NARCL will go for a 'Swiss Challenge' wherein other asset reconstruction players will be invited to better the offer made by a chosen bidder for finding a higher valuation of a non-performing asset on sale. The company has picked up those assets that are 100 per cent provided for by the lenders. Banks have identified around 22 bad loans worth Rs 89,000 crore to be transferred to NARCL in the initial phase.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-6
29-06-2021||Business||Upliftment of Indian Modern-Agro Businesses by Rana Kapoor||Yes Bank under the leadership of Rana Kapoor provided support to the Indian agricultural sector, forged partnerships to promote organic farming and customized fintech products for the industry YES BANK is a high-quality, customer-centric, and service-driven bank that has grown from inception in 2004 to now provide a complete range of products, services, and technology-driven digital offerings, catering to corporate, MSME & retail customers. Headquartered in Mumbai, it's a pan-India presence across all twenty-eight states and nine Union Territories in Bharat together with an IBU at GIFT City, and a Representative workplace in Abu Dhabi. Under Rana Kapoor’s leadership, Agri and Food Business has been a key focus sector for Yes Bank. Yes Bank has successfully fostered the holistic development of India’s Food and Agribusiness sector by providing comprehensive banking solutions driven by strong knowledge expertise since inception. Moreover, the bank has emerged as a leading knowledge resource in this sector by providing innovative advisory services and detailed research reports. In 2007, Rana Kapoor drove the bank towards entering into a partnership with the Agriculture Insurance Company of India (AIC) with the motive to distribute agriculture insurance products to its customers which included crop insurance products and weather derivatives to protect the farmers. Working along the same lines, Yes Bank launched Yes Joint Liability Group (JLG, an initiative to provide banking services and products to people, especially in the rural and the semi-urban areas of India. Following the methodology of Joint Liability Group, it strives to provide term loans to its members, for the purpose of empowering their income generation and social development. The bank cooperates with NBFCs and other institutions to provide direct financing to this target group. These institutions have extensive networks in India and cover the most deprived and economically disadvantaged people. Moreover, Yes Bank has backed and collaborated on R&D projects, National Skills Foundation of India, which have resulted in innovations like Grain Moisture Detection, Agricultural Drone Sprayer, Agrisk Data Analytics. India has always been agriculture driven nation and even after 75 years of independence, the agriculture sector continues to be the dominant sector of employment with almost 50% of the working population employed in agriculture. It also contributes about 20% to the Indian GDP and stood as the only sector that reported a positive growth during the COVID-19 pandemic. In today’s modern day and age, the agricultural sector needs constant evolution and upgradation through latest technologies like Internet of Things (IoT), Smart Sensors, Agricultural Robots, and Satellite Imagery. The gaps in the operation style of agriculture sector and resources available have been filled with customised financial products from Yes Bank. Rana Kapoor ushered in the usage of cutting-edge technology in banking and specialised products for the agricultural sector of India by building customized fintech solutions to meet the needs of this sector. In Maharashtra, the bank also cooperated with the government to initiate a yellow revolution to increase egg production. In addition to State Governments, Yes Bank under Rana Kapoor worked closely with other Government Ministries such as Food Processing, Agriculture, Commerce & Industry to catalyze the investment ecosystem and on several key policy initiatives of national importance. The long history of Rana Kapoor’s immense contribution to the agricultural sector has been recognised and applauded across the nation. His expertise in finance and agriculture also got him acknowledgment from GB Pant University – the institution behind India’s Green Revolution. In May 2011, he was awarded a Doctorate in Science from GB Pant University of Agriculture and Technology for his contribution to the food and agribusiness sector in India through innovative banking for farmers and agribusiness entrepreneurs. With his knowledge-driven approach and intensive efforts, he has been instrumental in promoting agriculture and ancillary sectors such as agri-tourism and has continued the legacy of the Green Revolution in the 21st century.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-6
29-06-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty start on flat note amid mixed global cues||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty opened on a flat note on Tuesday tracking a mixed trend in global markets and sustained foreign fund outflow.  The 30-share BSE index was trading 22.82 points or 0.04 per cent higher at 52,758.41 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty inched 7.45 points or 0.05 per cent up to 15,822.15.  Asian Paints was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 1 per cent, followed by PowerGrid, L&T, TCS, Reliance Industries, HCL Tech and ITC.  On the other hand, ICICI Bank, M&M, HDFC Bank, Kotak Bank and Infosys were among the laggards.  In the previous session, the 30-share index Sensex ended 189.45 points or 0.36 per cent lower at 52,735.59, while Nifty settled 45.65 points or 0.29 per cent down at 15,814.70.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,658.72 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data.  According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities look to be flat as of now.  The slew of measures by Finance Minister on Monday to spur economic activities augurs well, he said, adding that the increase in allocation for Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme from Rs 3 trillion to Rs 4.5 trillion is a fantastic move to support the pandemic-hit sectors and ensure liquidity, which also offers comfort to banks.  Notably, a sharp fall in daily caseload and satisfactory ramp up in vaccination process have overshadowed concerns emerging from higher crude prices and weakening rupee, he said.  As per V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, the strongest headwind for the market now is the continuous FII selling which is logical in the context of the high valuations.  "With strong DII buying (worth Rs 1,277.08 crore on Monday) and over-confident retail activity, FIIs are now in a position to sell aggressively without pulling the markets down significantly."  On the global front, US stocks ended higher with S&P 500 and Nasdaq recording fresh highs.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with losses in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.55 per cent lower at USD 73.73 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-6
29-06-2021||Business||SC does not stay NCLAT order for revival of Incab Industries||The Supreme Court did not stay the NCLAT order that had mandated the revival of cable company Incab Industries instead of sending it for liquidation. Kamla Mills, one of the top financial creditors of the ailing company, and Shashi Agarwal, who was removed from the position of the resolution professional (RP) of Incab by the appellate authority, had moved the apex court challenging the June 4 order of National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT). Even as the appellants pressed for the stay of the NCLAT order, Justice Navin Sinha and Justice Sanjiv Khanna of the apex court did not grant it but agreed to hear the matter. Advocates representing some workmen from Jamshedpur and Calcutta said the bench had observed that the NCLAT had passed a reasoned order. Rishav Banerjee and Akhilesh Srivastava, who represented workmen of Incab headquarters in Calcutta and its plant in Jamshedpur, respectively, opposed the prayer of a stay and pressed that the resolution process should continue. The NCLAT had directed that the Calcutta Bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) appoint a new RP who would collate all the claims submitted by the creditors and form a committee of creditors. However, Kamla Mills and one Fasqua Investment Pvt Ltd would not be part of the CoC. The NCLT, Calcutta had ordered liquidation of Incab, which was set aside by the NCLAT. Kamla Mills, which was represented by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi on Monday, had claimed that Incab owed Rs 1,554 crore to it. Kamla Mills was part of the CoC with a little over 77 per cent vote share. Fasqua had a 13.28 per cent vote share in the CoC. Kamla Mills argued that its appeal would be rendered futile without a stay as the revival process would continue without it being part of the CoC. Advocates of the workmen had argued before the NCLAT that Kamla Mills and Fasqua Investment are ‘related parties’ and they should not be part of the CoC. The appellate authority had observed that the RP had formed the CoC without verifying the claims of financial creditors. The CoC had then voted in favour of liquidation of the company, which was later approved by the NCLT, Calcutta but overturned at the NCLAT.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-6
29-06-2021||Business||Export target of $400-billion for current fiscal bit ambitious: Fieo||The $400-billion export target for the current fiscal is a bit ambitious but can be achieved with aggressive marketing and venturing into new markets, according to exporters’ body Fieo. The foreign trade agreements (FTAs) would help in boosting shipments. “The target seems a  ambitious but achievable. My priority will be export promotion. I will create an export promotion cell to identify new markets and new products,” Fieo president A. Sakthivel told reporters. He said the free trade agreements with countries, including the UK, Europe, Australia and the US, would help further push the country’s exports. The marketing push may come from these agreements and such pacts will also help in attracting foreign investments, particularly those looking at both the Indian market and exports. ‘One of the reasons for the success of Vietnam in attracting investment and relocating units is its effective FTAs (free trade agreement) with the rest of the world. It is extremely encouraging that the government is moving simultaneously with many trade partners in this direction,” the newly elected president said. He urged both industry and the government to increase their marketing budget. Sakthivel suggested that the government should look to raise the market access initiative funds from the current Rs 200 crore. A marketing scheme to take exports to $1 trillion in the next five years may be rolled in with a minimum corpus of Rs 1,000 crore annually. Reacting to the economic package announced by the government, the FIEO president said “the Rs 33,000 crore for Project Exports will facilitate both goods and services  as many economies are opening up with large investment to propel exports from India”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-6
29-06-2021||Business||July most conducive time to hold CA exams, ICAI tells Supreme Court||ICAI told the Supreme Court on Monday that July is the most conducive time to hold CA exams as the Covid-19 spread is now at a substantially low level, offering an opportune moment for chartered accountants to further their professional career. The CA examinations, which are conducted by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) in May, were postponed because of the Covid-19 pandemic and are now scheduled to be held from July 5-20. ICAI told the top court that as on date, the numbers of Covid-19 cases are comparatively low and thus it would be in the best interests of the candidates if the examinations are held according to the revised schedule and not cancelled or postponed. A bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Aniruddha Bose said that as it has not received the ICAI note, it will hear the matter on Tuesday. The top court is hearing a batch of pleas seeking different reliefs, including an opt-out option for the candidates, postponement of the exam, and increase in the number of centres this year. At the outset, senior advocate Ramji Srinivasan, appearing for the ICAI, said they have circulated a note which if taken into consideration deals with some of the issues raised in the petitions. Senior advocate Meenakshi Arora, appearing for one of the petitioners, said they are not seeking deferment but want more centres to be given as many of them have been unilaterally closed by ICAI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-6
29-06-2021||Business||Sebi keeps in abeyance processing of Go Airlines’ draft papers for IPO||Markets regulator Sebi has kept in abeyance the processing of Go Airlines’ draft papers for an initial public offer worth Rs 3,600 crore. Go Airlines (India) Ltd, which has announced a plan to rebrand itself as ‘Go First’, filed preliminary papers for an initial share sale in May. The proceeds will be mainly used to repay dues. The “issuance of observations (has been) kept in abeyance”, according to Sebi's latest update on processing status of Go Airlines’ draft offer documents. The information was updated on June 25.  In Sebi parlance, issuance of observations implies its go-ahead for the IPO. SpiceJet plan No-frills carrier SpiceJet plans to raise funds through issuance of equity shares or debt instruments and the proposal will be discussed at its board meeting on Wednesday. In a regulatory filing late on Sunday, SpiceJet said its board of directors will consider “options for raising fresh capital through issue of equity shares/debt instrument on preferential/qualified institutions placement basis” at the scheduled meeting on June 30. SpiceJet shares gained over 2 per cent to close at Rs 79.65 on the BSE on Monday. Aditya Birla Sun Life Sebi has kept proposed initial share-sale of Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC in “abeyance”, an update with the watchdog showed on Monday. However, the regulator did not clarify further.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-6
29-06-2021||Business|| Bajaj Finance Ltd develops wallet application called Bajaj Pay||Bajaj Finance Ltd has developed a wallet application called Bajaj Pay and is on course to come out with an integrated payment solution for merchants. The non-banking finance company (NBFC) is also developing five proprietary marketplaces to provide various options to customers to buy financial products and services. These initiatives are part of its business transformation to focus on building an omnichannel model to deliver significant business velocity, reduce operating costs and improve customer experience, the NBFC said in its annual report for 2020-21. In May this year, BFL had received the Reserve Bank of India’s approval for the digital wallet business. The company added that after receiving the nod, it has developed a wallet application called Bajaj Pay which will offer an integrated payment solution comprising UPI, EMI cards and credit cards to its customers. The payment solution for its 98,300 merchants — also named Bajaj Pay — is expected to expand its market share. Bajaj Finance disclosed that it is also planning to join hands with more than 25 adjunct app ecosystems which have related products or service offerings. At present, Bajaj Finance focuses on six broad categories — consumer lending, SME lending, commercial lending, rural lending, deposits and partnerships and services. In his communication to shareholders, chairman Sanjiv Bajaj said as the first wave started to abate, the company accelerated its business by focusing on customers less susceptible to the economic consequences of the pandemic. He added that BFL utilised this crisis to rapidly grow the transformational journey it started in the third quarter of 2019-20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-6
29-06-2021||Business|| Securities Appellate Tribunal stays Sebi order on Franklin Templeton||The Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) on Monday stayed the June 7 order of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) barring Franklin Templeton Asset Management (India) Pvt Ltd from launching any new debt scheme for two years. In an interim order, the tribunal also asked the fund house to deposit Rs 250 crore in three weeks as it felt that the market regulator’s direction to deposit Rs 512.50 crore was “excessive” at this stage. This will be, however, subject to the result of the appeal. Sebi in its order had asked Franklin Templeton to refund investment management and advisory fees of Rs 512.50 crore and pay a penalty of Rs 5 crore. The matter will be heard again for final disposal on August 30. Franklin Templeton MF had shut six debt schemes on April 23, 2020 citing redemption pressures and lack of liquidity in the bond market. The schemes — Franklin India Low Duration Fund, Franklin India Dynamic Accrual Fund, Franklin India Credit Risk Fund, Franklin India Short Term Income Plan, Franklin India Ultra Short Bond Fund and Franklin India Income Opportunities Fund — had an estimated Rs 25,000 crore as assets under management. Sebi in its order found that Franklin Templeton MF had “committed serious lapses/violations with regard to scheme categorisation (by replicating high–risk strategy across several schemes) and calculation of Macaulay duration (to push long term papers into short duration schemes)’’. It also committed violations in respect of non–exercise of exit options in the face of an emerging liquidity crisis, securities valuation practices, risk management practices and investment related due diligence, the regulator had noted. “We find that the appellant (Franklin Templeton MF) has been in this business for more than two decades and some of the schemes have been in existence for more than 10 years. No complaints whatsoever have come on record to indicate the poor management of the schemes by the appellant. “We have been informed that the appellants were running 48 equity and debt schemes out of which 28 were debt schemes and as on date six schemes have been wound up by the appellant and, therefore, 21 debt schemes are still running,’’ the division bench of Justice Tarun Agarwala and Justice M.T. Joshi said in the order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-6
29-06-2021||Business|| India’s attempts to list its sovereign bonds on global bond indices stuck||India’s attempts to list its sovereign bonds on global bond indices are stuck because of “niggling issues”, Sanjeev Sanyal, principal economic adviser to the finance ministry, has said. The Centre, which has been looking to list these bonds for quite some time now, expects to do it during this fiscal as it wants to broaden the investor base and lower borrowing costs, he said. There are large global institutional investors who track indices such as the Bloomberg Barclays Emerging Market Bond index or the JP Morgan Emerging Bond index. In the current fiscal, the government is set to borrow over Rs 12 lakh crore and it is expected to stay at high levels even in the next fiscal. In an interview to Bloomberg Quint, Sanyal said there are certain niggling issues that have to be sorted before the Union government can list the domestic securities on such global bond indices. “We are putting together various micro-structures for it...Euroclear and all that is getting done. The bond indices people are also examining it... if they come back and tell us there is more to be done, we will look at that,’’ he added. For such a listing to happen, the domestic bonds should become eligible for settlement through Euroclear — a platform which settles international securities transactions. A key challenge is whether capital gains tax should be levied if there is a transaction between two non-residents. Earlier this year, a PTI report quoting economic affairs secretary Tarun Bajaj said the inclusion should happen in the second half of this fiscal and some specified securities which will be listed on the indices will not have any lock-in requirement. Last year, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had opened certain specified categories of government securities for non-resident investors as part of an initiative to deepen the bond market. In a notification, the central bank had said that a separate route called the Fully Accessible Route (FAR) for investment by non-residents in securities issued by the government of India has been set.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-7
29-06-2021||Business||Mismatch between credit and deposit growth rates hurting banks ||A mismatch between credit and deposit growth rates is hurting banks who are finding no fresh investment commitments in the private sector to turn around the low credit demand. The rise in overall deposits of scheduled commercial banks as of March 2021 stood at 12.3 per cent year-on-year, significantly outpacing the credit growth of 5.6 per cent, thus putting pressure on the margins. The slowdown in credit growth, according to Care Ratings, reflects a degree of risk aversion with banks being selective in giving fresh loans  to the corporate segment. The borrowers, too, are unwilling to raise debt. “The real challenge for the banking sector is on one hand there is deposit growth and on the other hand it is not able to grow significantly on the credit side and that hurts,” V.S. Radhakrishnan, deputy managing director, SBI, said at a Merchants Chamber of Commerce & Industry event on Monday. “Credit offtake is a matter of concern in the banking industry. There is a huge slowdown in fresh capex commitments by the private sector. Scaling down and deferring of capex is happening in a big way,” said Radhakrishnan. He added that corporates are also looking to deleverage balance sheets through various measures, such as accessing the equity market, selling non-core assets and using internal cash to pay off debt. A study of SBI’s economic research wing analysed the data of more than 1,000 listed companies in 2020-21 and found more than Rs 1.7 lakh crore of debt was reduced during the pandemic year. At the same time primary issuance of bonds increased 9 per cent. Radhakrishnan said even as there is a degree of uncertainty among lenders in assessing the risks of certain businesses, there is a short-term concern among banks in lending to PSUs at very low rates, resulting in profitability taking a beating.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-7
29-06-2021||Business||Covid: Nirmala Sitharaman announces Rs 6.28 lakh cr relief package||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s Rs 6.28-lakh-crore relief package — laden with loan guarantees, previous expenditure announcements and insurance support, which mean little by way of fresh expenditure proposals — was just what the doctor did not order to revive an economy devastated by the twin waves of the coronavirus, with experts warning of a third wave making its way towards the economy. None of the major proposals of industry chamber CII found their way in the FM’'s package announced Monday. Newly elected CII chief T.V. Narendran had estimated that there was fiscal headroom of up to Rs 3 lakh crore and this amount could be channelised towards direct cash transfers to the vulnerable people, higher allocation to the rural job scheme, short-term Goods and Services Tax (GST) rate cuts and lower excise duty on fuel. Plans in wraps The finance minister did not indicate whether the relief package was a part of a series of stimulus measures to be announced in the coming days  or whether this was just a one-off measure. A week ago industry chamber PHDCCI had said  calibrated measures were needed to support the country's economic recovery and to diminish the daunting impact caused by the two waves of the coronavirus. “There is a need to re-fuel household consumption to enhance demand in the economy as it will have an accelerated effect on the expansion of capital investments in the country,” PHDCCI president Sanjay Aggarwal said. “These are not really new schemes but extensions that have the power to help growth over a period of time,” Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care Ratings, said. The finance minister used the occasion to shoe-horn a budget proposal on power sector revamp within the relief package announced Monday. Sabnavis said the measures were more in the nature of medium-term reforms that will help farmers, exporters, power sector and manufacturing. Unlike advanced economies, which offered huge stimulus packages for households, India has relied on pumping more state funds into infrastructure, state guarantees on bank loans to pandemic-hit businesses and free foodgrain for the poor. “Most of the fiscal support is still below the line and in the form of loan guarantees, and not direct stimulus,” said Madhavi Arora, lead economist, Emkay Global Financial Services, told Reuters. She said that given the limited efficacy of monetary easing, continued countercyclical fiscal policy support — and avoiding a premature consolidation — remained crucial. Muted reaction The government’s fresh stimulus measures failed to lift investor spirits with the BSE Sensex closing 189 points lower after hitting record levels earlier during the day. Though the benchmark indices were in a negative territory ahead of Sitharaman’s announcement which came towards the end of the trading session, it could not turn the tide. Views remain divided with some experts opining that the actual reaction may be seen on Tuesday when investors would have analysed the steps. There are others who feel that since expectations were not high in the run-up to the stimulus package, stocks movement will be determined by other factors such as the spread of virus, vaccination roll-out and corporate earnings. After touching a life-time high of 53126, the Sensex ended the day at 52735.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-7
29-06-2021||India||Delhi records surge in Covid cases||The numbers recorded on Tuesday marked a steep rise in the number of Covid cases recorded on Monday (59) and Sunday (89). A day after recording the lowest number of coronavirus cases, the national capital recorded 101 new cases of the viral infection. According to the health department bulletin, Delhi in the past 24 hours, recorded four deaths and 119 recoveries. According to a Hindustan Times report, the total number of cases in the national capital now stands at 1,434,094. However, the number of recoveries continue to outnumber the number of daily cases being registered. The report indicates that the positivity rate reached 0.15% after 66,397 samples were tested, of which 101 came back positive. Significantly, in the past 30 days Delhi’s positivity rate was below 1%. The numbers recorded also marks an increase from the 58,895 tested a day prior, which took the positivity rate to 0.10%. According data available, a total of 42,973 RTPCR/CBNAAT/True Nat tests, and 23,424 rapid antigen tests have been conducted in the previous 24 hours in Delhi. The HT report further indicated that 204,711 beneficiaries had been immunised on Tuesday. Around 164,715 of the those vaccinated were had received their first dose, and 39,996 were jabbed with their second dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-21
29-06-2021||India||Covid: 49% of population aged 60 years and above vaccinated||A marked increase in the pace of Covid-19 vaccination has been observed from June 21 with around 4.61 crore doses being administered in eight days, which is more than the population of Iraq (4.02 crore), Canada (3.77 crore), Saudi Arabia (3.48 crore) and Malaysia (3.23 crore), the government said on Tuesday. On an average, 57.68 lakh doses of the vaccine were administered per day which is more than the population of Finland (55.41 lakh), Norway (54.21 lakh) and New Zealand (48.22 lakh), Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said addressing a press conference. The new revised guidelines of Covid-19 vaccination came into effect from June 21, according to which the Centre will now procure 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced by the manufacturers in the country. In order to incentivise production by vaccine manufacturers and encourage new vaccines, domestic vaccine manufacturers are given the option to also provide vaccines directly to private hospitals. This would be restricted to 25 per cent of their monthly production, the new guidelines stated. Agarwal informed that 49 per cent of the population aged 60 years and above has been vaccinated with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine. The government highlighted that the cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 33.11 crore so far. Out of an estimated 59.7 crore people in the age group of 18-44 years, 15 per cent have been vaccinated with the first dose of the vaccine, it said. Agarwal said from June 21-28, 57.68 lakh average daily doses have been delivered. "A marked increase in vaccine administration in the present phase (June 21-28) with 4.61 crore doses administered in 8 days which is more than the population of Iraq (4.02 crore), Canada (3.77 crore), Saudi Arabia (3.48 crore) and Malaysia (3.23 crore)," he said. From May 1 to June 24, 56 per cent doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been given in rural areas, while 44 per cent have been administered in urban areas, he said. Of the total number of vaccinations so far, Aggarwal said 46 per cent women have been inoculated and 54 per cent men have received the jabs. A total of 54,693 other gender have also been given vaccines during the period, Agarwal said. There are 20.9 crore people aged between 45-59 years, out of which 42 per cent have been vaccinated with the first dose of the Covid vaccine, Agarwal said. A decline of almost 92 per cent has been noted in the daily Covid-19 cases since the highest reported peak on May 7. A sharp decline of over 85 per cent has been noted in weekly positivity since the highest reported weekly positivity of 21.3 per cent reported between May 4 to May 10. India launched its Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16 and has so far administered over 33.11 crore doses, while the UK which began the drive on December 8 has administered around 7.67 crore doses. The US which started the drive on December 14 has administered over 32.44 crore doses while Italy, Germany and France which launched their inoculation drive on December 27 have administered around 4.98 crore, 7.21 crore and 5.24 crore doses respectively, he said. India took 163 days to reach the 32 crore mark, while the US took 193 days. NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr V K Paul said there is an improvement in the pandemic situation but stressed on maintaining caution. "There are 111 districts where more than 100 daily cases are being reported and it is in our peninsula region -- Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal. Concern in the face of an ongoing pandemic of this nature must continue to be on our minds...lowering of guard is not acceptable," he said. "We would like to see increased proportion of women coming to vaccination booths for receiving the vaccine so that skew in gender can also get corrected," he added. On vaccination of lactating mothers, he said all four Covid-19 vaccines presently approved in India are safe for them. "They must take it and no specific precaution is needed and they should get vaccinated. This is scientifically valid and applicable to all the vaccines that have been licensed," he said. "With full authority and science and research, I want to say there is no side effect of infertility associated with vaccines and it is rumour mongering and raising doubts so please don't believe them. There is no chance with any infertility, male or female, in relation to any licensed vaccine -- Covaxin, Covishield, Sputnik-V and Moderna," he said. On a question why the death toll remains high, he said death rates were higher in the second wave as compared to the first wave. "I have no doubt that the deaths are declining and are on a downswing and it is only a matter of time. It is essentially the lag due to which these are there, but some of the serious cases that prolonged from more intense phases are also adding up to this situation," he said. On the Delta plus variant of Covid-19, he said scientific data on transmissibility, severity or vaccine efficacy against this variant is not available yet. "It is being monitored and scientific action is being taken," he added. On vaccination of pregnant women, Agarwal said NTAGI recommendation has come to the Health Ministry and it is being examined and it will be examined with other stakeholders too, and required orders based on that will be issued.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-21
29-06-2021||India||House panel seeks Twitter’s response on locking Ravi Shankar Prasad, Shashi Tharoor’s accounts||A parliamentary panel on Tuesday asked Twitter to explain with 48 hours why it had blocked access of Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and Congress MP Shashi Tharoor to their accounts, sources said. The missive from the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information and Technology, headed by Tharoor, came amid a continuous tussle between the microblogging platform and the central government over various issues, including new IT rules. The panel was instructed by Tharoor to seek reply from Twitter on the blocking of access to accounts of Prasad and others on its platform, the sources said. Last week, Twitter had blocked Union Information and Technology Minister Prasad from accessing his account which ratcheted up tensions with the government as it came under renewed attack for not following local laws. Twitter denied Prasad access to his account '@rsprasad' for almost an hour on the grounds that he violated the US Digital Millennium Copyright Act, but the minister said the microblogging platform violated new IT rules that require intermediary or a host of user content to give prior notice before locking access. The IT minister called out Twitter over the brazen arbitrariness and running its “own agenda”. Soon after Prasad flagged the issue, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor tweeted that he too had faced something similar. “Raviji, the same thing just happened to me. Clearly DMCA is getting hyperactive. This tweet has been deleted by @Twitter because its video includes the copyrighted BoneyM song ‘Rasputin’,” Tharoor tweeted. Tharoor further said: "As Chairman of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology, I can state that we will be seeking an explanation from @TwitterIndia for the locking of @rsprasad's & my accounts & the rules & procedures they follow while operating in India". Prasad lashed out at Twitter, and in a series of posts on rival social media platform Koo said it was apparent that his statements calling out the “high handedness and arbitrary actions” of Twitter, had ruffled feathers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-21
29-06-2021||India||Punjab Assembly elections 2022: Rahul says no meeting with Navjot ||Rahul Gandhi today said there was no meeting scheduled with Navjot Singh Sidhu a day after the disgruntled Punjab Congress leader's team said he had a "meeting with the Gandhis". On Monday, Navjot Sidhu's team had said he would meet with Rahul Gandhi and his sister Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in Delhi. The cricketer-turned-politician had sought a meeting with the Gandhis to press for his demands in the middle of his intense feud with Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. So had Amarinder Singh, who was in Delhi last week for a second meeting with the three-member Congress committee formed by party chief Sonia Gandhi to resolve the Punjab infighting. His expected meet with the Gandhis did not happen, even though the party made it clear that he will lead the Congress in the election. It was surprising, in the circumstances, when Mr Sidhu's office announced that he was meeting with the Gandhis today. Both Amarinder Singh and Mr Sindhu have met with the committee more than once. However, no solution so far has achieved the approval of either. Mr Sidhi, a former BJP leader who joined the Congress ahead of the 2017 Punjab election, has made it clear to the party leadership that he is no longer ready to be treated as a "showpiece" during the election campaign. He has repeatedly targeted the Chief Minister, accusing him of sidelining him and trying to suppress him. According to NDTV despite the panel suggesting that Mr Sidhu's candidates should be given a share in the cabinet and in the Congress in Punjab, Amarinder Singh has been resistant to the idea. Mr Sidhu, 57, who is known to have Rahul Gandhi's support and is a hugely popular face with a following both in the state and the party, is among several leaders challenging Mr Singh's leadership in the state. One of the key triggers of the revolt is the Punjab government's legal setback in a 2015 case involving the desecration of the Sikh religious text Guru Granth Sahib and police firing during peaceful protests. Mr Sidhu and other critics of the Chief Minister say his government did not do enough to bring justice in the case. The most recent flashpoint was Mr Singh's move to give government jobs to the sons of two Congress MLAs on "compassionate" grounds -- Mr Sidhu had accused him of giving jobs to elitist people". Last week, Mr Sidhu told NDTV he was ready to work with Mr Singh but only if the Chief Minister met promises made to the people before the last assembly elections. He also refuted allegations that he damaging the party in one of the few states where it was in power on its own steam. "It is damaging if you address issues like sacrilege? Every MLA is raising this issue. All 78 MLAs are with me," he questioned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-21
29-06-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh: 22 district panchayat chiefs elected unopposed||Chairpersons of 22 zila panchayats out of a total of 75 in Uttar Pradesh were on Tuesday declared elected unopposed by the state poll panel with the BJP claiming victory in 21 seats. The remaining one seat in the Etawah district was bagged by the Samajwadi Party. The voting for the remaining 53 seats of district panchayat chairpersons will be held on July 3, from 11 am to 3 pm, the Uttar Pradesh Election Commission said. UP State Election Commissioner Manoj Kumar, in a statement on Tuesday, said chairpersons of zila panchayats in 22 districts have been elected unopposed. The poll panel did not announce the party affiliation of winning candidates but the BJP later claimed victory over 21 seats and the SP over one of the Etawah distrct. The districts where whose zila panchayat chairperson won unopposed are Saharanpur, Bahraich, Etawah, Chitrakoot, Agra, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Meerut, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr, Amroha, Moradabad, Lalitpur, Jhansi, Banda, Shravasti, Balrampur, Gonda, Gorakhpur, Mau, Varanasi, Pilibhit and Shahjahanpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-21
29-06-2021||India||Process of relaxing lockdown restrictions should be carefully calibrated, says govt||The Centre asked the states on Tuesday to focus on the five-fold strategy for effective COVID-19 management and said the process of relaxing restrictions should be carefully calibrated. In an advisory to all the state governments and Union Territory administrations on COVID-19 management for the month of July, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla also said the states should regularly monitor the districts with a high number of active coronavirus cases per million (10 lakh) population as it is an important indicator to predict the need for upgrading the health infrastructure and logistics, so that early and prompt action can be taken. He said with the decline in the number of active coronavirus cases, many states have started relaxing the restrictions. Bhalla said the process of relaxing the restrictions should be "carefully calibrated", and prompt and targeted action needs to be taken by the states, in line with the advisory issued by the Union health ministry. "States, UTs should closely monitor case positivity and bed occupancy on a regular basis, taking the districts as administrative units. "On witnessing any early sign of an increase in the case positivity rate and higher bed occupancy, necessary action should be taken for containment and upgrading the health infrastructure," the communication said. The home secretary said for the districts with a high positivity rate and bed occupancy, the states may consider imposing restrictions. "There should be a continuous focus on the five-fold strategy for an effective management of COVID-19 i.e. test-track-treat-vaccination and adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour," he said. Bhalla said as has been emphasised in previous home ministry orders and advisories, adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour is crucial to guard against any surge in the number of cases. To reiterate, Covid-appropriate behaviour includes mandatory use of face masks, hand hygiene, following physical, social distancing (maintaining a two-yard distance with anybody) and proper ventilation of closed places, he added. While easing the restrictions, it must be ensured that there is no let up in adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour, the home secretary said. "I would, therefore, urge you to issue directions to the districts and all other authorities concerned to take necessary measures as advised by the health ministry in its letter dated June 28 for the management of COVID-19. "I would also advise that the orders issued by the respective state governments, UT administrations, district authorities in this regard should be widely disseminated to the public and the field functionaries for their proper implementation," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-21
29-06-2021||India||Delhi Police book Twitter over access to child pornography||The Delhi Police has registered an FIR against Twitter for allegedly allowing access to child pornography on the microblogging platform on a complaint by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), officials said on Tuesday. The case has been registered under relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the IT Act, they said. This comes days after the NCPCR, the country's apex child rights body, asked Deputy Commissioner of Police (Cyber Cell) Anyesh Roy to explain why no action had been taken against Twitter as per its letter to the Delhi Police dated May 29. In its letter, the NCPCR had asked the Delhi Police to book Twitter on the basis of the findings of its recent inquiry in which it had found that child sexual abuse material (CSAM) was easily available on the platform. Delhi Police Public Relations Officer Chinmoy Biswal said, "Acting on a complaint received from the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights regarding the availability of child sexual abuse and child pornographic material on Twitter in the form of various accounts and links, an FIR under relevant sections of IPC, IT Act and POCSO Act has been registered by the Cyber Crime Unit, and investigation has been taken up." The complaint was against Twitter Inc and Twitter Communication India Private Ltd., the police said. In its May 29 letter, the NCPCR had said that it was found that "the toolkit for deep and dark web" was also available on Twitter. This gives access to all, including children, to obtain CSAM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-22
29-06-2021||India||Modi meets Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh and security advisor Ajit Doval||Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting with Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval on Tuesday and discussed "futuristic challenges" in the defence sector, sources said. They also discussed various other aspects, including equipping security forces with modern equipment and involving more youth, start-ups and the strategic community in the field. The meeting came against the backdrop of the first-of-its-kind terror attack using drone at an Indian Air Force station in Jammu. The government has handed over the probe into the attack to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Shortly after midnight on Sunday, two blasts had taken place at the Air Force base at the Jammu Airport, in which a building was damaged and two Indian Air Force personnel suffered minor injuries. The high security airport is located around 14 km from the border with Pakistan. Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbagh Singh said Pakistan-based terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba is suspected of involvement in the attack. Suspicion about a Lashkar link came following the arrest of a suspected operative of the group from Banihal. The 22-year-old, carrying an explosive device weighing 4 kg, was arrested hours after Sunday's blasts. Over the last two years, reports from Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir suggested that Pakistan was using drones to make weapons drop. Two such instances have been recorded in Jammu and two in Punjab. Sunday's attack took place shortly before Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Army Chief General MM Naravane's scheduled visit to Ladakh to review India's operational readiness in the backdrop of the ongoing stand-off with China. The attacks shattered the relative stability at the border, where a drop in infiltration was observed amid the Covid pandemic. The government said it has been considering the restart of the political process in Jammu and Kashmir in view of the security situation. Singh said Lashkar could also be behind the drones spotted near the Kaluchak military facility on Monday. Yesterday, the army said a major threat was averted when the troops spotted two drones near the military station in Jammu. They flew away after the troops opened fire at them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-22
29-06-2021||India||Follow IT rules, court order, parliamentary panel asks social media giants||Facebook and Google representatives Tuesday deposed before the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology over the issue of social media misuse, with sources saying they were told to comply with the new IT rules, government instructions and court orders. The panel, chaired by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, had asked them to appear in person at the parliament secretariat here. While from Facebook it's country public policy director Shivnath Thukral and general counsel Namrata Singh deposed before the panel, Google was represented by its country head (government affairs and public policy) Aman Jain and director (legal) Gitanjali Duggal. The agenda of the parliamentary panel meeting was to safeguard citizens' rights and prevent the misuse of social/online news media platforms. The sources also said the representatives were conveyed that there are loopholes in their existing data protection and privacy policy mechanism, and were asked to put in place stringent safeguards to protect data privacy and data security of their users. The sources said that Chairman Tharoor expressed concern about the privacy of women users of social media platforms. He said he has also received complaints from several women MPs in this regard. Earlier, Facebook representatives had informed the parliamentary panel that their company policy does not allow their officials to attend in-person meetings because of their Covid-related protocol. But Tharoor conveyed to Facebook that its officials will have to appear in-person since the parliament secretariat does not allow any virtual meetings. The Parliamentary Committee on IT will also summon representatives of YouTube and other Social Media Intermediaries in the coming weeks over the issue. Facebook and Google representatives were called days after Twitter officials deposed before the panel. In the last meeting, several members of the panel had categorically told Twitter that the rule of land is supreme not the social media platform's policies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-22
29-06-2021||India||Domestic pharma majors join hands for clinical trial of Covid treatment drug||Leading drug makers Dr Reddy's Laboratories, Cipla, Emcure Pharmaceuticals, Sun Pharmaceutical Industries and Torrent Pharmaceuticals have decided to collaborate for clinical trial of the investigational oral antiviral drug Molnupiravir for the treatment of mild COVID-19. The five pharma companies have entered into a collaboration agreement, wherein the parties will jointly sponsor, supervise and monitor the clinical trial in the country, according to regulatory filings by Dr Reddy's and Cipla. As per the directive of the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, Dr Reddy's will conduct the clinical trial using its product, and the other four pharma companies will be required to demonstrate equivalence of their product to the product used by Dr Reddy's in its clinical trial, the filings noted. The clinical trial will be conducted for the treatment of mild COVID-19 in an outpatient setting and is expected to take place between June and September across India with the recruitment of 1,200 patients, they added. Such collaboration for a clinical trial is a first of its kind within the Indian pharma industry, and will aim to investigate yet another line of treatment in the collective fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, the companies noted. On successful completion of the clinical trial, each company will independently approach the regulatory authorities for approval to manufacture and supply Molnupiravir for the treatment of COVID-19 in India, it added. Molnupiravir is an oral antiviral drug that inhibits the replication of multiple RNA viruses including SARS-CoV-2. It is currently being studied by MSD, through a collaboration with Ridgeback Biotherapeutics, in a Phase Ill trial for the treatment of non-hospitalised patients with confirmed COVID-19 globally. Between March and April this year, the five Indian pharma companies had individually entered into a non-exclusive voluntary licensing agreement with Merck Sharpe Dohme (MSD) to manufacture and supply Molnupiravir to India and over 100 low- and middle-income countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-22
29-06-2021||India||Jaishankar calls for global cooperation to combat Covid challenge at G20 meet||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Tuesday that international cooperation is the answer to the challenge posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. "Whether it is vaccines, medicines, PPE or oxygen, international cooperation is the answer to the COVID challenge. Need more, not less," Jaishankar said while addressing the G20 Foreign Ministers' Meeting here. "Institutional multilateralism has been found wanting. Reforms have many forms but vaccine equity will be the immediate test. The real economy needs decentralised globalisation, including in manufacturing, food and health. Resilient supply chains must develop in parallel," he said. "The full diversity of our planet needs more accurate reflection in global policy making," he added. India has recorded more than 3 crore coronavirus cases and registered nearly 400,000 deaths due to the virus since the beginning of the pandemic last year. Globally, the coronavirus has infected over 18 crore people and killed nearly 40 lakh, according to Johns Hopkins University. Jaishankar arrived in Italy from Greece on the second leg of this two-nation tour to attend the the G20 ministerial meetings. The G20 summit is scheduled to be held in Italy in October. India is expected to hold the presidency of the G20 in 2022. The G20 is an influential bloc that brings together the world's major economies. The G20 member countries are Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, Japan, India, Indonesia, Italy, Mexico, Russia, South Africa, Saudi Arabia, South Korea, Turkey, the United Kingdom, the United States and the European Union.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-22
29-06-2021||India||Drone attack: Congress asks Centre to act on experts' advice rather than headlines management||The Congress on Tuesday said a credible and comprehensive policy and measures are the need of the hour to tackle drone attacks by Pakistan-based terror outfits. Congress general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the Modi government needs to act on the strategic advice of experts instead of focusing on mere headlines management. The reaction came after a series of drones were found in Jammu following two drone attacks on the Air Force station there. "Armed drone attacks are a real threat to security forces and government establishments. A credible and comprehensive policy and measures are the need of the hour to tackle attacks by the Pak-based terror outfits, backed by the infamous ISI, instead of mere circulars and amendments of rules," Surjewala said on Twitter. The Congress leader hoped the BJP government is aware of the ISI and Pakistan-based terror outfits using Chinese Hexacopters and drones, gifted by Beijing to Pakistan for use in CPEC, to drop arms across the border. He also talked of the sale of 50 Wing Loong II armed drones by China to Pakistan for use in high-altitude areas. "Hope the BJP government is aware that MPs have repeatedly raised the issue of drones attacks through Parliamentary Question on July 9, 2019, March 5, 2020 and on September 20, 2020. "The entire nation stands as one with our security forces and government to repulse such attacks. "But the Modi government should realise that it needs to act on strategic advice of defence experts with experience of modern warfare rather than rely upon mere headlines management," he said. Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill said the central government must focus on procuring equipment to counter drones as Pakistan establishment follows the policy of cloak & dagger and cannot be trusted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-22
29-06-2021||India||Modi lauds Indian archers' 'stupendous performance' at World Cup||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday congratulated Indian archers for their stupendous performance at the World Cup and said their success will inspire upcoming talent in the sport. Star archer Deepika Kumari led the show with supreme authority to grab a hat-trick of gold medals as India made an unprecedented clean sweep at the World Cup Stage 3 in Paris on Sunday for a perfect build-up to the Tokyo Olympics in less than a month's time. In the absence of the world number one South Korea, the Indians faced little challenge to win the women's individual, team and mixed pair events with Deepika a constant in each of them, playing back-to-back four matches in less than five hours. "The last few days have witnessed stupendous performances by our archers at the World Cup," Modi said in a tweet. "Congratulations to @ImDeepikaK, Ankita Bhakat, Komalika Bari, Atanu Das and @archer_abhishek for their success, which will inspire upcoming talent in this field," the prime minister said. India topped the medals tally with four gold medals as Abhishek Verma had clinched the solitary top medal in the compound section earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-22
29-06-2021||India||Anil Deshmukh fails to appear before ED in money laundering case||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh did not appear before the ED in connection with a money laundering case on Tuesday, citing COVID-19 and his old age, and requested for a virtual interaction on a day suitable for the central agency. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had asked the 71-year-old NCP leader to appear before it at 11 am on Tuesday, after he did not depose before the investigating officer here on Saturday. Deshmukh had on Saturday sought a fresh date for appearance in the money laundering case related to an alleged multi-crore bribery-cum-extortion racket that led to his resignation from the post of home minister in April this year. On Tuesday, Deshmukh submitted a letter to the agency through his lawyer Inderpal Singh as authorised representative, in compliance with the summons. In the letter, Deshmukh requested for a copy of the ECIR (Enforcement Case Information Report) and other documents from the ED. "I am a law abiding citizen. I am sanguine to expose the falsity, hollowness and lack of substance in the allegations levelled against me," he said in the letter. Deshmukh also cited COVID-19 times and the fear of exposure (to the infection) due to his age and co-morbidities and sent his lawyer as the authorised representative. "I am a septuagenarian, about 72 year of age, and suffering from various co-morbidities, including hypertension and cardiac problems," he mentioned in the letter. Deshmukh also said he already had a long interaction with the probe agency officials on June 25, spanning over several hours, during the course of search and recording of his statement. He reiterated that he will furnish all information and any document that the ED may require once he is aware of the content and details of the ECIR. "I am at your disposal through any audio-visual mode of interaction at any time convenient to your good self, today or any other day, any time so convenient," Deshmukh said in the letter. Meanwhile, Deshmukh's lawyer told mediapersons that they were cooperating with the probe agency and will continue to do so in future too. "We are providing documents to them and have requested for a new date (for appearance)," said the lawyer. After receiving the required documents from ED officials, Deshmukh will appear before the agency, he said. The ED on Saturday arrested Deshmukh's personal secretary Sanjeev Palande (51) and personal assistant Kundan Shinde (45) after it carried out raids against them and the NCP leader in Mumbai and Nagpur on Friday. The ED's case against Deshmukh and others was made out after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) first carried out a preliminary enquiry followed by a regular case being filed on the orders of the Bombay High Court. The court had asked the CBI to look into the allegations of bribery made against Deshmukh by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Deshmukh, who resigned from his post in April following the allegations, has denied any wrongdoing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-22
29-06-2021||India||Indians who got Covishield jabs don’t qualify for EU green travel pass ||Indian travellers who’ve had two shots of Covishield are out of luck if they want to travel to Europe under the European Union’s Digital Covid certificate. That’s despite the fact that Covishield is the India-made equivalent of AstraZeneca’s Covid vaccine Vaxzervria which is on the EU’s approved list. The news comes after the European Medical Association said in a statement that Covishield’s makers, the Serum Institute of India, didn't apply for the certificate. “I realise that a lot of Indians who have taken COVISHIELD are facing issues with travel to the EU,” Adar Poonawalla, Serum Institute’s chief executive, tweeted. “I have taken this up at the highest levels and hope to resolve this matter soon, both with regulators and at a diplomatic level with countries,” he said. There are just four vaccines that have got the green light from the European Medicines Authority (EMA). Those are the AstraZeneca’s Vaxzervria that is manufactured in the UK and other sites around Europe and BioNTech Pfizer Alliance’s Cornimaty vaccine. Moderna and the newer Janssen from Johnson & Johnson have also made the cut. Let’s wind back a few steps first. The EU has come out with a “digital green certificate” that will come officially into force on July 1 that will enable holders to travel smoothly from one country to another within the 27 nation bloc. Some EU countries such as Germany, Spain and Greece, have already implemented the green pass system. Unfortunately, according to the EMA, the Serum Institute of India failed to apply for marketing authorisation in the EU for Covishield. Says the EMA: “The only Covid-19 vaccine from AstraZeneca for which a marketing authorisation application in the EU (has been made) is Vaxzevria (previously Covid-19 vaccine AstraZeneca).” As well as the Serum Institute, the government is also reportedly moving to put this situation right. The issue may also be taken up by Indian officials on the sidelines Tuesday of the G20 foreign ministers’ meeting being held at Matera in Italy. The EU is one of the G20 members. Covishield has received approval from the World Health Organization. The EU has indicated that it is open to considering any application.  “Should we receive a marketing authorisation application from Covishield or should any change to the approved manufacturing sites for Vaxzevria be approved, we would communicate about it,” says the EMA . The EMA says that there was no way that it could have stretched the green light given to AstraZeneca to include Covishield. “Even though it may use an analogous manufacturing technology to Vaxzevria (the Covid-19 AstraZeneca vaccine authorised in the EU), Covishield as such is not currently approved under EU rules.” The EMA stipulates different makers of the same vaccine must submit separate applications for approval. The EMA explains in a statement that, “This is because vaccines are biological products. Even tiny differences in the manufacturing conditions can result in differences in the final product, and EU law, therefore, requires the manufacturing sites and production process to be assessed and approved as part of the authorisation process.” The certificates will contain a QR code with advanced security features and permit travellers to visit Europe and move around the region without needing to enter quarantine or take a fresh coronavirus test when they arrive. An individual country is able to get round the EMA’s decision and there is talk that France is considering such a move. The EMA regulations permit individual countries to add to the list of vaccines other jabs that they are prepared to recognise. “The Commission has also permitted the Member States to issue certificates for travellers vaccinated with vaccines other than those approved by the EMA. However, the decision is up to each individual Member State if they want to permit entry for those vaccinated with such vaccines or not,” the EMA statement says. India’s indigenously made Covaxin has not yet been endorsed by the WHO and until it is approved by the world health body it’s unlikely to be accepted internationally. The WHO has given China’s Sinovac and Sinopharm vaccine approval for emergency use. The health agency and the EMA are both still reviewing Sputnik V for approval over data issues. Until the EU clears Covishield, getting to an EU country is a confusing and cumbersome process for Indians which is on the Red List of many countries. That’s thanks to the fast-spreading Delta variant, believed to have originated in India and blamed for this country’s devastating second wave, that’s now ripping through countries like the UK, sending caseloads soaring. Travellers from Brazil and South Africa are also not welcome at the moment in the EU due to their high infection rates. The EU green pass is mainly intended for EU citizens. Others, like Americans and Canadians, can get the certificate if they’re able to persuade EU authorities that they have had the qualifying jabs. However, lack of an official vaccination certificate in many countries such as the US, means it’s unclear what documentation will be accepted. Sputnik V which is set to be administered in India also is not recognized by the EMA. Many EU nations are expected to remain extremely cautious about giving travel approval to anyone coming from this country. The result of all this vaccine red tape is that travelling abroad is an enormously cumbersome and complicated task. The US has a travel ban on visitors from India apart from students. Switzerland says Indians who have been fully vaccinated with WHO-recognised vaccines can enter the country but must quarantine. South Korea has done away with its compulsory two-week quarantine for Indians who’ve received both Covishield jabs. Turkey has also opened its doors for Indians but they will need a negative RT-PCR test report and will have to spend 14 days in quarantine. Russia also accepts Indians as does Costa Rica, Egypt, Ghana and South Africa. The UAE, which shut its borders to travellers from India, has eased travel restrictions. But the only people who can enter if they have a residence visa and have had two shots of a UAE-approved vaccine that includes the Covishield jab, Sputnik V and the Chinese-made vaccines. Travellers from India must undergo a PCR test four hours before boarding the plane for Dubai and need to go undergo another RT-PCR test on arrival and will have to quarantine until the result of the PCR test comes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-22
29-06-2021||India||Kejriwal's poll promise: 300 free electricity units for Punjab||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday promised 300 units of free electricity per month for each household in Punjab if his Aam Aadmi Party wins the assembly election in that state next year. The AAP leader also promised 24-hour power supply in Punjab and waiver of pending electricity bills if his party is voted to power. He made these announcements while addressing the media here. Punjab Assembly polls are due early next year. Kejriwal said power in Punjab is the "costliest" in the country despite the state being an electricity producer. "We do not produce power in Delhi. We buy it from other states and despite that we have power in the national capital almost at the cheapest rates," he said. AAP's Punjab unit chief Bhagwant Mann, party's Punjab affairs incharge Jarnail Singh, co-incharge Raghav Chadha and state leadership including MLAs Harpal Singh Cheema were also present on the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-22
29-06-2021||India||Have not received request for approval of Covishield under Green Pass scheme, says EU||The European Union on Tuesday said that the European Medicine Agency has not received a request for the approval of Covishield regarding the Covid-19 ‘vaccine green list’ with the EU, amid worries among Indians who got the vaccine facing problems to travel to certain parts of Europe. According to ndtv.com, it said temporary restrictions on non-essential travel to the EU are in place from many countries, including India, due to the pandemic. “Concerning a possible EMA authorisation for Covishield, as of yesterday, the European Medicine Agency (EMA) stated that it had not received  a request for approval. It will examine any such request when received, as per its procedures,” EU said in a statement. People vaccinated with Covishield, manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), are unlikely to be eligible to travel to the European Union member states under the 'Green Pass' scheme as the vaccine is yet to be cleared by the EMA. Serum Institute of India, which manufactures Covishield, had requested the government to take up the issue of the vaccine's inclusion in the EU 'vaccination passport', sources quoted by ndtv.com said. "India has a large population. However, not including Covishield into the EU Covid-19 Vaccination Passport will not allow Covishield vaccinated people to travel to European countries and this will affect students, business travellers back and forth, and cause severe disruptions to our economy and to the global economy," Serum Institute CEO Adar Poonawalla had writer to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar. Pointing out that the "EU Digital Covid Certificate" is not a pre-condition to travel, the EU said it is meant to facilitate safe free movement during the pandemic within the EU. "It will serve as proof that a person was vaccinated against Covid-19, received a negative test result or recovered from Covid-19," the EU said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-23
29-06-2021||India||Cipla gets DCGI nod to import Moderna's Covid vaccine for emergency use||India's drug regulator DCGI has granted permission to Mumbai-based pharmaceutical company Cipla to import Moderna's COVID-19 vaccine for restricted emergency use in the country, official sources said on Tuesday. Moderna's vaccine will be the fourth COVID-19 jab to be available in India after Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik. "Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has granted permission to Cipla to import Moderna's COVID-19 vaccine for restricted emergency use in the country as per the provisions of the New Drugs and Clinical Trial Rules , 2019 under Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940," a source told PTI. In separate communications, Moderna on June 27 informed DCGI that the US government has agreed to donate a certain number of doses of its COVID-19 vaccine through COVAX to India for use here and sought an approval from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) for the vaccines. On Monday, Cipla, on behalf of the US pharma major, requested the drug regulator for import and marketing authorisation of these jabs. "This permission is for restricted use in emergency situations in public interest. The firm has to submit 7 days safety assessment of the vaccine in first 100 beneficiaries before rolling out of vaccine for further immunisation programme, according to the approval order," an official said. On Monday, Cipla filed the application seeking permission for import of Moderna's vaccine referring to DCGI notices dated April 15 and June 1 according to which if the vaccine is approved by the USFDA for EUA, the vaccine can be granted marketing authorisation without bridging trial and assessment of safety data of first 100 beneficiaries of vaccines shall be submitted before rolling out in immunisation programme. Also, the requirement of testing of every batch by Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL), Kasauli can be exempted if the batch/lot is released by the CDL of country of origin, however summary lot protocol review and scrutiny of documents shall be undertaken by the laboratory for batch release according to standard procedures, Cipla said referring to the DCGI's new revised rules. Further, Moderna through a separate communication has informed that the US government has agreed to donate a certain number of doses of the Moderna vaccine, mRNA-1273, through COVAX to the government of India for use in the country and has submitted the dossiers through e-mail. "This correspondence is to request the CDSCO to open a file for approval of these urgently needed vaccines," Moderna said. On June 1, in a bid to expedite the rollout of vaccines, the DCGI decided to waive testing of batches at CDL for foreign-manufactured vaccines that have been approved by international drug regulators such as the US FDA, the UK's MHRA or the WHO. The central government in April issued detailed guidelines and proactively eased entry of foreign made COVID-19 vaccines approved by US FDA, EMA, UK's MHRA and Japan's PMDA, and WHO's Emergency Use Listing into India. According to the guidelines, these vaccines will not need to undergo prior bridging trials. The provision was further amended to waive off the trial requirement altogether for the well-established vaccines manufactured in other countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-23
29-06-2021||India||SC asks states, UTs to implement 'one nation, one ration card' scheme by July 31||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed states and Union Territories to implement the 'one nation, one ration card' scheme by July 31, while asking the Centre to provide dry ration for free distribution among migrant workers till the COVID-19 situation continues. A bench of justices Ashok Bhushan and M R Shah issued a slew of directions on a plea of three activists seeking directions to the Centre and states to ensure food security, cash transfers and other welfare measures for migrant workers who faced distress again due to curfews and lockdowns in various parts of country during the second wave of COVID-19. "The central government must develop and put in place a portal for registering unorganised and migrant workers, and start the process, not later than July 31," the bench said, according to ndtv.com. "Lackadaisical attitude by the Ministry of Labour and Employment is unpardonable," the court said over the delay in putting up the data. "The centre's delay in not putting up a portal on unorganised workers and migrants shows it is not alive to the concerns of migrant workers and it is strongly disapproved," it added. The bench has said ONORC scheme is for welfare of poor citizens as it allows migrant workers to get ration at the place of their work in other states as well where their ration cards are not registered. The bench directed the Centre to develop a portal with the help of the National Informatics Centre (NIC) for registration of unorganised sector workers for granting them the benefits of welfare schemes by July 31. It also directed the states, UTs to run community kitchens for migrant workers till the COVID pandemic continues. It asked the Centre to keep allocating foodgrains to the states, UTs for distribution among migrant workers for free till the pandemic situation exists. The state governments and the UT administrations shall bring a scheme to provide dry ration to migrant workers by July 31 and such a scheme will remain till COVID situation continues, the top court said. "States that have not implemented the scheme must do the same before July 31," said the two-judge bench in a stern reminder. The bench directed states and UTs to register all establishments and contractors under the Inter-state Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service Act) 1979. Activists Anjali Bharadwaj, Harsh Mander and Jagdeep Chhokar had filed a plea seeking implementation of welfare measures for migrant workers and the judgement was reserved on June 11 by the bench. The fresh plea was filed in a pending suo motu case of 2020 in which the top court in May last year had taken cognizance of problems and miseries of migrant labourers and had passed a slew of directions including asking the states not to charge fare from migrant workers and provide them food free of cost till they board trains or buses. The Centre had said that while most states were implementing the ONORC, four of them, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi and West Bengal have not yet integrated into the scheme and it would depend on their technical readiness to implement the portability of ration cards. The Centre also said that the AAP government's claim regarding the launch of ONORC plan is misleading as a large number of migrant workers are unable to take the benefit of subsidised National Food Security Act (NFSA) food grains in Delhi as there is no full implementation. The activists had sought directions to the Centre and states to ensure food security, cash transfers, transport facilities and other welfare measures for the migrant workers on grounds that they are in dire need for help as the crisis is bigger this time. On May 24 this year, the top court had termed as "very slow" the process of registration of unorganised workers and had directed the authorities to provide dry ration and make operational community kitchens for migrant workers stranded throughout the country amid COVID-19 pandemic. Referring to the resurgence of COVID-19 infections and consequent curbs, the activists, in their plea, had said, the problems and miseries faced by migrant workers during the lockdown in 2020 have persisted over the past year due to the continued economic distress and now have got aggravated on account of fresh restrictions, curfews and lockdowns being imposed in many states to control the spread of COVID.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-23
29-06-2021||India||SC refuses to override Delhi HC's order dismissing plea to stop Central Vista work||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a plea challenging the Delhi High Court order which had rejected a PIL seeking to halt Central Vista construction work in view of the COVID pandemic. A bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Aniruddha Bose said it is not inclined to interfere with the High Court order as the PIL petitioners had selectively chosen Central Vista Project and did not even do basic research about other public projects which were allowed during the lockdown in the national capital. It said that findings of the Delhi HC on the PIL that it was "motivated" and filed with "ill-intent" and "lack of bona fides" is possible a view. The top court also refused to interfere with the Rs 1 lakh cost imposed on the petitioners. The main Cental Vista project envisages building a new Parliament House, a new residential complex to house offices and the prime minister and the vice president. It will also have new office buildings and a Central Secretariat to accommodate various ministries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-23
29-06-2021||India||R-day violence: Court issues fresh summons to Deep Sidhu||A Delhi court on Tuesday issued fresh summons to actor-activist Deep Sidhu and other accused in the Republic Day violence case. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gajendra Singh Nagar directed all the accused to appear before it on July 12 through video conference. The court issued fresh summons after it was informed that the summons issued earlier were not received by the accused. On June 19, the judge had taken cognizance of the charge sheet in the case and summoned all the accused on June 29. However, Harjot Singh was the only accused who appeared before the court on Tuesday. Counsels for the other accused apprised the court that their clients have not been served the summons yet. On January 26, protesting farmers had clashed with police during the tractor rally against three farm laws and stormed into the Red Fort, hoisting religious flags on its domes and injuring scores of policemen. Sidhu, who is accused of being the key conspirator of the violence, is currently out on bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-23
29-06-2021||India||PM to chair council of ministers meeting on Wednesday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a meeting of the Union council of ministers on Wednesday, which is likely to discuss the Covid situation and may also review functioning of few ministries, sources said on Tuesday. The meeting will be held virtually on Wednesday evening, the sources said. The work done by the Road and Transport Ministry and Civil Aviation and Telecom ministries may be reviewed in the meeting, the sources said. A wider discussion on the COVID-19 situation is also likely during the meeting, they said. The meeting is being held a week after Prime Minister Modi held meetings with ministers both Cabinet and Minister of State rank in different groups to review the performance of their respective ministries. These meetings were held at the Prime Minister's official residence and BJP president JP Nadda was present in most of these meetings. Political observers and BJP insiders feel the council of ministers meeting assumes significance as it is being held at a time when political circles are abuzz with speculation of a cabinet expansion and reshuffle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-23
29-06-2021||India||NIA to probe drone attack on Jammu airport||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) was on Tuesday given the charge of investigation into the drone attack on the Jammu air force station. The decision to hand over the probe into the first-of-its-kind terror attack at the Indian Air Force station was taken by the Ministry of Home Affairs. The investigation into the attack on the Jammu air force station has been handed over to the NIA, a Home Ministry spokesperson said. In what was the first instance of Pakistan-based terrorists deploying drones to strike vital installations, two bombs were dropped at the IAF station in Jammu in the early hours of Sunday, causing minor injuries to two airmen. The explosions took place around 1.40 am within six minutes of each other. The first blast ripped off the roof of a single-storey building at the technical area of the airport manned by the IAF in Satwari area on the outskirts of the city. The second one was on the ground. The officials said the explosive material dropped by the drones might have been manufactured using a cocktail consisting of RDX, but a final confirmation was still awaited. Investigators were yet to determine the flight path of the drones that dropped the bombs as they scanned the CCTV footage, including from cameras installed on the boundary walls of the airport. However, all the CCTV cameras focused on the roadside, the officials said. The drones that dropped the explosives were either flown back across the border or to some other destination during the night, they suspect. The aerial distance from the Jammu airport to the international border is 14 km. A day after the attack, the IAF station located at the Jammu airport on Monday continued to remain out of bounds for all but the probe teams including one from the NIA, which picked up every bit of evidence available on the ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-23
29-06-2021||India||Facebook to publish interim compliance report as per IT rules on July 2||Social media giant Facebook on Tuesday said it will publish an interim report on July 2 as mandated by the IT rules, and provide information on the number of content it removed proactively between May 15-June 15. The final report will be published on July 15, containing details of user complaints received and action taken. The new IT rules - which came into force from May 26 - mandate large social media companies to publish periodic compliance reports every month, mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken thereon. The report is to also include the number of specific communication links or parts of information that the intermediary has removed or disabled access to in pursuance of any proactive monitoring conducted by using automated tools. In accordance with the IT Rules, we'll publish an interim report for the period May 15-June 15 on July 2. This report will contain details of the content that we have removed proactively using our automated tools, a Facebook spokesperson said in a statement. The spokesperson added that the final report will be published on July 15, containing details of user complaints received and action taken. The report on July 15 will also contain data related to WhatsApp, which is currently being validated, the spokesperson further stated. The report on July 2 will be an interim report and will not include the details of complaints received and action taken thereon as we are in the process of validating this data and that that data will be provided in the July 15 report, as per information available on Facebook's Transparency Centre webpage. The new IT rules are designed to prevent abuse and misuse of digital platforms, and offer users a robust forum for grievance redressal. Under these rules, social media companies will have to take down flagged content within 36 hours, and remove within 24 hours content that is flagged for nudity and pornography. Significant social media intermediaries - those with over 5 million registered users in India - are also required to appoint a chief compliance officer, a nodal officer and a grievance officer and these officials are required to be resident in India. Non-compliance with the IT rules would result in these platforms losing their intermediary status that provides them immunity from liabilities over any third-party data hosted by them. In other words, they could be liable for criminal action in case of complaints. Facebook had recently named Spoorthi Priya as its Grievance Officer in India, while Facebook-owned WhatsApp had appointed Paresh B Lal as its grievance officer for India. India is a major market for global digital platforms. As per data cited by the government recently, India has 53 crore WhatsApp users, 41 crore Facebook subscribers, 21 crore Instagram clients, while 1.75 crore account holders are on microblogging platform Twitter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-23
29-06-2021||India||At UN, India flags possible use of weaponised drones for terrorism ||The possibility of the use of weaponised drones for terrorist activities against strategic and commercial assets calls for serious attention by the global community, India has told the UN General Assembly, a day after two explosives-laden drones crashed into the Indian Air Force (IAF) station at Jammu airport. A fresh attempt to attack a military installation with the help of drones was foiled by alert Army sentries at the Ratnuchak-Kaluchak station who fired at the unmanned aerial vehicles that flew away, an incident that came hours after an IAF station saw the first terror attack using quadcopters. The first drone was spotted at around 11.45 pm on Sunday followed by another at 2.40 am over the military station, which witnessed a terror attack in 2002 in which 31 people were killed, including 10 children. The IAF attack is the first instance of suspected Pakistan-based terrorists deploying drones to strike at the country's vital installations. "Today, misuse of information and communication technology such as internet and social media for terrorist propaganda, radicalisation and recruitment of cadre; misuse of new payment methods and crowdfunding platforms for financing of terrorism; and misuse of emerging technologies for terrorist purposes have emerged as the most serious threats of terrorism and will decide the counter-terrorism paradigm going forward, Special Secretary (Internal Security), Ministry of Home Affairs in the Government of India, V S K Kaumudi said. Speaking at the Global scourge of terrorism: assessment of current threats and emerging trends for the new decade', he said, another add-on to existing worries is the use of drones. "Being a low-cost option and easily available, utilisation of these aerial/sub-surface platforms for sinister purposes by terrorist groups such as intelligence collection, weapon/explosives delivery and targeted attacks have become an imminent danger and challenge for security agencies worldwide, he said at the 2nd High Level Conference of the Head of Counter-Terrorism Agencies of the Member States in the General Assembly. The possibility of the use of weaponised drones for terrorist purposes against strategic and commercial assets calls for serious attention by the member states. We have witnessed terrorists using UAS to smuggle weapons across borders, Kaumudi said, according to his statement issued by the Permanent Mission of India to the UN. Kaumudi said the COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent isolation have further accentuated the impact of the internet on people making them vulnerable to radicalisation and recruitment by terrorist groups. Spreading terrorist propaganda through the use of "indulging video games" is another strategy that was deployed by terrorist groups during the pandemic, he said. "It is imperative for countries to adopt a multi-pronged approach to tackle the global threats emanating out of misuse of new technologies particularly aiming towards terrorism and violent extremism conducive to terrorism," he said. India called on the world to remain united against tendencies of labeling terrorism based on terrorist motivations especially those based on religion, and political ideologies. "This will certainly divide us and weaken our fight against terrorism," Kaumudi said. He said the transborder nature of this threat calls for collective and unified action by the international community, without any excuse or exceptions, ensuring that those countries which provide safe havens to terrorists should be called out and held accountable. India noted with concern that internet and social media platforms have turned into indispensable resources in the toolkit of global terrorist groups for spreading terrorist propaganda and conspiracy theories aimed at spreading hatred among societies and communities and offer additional radicalisation opportunities which may proliferate globally. The increased use of closed group communications adds to the concern, he said. Kaumudi told the General Assembly that continuing advancements in evolving technologies, such as Artificial Intelligence, robotics, deep fakes , blockchain, dark web are fraught with the risk of being abused by terrorists. Already, cryptocurrencies, virtual assets, crowdfunding platforms are helping terror financing, owing to anonymity and un-traceability of these technologies, he said. India has put in place an elaborate counter-terrorism and security architecture, besides introducing a series of measures in the cyber-space encapsulating counter-radicalisation and de-radicalisation strategies. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-23
29-06-2021||India||India's daily Covid caseload dips below 40,000 after 102 days||The single-day rise in fresh cases was recorded below 40,000 after 102 days, bringing India's COVID-19 infection tally to 3,03,16,897, while the daily fatalities remained below 1,000 for the second consecutive day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. India saw 37,566 new cases being reported in a day, while the COVID-19 death toll rose to 3,97,637 with 907 daily fatalities, the lowest in 77 days. According to the data published at 7 am, 32.90 crore cumulative vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. The number of active cases has further declined to 5,52,659, comprising 1.82 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.87 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A net decline of 20,335 cases has been recorded in the virus count in a span of 24 hours. Also, 17,68,008 tests were conducted on Monday, taking the total cumulative tests done so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 40,81,39,287, while the daily positivity rate has declined to 2.12 per cent . It has been less than 5 per cent for 22 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.74 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 47th consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,93,66,601, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.31 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed one crore on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4 and 3 crore on June 23. The 907 new fatalities include 287 from Maharashtra, 110 from Kerala, 98 from Tamil Nadu and 93 from Karnataka. A total of 3,97,637 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,21,573 from Maharashtra, 34,836 from Karnataka, 32,399 from Tamil Nadu, 24,967 from Delhi, 22,559 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,644 from West Bengal, 16,011 from Punjab and 13,437 from Chhattisgarh. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. PTI PLB||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-23
29-06-2021||India||Twitter India chief named in FIR over incorrect map of India||Twitter's India chief Manish Maheshwari has been named in an FIR in Uttar Pradesh over an incorrect map of India on its website, which showed Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh as a separate country, NDTV.com reported. This is the second FIR against Twitter this month in UP as troubles grow for the social media giant in the midst of its standoff with the government. The distorted map - displayed in the "Tweep Life" section of Twitter's website - was removed Monday following a huge backlash after it was flagged by a user. "This act of treason has been committed intentionally and action should be taken," reads the complaint filed by right-wing group Bajrang Dal's leader Praveen Bhati. The case has been filed under Section 505 (2) of the Indian Penal Code (creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes) and Section 74 of IT (Amendment) Act 2008. Amrita Tripathi, who also works with Twitter India, has also been named in the complaint filed in UP's Bulandshahr, about 100 km from Delhi. She tweeted a clarification on her role, hours after the complaint was filed. Last week, Maheshwari was summoned by the Uttar Pradesh Police over another FIR after posts linked to the assault of a Muslim man in UP's Ghaziabad sparked controversy. Along with Twitter, journalists Rana Ayyub and Saba Naqvi, and some Congress leaders were also named in the case. Tweets were shared with a clear motive to "provoke communal sentiments", the complaint said. Maheshwari got a temporary relief from the Karnataka High Court as he was granted protection from arrest. The court also ruled that Maheshwari, who is a resident of Bengaluru, does not have to travel to UP. "If police desire to investigate or question, they may do so by virtual mode," the court said. Amid the social media giant's months-long bitter feud with the government, Twitter on Monday appointed its Global Legal Policy Director Jeremy Kessel as the grievance officer for India to follow the centre's new rules requiring social networking websites to have India-based officers and act on complaints of content considered illegal, offensive or inimical to national interests. An interim grievance officer appointed by Twitter India, Dharmendra Chatur, had quit on Sunday, within weeks of taking charge. The government had earlier objected to the appointment of Chatur, partner at a law firm that represented Twitter, and said it could not accept outsiders for statutory posts. Twitter had also been in trouble over posts related to farmers' protests against the controversial laws in February. Later, the government had also asked the site to remove the "manipulated media" tag from tweets posted by several BJP leaders on an alleged Congress "toolkit". After the social media giant's refusal, the Delhi Police served notices, visited its offices in Delhi and Gurgaon, and questioned Twitter India chief Manish Maheshwari in Bengaluru.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-24
29-06-2021||India||Covid: Centre’s stimulus package built around govt guarantees||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman rained another confetti of big numbers to create another chimera around her second stimulus package for a Covid-battered economy that left industry, economists and the markets poring over the figures to understand how much was real and how much mere illusion. Like the staccato announcements in May last year that formed part of the first stimulus package, Sitharaman once again came up with a grossly under-funded set of measures that totalled Rs 6.29 lakh crore, or 2.82 per cent of the nominal GDP of Rs 222.87 lakh crore projected in this year’s budget. More than three-quarters of the stimulus package is built around government guarantees (Rs 267,500 crore), rosy estimates of outcomes from exports and a valiant attempt to prop up a crumbling power distribution sector (Rs 218,631 crore) — which tries to cast a glow of optimism around an economy that shrank by 7.3 per cent last year and has shown very little signs of recovery over the next few quarters. Government guarantees are in the nature of promises that the Narendra Modi regime will provide a back-stop if creditors default on loans that they take from banks. “The overall cap for admissible guarantees is being raised from Rs 3 lakh crore to Rs 4.5 lakh crore,” Sitharaman told a media conference. The additional Rs 1.5 lakh crore has been tacked on to the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) that was announced last year to provide loans to stressed entities. A new Rs 1.1 lakh-crore guarantee scheme has been created which will be divided between the health sector (Rs 50,000 crore) and other stressed sectors (Rs 60,000 crore). Loans will be given to the health sector to expand or create new medical infrastructure outside eight metropolitan cities. The maximum loan granted will be Rs 100 crore and the tenure has been set at three years. The interest rate on these loans will be capped at 7.95 per cent. Loans to other sectors will be provided at 8.25 per cent. The guarantees provide comfort to lending institutions but there is no evidence that anyone has cashed in on them — or ever will — especially after the lending institutions were persuaded to prepare a two-year debt restructuring scheme for last year’s defaulters, effectively kicking the can further down the road. The other big mirage is around exports — with the government counting up outcomes rather than stumping up money upfront in the form of incentives or raising its spending to stoke demand. The Centre has proposed to create an additional corpus over the next five years to enable the Exim Bank to underwrite project exports worth Rs 33,000 crore under the National Export Insurance Account. The government gave no details about how this would be funded. It also proposed to infuse equity in the Export Credit Guarantee Corporation (ECGC) over the next five years to boost insurance cover by Rs 88,000 crore. Again, it did not say how much of equity it planned to pump into the ECGC or explain the correlation between equity infusion and the surge in insurance cover. For the record, equity infusion in the ECGC rose by a mere Rs 1,200 crore between 2015-16 and 2019-20, for which details are currently available. In 2019-20, the ECGC’s equity capital was raised by Rs 500 crore to Rs 2,500 crore -- and there will be questions about the sleight-of-hand through which small doses of capital in the ECGC can whip such a massive froth of numbers. Some experts charitably estimated the “real” funding in this stimulus package at Rs 1.18 lakh crore. This was broken into three components: a sum of Rs 93,869 crore earmarked for the distribution of free food grain till November under the Pradhan Mantra Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, the additional Rs 15,000 crore that the Centre intends to spend on the health sector, and half of the sum of Rs 19,041 crore that will be spent over the next two years under the BharatNet programme which seeks to create rural broadband connectivity under public-private partnership. The food grain programme had been announced sometime ago by Prime Minister Narendra Modi after the cabinet approved it. The big number was padded to the second stimulus programme to provide some heft to the numbers. D.K. Srivastava, chief policy adviser at EY India, said: “The total additional burden on the 2021-22 budget from these three initiatives would be Rs 118,390 crore. This amounts to about 0.5 per cent of the estimated GDP for 2021-22. Although this is a limited magnitude of direct stimulus, it would be desirable to follow it up with another dose of stimulus later in the year.” He reckoned that the Centre would come out with another package soon which might contain spending announcements. “I’m expecting another 0.5 per cent of GDP as additional expenditure, which could include cash transfer, over the coming months. There will be pressure on the RBI to support the government’s borrowing programme, even though it may not be direct monetisation,” he added. Others felt that Monday’s stimulus package looked a lot worse if one looked beyond the smokescreen of numbers. “Setting aside the guarantee schemes and the announcements that had already been made prior to today, the increase in the fiscal outgo based on the fresh announcements is estimated at around Rs 60,000 crore,” said Aditi Nayar, chief economist at credit rating agency ICRA. The government said it would waive visa fees for 5 lakh foreign tourists in an attempt to revive the moribund tourism industry. It will also provide loans of up to Rs 10 lakh to travel agencies and related businesses while registered tourist guides will be eligible for a loan of up to Rs 1 lakh. The average foreign tourist stays for 21 days in the country and spends about $24 (or Rs 2,400) a day. “Free visa is an excellent policy decision but should be extended to all foreign tourists till March 31, 2023, and not limited to 5 lakh tourists only,” said Rajiv Mehra, president of the Indian Association of Tour Operators (IATO). The stimulus plan made an ineffectual stab at job creation by extending the scheme to incentivise employers to hire more people till March 30 next year. The scheme, which seeks to provide subsidies for two years to firms hiring new employees drawing monthly wages of less than Rs 15,000, was supposed to end on June 30. Under the scheme, the government has offered to pay the employer’s and employee’s share of provident fund contributions for establishments with a workforce of less than 1,000 and only the employee’s share for those above that threshold. Sitharaman said the government was committed to doubling farm income but waffled when pressed for details. The package provides for Rs 14,775 crore as subsidy for the popular phosphatic fertiliser DAP (di-ammonium phosphate) and other complex fertilisers this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-24
29-06-2021||India||Election Commission remains undecided on CM bypolls||The Election Commission remains undecided about when by-elections will be conducted with two chief ministers, Bengal’s Mamata Banerjee and Uttarakhand’s Tirath Singh Rawat, facing deadlines to get elected to their state legislatures. The EC had in May indefinitely deferred by-elections after concluding five Assembly polls that coincided with the second wave of Covid, and whose conduct amid the pandemic prompted Madras High Court to observe that commission officials should face “murder charges”. A commission source said on Monday that “no decision” had been taken on conducting the pending by-elections yet, nor had meetings been scheduled to discuss the subject this week. The Supreme Court had last week refused to accept Covid as an “excuse” for deferring elections and directed the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission to conduct civic polls by September 15 “before the third wave arrives”. “Covid has become a good excuse in all matters…. We know the reality in these matters; unless and until political parties are ready, elections are not held,” Justice Hemant Gupta, who shared the vacation bench with Justice Aniruddha Bose, observed. But a senior EC official told The Telegraph: “At the moment, the commission has not taken a decision but it is definitely assessing the situation…. The Supreme Court direction was for a state election commission and has no bearing on us. No meeting has been scheduled on this matter.” The state election commissions conduct municipal and panchayat polls and are independent of the Election Commission of India. Un-elected ministers are required to get themselves elected within six months of taking the oath. Mamata, sworn in as chief minister on May 5 after narrowly losing a contentious election in Nandigram, is expected to contest the necessary by-election from her home turf of Bhowanipore, which a cabinet colleague has vacated for her. Mamata has also petitioned Calcutta High Court challenging the Nandigram result. In case the court orders a recount and she wins, she will not need to contest a by-election. The chief minister had recently taken a dig at the Election Commission from a position similar to the apex court’s in the matter of the Tamil Nadu civic polls. “I came to know that when Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) will give the instruction, then only they (the commission) will hold the by-election. If it is so, then I will request the Prime Minister, clear the by-election,” she said. “Because now, the situation is okay. But if the third wave (of the pandemic) comes, then you cannot do anything.” Ironically, the Election Commission had in April rejected Mamata’s demand to club the last three of the eight phases of the Bengal polls and minimise the pandemic damage when the second wave was escalating. The commission, whose autonomy is protected by the Constitution, has not responded to Mamata’s jibe on the Prime Minister’s prospective “instruction”. Nor has chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra responded to a question from this newspaper on the criteria for the conduct of elections during an epidemic. Also last week, Maharashtra’s state election commission rejected a request from the state government to defer local body polls in five districts, scheduled on July 19, on the ground of the pandemic. The Bengal BJP, however, has opposed by-elections being held during the pandemic and demanded that Mamata resign. Seven Assembly seats are vacant in Bengal. Elections were not held in two because of the deaths of candidates; two Trinamul winners died after the polls; two BJP winners quit their Assembly seats to remain MPs; while minister Sovandeb Chattopadhyay resigned from the Bhowanipore seat on May 21. Sovandeb too, therefore, needs to be elected — by November 21 — while finance minister Amit Mitra, sworn in on May 10 after opting out of the polls, faces a November 10 deadline. In Uttarakhand, where former state BJP president Rawat was appointed chief minister on March 10 after an intra-party struggle against his predecessor Trivendra Singh Rawat, the Congress has written to the Election Commission to clear the air on by-elections. While deferring the by-elections in Bengal in May, the Election Commission had cited “lockdown/restrictions under Disaster Management Act, 2005, as issued by NDMA/SDMA” — the national and state disaster management authorities. Although a few restrictions still remain, both Bengal and Uttarakhand have unlocked many public services and commercial activities over the past month. Bengal had 21,580 active cases on Monday — the eighth straight day the count fell — while Uttarakhand’s active cases numbered 2,294. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had last year sought election to the legislative council after being sworn in. When the polls were postponed because of the pandemic, Uddhav had requested governor B.S. Koshiyari to appoint him to a vacant “nominated” seat, only to be refused. Uddhav then wrote to Modi, after which Koshiyari asked the Election Commission to notify the election to the vacant legislative council seats. In its press note then, the commission had said: “In cases of former Prime Ministers Sh. P.V. Narasimha Rao in 1991 and Sh. H.D. Deve Gowda in 1996; and several chief ministers of states (like Sh. Ashok Gehlot, chief minister Rajasthan in 1991; Smt. Rabri Devi, chief minister of Bihar in 1997, Sh. Vijay Bhaskar Reddy, chief minister of Andhra Pradesh in 1993, chief minister of Uttar Pradesh & 4 ministers in 2017, and chief minister of Nagaland in 2017), commission conducted by-elections to fulfil similar constitutional requirement. Commission noted that this has been the consistent practice in the past.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-24
29-06-2021||India||Father of Manipur activist arrested for post on cow dung moves SC||The father of a Manipur activist imprisoned for a Facebook post which said after the state BJP chief died that cow urine and cow dung do not cure Covid petitioned the Supreme Court on Monday challenging his son’s detention under the National Security Act and arguing it constituted contempt of court. Raghumani Singh has underscored that his son Erendro Leichombam was arrested despite the apex court’s April 20 order saying citizens shall not be subjected to criminal cases or arrested for airing their views on social media relating to the Covid crisis. He has through a habeas corpus petition asked that his son, arrested on May 13, be produced before the top court. Through a separate petition, he has sought contempt proceedings against Manipur chief secretary Rajesh Kumar, director-general of police L. M. Khaute and Imphal West district magistrate Th. Kirankumar. Raghumani’s petition says that despite Erendro being granted bail by a trial court on May 17 in the original case, registered under Indian Penal Code sections, he was rearrested on the district magistrate’s order under the National Security Act. The NSA allows preventive detention for up to 12 months on grounds of the security of India and the maintenance of public order. “Despite such protection offered by the Hon’ble Supreme Court to individuals seeking to help others in these times of need, respondent officers... in wilful disobedience of the aforementioned direction, wrongfully detained the son of petitioner herein owing to a particular Facebook post that sought to check misinformation regarding the pandemic,” the petition says. Erendro had in a Facebook post on May 13 referred to the recent death of Manipur BJP chief S. Tikendra Singh and remarked: “The cure for Corona is not cow dung & cow urine. The cure is science & common sense. Professor ji RIP.” This, Raghumani’s petition says, was in the context of several BJP politicians claiming cow dung and cow urine could cure or prevent Covid and many people coming to believe them. The petition refers to news reports about such statements by BJP leaders, including MP Pragya Singh Thakur.” “Bolstered by such advice from leading political members, there were reports of people smearing cow dung and drinking cow urine to cure corona. In fact, in some places proper units were established which took to treating people with coronavirus using cow dung and cow urine,” the petition, filed through advocate Shadan Farasat, says. However, multiple FIRs were lodged in various police stations in Manipur against Erendro’s post following complaints from BJP workers, including one on May 13 by state BJP vice-president Usham Deben. The IPC sections invoked were 153A (promoting enmity between groups), 505(b)(2) (public mischief), 295A (outraging religious sentiments), 294B (obscenity), 503 (criminal intimidation) and 504 (breach of peace). If convicted, Erendro can be jailed for up to three years. Erendro was initially remanded in judicial custody till June 1 but the chief judicial magistrate, Imphal West, granted him bail on May 17. The same day, the petition says, the district magistrate ordered his detention under Section 3(2) of the National Security Act, 1980. Raghumani’s petition says the Facebook post was meant not to hurt anyone’s feelings but to express his son’s “disagreement with the treatment by using cow dung and cow urine which has no scientific basis”. It says the detention “is a display of the coercive arm of the State against his attempt to stem misinformation in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic”. Erendro is convener of the political outfit Peoples’ Resurgence and Justice Alliance. A journalist, Kishorechandra Wangkhem, too was arrested on May 13 for a similar post and rearrested on May 17 under the NSA following the grant of bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-24
29-06-2021||India||Covid: DU claims success in holding online classes and examinations||The Delhi University (DU) authorities on Monday claimed success in holding online classes and examinations but faculty members raised concerns about quality and the exclusion of deprived sections. Acting vice-chancellor P.C. Joshi, who is a candidate for the post of regular vice-chancellor, also shared several initiatives including the effort to collaborate with remote colleges and university departments in academic and research areas. Joshi presented a 12-month report card of his tenure since he took over as pro-VC and later became in-charge VC after regular VC Prof. Yogesh Tyagi was suspended over charges of non-performance. A search committee is currently in the process of selecting a regular VC. According to the document, online open book exam (OBE) was introduced last year for the final-year undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) students. The students received questions through email and were asked to upload the written answer sheets. The OBE continued this year as well. “The new examination system threw challenges now and then during its implementation, but the University learnt the way to tackle each of them and improve the system in the process. Students were able to write their examinations within the comforts of their home/space and teachers were able to evaluate through electronic means. Hundred per cent online teaching, learning, examination and assessment were conducted,” the report card said. According to the document, attendance of students in the ongoing OBE is 95 per cent. Last year 90 per cent students had appeared for the online exam and those who missed were given the opportunity to take the test offline. The report card said DU has provided e-learning resources to students. The varsity’s assertion came at a time when the University Grants Commission (UGC) under the instruction of the central government wants to make online education the mainstream mode of education delivery. The higher education regulator has allowed universities to offer up to 40 per cent of any course online. DU Teachers Association (DUTA) president Rajib Ray said the online mode of education was followed out of compulsion and it cannot replace the offline mode. “There is big quality concern in online education. In the OBE, there was no proctoring or scrutiny. It gave enormous scope for malpractice. The students gave the online exam because they did not want to wait for a longer time to sit for the offline exam,” Ray said. He said the quality of education in online classes is also a concern because of poor Internet connectivity at the end of students and teachers. Former DU Executive Council member Rajesh Jha said the claims made by the varsity were purely a public relations (PR) activity sans any substantive basis. “The reforms claimed by the administration were opposed by the teachers as well as the students. The students from deprived sections are not able to take classes because of lack of access. Online education is a tool for exclusion,” Jha said. Both Ray and Jha questioned the DU’s performance in helping the university community tackle the Covid crisis. Ray said the staff faced unimaginable suffering during the pandemic and demanded a Covid hospital on the campus ahead of a possible third wave. Jha said the university administration did a great disappearing act during the crisis period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-24
29-06-2021||India||Covid: Odisha waives road tax on buses for June ||The Odisha government on Monday waived road tax for buses and contract carriages for June. A notification to this effect was issued in the evening by the Odisha commerce and transport department. On Monday, The Telegraph had published a report headlined “Bus Owner to Vegetable Seller”, highlighting the plight of 14,000 bus owners in the state. Debendra Kumar Sahoo, general secretary of the All Odisha Bus Owners’ Association, said: “Today, we sent The Telegraph report to the government citing the plight of the bus owners. Taking it into consideration, the government waived the road tax for June. We are thankful to the Odisha government. Earlier, it had waived the road tax for April and May. We will still insist that the road tax for July, August and September be also waived. Now it’s the turn of the Union government to announce a special package for bus owners.” He added: “The Centre should initiate steps to waive the interest on bank loans taken for purchasing a vehicle or defer the EMIs by a year. Besides, the insurance companies should be asked to waive the fees for the lockdown period.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-24
29-06-2021||India||Filmmakers' campaign against Cinematograph Act amendments||A group of young filmmakers has initiated an online campaign to mobilise opinion against the proposed amendments in the Cinematograph Act, particularly the bid by the information and broadcasting ministry to restore the “revisional powers’’ of the Union government on film certification after a movie has been cleared by the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC). “This provision will effectively give the Central Government supreme power over cinema exhibition in the country, potentially endangering freedom of expression and democratic dissent,’’ the filmmakers have said in a letter that will be submitted to the ministry on July 2 — the deadline set for sending responses on the proposed amendments. This initiative comes amid an almost deafening silence from the big names in the film industry over the restoration of revisional powers of the Centre, which had been struck down by the courts two decades ago citing democratic principles. Making use of the ministry’s request for comments on the proposed amendments, some young filmmakers, academics, researchers and lawyers put together a 12-page clause-by-clause response to the Cinematograph Amendment Bill, 2021, and placed it in the public domain on Sunday night for endorsement to “embolden our fight against authoritarian censorship’’. Besides urging the government to drop the amendment pertaining to restoring the revisional powers, the filmmakers want the Film Certification Appellate Tribunal (FACT) — which was abolished in April — to be restored; pointing out that in its absence, they would be left with no option but to approach the courts directly if they are unhappy with a decision taken by the CBFC. Apart from being an expensive option, this would also result in financial loss because of potential delays in film releases, they said. About the move to restore the revisional powers, their letter to the ministry says it is “another blow’’ to the film fraternity. “Undermining the sovereignty of the Censor Board and the Supreme Court, this provision will effectively give the Central Government supreme power over cinema exhibition in the country, potentially endangering freedom of expression and democratic dissent. This will also render filmmakers powerless at the hands of the state and more vulnerable to threats, vandalism and intimidation of mob censors,’’ the appeal said. What the filmmakers fear the most is that the revisional powers will be used to force the film industry to build a narrative the government wants to impose on the country. Also, the amendments could shrink the space for films that seek to push the envelope or address hot button issues. The letter iterates a long-held view of the industry that the CBFC, as the name suggests, should only be a body that grants certification and “not be authorised to dictate excision, modifications and amendments to films under review’’. Some of the early signatories to the letter include directors Dibakar Banerjee, Zoya Akhtar, Vikramaditya Motwane, Hansal Mehta, Anurag Kashyap, Abhishek Chaubey, Chaitanya Tamhane and Farhan Akhtar and actors Arundhati Nag and Sheeba Chaddha. Though filmmaker Vishal Bhardwaj had on Friday urged film bodies to oppose this “unfair and unreasonable provision’’, there was no indication that they have responded to the ministry’s proposals yet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-24
29-06-2021||India||Bihar: 26-year-old man accused of theft lynched||A 26-year-old youth accused of theft was allegedly lynched by a mob at a village in Araria district of Bihar in the early hours of Sunday. The incident occurred at Chakai village under Jokihat police station, around 340km northeast of the state capital. The victim, identified as Muhammad Ismail, a resident of Balua village under neighbouring Mahalgaon police station, neither had past criminal record nor were any stolen goods recovered from him. Ismail had allegedly entered the house of Domar Yadav during the early hours of Sunday. The family members woke up and raised an alarm following which he tried to escape. Other villagers also joined in the chase. Ismail was caught and brought back to the house that he had allegedly entered, was tied to a post and brutally thrashed. Ismail fell unconscious after some time and a few villagers shifted him to the local primary health centre, where he died during treatment. Jokihat station house officer Vikas Kumar Azad said the police rushed to the village after getting information about the incident and also sent the body for post-mortem. Bihar has witnessed several mob-lynching incidents, especially over theft allegations, in the last couple of years. Araria sub-divisional police officer Pushkar Kumar denied that it was an incident of mob lynching. “It seems he (Ismail) had gone there to steal things. The people living in the house caught him while some other villagers also joined. They thrashed him following which he died while undergoing treatment at a government hospital,” he said. “We have registered an FIR in which 15 people have been accused of killing the youth. We have arrested Nitish Kumar and Rupesh Kumar. They are the prime accused in the case and are residents of the house in which the deceased had broken in,” Pushkar told The Telegraph. He also said that the victim’s name was not in the records of the police stations in the area, but efforts were on to check whether it was present in other police stations in the district. The family members of Ismail have alleged there was a conspiracy behind his death. “My son had a dispute over the construction of a road in the village. Some people opposed to him conspired to kill him,” Ismail’s father Muhammad Shoaib told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-24
29-06-2021||India||J&K: Suspected militants kill SPO, wife and child in Pulwama||A special police officer, his wife and daughter were killed in a suspected militant attack at Awantipora in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Sunday night. Officials said suspected militants barged into the house of officer Fayaz Ahmad, in his late 40s, at 11pm. The militants were looking for the officer apparently to kill him. Ahmad’s wife Raja Begum and daughter Rafia tried to save him but the family faced a barrage of fire, killing Ahmad on the spot. His wife and daughter were hospitalised. The wife died of wounds during the night while his daughter passed away early on Monday. The killings have plunged the village in grief and triggered outrage across the Valley. Inspector-general of police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said the militants first fired upon Ahmad. “The mother and daughter tried to save him (SPO) but they were also fired upon. They were martyred. We are very grieved but they (militants) will soon be identified and neutralised,” he said. Kumar said two militants carried out the attack, one of whom appeared to be an “FT” (foreign terrorist) from his appearance. “There is a presence of Jaish militants in the area. They could have carried out the attack,” he added. Former chief ministers Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti condemned the attack. “I unreservedly condemn the dastardly and cowardly militant attack on the J&K police SPO Fayaz Ahmad, his wife and his young daughter at their home last night. I pray they receive their place in Jannat (heaven) and their loved ones find strength during this terrible time,” Omar tweeted. “No words are strong enough to condemn the cowardly attack in Awantipora that claimed the lives of a JKP officer Fayaz Ahmad, his wife and daughter. May Allah Ta’aala grant them maghfirat and their loved ones the fortitude to bear this loss,” Mehbooba said in a tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-24
29-06-2021||India||Jammu: Indian Army foils possible drone attacks on 2 military camps||The army claimed to have foiled possible drone attacks on two military camps in Jammu on Sunday night, barely 24 hours after the Indian Air Force station at Jammu airport suffered blasts attributed to the first ever drone strikes anywhere in India. The army said its quick reaction teams fired at two unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) on Sunday night and forced them to retreat. After the previous night’s assault on the IAF station, experts had warned of more drone attacks. Army sources said one drone was spotted over the Ratnuchak army camp at 11.30pm on Sunday and the other over the Kaluchak army camp around 1am on Monday morning. Ratnuchak is 4km north of the IAF station where, according to the police, two explosive-laden drones caused low-level blasts early on Sunday morning, injuring two officials, while Kaluchak is 6km south of the IAF station. All three are around 15km from the Pakistan border. “On midnight of 27-28 June 2021, two separate drone activities were spotted over Ratnuchak-Kaluchak military area by alert troops,” defence spokesperson Devender Anand said in a statement. “Immediately, high alert was sounded and quick reaction teams engaged them with firing. Both the drones flew away. The security forces are on high alert and the search operation is in progress.” The army statement did not say where the drones had come from or where they flew away. The security forces carried out multiple searches to try and figure out whether the UAVs had been sent from somewhere on the Indian side rather than from Pakistan. An official said it was not clear whether the drones had been sent to launch an attack or to drop weapons — a purpose for which UAVs have been used in the past in Jammu and Kashmir and neighbouring Punjab. Security experts had on Sunday said the purported drone attack on the IAF station had added “a new dimension” to the militant threat to India and suggested an overhaul of the security grid to protect vital installations from the air. Kaluchak, in particular, has been heavily guarded since a suicide attack on the camp in 2002 killed 30 people — three soldiers, 16 army family members and 11 other civilians. Forty-eight others, mostly soldiers and their families, were injured. The attack on the IAF station the previous night had injured officials Arvind Singh and S.K. Singh and ripped out the roof of a building in the technical area. Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbagh Singh had suggested that a “drone with payload” was used and pointed a finger at militants. But the IAF is yet to confirm a drone attack or a militant link. Drones can be used as bombs themselves or can drop bombs or fire missiles from the air, depending on their level of sophistication.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-24
29-06-2021||India||Single mom in Kerala fights her way into police force||Ten years ago, Aanie S.P. was selling ice cream and lemonade at the Sivagiri Mutt fair in Varakala, an abandoned mother barely into her 20s struggling to raise a two-year-old son all by herself. On Friday, the now 31-year-old was appointed a sub-inspector of police in the same town, located in Thiruvananthapuram district. Aanie is now basking in a shower of congratulatory messages from across Kerala lauding her single-handed and successful battle against odds. Going by the social media messages, Aanie appears to be a hero Kerala desperately needed at a time a spate of suicides by newly married women over dowry and domestic abuse has pricked its conscience. “I keep telling all women who contact me for whatever problems they face to never accept defeat, as a tiny ember of hope will always be there to help us find the spark of success and happiness,” Aanie told The Telegraph on Monday. Aanie’s life had been thrown into turmoil when, still in her teens, she had defied her middle-class parents to move in with her boyfriend. She was then an undergraduate student of sociology at the K.N.M. Government College in Thiruvananthapuram. Shortly after the baby’s birth 12 years ago, the father deserted mother and child. Aanie was left with a mountain to climb: pay rent, take care of herself and the boy, continue her own education. She did it all, selling anything from curry powder to lemonade while she left the baby at a crèche at a concessional Rs 400 a month, and then cooking, washing and studying at home. “I took refuge at my grandmother’s home (near her parents’ place) for over two months since I had to complete my degree exams. After that I lived alone in rented rooms in Thiruvananthapuram, taking care of my child and earning my livelihood,” she said. Aanie received no help from her parents or elder brother. As with most single mothers, life was full of challenges. “One can imagine the problems women face when they have to live alone. So I went for a makeover by cutting my hair and switched to trousers and shirts to look like a man,” she said. “Now I’m very comfortable in this appearance and attire since I’m a police officer,” Aanie, who rides a Royal Enfield motorbike, grinned. Her father, who used to work in the Gulf, had always wanted her to become an IPS officer. But it was a relative who in 2016 suggested she take the sub-inspectors’ test. With the result of the test getting delayed, she took the constables’ test successfully and got a posting with the Special Armed Police in Thiruvananthapuram. But, determined to become a sub-inspector, she took the SI test again in early 2019 and cracked it. As she began her sub-inspector’s training at the police academy in Thrissur, her mother moved in with her. But her father and brother remain estranged. After a year’s training, Aanie was sent back to Kochi as a probationary sub-inspector. On June 25, she received her formal appointment as a sub-inspector in Varakala. The police department has accepted her request for an immediate transfer to Kochi, where she believes her 12-year-old son Shivasurya can get better schooling. On Sunday afternoon, the Kerala police celebrated her achievement with a Facebook post, titled “The story of our colleague who overcame challenges”. It immediately triggered a flood of applause from Keralites. “Congratulations to Aanie who achieved success in life with her determination. Let her success inspire many others,” tweeted Malayalam film star Mohanlal. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan of the Congress congratulated Aanie for building a “life for herself & her son” against heavy odds. Appearing to allude to the recent dowry suicides, Satheeshan tweeted: “In a dismally male-dominated society where atrocities against vulnerable women are occurring every day, her life and achievements are truly inspirational.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-25
29-06-2021||India||Indian Army capable of befitting reply to every challenge: Rajnath||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday said the Indian Army had the capability to give a befitting reply to every challenge, and efforts should be made to find a solution to resolve disputes through dialogue with neighbouring countries. Rajnath, however, desisted from naming China, a policy Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been following through the 13-month border standoff with that country. India and China have been locked in border disputes at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh since May last year. China’s People’s Liberation Army has altered the unmarked Line of Actual Control (LAC) at these friction points and is estimated to have taken over close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. Even a year after the Galwan clash, in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed, there are no signs of restoration of status quo ante along the LAC. Sources say China has so far shown no intent of pulling back either from Hot Springs/Gogra or from the Depsang Plains where its troops are said to have transgressed 18km into the India-claimed territory. Interacting with the troops of Indian Army’s 14 Corps in Ladakh on Monday, Singh said: “India is a peace-loving nation that never resorts to any kind of aggression, but at the same time, it is always prepared to give a befitting reply if provoked.” A press statement from the defence ministry said: “He (Singh) reiterated the government’s stand of resolving disputes through dialogue with neighbouring countries, but assured the nation that safety and security of the nation will not be compromised at any cost.” The defence minister, who arrived in Ladakh on Sunday on a three-day visit, also inaugurated 63 bridges constructed by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) in six states and two Union Territories. Singh said the Union government’s “historic” decision to bifurcate Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh into two separate Union Territories had bolstered national unity and led to major reduction in terrorist activities. Lauding the army for displaying exemplary courage during the Galwan Valley face-off, the defence minister paid tributes to the bravehearts who laid down their lives in the line of duty. In the wake of the PLA’s massive deployment along the LAC in Ladakh, the Indian Army has put in place mirror deployment and established habitat facilities for 50,000 additional troops deployed there, backed by battle tanks, missile systems and frequent sorties by the Indian Air Force’s combat aircraft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-25
29-06-2021||India||Centre asks NCERT to develop the National Curriculum Frameworks||The government has asked the NCERT to coordinate with its state counterparts to develop the National Curriculum Frameworks (NCF), the guiding documents for writing school textbooks, after failing to find experts of its choice for the job. However, the directive has prompted fears among some academics that this is a ploy to get the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) to interfere in the preparation of the state curriculum frameworks (SCFs), which tend to loosely follow the NCF but are not bound by it. Anita Rampal, former dean of Delhi University’s faculty of education, expressed a fear of “centralisation of the (state) curriculums”. The Union education ministry last month asked the NCERT to coordinate with the State Councils of Educational Research and Training (SCERTs) for the preparation of four NCFs. One of these is to be about early childhood care and education for early graders, another about school education, a third about teacher education and the fourth about adult education, two ministry officials told this newspaper. Till now, the NCF used to be one comprehensive document. However, one paragraph in the government document has caused alarm among educationists. It reads: “As per the strategy of MOE (ministry of education) and NCERT, national curriculum framework should be framed by incorporating and integrating local and indigenous flavour from across the country through wider consultations. For this, state curriculum frameworks may be developed and then feed into the preparation of national curriculum framework.” Rampal wondered why there was a centralised plan to direct the states on the preparation of their SCFs, emphasising that education was on the concurrent list. “The SCERTs are independent institutions. It’s up to the states and their SCERTs to decide how they would like to develop their own curriculum frameworks,” she said. “Some states did not prepare their SCFs (even when the last NCF came out in 2005) while some broadly drew upon the NCF 2005 to develop their curricula and textbooks. Now the central government’s decision to get the SCFs ready before the NCFs — ostensibly through collaboration between the SCERTs and the NCERT — seems like an attempt at centralisation of the (state) curriculums.” Just as the NCFs are mere guidelines for the SCFs, so are the NCERT’s 225 textbooks just models that the SCERTs may follow while preparing their states’ school textbooks. While Rampal believes the Centre may be using the NCERT to influence the SCERTs, the government seemed initially not to trust the national body with the preparation of the NCFs and unsuccessfully looked for its own experts — delaying the entire process. The National Education Policy brought out by the NDA government last year advocates the framing of a new NCF and the preparation of new school textbooks. Last September, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said that schoolchildren should follow a new curriculum in 2022. “That means the NCF preparation should have ended by December 2020. But it’s starting only now. There’s been a huge delay and it can’t be completed by 2022,” an academic who did not wish to be named said. Education ministry officials said the ministry had initially been keen to set up an expert committee to prepare the NCFs in a departure from the convention of the NCERT setting up such committees. The government had rejected the NCERT’s proposed set of experts for the NCF committee and consulted its own trusted people who suggested several names too. All these names were sent to the Prime Minister’s Office. “It could not be decided who should be chairperson of the NCF committee after former IIT Delhi chairman Vijay Bhatkar declined the offer,” a ministry official said. Eventually, the Centre could not find any candidate of the required stature and asked the NCERT to prepare the NCFs in consultation with the SCERTs. The NCFs have to be approved by the Central Advisory Board of Education, which includes all the state education ministers. The NCF provides broad guidelines that another expert committee formed by the NCERT follows while preparing the syllabuses and textbooks for every class, the whole process usually taking three to four years. After an expert committee formed by the NCERT in 2004 under noted academic Yash Pal came out with the last NCF in 2005, the textbooks were introduced in phases for all classes until 2008. “In all probability, textbook preparation may be pushed back to the term of the next government,” the academic who sought anonymity said. An email sent to the education ministry seeking the reasons for the delay in preparing the NCFs brought no answers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-25
29-06-2021||West Bengal||Vaccination in Bengal at lowest, alleges Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda on Tuesday attacked Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, alleging that Covid-19 vaccination is the lowest in the state and fake inoculation camps are being organised here. He also claimed that "organised post-poll violence" is taking place in the state and though it has a woman chief minister, women are facing atrocities. Nadda alleged that Banerjee, also the Trinamool Congress supremo, is "changing her version" every other day on the vaccination programme, and the state government has failed in the process, though the Centre is providing free vaccines to states. "If you see the data, the vaccination is lowest in Bengal. This is the only state where you would see fake vaccination camps are being run. We have never heard about fake vaccination. Even TMC MP Mimi Chakraborty got a jab of the fake vaccine," he said. Several persons, including the mastermind, were recently arrested for organising dubious camps in Kolkata where people were administered fake vaccine doses. The BJP president is virtually addressing the first executive committee meeting of the partys state unit after the assembly polls. The post-poll violence clearly reflected the failure of the state administration, Nadda said. Aadhaar cards and ration cards of BJP workers have been taken away and the police have remained a mute spectator, he alleged. "All of this happened under a woman CM. A lot of atrocities have been faced by women. If women are not safe, what sort of governance are the people of West Bengal getting from the TMC?" he asked. Without mentioning the BJP's failure to achieve its much-hyped target of winning the state assembly election, Nadda exuded confidence that in the next five years, the party will take a big leap and will form the government in the next polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-7
29-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal delay in DGP appointment may lead to fresh tension with Centre||The Mamata Banerjee government may be walking into a fresh set of troubles by not initiating the process of appointing Bengal's next Director General of Police (DGP), given that the incumbent is set to retire on August 31. As per Supreme Court directives, the state government should have sent a list of contenders to the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) months earlier. But since the Trinamul Congress-led government is yet to do so, it opens itself up for criticism from the apex court which is monitoring DGP appointments  for all states. Earlier this month, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar had raised the issue, claiming that norms were flouted during the incumbent DGP, Virendra’s appointment. In a tweet, the Governor had mentioned that the state government should have sent names of three top contenders to UPSC by June 1. “Directives of the Supreme Court came to be flouted in effecting appointment of the present incumbent of Virendra as DGP. Those concerned with such flouting of honourable SC order need to be held accountable. Such disregard of the SC directive is not at all appreciated,” Dhankhar had said in his tweet. The Supreme Court has set guidelines for appointment of DGPs in states. But such appointments remain mired in controversy with several  state governments often looking the other way and continuing to play favourites while making key postings. The SC has instructed states to send names of the contenders to UPSC three months before the retirement of the current DGP. UPSC is then supposed to prepare a panel of three on the basis of merit and seniority on the condition that they all have two years of service left. State governments are to pick the candidate from this panel. The apex court’s guidelines also forbid states from appointing any IPS officer to the post on ad hoc basis. “Often states end up picking their favourites, ignoring seniority,” said a retired IPS officer. Virendra’s predecessor, Surajit Kar Purakayastha, was appointed DG in 2016, bypassing six senior officers. The Mamata Banerjee government went on to create a special post for him to continue after his retirement. DG (CRPF) Kuldiep Singh should be the replacement for Virendra since he was senior-most. But given his stint with the Central force and the additional charge he holds, that of handling the NIA, it is unlikely that Singh would like to return to Calcutta. Also, Singh is due to retire in September next year, which means he would have a tenure of less than a year if he was appointed to the post. According to sources, Singh’s batchmate Manoj Malviya, now posted as DG (Organisation), is not in Mamata's good books. Also, he faces cases of alleged corruption pertaining to his tenure outside the state. All these factors make him an unlikely choice. Next in the line is 1987 batch IPS P Nirajnayan, who was made DGP by the Election Commission during the assembly elections, in place of Virendra. Mamata removed Nirajnayan soon after taking oath as chief minister for the third time. “She regards Nirajnayan as EC’s man and would not like to see him lead the state police force,” said an officer. With no clear favourites in the running, and the shadow of Supreme Court directives looming, Mamata is yet to make her choice clear for the next state police chief, something that could well invite censure from the apex court and lead to fresh escalation of tensions with the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-8
29-06-2021||West Bengal||Vaccingate: Deb's cousin who cheated him arrested||The Calcutta Police’s special investigation team arrested Kanchan Deb, a cousin of IAS impersonator Debanjan Deb, late on Monday night with  officers saying the 37-year-old was at first an eager participant in the various fraud schemes run by Deb but later went on to cheat him. Police are now trying to find out how and why Kanchan cheated his cousin. Sarat Patra, a former assistant to a physician (now deceased) in the Taltala area, was also arrested on Monday night.  Both Patra and Kanchan were scheduled to be produced in court later in the day. During his stint with the physician, Patra had learnt to  administer injections and dress wounds. That training was used by Deb while running his fake vaccine camps where Patra administered the fake doses. Deb had organised two camps in Kasba and City College where vials of fake Covishield vaccines were given to unsuspecting users. Over the years, Deb had also taken fancy to getting his name published in newspapers and being photographed with the political brass. On receiving news of “adulterated petrol” being sold in Kasba near his office, Deb carried out a "search" while posing as aCalcutta Mniciapl Corporation and had his photographs carried in the next morning’s dailies. He also conducted an "election", where all his employees voted for him. He declared himself winner of the elections of West Bengal Employees Federation, which was published in some newspapers of Calcutta. The police are trying to find if any such organisation exists in Bengal and whether Deb has any ties with it. “It is quite possible he just picked up a name and usurped it like his identity,” said a police officer. On Monday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee broke her silence on the fake vaccine racket operating in the city. “Those who play with people’s lives are worse than terrorists. I am surprised at his audacity. Such frauds go around clicking selfies with important people and use them elsewhere. Police and CMC cannot say they were unaware what was going on. The BJP could have provided support too,” Mamata said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-8
29-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal govt extends existing restrictions till July 15||The Bengal government on Monday extended the existing stricter restrictions till July 15 but green-lighted all modes of road transport at 50 per cent passenger capacity and widened the working hours of shops and other establishments from July 1. Suburban local trains and Metro rail services, however, will remain suspended for now. “The stricter restrictions are being extended till July 15. We will also allow some more activities and see whether Covid-19 cases are rising,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said at Nabanna on Monday after holding a review meeting. An official said later: “The idea is that we should know whether we can go forward towards restoring near-normality by allowing some more relaxations. We can move forward only when we are sure that the relaxations will not result in another spike in infections.… We can check this by allowing relaxations in a phased manner.” The official added: “The experience has not been bad, with positive cases in the state declining continuously despite the relaxations given 15 days ago.” Some of the key relaxations announced on Monday: ⚫ All modes of road transport including state-run and private buses, taxis and auto-rickshaws can operate at 50 per cent passenger capacity. ⚫ Salons and beauty parlours can function between 11am and 6pm at 50 per cent capacity. ⚫ Shops dealing with vegetables, fish, meat, milk and eggs can remain open between 6am and 12 noon. ⚫ All other shops can stay open between 11am and 8pm. ⚫ Private companies and offices can operate with 50 per cent employees. ⚫ Gyms can stay open from 6am to 10am, and from 4pm to 8pm. The chief minister said that all these facilities would be allowed, subject to vaccination of the employees and compliance with other protocols. “We came to know that some people are still not wearing masks. We have to ensure that the third phase of the pandemic does not create trouble in the state,” Mamata said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-8
29-06-2021||West Bengal||Jagdeep Dhankhar is a corrupt man, says Mamata Banerjee ||Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Monday said he had a disagreement with the state government over the draft of the address he would have to deliver at the beginning of the Assembly’s budget session on Friday as he had found “certain discrepancies” in the speech. Dhankhar said he had intimated the state government in writing about the “discrepancies” and expressed his desire to discuss the matter with the chief minister on Tuesday. Before the governor revealed his disagreement with the address, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said Dhankhar was corrupt. “Minutes before her press conference (at Nabanna), I received a call from her... I put forward some questions regarding the speech. She said she had nothing to do, as the cabinet had passed it…. It seems her comment  at the press conference was a knee-jerk reaction,” Dhankhar said at a hurriedly convened news conference at the Raj Bhavan in Calcutta. Sources in the state government said the Raj Bhavan occupant was suspected of trying to include in his address  the BJP’s “baseless” allegations regarding post-poll violence against it in Bengal and the law and order in the state. They said he has also been demanding a “guarantee” of live television coverage of the address, which the ruling dispensation fears is indicative of his intent to go off-script in full public view. Dhankhar said he hoped Mamata would meet him on Tuesday to discuss the matter with him, adding that he hoped for an amicable resolution acceptable to all. After explaining his disapproval of the draft address, Dhankhar went on to attack Mamata referring to some of her comments made earlier in the day during a news conference in Nabanna. Swatting away the chief minister’s allegation that he was charge-sheeted in the Jain Diaries case — a politico-financial hawala scandal of the 1990s — Dhankhar said: “The allegations… don’t have an iota of truth. It is unfortunate that she is spreading misinformation, misinterpreting facts…. It does not suit a seasoned politician like her,” he said. “I never expected a leader of her stature to create sensation, engage in misinformation…. Your governor was never named in any charge-sheet. There is no such document…. Nobody has been convicted in the hawala case” he added, referring to Mamata as his “younger sister”. Dhankhar said the chief minister should have consulted the likes of former Union finance minister Yashwant Sinha — named in the charge-sheet — who is now her party’s national vice-president. The day began with the governor levelling allegations of irregularities related to the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA). Dhankhar — accused by the chief minister of conducting the trip to north Bengal in order to foment tension in the region and encourage divisive forces — said  the GTA was a “den of corruption and nepotism”, demanding a CAG audit of the funds allotted to the body. Mamata dismissed the suggestion. “The governor is trying to dictate everyone, even our officers… right after our government was blessed with such a massive, historic mandate by the people. Repeatedly overstepping the constitutional bounds of his office. He is just the governor…. Who is he to say all this?” asked Mamata, reiterating that she has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi thrice demanding Dhankhar’s removal, urging the Centre to come clean on whether it was going to do so. “He is a corrupt man. Why has the (Union) government allowed a man like him to continue…? He should clarify whether his name is there in the charge-sheet of the scam,” she added. “Out of our utmost respect for the Constitution, I will continue to meet him, talk to him… follow all the courtesies and protocol, for as long as he is here…. The Union government should act based on my letters.” During his visit to north Bengal, Dhankhar met a number of BJP lawmakers and other leaders of the saffron camp, including John Barla, the BJP’s Alipurduar MP who has been a key recent proponent of the contentious demand for statehood of north Bengal. Mamata questioned the meeting. “We also have information that some people have been asked to organise movements on the issue. Why did he go there? Does he want to divide north Bengal? I have never seen a governor like him,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-8
29-06-2021||West Bengal||BJP leadership gives green signal to use Suvendu's picture alongside Dilip on party posters in Bengal||The BJP central leadership has given the green light to use the picture of the leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Suvendu Adhikari alongside that of state unit chief Dilip Ghosh on party posters in Bengal. The decision, seen as an elevation of Trinamul turncoat Suvendu’s status, has allegedly widened the rift between his and Ghosh’s camps. Many insiders are questioning the emergence of the MLA as a parallel power centre in Bengal BJP. “Suvendu is on the lookout for opportunities to edge past old-timers like Dilipda. The nod to use his pictures on party posters alongside Dilipda will further strengthen Suvendu’s grip on the party,” a source in the BJP said. The rift between the two came out in the open this month when Suvendu visited Delhi and met heavyweights, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah. Ghosh told journalists he had no clue about Suvendu’s Delhi trip. The Nandigram MLA said the state unit general secretary (organisation) Amitava Chakraborty was aware of it. “He (Suvendu) has convinced Amitavada to approve his activities. This is how he wants to team up against Dilipda,” the BJP source said. It is in this backdrop that party old-timers feel that the central leadership’s nod to Suvendu’s pictures on posters will further disturb the balance of power. A senior BJP leader said the move to accommodate Suvendu’s picture on posters goes contrary to the party’s decision ahead of Bengal polls. To avoid the risk of feuds, the central unit had decided only on Ghosh’s picture on posters with those of central leaders. Sources close to Suvendu said central leaders had a change of heart on the poster issue as the MLA was the leader of the Opposition. “The leader of the Opposition is undoubtedly an important post. But it should be remembered that Dilipda is unhappy with Suvendu for going to  Delhi without telling him. it proves Suvendu is trying to supersede Dilipda. At such a point, giving the former more focus could have been avoided,” a BJP veteran said. State BJP general-secretary Sayantan Basu denied anything unusual in the use of the leader of Opposition’s picture on party posters and refuted talks of a rift between Ghosh and Suvendu. “Both the state party president and leader of the Opposition are equally important for us. They have equal contributions to make and designated responsibilities.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-8
29-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal reports drop in active cases by 59.9%||Bengal on Monday reported the eighth consecutive day of a drop in its total of active Covid-19 cases, by 304 to touch 21,580. The state reported 2,033 recoveries, 1,761 new infections and 32 deaths in the past 24 hours. This dip in infections and active cases reflected in the key parameter of case growth, which is the percentage of growth of cases over the past week compared to the week earlier. Bengal now is 23rd among states in case growth, with  a fall of 59.9 per cent. With Calcutta logging 164 new infections and North 24-Parganas 186, Monday was the first time since the second wave when none of Bengal’s 23 districts reported over 200 new cases in 24 hours. Fifteen Bengal districts reported double-digit figures of new infections detected in a day. Best-performers Malda and Purulia reported single-digit figures. Of the 32 deaths, seven were from the city and nine from North 24-Parganas. Thirteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Monday. Five others reported one each. Bengal’s recovery rate is 97.38 per cent, while the national rate is 96.83. The daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 3.52 on Monday. The dip in  percentage of positive cases out of samples tested indicates reducing Covid-19 spread. The total number of active cases had fallen till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702 from the peak of 1,32,181 on May 21. But for 11 days till June 20, it had risen again by over 56 per cent, before starting to fall again in these eight days. Bengal in all has 14.96 lakh Covid-19 cases since March 2020.  It includes 14.57 lakh recoveries and 17,644 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-8
29-06-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal University issues notice announcing  enrolment fee waiver for poverty-stricken||The North Bengal University on Monday issued a notice announcing waiver on the enrolment fees of various semester exams for undergraduate and postgraduate students who are either from BPL families or have been financially affected because of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the applicant will have to submit proper documents to validate their claim. Sources said that for the past few days NBU Students’ Unity had been raising demand for such a waiver. They also submitted three memorandums to the varsity authorities. “It is good that the NBU authorities have come up with a notice. But we believe the process of getting the waiver should be simplified,” said Anindita Pandit, a student of Kalipada Ghosh Tarai Mahavidyalaya in Bagdogra. Pranab Ghosh, the registrar of the NBU, said: “The decision has been taken in view of the pandemic situation. We want the students to get the benefit before appearing in forthcoming semesters exams. Students who are financially affected due to the pandemic or are from poor families can get the waiver. They will, however, have to provide us a certificate issued by the district magistrate, the sub-divisional officer or the block development officer in support of their application.” According to varsity sources, around one lakh students study in undergraduate courses in 49 colleges affiliated to the varsity while there are around 4,000 students who are pursuing post-graduation in different subjects at the NBU. For UG courses, students studying in courses which involve use of laboratories need to pay Rs 700 as enrolment fees while for other courses, the fee is Rs 500. For PG courses, the fees is Rs and Rs 450, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-8
29-06-2021||West Bengal||Indian Meteorological Department issues alert of heavy rain in north Bengal from June 27 to July 3||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an alert of heavy to very heavy rain in north Bengal from June 27 to July 3. A weatherman explained the shift of a low-pressure trough and moisture incursion from the Bay of Bengal as reasons. Most parts of north Bengal saw downpour on Monday. Yaba tablets Police at Maynaguri, Jalpaiguri, seized 60,000 Yaba tablets worth Rs 60 lakh used by drug abusers from the border of Cooch Behar and Jalpaiguri districts at Kaldibandha on Sunday night. Three men have been arrested. Those arrested have been identified as Biplab Hussain, Azidul Mian and Hazrat Mian.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-8
29-06-2021||West Bengal||Border Security Force arrests Nadia man with Bangla wife on border||The Border Security Force on Saturday night caught an Indian youth and a 19-year-old Bangladeshi woman when they illegally sneaked into India through a porous spot of the boundary at Bhimpur in Nadia district. While Jaykanto Chandra Roy, 24, is from Santipur-Ballabhpur in Nadia district, the woman is a resident of Khulna in Bangladesh. Roy, the son of a farmer, had illegally crossed over to Bangladesh in March ostensibly to marry the woman with whom he had interacted through social media for a year. According to Roy, BSF sources said, he had married the woman in March and stayed there till Saturday before making their way to India. The duo were apprehended by the BSF’s 82-Battalion. The BSF questioned the two at the border outpost and later handed them over to Bhimpur police. The police arrested them and booked them for illegally crossing the border. They were produced in a court in Krishnagar on Sunday and remanded in judicial custody for 14 days. The woman was eventually sent to a home in Krishnagar. A BSF spokesperson said: “The youth is an Indian but he went to Bangladesh illegally and returned with a woman illegally sneaking through an unfenced border point with the help of touts. The Bangladeshi woman will be charged under Foreigners’ Act.” During the interrogation, Roy has apparently revealed that he entered Bangladesh with the help of tout from Taraknagar. On June 26, he paid Rs 10,000 to a Bangladeshi broker to return to India by crossing the border. A senior officer of the BSF’s south Bengal frontier in Calcutta said: “The youth and the woman claimed to be a couple. Nevertheless, the intention of the youth was not quite clear to us. We are committed to preventing trafficking of women. Human traffickers often adopt new methods and trap innocent girls and push them into prostitution.” A senior officer of Bhimpur police station said: “This is a quite unusual case. Love united this couple beyond the geographical boundary but law separated them. It is now for the court to decide the future of the couple.” A lawyer said the Indian youth should have adopted legal means to live happily ever after with his wife. “He should have brought the woman to India on a tourist visa and married her here. Tying the nuptial knot under the special marriage act could have helped the girl get a residential visa.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-8
29-06-2021||West Bengal||Narada case: Calcutta High Court to hear Mamata Banerjee's affidavit||Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal of Calcutta High Court said on Monday that a five-judge bench would examine from Tuesday the affidavits filed by chief minister Mamata Banerjee and law minister Malay Ghatak in connection with the CBI’s allegations against them following the arrest of four politicians in the Narada case. The five-judge bench headed by Justice Bindal has decided to examine the affidavits following a Supreme Court verdict to the effect. On June 9, the high court had refused to entertain the pleas by Mamata and Ghatak to examine the affidavits. The duo then approached the Supreme Court against the higher court’s decision. On Friday, the Supreme Court asked the high court to hear the pleas to examine the affidavits before holding further proceedings on the CBI’s petition to transfer the Narada case to the high court itself. The CBI had arrested four heavyweight leaders, including two Trinamul ministers and an MLA, in connection with the Narada case on May 17. The chief minister and a few other Trinamul leaders had rushed to the CBI office in the city following the arrests and left after the four leaders were granted bail by the CBI court. But late in the evening, the CBI moved the high court and charged Mamata with creating disruption at the Calcutta office of the central investigative agency. The CBI had also accused the law minister of trying to influence the city's sessions court judge by attending the courtroom during hearing of the bail pleas of arrested leaders. In their plea before the five-judge bench hearing the Narada case, the CBI had made the chief minister and the law minister respondents. But when both the ministers filed affidavits to clarify their stand in regard to CBI's allegations, the acting Chief Justice had declined to hear the ministers. Both Mamata and Ghatak had moved the Supreme Court challenging the high court’s stand. Last week, the Supreme Court directed the five-judge bench of the high court to hear the chief minister and the law minister. Lawyers appearing for Mamata and Ghatak on Monday informed the high court about the Supreme Court’s directive and sought immediate hearing of their pleas. To this, the acting Chief Justice said the pleas would be heard from Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-8
29-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Vaccine shortage triggers protests at several jab centres ||Protests at several vaccination centres erupted in both south and north Bengal on Monday as jabs fell short of demand. At least five persons, including a woman, received minor injuries when around 2,000 people, who had come for their second dose of the vaccine, rushed towards a counter at a rural hospital in Hooghly’s Singur. Sources said the hospital had the capacity to administer vaccines to 500 people, but over 2,000 people turned up after getting auto-generated text alerts for the second dose from the government server. “I came here on getting the alert but faced a free-for-all when the counter opened. Many got injured amid the pushing and shoving. I left,” said a retired school teacher. The chaos alarmed hospital authorities and a police team from Singur controlled the situation. The cops asked 500 people to queue up, which left many people fuming. In Nadia’s Santipur, 200 people staged a demonstration at the state general hospital when authorities at the vaccination centre failed to give them a second dose of Covishield. People, mostly the aged, alleged they were scheduled to get the jab and had queue up from dawn, but the hospital authorities around 10am said they couldn’t give the jabs. An agitation erupted at Ranaghat subdivisional hospital after the hospital issued registration slips to only 100 beneficiaries though over 500 persons were waiting. Then, 100 more slips were issued. Hospital superintendent Shayamal Kumar Porey said most were eligible for the second dose. “We have limited supply of vaccines and advised them not to panic as there is no harm in getting the jab a few days though 84 days have passed since their first dose.” It was a similar situation at a Jhargram public health centre after authorities told people they had only 150 vials and would not be able to vaccinate everyone present. Protests erupted in at least two locations of Alipurduar district as hundreds who turned up at two health centres for Covid-19 vaccination had to return without getting the shot. In Kalchini block’s Jaigaon town on the India-Bhutan border, over 100 people, mostly senior citizens, did not get the second dose though around 90 days had passed since their first dose. “I received my first dose (Covishield) on March 24 and the health staff had told me I will get the second after 84 days. Today, I told them that 90 days have passed. They asked me to visit the centre after a couple of days. It is nothing but harassment for elderly persons like us,” said Ramprasad Sharma, 65. Many protested in front of the centre, wielding certificates of the first dose. Health officials of the block had to intervene and bring the situation under control. “In Kalchini block, we are vaccinating potential super-spreaders. People should understand that the second dose can be administered between 84 and 112 days after the first dose. They need not panic,” said Subhash Kumar Karmakar, block medical officer of health of Kalchini. Around 200 women of Alipurduar-II block, who are mothers of children aged 12 years or below, and priority candidates for the jab for to ensure the safety of the children before the likely third wave of the pandemic, had to return home without getting the first dose. On Sunday, they had been told by ICDS centres about getting the first dose on Monday. Around 1,000 women reached the primary health centre of the block at Jashordanga, many from 5am. “We waited for hours but many of us did not get the jab,” said Sabita Debnath, a resident. Some women got agitated amid the delay and tried to enter the centre. Health staff called up the police who rushed to the spot and brought the situation under control. Tanmoy Debnath, the block medical health officer, said overcrowding hampered the vaccination process.  “We hope the situation will improve from Tuesday,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-9
29-06-2021||North East||Covid: Mizoram students overcome poor connectivity amid pandemic||Students of Mizoram University’s constituent and affiliated colleges with the help of community leaders are scripting one of the most amazing and inspiring stories in the education sector despite poor Internet connectivity and the Covid-19 pandemic. Stories of their resilience and enterprise first hit the headlines early this month when photographs of students writing their online undergraduate exams under a makeshift tent built on a hilltop in Siaha district was shared widely on social media. The students had to trek around 3km uphill to write their exams for lack of Internet connectivity in their villages since colleges are closed due to the Covid-induced lockdown. Now pictures of students attending online classes by the roadside in a locality in Serchhip district has started doing the rounds. Most of them used or shared their parents’ mobile phones, since all of them could not afford individual gadgets, a university official said. Vice-chancellor Prof. K.R.S. Sambasiva Rao told The Telegraph that students from remote rural areas are moving towards places having Internet connectivity. At these places, local NGOs and village councils are “helping” them with computer, Internet connectivity, printing and scanning facility to write their examinations. “We are perhaps the only university or one of the very few varsities to have completed our courses and exams online last year. We will be doing the same this year too. Our students, teachers, staff, community leaders, NGOs and the state administration have all contributed to this success instead of complaining about Covid and connectivity issues. Ours is indeed a Covid ‘positive’ story,” Rao said. There are one constituent and 29 affiliated colleges under Mizoram University with around 25,000 students. Functional since 2001, the central university started holding online exams for undergraduates from June 1 and will be holding postgraduate exams for around 3,000 students from July 1. All examinations for the colleges are conducted by the university. According to Rao, Covid has been a “great” teacher, bringing to the fore “our” resilience and innovative nature. The pandemic had an adverse impact on our overall existence but it has also thrown up new avenues in the education sector — learning many technological interventions such as digital teaching and infrastructure, online programmes and skill development courses to students, the vice-chancellor said. “Though students are missing classroom teaching, they also got an opportunity to learn from various other sources. We are now conducting online classes, online exams, getting foreign experts from Oxford, Cambridge and Stanford, among others, to take classes. We held nearly 400 seminars, webinars and conferences and tied up with a technology partner for seamless delivery of online services. Covid has been a great teacher,” Rao said. A telecom sector official told this newspaper that barring Assam, connectivity is poor in the other six states of the Northeast, especially in the rural areas, attributing it to the hilly terrain, law and order issues, sparse population, electricity, land and compensation issues. Mizoram has 100 per cent teledensity in both urban and rural areas — 13.8 lakh mobile connections against a population of over 11 lakh. “This is one indicator of a not-so-good network, forcing people to take multiple connections in order to remain connected,” the official said, making a strong pitch for improving connectivity as it will not only help the education sector but also boost commerce. Mizoram information and communication technology minister Robert Romawia Royte admitted to the state facing connectivity problems but said things have improved in the past three years with the MNF-led government taking several steps in association with the service providers and the central government to resolve the issue. “The state government has a very limited role because the telecom sector is under the Centre. We are facilitating setting up of mobile towers by lifting the NOC (no-objection certificate) clause in urban areas, directing the power department to ensure supply to the service providers and exempting telecom personnel or transportation of telecom materials from the Covid SOP (standard operating procedures),” he told this newspaper. Royte, however, praised Mizoram University’s performance in these trying times. “We appreciate their will power, innovative approach and their commitment towards their students by regularly holding online classes and exams. Credit to the entire team led by vice-chancellor Rao. MU is not only the pride of Mizoram, born out of the 1986 Mizo Peace Accord, but also of the entire Northeast. MU is, in fact, one of the positive and inspiring stories to come out of the state during the Covid pandemic,” the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-1
29-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Just fight||High literacy does not automatically lead to gender justice. This is what Kerala found to its shock with the recent rise in cases of violence against women such as suicide and domestic abuse following dowry demands, rape and harassment. With the highest literacy rate in India — 96.2 per cent — Kerala also scores excellently on social and human development indices. It is telling that the assessments do not reflect the status and condition of women, whose literacy is over 95 per cent and who, unlike in other states, outnumber the men. Inherited biases are obviously so deep-rooted that even a society known for progressive movements has not succeeded in uprooting exploitative marriage systems and oppressive marital attitudes. Three alleged suicides within one week, apparently because of dowry, have galvanized the Left Democratic Front government headed by Pinarayi Vijayan into declaring a programme to ensure gender equality and justice. This includes the setting up of fast-track courts exclusively for crimes against women and the strengthening of conflict resolution centres. Ward-level awareness would be activated by local governments when there is a case of violence. The government has already appointed a nodal officer for dowry-related cases; reportedly she received around 100 calls on her first day in office. Dowry appears to be the main cause of domestic violence. Given Kerala’s developed status, this is amazing. Kerala lacks dowry prohibition officers mandated by the dowry prohibition law; the government should immediately plug this gap. But not everything can be corrected by the administration. The growth of the middle class in size and social power, partly because of foreign remittances, has had an effect on values. Dowry is part of the display of wealth that weddings have come to mean now, and this accompanies restrictions on women’s independence after marriage. Work participation rates for women have dropped; they must acquire the confidence to take a firm stand against dowry and against subordination at home. The government can support this empowerment. In this context, the government’s decision to have school texts audited to remove disparaging words or ideas about women and make schools into spaces where children can learn gender awareness, equality and justice through teaching content and methods is a promising step. It would have been better if all states expended similar attention and energy on gender-based violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-3
29-06-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Hong Kong's Apple Daily forced to shut down, Indian women’s cricket team must be lauded||Ominous end Sir — After months of harassment by the Hong Kong administration, the pro-democracy newspaper, Apple Daily, has been forced to shut down. Jimmy Lai, the founder of the newspaper, and several other executives and senior editors were arrested on charges of violating national security and conspiring to collude with foreign forces. While several countries have criticized China for its blatant suppression of press freedoms in Hong Kong, precious little was done to remedy the situation. It is shameful that the world stood a mute spectator to the disintegration of democracy in Hong Kong. Suhasini Sharma,New Delhi Battle for equality Sir — The Test match between the Indian and English women’s cricket teams in Bristol was incredible (“Cheering Shafali”, June 27). Yet, the women’s team in India is overlooked and treated unfairly. Women’s cricket in India has suffered from a lack of facilities and a general disinterest on the part of the Board of Control for Cricket in India. It is, thus, great to learn that the teenage prodigy, Shafali Verma, and other young players like Smriti Mandhana and Deepti Sharma are also carrying the legacy of veterans like Shantha Rangaswamy, Diana Edulji, Mithali Raj and Jhulan Goswami forward. The honourable draw between the Indian and English teams at Bristol proved that the Indian team is a force to be reckoned with. They played a Test match after seven long years and for many it was their international Test debut. Curiously, while the women’s team put up an admirable fight, the Indian men’s cricket team performed poorly at the World Test Championship finals. It is unfortunate that the BCCI continues to focus only on the men’s team. It is high time that the BCCI ensures that the women’s side receives at least equal opportunities and works towards bridging the pay gap between the two teams. N. Mahadevan,Chennai Sir — What Ravichandran Ashwin and Hanuma Vihari achieved for Indian men’s team at Sydney earlier this year was witnessed, once again, at Bristol as Sneh Rana and Taniya Bhatia’s remarkable performance ensured a draw for the women’s cricket team. The 17-year-old whizz-kid, Shafali Verma, played beautifully in both the innings of this Test against a much more experienced English team. The determination and grit on display spoke volumes about the quality of international women’s cricket. The International Cricket Council must try to promote women’s cricket on a par with men’s tournaments. It was unfortunate that after seven years, the Indian women’s team was given the opportunity to play just one Test. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — The Indian women’s cricket team must be lauded for ensuring an honourable draw against the mighty English side. The credit goes to the talented opener, Shafali Verma, who scored a 96 in the first innings and 63 in the second innings. India, having both new and experienced players — Deepti Sharma and Taniya Bhatia played alongside Mithali Raj, Jhulan Goswami, Punam Raut and Sneh Rana — fought valiantly till the end. Had the match not been called off prematurely because of bad light, the Indian team might just have won. There is no doubt that India will end the England tour on a high note. Janaki Mahadevan,Chennai Awkward position Sir — The current prime minister of India, Narendra Modi, has gone a step too far by claiming on International Yoga Day that yoga is a ray of hope in India’s fight against Covid-19. After thali bajao and diya jalao, the prime minister has pinned his hopes on yoga to get the country out of this horrifying situation, even though his government is primarily responsible for its scale. While it is true that yoga is beneficial for one’s body and mind, there is absolutely no basis to the claim that it can cure Covid-19. Rather, the government should ensure that when the third wave hits the country, Indians do not die gasping for breath. There should be an adequate supply of oxygen, beds and medicines. Above all, the administration must ensure speedy vaccination for all citizens. This, and not yoga, can help save lives when the next Covid wave overwhelms the poor health infrastructure of our country. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — No amount of contortions will allow the government at the Centre to displace the blame for its shoddy handling of the pandemic. It was busy consolidating power and making allowances for its vote bank while the virus ravaged the country. Yoga will now distract people from the blood on its hands. Rajeev Ram,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-3
29-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Deeper motive||The Bharatiya Janata Party under Narendra Modi is averse to U-turns. So when it is compelled to take one, as it has done in the case of Kashmir, it fuels speculation. Consider Mr Modi’s outreach to Kashmir’s political parties. The initiative is welcome and has, at long last, kindled hopes of the renewal of a political engagement. But what makes it curious is that the BJP leaders had, not too long ago, crowed about the creation of a Naya Kashmir sans the very spokespersons that they are deliberating with now. Political pundits have, therefore, been wondering about the likely nudges that may have forced Mr Modi’s hand. There is speculation that pressure from the United States of America to begin the stalled dialogue with Islamabad could be one factor; Kashmir, undoubtedly, would feature in such a dialogue if there were to be one. Others have pointed to New Delhi’s geostrategic imperatives. The return of the Taliban in Afghanistan could heat up the neighbourhood and it is therefore important for New Delhi to have calmer tempers prevail in the Valley. Backchannel deliberations with Pakistan — they are believed to have begun — may have also played an instrumental role in Mr Modi’s offer of an olive branch — for now — to Kashmir’s political fraternity whose members had been subjected to unprecedented harassment ever since the Centre decided, unilaterally, to redraw the lines in the region. These inferences may not be erroneous. But they seem to be ignoring one, equally plausible, causal factor behind the re-engagement. Kashmir continues to be a prized ideological initiative for the current regime and it is unlikely that the sangh parivar would be willing to let go of the opportunity to bring about substantial changes there. Even though the recent meeting between the prime minister and Kashmir’s political leaders was couched in the rhetoric of reconciliation on the part of the Centre, Mr Modi’s not-so-subtle prod to the leadership to endorse the contentious delimitation exercise did not go unnoticed. In fact, there is legitimate concern that delimitation would redistribute the political heft in Jammu’s favour, thereby deepening the existing polarization between the Valley and Jammu. That the BJP is enthusiastic about prioritizing its domestic ideological agenda over diplomatic compulsions has been evident in its pursuit of a divisive rhetoric against immigrants from Bangladesh. There is no reason why Kashmir would be spared this problematic prioritization of ideology over consensus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-3
29-06-2021||Opinion||When shame becomes a weapon||In an interview with the journalist, Jonathan Swan, for Axios on HBO, Prime Minister Imran Khan was asked about the comments he had made about rape and vulgarity back in April. In response, Khan talked about how societies are different and what may not tempt others in a Western society may tempt some in a society like ours and how it has consequences. When Swan asked if he thought that what women wear has any effect, the Pakistani prime minister responded: “If a woman is wearing very few clothes, it will have an impact on the men, unless they are robots. I mean it’s common sense.” Following Khan’s comments, we saw some backlash on social media as well as mainstream media for blaming the victims of sexual violence. A video of a local TV channel’s talk show host, in which he compared women with toffees, also went viral on social media a few days later. He said that if we leave an unwrapped candy on the road, nobody will eat it because viruses, bacteria, germs and insects would have attacked the ‘unwrapped toffee’ so nobody would touch the candy. It was his way of explaining what the prime minister meant. Not only was the candy analogy extremely offensive, but to think that such an example would justify any comments related to victim blaming was equally insulting to our intelligence. What was even more disappointing was a press conference by three women parliamentarians of the ruling party who denied that there was any victim blaming by the prime minister in his interview. Maybe they forgot that Khan responded to Swan’s question with “[i]f a woman is wearing...” The right response would have been to say that it does not matter what a woman was wearing and not that a man who is not a robot will be affected by a woman’s choice of clothes. Does this mean that men who do not rape or men who do not act on their baser instincts are robots? This should have offended every decent man as well because it seems that our prime minister thinks that men cannot control their urges and would resort to sexual violence if ‘tempted’. It also means that Khan doesn’t understand that rape is not a crime of lust but is about power, control, and humiliating the victim. Victim blaming is quite common all over the world, including Western societies, when it comes to sexual violence. What was a woman wearing, why was she out late at night, why was she travelling alone, why did she not tell anyone, why did she behave normally the next day and so on? We recently saw something similar in the Goa court verdict on the Tarun Tejpal case. It has been criticized for casting aspersions on the victim’s character and questioning her conduct after the assault. “The printouts of photographs clearly proves that the prosecutrix was absolutely in a good mood, happy, normal and smiling... she did not look distressed or traumatised in any manner whatsoever though this was immediately a few minutes after she claims to have been sexually assaulted by the accused putting her in a state of panic and trauma.” This is a classic case of victim blaming and mirrors the larger perception of how an ‘ideal victim’ of sexual assault should behave. In a TED talk on rape myths, the journalist and activist, Pavan Amara, talked about a survey conducted by her, wherein she asked the public about what they thought a rape survivor would do the next day. Most of them said that the victims would go to the police. But when women who had been raped were asked the same question, some of them said they dropped off their children at school, some said they went back to work, some said they did all kinds of other things and tried to carry on. In Pakistan, the Supreme Court gave a landmark ruling on rape cases back in March. In a judgment authored by Justice Mansoor Ali Shah, the apex court said: “A woman, whatever her sexual character or reputation may be, is entitled to equal protection of law. No one has the license to invade her person or violate her privacy on the ground of her alleged immoral character.” The judgment further said: “Even if the victim of rape is accustomed to sexual intercourse, it is not determinative in a rape case; the real fact-in-issue is whether or not the accused committed her rape.” The court also said that derogatory expressions like “habituated to sex”, “woman of easy virtue”, “woman of loose moral character”, and “non-virgin” should not be used for rape survivors. That this needed to be said in the 21st century says a lot about the culture of victim blaming. These instances also show how deep patriarchy runs in our societies and how the onus to prove the crime is usually on the victims and survivors of sexual violence instead of the perpetrators of these heinous crimes against women. Someday, hopefully, this mindset will change. Someday, our societies will stop blaming the victims, start believing them and will only blame the culprits instead of questioning the victims and survivors. Someday soon. Mehmal Sarfraz is a journalist based in Lahore; mehmal.s@gmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-3
29-06-2021||Opinion||Learning matters||In his first essay on the ongoing pandemic, published in Il Manifesto on February 26, 2020, the noted Italian philosopher, Giorgio Agamben, described the Covid-19 crisis as “The Invention of an Epidemic” — the essay’s title — and went on to speak of how this “supposed epidemic” had enabled “a growing tendency to trigger a state of exception as the standard paradigm of governance”. That essay, along with twenty others, has now been published as Where Are We Now?: The Epidemic as Politics, translated into English by Valeria Dani, and although there is much that one can disagree with in the slim volume — most notably, Agamben’s continuing reluctance to accept the reality of the pandemic (“it’s irrelevant whether it is real or simulated” he writes in the Foreword) — the philosopher’s contention that governments across the world have used, and are using, the pandemic to push through profoundly anti-democratic, anti-people policies has an undeniable ring of truth to it. Already cursed with a Central government with pronounced authoritarian tendencies, our country can bear witness to how the pandemic has afforded an opportunity to our Supreme Leader and his cohort to drive through harsh measures (the first lockdown at four hours’ notice announced on national television, the construction of the grandiose Central Vista); loosen safety protocols and indulge in self-congratulatory rhetoric against all scientific advice (the disastrous encouragement for the massive Kumbh Mela gathering when the second wave was underway, gleeful boasting about India having defeated the coronavirus and set a shining example at the World Economic Forum in Davos in January this year); take action against those warning against complacency (the arrest orders issued against doctors complaining of oxygen shortages in Uttar Pradesh), to name just a few. Some of these measures will be forgotten, others forgiven, and yet others justified in the name of public safety and the need to preserve morale, but a few will very likely remain and continue to haunt and hinder us in the years and the decades to come. The educational reforms being sought to be imposed, taking advantage of the “state of exception” created by the pandemic, fall squarely in this last category. The potential of the National Education Policy 2020 — pushed through without any real consultation with stakeholders, especially state governments — to further increase the divide between the haves and the have-nots has already been much discussed, and questions raised about just how the government is going to find the funds for the ambitious, feel-good plans outlined in the NEP 2020, not to speak of the possible deleterious effects of a centralized command structure for curriculum design and research-fund allocation that the NEP 2020 envisages. The University Grants Commission’s latest proposal for “blended learning”, wherein up to 40 per cent of the courses a student takes up at the college/university level can be through the virtual digital mode, is in keeping with the vision of the NEP 2020, whereby physical campuses and classrooms are sought to be, wholly or largely, replaced by online entities. Commentators on the UGC’s proposal have already pointed out its peculiar blindness to the digital divide that exists at all levels of education in India — a divide that the ongoing pandemic has only served to further exacerbate. Teachers’ unions have clearly indicated how the implementation of such blended learning will have an adverse impact on publicly-funded educational institutions, whose brunt will be especially hard to bear for students from disadvantaged backgrounds. Much of the criticism of the NEP 2020 and the UGC’s proposal for blended learning has — rightly — focused on the ways in which the teaching process and protocols will be adversely affected, but students’ reactions and responses to these wide-ranging reforms have not received sufficient attention. In an article published in Inside Higher Ed in June 2020, Peter C. Herman, professor at San Diego State University, wrote of how his students responded when asked to narrate their experience of online education: “But for all their differences in age, gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, citizenship and intellectual preparedness, they [i.e. students] universally agreed on their evaluation of online learning: they hated it... One student said that she felt like she wasn’t getting 10 percent of the regular class. Another wrote, ‘I haven’t learned anything since we went online.’ (For the record, I asked for and received permission to quote their responses.)... All told, moving online caused ‘a profound sense of loss’.” Perhaps the primary reason for this sense of loss and futility, echoed by almost every student I have discussed this with in the last year, lies in the fact that educators and educational planners (such as those who prepare documents like the NEP 2020) seem not to take into account that a considerable, and maybe the most valuable, part of the learning in educational institutions takes place outside the classroom, in peer interactions that occur in places and spaces within campus but hidden from the gaze of teachers and other authority figures. In “Requiem for the Students”, one of the essays in Where Are We Now?, Agamben points out how a “much more crucial aspect” of going online for classes is, “significantly, going unnoticed: the end of student life as a form of existence. Universities were born in Europe from student associations (universitates), whence derives their name. Being a student was, first and foremost, a form of life, one to which studying and listening to lectures were certainly fundamental, but to which encountering and constantly exchanging ideas with other scholarii, who often came from the most remote locations and who would gather in nationes according to their places of origin, was no less important.” By seeking to destroy a form of life that should be a crucial component of what it means to be human and by looking at education and learning from a narrow utilitarian perspective, our nation’s leaders may well have pushed our youth, and our future, along a path that might prove to be disastrous in both the short and long term. Samantak Das is professor of Comparative Literature, Jadavpur University, and has been working as a volunteer for a rural development NGO for the last 30 years||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-3
29-06-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad archery association felicitates two promising archers||The Dhanbad District Archery Association (DDAA) on Tuesday felicitated two promising archers of the district, Mukesh Goswami (23) and Deepa Yadav (20) at the Gandhi Seva Sadan ground here to celebrate Jharkhand archer Deepika Kumari’s achievement in the Paris World Cup. The duo was presented with wristwatches by the association’s president Bijay Kumar Jha and was later treated to a cake-cutting ceremony in presence of senior officials. Deepa Yadav, the daughter of a daily wage earner, who won a bronze medal for the state in the 2019 National Games representing the state said, “The achievement of the Indian archery team comprising Deepika Kumari has boosted the confidence of every player of the state, including several players of Dhanbad. We request the government to develop facilities here like Ranchi and Jamshedpur” Echoing sentiments, Mukesh Kumar Goswami who remained the best archer of the state from 2016 to 2019 and emerged as the highest point securing archers for the state in the Khelo India games of 2020 said, “Despite all achievements we are facing difficulties in procuring essentials for leading a respectable life and I am still struggling for a job.” Talking to The Telegraph Online today after the felicitation, Jha said, “While we rejoiced the achievement of our state players in Paris we also expressed confidence that the Indian team will continue the streak at the Tokyo Olympics.” “The two players who were felicitated today are also in no way less talented than anyone and given the opportunity they can also win medals for the country in the Olympics,” said Jha. He however lamented that Dhanbad, despite the presence of such a large number of talented archers, is still deprived of an Archery Academy. General Secretary of the Dhanbad District  Archery Association, Jubair Alam, told The Telegraph Online,  “Many areas of the district including, Tundi, Topchanchi, Purbi, Tundi, Baliapur, Rajganj, Nirsa, Egarkund, Kaliasol, Pradhankhanta and Kalubathan are tribal areas and endowed with the huge sporting talent pool and given the opportunity they can excel in the sports.” “Unfortunately the sports infrastructure in the district has always been neglected as neither any day boarding centre nor any academy is situated here,” said Alam. He added, “I will soon meet sports minister Hazi Hafijul Ansari to demand the establishment of a full-fledged archery academy in Dhanbad so that the players  do not face any issues of space and equipment while training.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-6
29-06-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro Steel officer’s car vandalised by plant workers||An officer of the Bokaro Steel Plant was on Tuesday attacked by the workers of the plant, who also vandalised his car when he got into it in an attempt to escape. The officer, a deputy manager at the Water Treatment Plant in BSL, did not sustain injuries. The incident that occurred a day ahead of a workers’ strike at Gol Chakkar in front of the office of the executive director (works) has agitated the Bokaro Steel Officers Association. The workers have scheduled a protest on June 30 demanding pay revision and other benefits. Reacting over the incident, Bokaro Steel Officers Association president AK Sinha said, “The incident occurred when officers on duty were moving from one place to another to discharge their official duties. The workers staging demonstration tried to interrupt the movements of the officers. The victim was also stopped intentionally by workers near Gol Chakkar. They insulted him and vandalised his vehicle.” “The agitators became violent without any reason and attacked the officer. They were saying "officer hai isko maro" (he is an officer, beat him up). We really condemn this act and request the  management to inquire the matter and take strict action immediately,” he added. BSL spokesperson Manikant Dhan said, “Tt is an unfortunate incident and law will take its own course. Management on its part is also enquiring into the incident,” The matter has been informed to director in-charge at BSL, Amarendu Prakash, and other senior officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-6
29-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to hike NPS share to 14% effective July 1  ||Jharkhand has decided to increase its contribution to the National Pension System (saving) for its employees to 14 per cent from the existing 10 per cent of basic salary to make retirement income more attractive for its workforce. Chief minister Hemant Soren, who chaired a cabinet meeting on Tuesday, agreed to the plan to start the enhanced contributions with effect from July 1, 2021. The state government is estimated to incur an additional expense of Rs 322 crore on account of this move that will benefit around 5 lakh employees. In another significant decision, the state cabinet announced the setting up of a corpus titled, Jharkhand Rajya Fassal Chatipurti Yojana, earmarking  Rs 25 crore to begin with for distribution as compensation to farmers in the event of crop losses. A total of eight decisions were cleared by the cabinet at Tuesday's meeting. Vandana Dadel, cabinet coordination secretary who briefed reporters, said that the Union government had increased its share to 14 per cent in NPS accounts of its employees in July, 2019. “In the light of that, the state government has also decided to increase its share to 14 per cent, a hike of 4 per cent. The state exchequer will have to bear an additional fiscal burden of Rs 322 for this. Contributions will be hiked with effect from July 1, 2021,” she said. On the fund for crop damages, Dadel said the proposal was tabled by the state agriculture department to provide a financial cushion in the form of quick compensation to farmers in the event of crop losses. “The compensation will be paid from the interest accrued on the corpus (Rs 25 crore),” he said. The cabinet also passed rules and regulations for the conservation and uplift of religious places for tribals like sarna sthals, jaherthans among others. “Following proper rules in place, sites of religious importance of tribals can now be safeguarded, conserved and beautified in a planned manner with a maximum investment of up to Rs 5 crore per site. For works above Rs 25 lakh, tenders have to be floated,” she said. Among the other cabinet decisions were amendments in eligibility for getting jobs under compensatory grounds, compulsory voluntary retirement for a forest range officer of Pakur on disciplinary grounds and a nod for rules for e-filing of cases at courts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-6
29-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports zero Covid casualties  ||Jharkhand reported zero Covid casualties on Monday, while at least seven districts – Ramgarh, Pakur, Koderma, Khunti, Jamtara, Dumka and Deoghar – did not report fresh cases of the Coronavirus infection as less than 100 people were found Covid positive for the third day in a row in Jharkhand. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 90 people were found infected by the Coronavirus in the state on Monday, while 115 Covid patients recovered from the infection on the day, bringing the active caseload in Jharkhand down to 1,005. East Singhbhum reported 19 cases of Covid-19, the highest among the 24 districts in the state. At least 20 recoveries brought the active caseload in the district down to 109. Gumla reported 10 cases against 14 recoveries, while six people were found infected in Hazaribag and 10 patients recovered there. Ranchi, which accounts for the highest number of Covid cases in Jharkhand, reported only two cases against 12 Covid recoveries on the day, and the active caseload here dropped to 294, the NHM stated in its bulletin. Bokaro reported nine cases against seven recoveries, while Simdega reported seven cases against 14 recoveries. The state on Monday tested swab samples of 56,088 residents and around 0.16 per cent of them were found infected by the lethal virus. As per government data, more than 3.45 lakh people have been affected by Covid-19 in the state so far and 98.22 per cent of them have recovered. With 5111 casualties, the Covid mortality rate in the state was 1.47 per cent against the national average of 1.30 per cent. As per NHM data, the growth rate of Covid cases in the state was 0.03 per cent in Jharkhand against the national average of 0.12 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state reached 2556.40 days against the national doubling rate of 584.63 days. Jharkhand on Monday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 71,899 residents and more than 58,000 of the beneficiaries fell in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years, a separate report from NHM stated. The second dose was administered to 15,460 beneficiaries, including over 10,000 in the age bracket of 45 years to 60 years. No fresh case of Covid-induced mucormycosis surfaced in Jharkhand on Monday. As per data with the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), as many as 84 confirmed and 63 suspected cases of fungal infection have been reported in the state so far. At least 26 people have died of mucormycosis and 58 patients have recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-6
29-06-2021||Jharkhand||Ex-mentor expects Deepika Kumari to win big in Tokyo Olympics||Deepika Kumari, who on Monday reclaimed the world number one archery ranking, may well win the elusive medal at the Olympic Games starting in Tokyo on July 23, feels her former mentor at the Tata Archery Academy. Her current form is what is making Dharmendra Tiwary optimistic about a silverware this time. “I think this is an opportunity she (Deepika) has to cash in. She is in peak form and I am sure the rhythm will continue in Tokyo. You can say it’s a now or never situation for Deepika when it comes to ending the Olympics medal drought,” Tiwary said. The 27-year-old Deepika’s hattrick of gold medals (individual, team and mixed event) in the recurve division at the just concluded World Cup Stage 3 in Paris, helped her reclaim the world number one ranking. She was the world number one too in 2012, the year London hosted the Summer Games. Padma Shri awardee Deepika lives with her husband and Olympian archer Atanu Das in Pune. She hails from Rattu Chatti near Ranchi. Tiwary, a Dronacharya awardee who has produced top-bracket archers for the country said that the ace archer will have to be mentally strong in pressure situations during the Games. "The pressure in Olympics is nothing like any other international archery competitions. Deepika will have to compete with top archers. So, mental strength holds the key in such situations,” Tiwary pointed out. Deepika is the only woman archer from India to have qualified for Olympics individual round. She has represented India in the 2012 and 2016 Olympic Games in London and Rio de Janeiro, respectively. Pravin Jadhav, Tarundeep Rai and Atanu Das will be representing India’s men’s team at the Tokyo Olympics. Tiwary is well aware about the importance of mental strength when it comes to Deepika. The seasoned coach had helped the gold-medalist overcome bouts of nervousness in run-up to the 2016 Rio Olympics. He put Deepika into swimming three days a week and an equal number of days at the gym. Running was a daily feature during early mornings. Moreover, Tiwary also asked her to do yoga regularly. Yoga can be beneficial because it helps one gain composure. "Deepika had lost the gold to Jharkhandmate Laxmi Rani Majhi at the National Ranking Archery Tournament finals in Shillong in 2016 because of her nervousness.  She did her exercises and her pulse rate came down to 57 per minute (from 66 per minute). It took some time for the recurve archer to overcome her bouts of nervousness," the veternan coach said. Tiwary, who was one of the coaches of the Indian team at the Rio Olympics, advised Deepika to shed hesitation during the competition. “She (Deepika) should first get an idea of the weather and wind condition in Tokyo, remain collected and composed and not hesitate during the competition,” he signed off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-6
29-06-2021||Jharkhand||Youth shot dead at Jamshedpur in broad daylight, accused absconding||A 22-year-old was shot dead by one of his acquaintances under Ulidih thana area in Mango on Tuesday morning following an altercation between the victim and the convict. The victim identified as Arpit Kashyap was talking to his acquaintance David over something and following the altercation, the latter fished out a pistol from his waist and fired at the former. Having shot at Arpit, the assailant fled the spot on foot. The bullet hit the victim's lower abdomen, causing him to fall down. A friend of Arpit who was around the place picked him up and rushed to the MGM Medical College Hospital where he  succumbed to the injuries within an hour. The incident took place at the turning of Road No 5 in Subhash Colony under Ulidih Police Station area at around 11.30 am. Getting the information about the gun-shot attack, Ulidih thana OC, Meghnath Mandal rushed to the spot and subsequently to the medical college hospital for probing the murder. "A youth was shot at and fatally injured by one of his acquaintances in Subhash Colony on Tuesday morning. From the preliminary investigation, it has been found that the assailant is David, who is a resident of Road No 5 in Subhash Colony, " said Mandal while talking to The Telegraph Online. The Ulidih thana OC said they had raided the house of David, but he had absconded. "We are grilling the victim's friend Vikash Kumar Singh who was present a little distance away from the spot where the shooting took place. It was Vikash who had rushed the victim to the hospital. But we are yet to find out the reason behind the murder, " said the OC. A resident of Kalika Nagar in Mango, Arpit used to work at an industrial unit in Dhanbad. But he was at home here after the lockdown was announced in April. According to sources familiar with the victim, both Arpit and Vikash were seen roaming around Kalika Nagar and adjoining Subhash Colony since 9.30 am today.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-6
29-06-2021||Jharkhand||BCCL notice to vacate market irks traders of Kendua-Karkend area||A public notice served by Goapalichak colliery management of BCCL to residents of localities of the underground fire-affected Kendua- Karkend area has irked over 125 wholesale garment traders there. The notice, directing to vacate the area in view of subsidence threat, was served to residents of Farm Dhura, Bauri Basti, Gopalichak Basti and especially the Karkend Bazar. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Tuesday, Umesh Heliwal, former president of Dhanbad Dhanbad Jila Thok Vastra Vikreta Sangh said, “The wholesale cloth market operating  from Karkend since over 150 years is the destination retail garment sellers of Dhanbad as well as adjoining districts like Giridih, Bokaro, Hazaribagh, Ramgarh etc.” “Such an abrupt action from the BCCL authorities at a time when the trading community is in deep crisis due to reduced sales reminds of the colonial mindset,” said Heliwal. “More than 125 wholesale garment traders who cater to the needs of retailers of 200 km radius generate huge revenue to the government in the form of GST and any shifting of the market will adversely affect the revenue itself,” said Heliwal, who is also the secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association. “While we are being given abrupt notices to vacate the area, the reckless mining being carried out by the company has on the other hand adversely affected the health of common people due to the pollution caused due to open cast mining,” further said Heliwal. “If areas like Karkend Bazar which are just situated on National Highway 32 are evacuated then what about other places. We don’t understand the dichotomy as on one hand the highway was broadened last year while the market situated in its vicinity has been declared unsafe,”  said another wholesale garment trader of Karkend Bazar requesting anonymity. Notably,  a similar public notice was issued by BCCL on August 12, 2020, during which the residents of Karkend Bazar, Pasidhaura, Bauri Tola, etc. were asked to vacate the area  due to increased subsidence threat during the monsoon. Contacted, General Manager (Safety) of BCCL, AK Singh said that the notices are often issued by different operational area management of the company as part of routine exercise to apprise the resident of risks of living in such areas but these are specific. “All areas of BCCL are also prepared for carrying out any temporary rehabilitation in view of any eventuality,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-6
29-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand asks Centre to lower vaccine quota for private hospitals to 5%||The Jharkhand government has requested the Centre to cut down on the quota of Covid-19 vaccines for private players from 25 per cent to 5 per cent, citing lack of private healthcare facilities in rural areas and a high BPL population in the state with limited purchasing power, health officials said on Tuesday. In a letter addressed to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, additional chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh stated that private hospitals were unable to utilise the 25 per cent quota of vaccines fixed for them and the government will be in a better position to use the vaccines if the quota of free vaccines provided to the state is increased to 95 per cent for Jharkhand. As per details shared by the health department, private hospitals have not even administered 2 per cent of the over 67 lakh jabs used in the state so far. In its request to the Centre, the Jharkhand government has stated that around 37 per cent of the 3.29 crore population in the state was BPL, while 13 districts were tribal districts and 19 districts were affected by Left Wing Extremism (LWE). Besides, more than 75 per cent of the state’s population live in the rural areas. These factors, according to the state government, made it difficult for private hospitals to utilise the 25 per cent share of vaccines given to them. “At least 95 per cent vaccines for the state of Jharkhand should be allocated from the government route to enable equitable distribution of vaccines. This would also ensure adherence to the constitutional mandate of equity, equality and reasonable opportunity for all citizens,” Singh’s letter to Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan stated. Before making this request to the Centre, health officials in the state met representatives of private hospitals to coonsult them on the response to the ongoing vaccination programme. Most private players did not show interest in purchasing Covid vaccines. Only three private hospitals have purchased Covid-19 vaccines in the state so far and found it challenging to utilise the doses, officials said. The Narendra Modi-led Centre started providing free vaccines for all adults from June 21 to states, but reserved 25 per cent of the total vaccine doses for purchase by private hospitals. As per the price set by the government, a Covishield dose in a private hospital is administered for Rs780, while beneficiaries have to shell out Rs 1,410 for a single jab of Covaxin. According to officials spearheading the immunisation programme in Jharkhand, a majority of the rural population, or people living in urban slums, cannot afford vaccination in private setups – one of the reasons for the poor vaccination rate in private healthcare facilities across the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-6
29-06-2021||Jharkhand||After revamp, Hemant promises a far better Tribal Advisory Council||Chief minister Hemant Soren chaired his government’s first meeting of the Tribal Advisory Council (TAC) on Monday amid a boycott by Opposition MLAs who called its composition "unconstitutional" as the state's governor wasn't a part of it. The council, mandated under the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution, is a significant step forward for Jharkhand in planning welfare and development schemes for adivasis. On June 22, the state government reconstituted the TAC with the chief minister as  honorary chairman and the state tribal affairs minister as the honorary deputy chairperson. Fifteen MLAs, including three from the Opposition BJP, are also a part of TAC, besides two nominated experts from the  ST and SC community. Addressing a virtual meeting in the evening, Hemant  said that for the first time since the formation of Jharkhand in 2000, proper rules and regulations had been framed while  reconstituting TAC. “Our government intends to strengthen TAC by using its recommendations and prescribed frameworks to chart out state’s development. About 27 per cent of the state's population is  tribal and our focus is on their social and economical inclusion in mainstream society,” he said, stressing  the need to provide special focus on education and health for tribals. “Adivasis need special push and assistance in these two sectors to tackle the concerns of diminishing population and to set them on the  road to development. Plans and schemes for tribals should be in sync with today’s time and needs to help them get the right education and livelihoods. Now that TAC is in place, the government will ensure that this body remains functional. From the next meeting, all members will collectively work towards devising plans and policies to push for growth in tribal areas,” he said. Vice-chairman of TAC Champai Soren maintained that although there are a host of laws and welfare schemes to safeguard tribals, but a lack of awareness and improper execution on  ground often lead to the failure of the measures intended for them. “Based on regular feedback from all the members, we will aim to make plans and policies intended for tribals work in their favour,” he said. All three BJP members of TAC _ MLAs Babulal Marandi (Dhanwar), Neelkant Singh Munda (Khunti) and Koche Munda (Torpa) _  boycotted Monday's meeting. Explaining the reasons behind thier move, Marandi, the state’s first tribal chief minister and BJP leader of its legislature party, said, “We  are calling it  unconstitutional because the  powers of the  governor have been bypassed and diluted in its (TAC) formation. This is unprecedented. The governor is the constitutional guardian of scheduled areas.” “Also, the head of the TAC should be from the ST community not the CM as it defeats the entire purpose of this body, which is solely for working out a roadmap for schemes and projects for tribal development. There is no representation of women and particularly vulnerable tribal groups (PVTGs). BJP will continue to boycott TAC till it is rectified," he said adding that the party had, earlier in July,  submitted a memorandum to the governor demanding changes in TAC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-6
29-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Inter-state vehicle lifting gang arrested by Hazaribagh-Koderma police||Hazaribagh/Medininagar: In a joint operation by the Hazaribagh and Koderma police, an inter-state vehicle lifting gang has been busted and 12 people have been arrested for their alleged involvement in the crime, police said on Monday. Ten four-wheelers have also been seized, they said. Hazaribagh Superintendent of Police Karthik S. said the district police carried out the joint action with their Koderma counterpart based on a tip-off that an inter-state vehicle lifting gang was operating on NH 2, NH 33, and NH 31. Rakesh Kumar Pandey alias Sourav Kumar Pandey of Koderma, the alleged mastermind of the racket, was among those arrested, the police officer said. Pandey allegedly used to sell the stolen vehicles outside Jharkhand either in Nepal or Bihar, the Hazaribagh SP said. During interrogation before the Koderma superintendent of police Ehtesham Waquarib, Pandey has confessed to his crime, the police officer said. In a separate incident in Palamu district, the police arrested four miscreants and recovered arms and ammunition from them. The law enforcers have also recovered an unidentified body from a barrage on the Koel River under the North Koel Reservoir project. (PTI) Dhanbad: Two six-year-old twin children, Lav and Kush, sons of Rohit Singh, a farmer of Shitalpur village of Maniadih locality of Tundi block about 40 km from Dhanbad district headquarter died due to drowning on Monday morning in a village pond. The incident came to light on Monday evening when Rohit Singh returned to his house after sowing seeds in the field and asked about the whereabouts of his sons but his wife on the other hand enquired about the duo from him and said that duo followed him while he was going to his farmland during the morning.  Rohit along with other villagers then started searching for the duo and one of villagers sighted the leg of one of the missing children in a nearby pond. The villagers then fished out the dead bodies of the duo from the pond. (Praduman Choubey) Dhanbad: A video, of officer-in-charge of Alakdiha police station Ravindra Sharma, receiving money from a person went viral on the social media. The video seems to have purportedly been circulated to portray that Sharma was taking money as a bribe however the audio was not very clear and thus it remained unclear that for what purpose the money was taken. Ravindra Sharma on the other hand denied any bribe taking and said that he doesn't that how and when the video was made. (Praduman Choubey) Dhanbad: Cash worth Rs 2 lakh was robbed from the cash counter of a petrol pump of Katras during the early hours of Monday at around 3am by six unidentified criminals who also damaged the CCTV camera of the petrol pump and took away the DBR. Staff members Anand Mahto and Dayanand Mahto told police that two persons arrived at around 3 am in a car and knocked at the door of office claiming that as their father is ill they need two litres of petrol to rush him to hospital through car. As soon as they opened the gate, the duo attacked them with a dagger and four more youths joined them. The criminals then took away Rs 2 lakh cash and fled the site. (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-6
