30-06-2021||Calcutta||TET: State primary education board to upload model answers to all questions on its website ||The state primary education board will upload on its website model answers to all questions in the Teachers’ Eligibility Test (TET), which was held in January to recruit teachers for primary schools. Candidates can raise objections if they think a model answer is not the right answer. “About 2.5 lakh candidates had written the exam in January. We will upload the answers on our website before publishing the results. The results will be published before Durga Puja,” said Manik Bhattacharya, the president of the West Bengal Board of Primary Education. “If any candidate lodges a complaint, our experts will go through it. If they find merit in the complaint, the answer script will be evaluated again,” the board official said. The 150-marks paper had multiple-choice questions. Board president Bhattacharay later told The Telegraph that they had introduced the system to make the evaluation more transparent. “This practice is followed in engineering and medical entrance exams as well. We want to be transparent,” he said. A board official said they would later announce the time period when candidates could challenge the results. Allegations of lack of transparency have dogged the teachers’ recruitment exercise. The high court had, before the Assembly polls, stayed the recruitment of teachers at the primary (Class I-IV) and upper primary levels (Class V-VIII) following allegations that the process lacked transparency. The court later vacated the stay on primary teachers’ recruitment on appeal from the state government. An official in the school education department said they hoped the exercise of uploading the model answers on the board’s website and inviting challenges from aspiring teachers would preempt the possibility of future legal challenges and help the government complete the recruitment process at the earliest. “The moment one files a case in court on the ground of lack of transparency, the process of appointment gets stalled for an indefinite period. The grouse of aspirants stemmed from the fact that the recruitment of teachers for primary schools had been stalled for years. We don’t want that to happen with this TET,” he said. While announcing last week that the Bengal government would appoint over 32,000 teachers at the upper primary and primary levels by March 2022 based on the TET held in 2014 and 2015, the chief minister had said: “The appointments were stuck because of court cases.” Board president Bhattacharya said the process of recruiting 10,500 teachers in the primary level, as announced by the chief minister, will start next week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-5
30-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Private hospitals defer vaccination camps for inspection ||Some private hospitals have kept their outreach vaccination camps on hold for this week because the health department will conduct inspections of the sites. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation, on other hand, has set up a team of doctors to monitor its own Covid vaccination centres. The state health department had issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) on Saturday that all outreach vaccination camps run by private hospitals have to adhere to. The developments follow the arrest of Debanjan Deb, who impersonated as an IAS officer and organised fake vaccination camps. “We have postponed all our outreach camps scheduled for this week. The department told us to inform them about outreach camps we are planning to organise at least five to seven days in advance. They will inspect the proposed camp site and give a written approval if they are satisfied,” said R. Venkatesh, the regional director of Narayana Health, whose flagship unit is the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. Belle Vue Clinic, too, has kept on hold three outreach vaccination camps they were scheduled to begin this week. All the three camps, away from Calcutta, were meant to vaccinate 12,000 employees of a private organisation. The hospital had taken special permission from the health department to continue an outreach vaccination camp for the 3,000 delivery partners of a food delivery platform. “This camp began on Monday and will end on Wednesday,” said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue. The CMC has formed a team of five doctors that will visit the outreach vaccination camps being organised in association with the civic body and the civic health clinics that are administering jabs. Some of the things the team will monitor are: ⚫ Covid protocols are being maintained in the queues ⚫ Infrastructure and facility for post-vaccination care ⚫ If medicines required to treat any recipient showing any adverse reaction after jab are available in the centres ⚫ Vaccine dose accountability to see that vaccines are administered to those who queued up first and efforts made to prevent wastage. The health department’s SOP said the CMC would have to “monitor all the vaccination sites under their administrative jurisdiction”. The CMC has around 190 vaccination sites.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-6
30-06-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine scam: Fake IAS Debanjan Deb recruited 18 people using ‘forged CMC papers’||Vaccine scam accused Debanjan Deb had recruited at least 18 people in his Kasba office after taking huge sums of money from them and convincing them that they were being hired by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, police sources said. The appointees were given purported appointment letters carrying alleged forged signatures and stamps of the respective departments, police said. “It has emerged during interrogation that around 18 people were recruited in the Kasba office by Debanjan Deb against payment. The candidates apparently paid anything between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 3.5 lakh. We are in the process of examining each to verify the information,” said an officer. Deb would first gain the confidence of a family by helping a member and then ask them to send candidates for recruitment, police have learned from employees and associates of Deb. “An employee has claimed that Deb had once come across a youth who failed to crack the exam for recruitment of junior assistants in the CMC. He later recruited the youth in his Kasba office after taking money from him. The youth was under the impression that he was being hired by the CMC. Later, Deb apparently took money from the family when he extended some help to them posing as an IAS officer. We are verifying the claims,” an investigator said. The police said Deb had masqueraded as an IAS officer posted as a joint commissioner in the CMC and organised “Covid vaccination” camps without any approval from the health department. Investigators suspect that at least some of the recipients at Deb’s camps had been administered an antibiotic. Deb’s cousin Kanchan Deb and a man named Sarat Patra, who allegedly administered shots at Deb’s camps, were arrested late on Monday. “Kanchan Deb knew about his cousin’s misdeeds and was party to the cheatings, while Sarat Patra used to work as a compounder for Taltala-based doctor who is no more,” an officer said. Patra, the police said, was not trained in administering vaccines. A magistrate on Tuesday extended Deb’s police remand. Central agency The enforcement directorate has written to Calcutta police seeking a copy of the FIR on the vaccine camp. Sources in the central agency said they were contemplating a probe into the money trail relating to Deb’s income.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-6
30-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Two more drive-in jab centres at Sector V and Eco Park||The drive-in vaccination centres at Sector V and Eco Park, which were set up on Monday, administered shots to 141 people on Tuesday. At the Sector V centre, 91 people were administered the jab and at the Eco Park unit, 50 people were inoculated. On Tuesday, a steady stream of cars was seen entering the drive-in centre at Sector V, which has come up inside the multi-storey parking lot in AQ Block, opposite Positional Astronomy Centre, since 10am. Many cars had to be turned away as the centre had run out of doses by 2.30pm. “We administered Covishield at both drive-in centres,” said an official of Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA). The Sector V vaccine centre has been set up on the ground floor of the car park. Those who entered the parking lot were first asked their names and then asked to show their Aadhaar cards. An NDITA official then registered the recipients on the CoWIN portal before they were asked to drive a little ahead, where a health worker administered the shot. “Nobody is being asked to get off the vehicle while getting the shot or during registration,” the NDITA official said. Sangeeta Mukherjee, a resident of Salt Lake's DL block, had driven to the centre with her 78-year-old mother Sudipta. “We decided to come here as we wanted to avoid crowded places. The process was smooth and we did not have to get off our vehicle,” said Sangeeta. The Eco Park centre has come up on the parking lot adjacent to gate number 1. The procedure being followed there is similar to Sector V’s. The officials of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) who are running the centre allowed only one car to enter the vaccination zone at a time. Debashis Sen, the chairman of both NKDA and NDITA, said they were trying to boost vaccine supply to both centres. “We are trying to ensure that at least 100 men and women receive the shots at each of the centres every day,” Sen said. “Both centres are administering shots to anyone aged 18 or more.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-6
30-06-2021||Calcutta||Private bus and minibus operators seek freedom to fix fares||Private bus and minibus operators on Tuesday sought freedom to fix their fares, like auto rickshaw operators, if services resumed from July 1. The state government has decided to partially lift the ban on public transport by allowing them to run with 50 per cent passenger capacity from July 1. Several private bus owners said they were the worst hit during the pandemic and running buses from next month would be nearly impossible without revision of fares. A demand, senior transport department felt, was unlikely to find support from the state government now. Since last year, when the state government allowed relaxation of vehicles movement, around 40 per cent of the 7,500-odd private buses plying within Calcutta and its adjoining areas remained off the roads. The fall in passenger count coupled with the rise in diesel price had pushed most to stay off the roads, bus owners said. The remaining number stopped their operations ever since the government reimposed lockdown from May 16. With the state government now allowing all modes of road transport to operate, bus and mini bus owners said the spiralling fuel price had served its worst possible blow to the industry during the pandemic. Diesel sold at Rs 92.03 a litre in Calcutta on Tuesday, up by almost Rs 12 since January. Private bus operators, who comprise bulk of the bus transportation in Calcutta, said since they did not enjoy subsidies unlike their government counterparts, it would be impossible to run buses because fuel alone accounted for nearly 60 per cent of the operational cost. “Forget 50 per cent. It won’t be feasible to run even one per cent of the total fleet of private buses and mini buses in Calcutta,” said Pradip Narayan Bose of the West Bengal Bus and Minibus Owners’ Association. “Unless the suburban train and Metro services resume, what would be the passenger count? Not enough for even a break-even.” Following last year’s lockdown, the state government had helped the private bus and minibus operators by waiving penalty for not renewing fitness certificates, driving license and road permits. While the move came as a relief it did little to address the woes of the private operators who said they were bleeding from losses because of the decreasing passenger footfall. “Since the passenger count won’t go up, let the state government allow bus owners and operators to decide on their fares,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicate. “If required, let there be an amendment of the existing Motor Vehicles Act.” Senior transport department officials said beginning July 1, the West Bengal Transport Corporation would run a certain per cent of its existing fleet strength. “We would assess the demand-supply scene for the first few days and then decide on increasing the availability of buses accordingly,” said a senior transport department official. “We hope that gradually as the demand picks up, private bus operators will resume their services.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-6
30-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Chaos at CMC vaccination centres amidst severe shortage||Chaos reigned outside many Covid vaccination centres of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation on Tuesday as far fewer doses were available than the number of people waiting for the jab. In the evening, the state health department announced that half the available doses would be reserved for second dose recipients till the supply improved. Police had to rush to many of the vaccination centres to control the situation as people who stood in the queue for five hours or more vent their anger after being told that no more doses were available. Civic officials said each ward health clinic received only 50 doses on an average. This was way short of the demand. At some of the centres, as many as 350 second-dose recipients had turned up for the jab. In addition, there were many waiting to get their first dose. “The police had to be sent to many vaccination centres. One of those was in Kasba and another in Netaji Nagar. At both centres, there were at least 350 second-dose recipients. They had queued up since the morning. They got very angry when we put out a notice that only 40 to 50 doses were available,” said a CMC official who is responsible for managing vaccination in many wards. “Some of them kept asking, ‘will we ever get our second dose?’ We had no answer,” said the official. Queues at vaccination centres had reduced considerably after the Centre increased the gap between two doses of Covishield from six-eight weeks to 12-16 weeks. The rush has since resumed as the second dose has become due for many Covishield recipients. Vaccine supply, however, is still very low. Ajay Chakraborty, the state’s director of health services, said on Tuesday evening that “due to acute shortage of vaccines, second dose will be given priority till we receive adequate” supplies. The state’s central store had only 6 lakh doses left on Tuesday, he said. An order issued by the health department said: “It is now decided that at least 50 per cent doses should be assigned for second dose on daily basis. This formula may continue till further order.” The order also says: “It is clear that the number of due/overdue vaccines is growing rapidly. It is imperative on the administration to provide second dose to all such persons without delays.” The order also mentioned that 637,263 second doses were due till July 31 in Calcutta alone. These people had taken their first dose of Covishield or Covaxin between April 1 and May 7.  The corresponding figure for the entire state was 37,93,640. CMC officials said the situation was unlikely to improve soon. If only 50 doses are allotted to a clinic daily, the number of those due for the second dose will keep mounting. “Very soon we will have to stop administering the first dose altogether,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-6
30-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: With third wave lurking, common man’s struggle for existence intensifies||The young man at a retail store in a shopping mall in Calcutta now goes to the washroom only once in seven hours because there is no one else to look after the store anymore. A youth works as a guard at another shopping mall for a monthly salary of Rs 9,000. He did not receive last month's pay. He has to spend Rs 250 on his daily commute to the mall and back home. Life has changed for both these men and many others like them, who work in shopping centres across Calcutta, because of the Covid norms in place. Stores and malls were allowed to reopen on July 16, after having been shut for more than a month as a precaution against Covid. The Telegraph talked to the two men to know about their ordeals. Both hope that the relaxations to the Covid curbs that will come into effect on July 1, including resumption of public transport at 50 per cent passenger capacity, would ease their struggle a bit. “This would bring down my daily expenses,” said the guard. However, the man at the store said he was not sure when his company would recruit people again so he would not have to man the store alone. Also from July 1, malls can stay open from 11am to 8pm, an extension of two more hours. It brings with it the promise of more business. Here’s what they said: Lone hand The young man, around 30, lives in Lake Town and works at a store in a south Calcutta mall. Before the state government imposed stricter Covid norms in May following a renewed surge in cases, the store had three employees. Now there are only two. The youth, who earns Rs 25,000 a month and recently married, is happy to have retained his job. But the ordeal is too much at times. “The two of us come to work on alternate days because of problems in travelling. So only one person mans the store,” he said. “Earlier, there would be three of us and one could take a break when needed without any hassle. Now, I go to the washroom only once in seven or eight hours,” he said. There are two reasons why he cannot leave the store for even five minutes. The shutter cannot be brought down during business hours, and so the expensive items will be left unguarded if he steps out. Secondly, with business almost one-fifth of what it used to be, the store cannot afford to lose a single customer. “We are under a lot of pressure to increase sales,” he said. There is also a feeling of loneliness. “The mall is almost empty and there are only a handful of people to talk to in adjacent stores. I feel so depressed at times. There are hardly any customers and no one from other stores walks in for a chat,” he said. “Also, there is this fear that if I suffer a heart attack no one will notice. I have heard about the manager of a retail luggage chain suffering a heart attack and dying when he was alone at the store.” The youth’s problems start the moment he steps out of his home. With no public transport available, travelling to south Calcutta from Lake Town is a huge problem. “I have made arrangements with a person who drives a car hired by a central government office. I pay the driver Rs 80 and he drops me near the mall. I reach around 10am and have to wait for an hour outside for the mall to open,” he said. Earlier, he would take buses to reach the mall and one-way journey would cost Rs 70. One day the car was not available. The youth had to book an app cab for Rs 663. The usual fare is around Rs 300. Returning home, an employee of another store offers him a ride on his two-wheeler. But three of them travel on the motorcycle, which is dangerous and illegal. “It was raining heavily a few days back and I was scared that I could fall off the two-wheeler,” he said. No pay The 32-year-old man stays in Jadavpur and works as a guard at a retail chain outlet in a mall. “Earlier, I would spend around Rs 30 to travel to the mall by bus. But now I book a two-wheeler through a ride-hailing app for around Rs 250,” the man said. He earns Rs 9,000 a month, with which he supports his family comprising wife, son and mother. He has to pay more than Rs 1,000 a month on his son’s private tuition. The man, the only working member in the family, said he did not get May’s salary as the mall was shut following a government order. “I have to spend so much on travel now. Why did the government allow malls to open but did not allow public transport to resume?” he asked. “Many private guards have lost their jobs. At least I have mine,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-6
30-06-2021||Business||MZero Set to Revolutionize Purchasing Potential for Massive Retail Revolution ||Cryptocurrencies have reached the highest point by introducing tokenization which revolutionized many sectors like gaming, pharma, data, real estate, and supply-chain. As a result, in 2021, the market hit $2 trillion - with DeFi solely contributing $80 billion to the market. However, adoption hasn’t been able to keep pace with the growth. To this day, most users see crypto as a tool for investment only. Though DeFi introduced many concepts existing in centralized finance minus the intermediaries, it has ended as a technology for nerds, stifling massive retail adoption. MassDeFi, a decentralized lending and borrowing protocol, has revolutionized the DeFi and CeFi space by acting as a bridge connecting the two financial worlds for a massive retail revolution. Consumer Expenditure Model Evolving Under Decentralization At the moment, when the perception has been built for cryptocurrencies to be treated as an investment instrument, MassDeFi, through MZero, has introduced a revolutionary concept to drive retail adoption. To explain the MZero product and the upside it grants to users, you need to first compare it with a typical credit card or other zero interest credit buying opportunities available. All of these credit buying solutions lock your resources for a specific period. For example, while buying through a credit card, your credit limit equalling the purchase amount will be blocked. Or, likewise, if you are availing direct-financial bodies for consumer purchases, they will give you a 0% interest facility but you cannot buy another necessity during the loan period. MassDeFi’s MZero coupons are pegged against the cryptos you submit in their collateral vault. Once you get these coupons, they can be used at POS, e-Commerce stores, or other checkpoints for purchase. The upside of the MZero coupon is your assets are frozen only till the time you pay the principal amount with interest. Meaning, the borrower can withdraw the asset midway of the contract by paying the interest computed on a pro-rata basis. Thus, if users/borrowers/loaner see an upside in the market, there is full liberty given to them  to withdraw their assets from the collateral vault and sell the same in the open market. Hence, monetizing their expenses. This advantage has set a precedent to drive a massive retail adoption where over 100 million cryptocurrency holders, who might not be banked, can enjoy benefits of loans and financing along with investment. These upsides are hard to come in a centralized financing system where prior financial records are necessary to get credit purchases. Rishabh Gupta, the CEO of MassDeFi says, “Cryptocurrency is more than just an investable instrument. The true value of a currency can only be realised when it can be used to fulfill real life needs such as paying for utilities, shopping etc. But considering the upside potential crypto assets have, the ecosystem needed a solution where the user can retain the ownership of the asset while they are spending it to avail facilities. That’s exactly what the M-Zero product of Mass Defi offers. Through our partnerships with gift card partners, POS partners M-Zero brings to you a 0% interest loan for your spending needs against your crypto assets as a collateral. We have already signed partnerships with partners that have their network of merchants across 200 nations. Bottom Line At the moment, the centralized financial system has a lot of bottlenecks that have not been identified and innovative yet. Through DeFi, the global consumer market could for the first time experience new ways of financing and getting economically empowered. Protocols that support staking, yield farming, borrowing, and lending have broadened the scope, but a massive retail revolution will happen when you use crypto for buying even candies which MassDeFi has introduced through its diverse range of products with MZero being one of them. Follow Us on Twitter: https://twitter.com/DefiMass||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-5
30-06-2021||Business||Sensex ends 67 points lower amid profit-booking||Equity benchmark Sensex surrendered early gains to end 67 points lower on Wednesday as investors booked profits at higher levels amid a largely negative trend in global markets. After rallying nearly 400 points during the day, the 30-share BSE index made a U-turn to settle 66.95 points or 0.13 per cent lower at 52,482.71. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 26.95 points or 0.17 per cent to close at 15,721.50. PowerGrid was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, ICICI Bank, HDFC, NTPC, HUL and L&T. On the other hand, Infosys, Reliance Industries, Nestle India and Martui were among the gainers. "Domestic benchmark indices gave up gains towards the final session as continued profit-booking in financials dragged markets," said Binod Modi, Head- Strategy at Reliance Securities. However, buying was visible in IT, metals and auto companies, while pharma broadly remained resilient. Further, RIL also aided market to arrest the fall. Notably, midcap and smallcap stocks continued to outperform broader indices, he said, adding that volatility index corrected marginally. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Tokyo ended in the red, while Shanghai and Seoul closed with gains. Equities in Europe were trading with losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.79 per cent higher at USD 74.87 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-5
30-06-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points in early trade on Wednesday led by gains in index majors Infosys, Reliance Industries and Maruti amid a positive trend in global markets.  The 30-share BSE index was trading 200.35 points or 0.38 per cent higher at 52,750.01 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty inched 60.15 points or 0.38 per cent up to 15,808.60.  Maruti was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 1 per cent, followed by Titan, Infosys, Tata Steel, M&M, Asian Paints and Nestle India.  On the other hand, PowerGrid, NTPC, ICICI Bank, IndusInd Bank and HUL were among the laggards.  In the previous session, the 30-share index Sensex ended 185.93 points or 0.35 per cent lower at 52,549.66, and Nifty tumbled 66.25 points or 0.42 per cent to 15,748.45.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 116.63 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data.  "Market mood is changing fast. The major positives for the market now are the steadily declining fresh COVID cases (around 37,000 on Tuesday) and fast-rising vaccinations, which will facilitate further easing of restrictions and rebound in economic activity," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services.  The fact that FIIs have ceased selling and the DIIs have turned aggressive buyers is a strong positive. Therefore, it is quite possible that the market may again favour the bulls and the 'buy on dips strategy' may resume, he stated.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong was in the red.  Equities on Wall Street too ended on a positive note in the overnight session.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.43 per cent higher at USD 74.60 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-5
30-06-2021||Business||Nalco profit up nine-fold at Rs 935.74 crore for quarter ended March 31, 2021||National Aluminium Company Ltd (Nalco) has reported a nine-fold rise in consolidated profit at Rs 935.74 crore for the quarter ended March 31, 2021, helped by a strong operational performance and favourable prices. The company had posted a consolidated profit of Rs 100.51 crore in the year-ago period. Consolidated income increased to Rs 2,874.47 crore from Rs 2,042.27 crore a year ago. “After the peak period of Covid-19 outbreak and with the opening of the markets, we witnessed a significant recovery in the second half of 2020-21,” Nalco chairman and managing director Sridhar Patra said. “With further easing of restrictions, we are hopeful of a robust growth in the long run with our focus on increasing the production in mining and refining segments and opening up of the new coal blocks, he said. In 2020-21, Nalco achieved the highest ever production of bauxite at 73.65 lakh tonnes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-5
30-06-2021||Business||Bharti Group to invest additional $500 million into OneWeb ||Bharti will invest an additional $500 million (over Rs 3,700 crore) into OneWeb to become the largest shareholder in the satellite communications company that billionaire Sunil Mittal-run Bharti Group along with the UK government had rescued from bankruptcy last year. The investment is a result of exercise of a ‘call option’ by Bharti. On completion of the transaction and with Eutelsat’s $550 million investment, Bharti will hold 38.6 per cent. The UK government, Eutelsat and SoftBank will each own 19.3 per cent, OneWeb said in a statement. The transaction is expected to be completed in the second half of 2021, subject to regulatory approval. “OneWeb, the global low-earth orbit (LEO) satellite communications company, has secured further fundraising on the anniversary of the successful bid by the UK government and Bharti Global (Bharti) to purchase OneWeb from US Chapter 11 to bring its total funding to $2.4 billion,” OneWeb said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-5
30-06-2021||Business||Facebook to publish interim report on July 2 on messages or posts it removed between May 15-June 15||Social media giant Facebook on Tuesday said it will publish an interim report on July 2 as mandated by the IT rules and provide information on the number of messages or posts it has removed between May 15 and June 15. A final report will be published on July 15, which will contain details of user complaints received and action taken by the US firm. “The report on July 15 will also contain data related to WhatsApp, which is currently being validated,” a spokesperson of Facebook said. Last month, the Union ministry of electronics and information technology wrote to all significant social media intermediaries (SSMIs) with registered users in India requesting details of compliance under the new Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Ethics Code), Rules, 2021. The new IT rules are designed to prevent misuse of digital platforms and provide registered users of these social media platforms with a robust grievance redressal option. Under these rules, social media companies will have to take down flagged content within 36 hours, and remove within 24 hours content that is flagged for nudity and pornography. The rules also require intermediaries to publish compliance reports every month mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken, links and information removed or disabled access through proactive monitoring. SSMIs, classified as those with over 50 lakh registered users in India, are also required to appoint a chief compliance officer, a nodal officer and a grievance officer and these officials are required to be residents of India. The government had said in February that there are 41 crore Facebook users in India. WhatsApp and Instagram have 53 crore and 21 crore users, respectively. There are 44.8 crore YouTube users, while 1.75 crore users access Twitter in India. A parliamentary panel on Tuesday asked Twitter to explain within 48 hours why it had blocked access of Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and Congress MP Shashi Tharoor to their accounts, sources said. The missive from the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information and Technology, headed by Tharoor, came amid a continuous tussle between the microblogging platform and the Centre over various issues, including new IT rules.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-5
30-06-2021||Business||Sebi tightens rules for independent directors||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) on Tuesday tightened the rules regarding independent directors to improve corporate governance and check the influence of promoters in listed companies. At its board meeting, the market regulator also took a slew of other crucial decisions to reduce the subscription size in REITs and InvITs apart from making mutual funds more accountable when it comes to new fund offerings (NFOs). The regulator decided that the appointment, re-appointment and removal of independent directors (IDs) shall be done through a special resolution of shareholders. The nomination and remuneration committee, which picks the independent directors, have to make greater disclosures on the skills required for the director and how the director possesses the skills. The composition of the committee has been modified to include 2/3rd independent directors, instead of the existing requirement of majority of independent directors. There will be a one-year cooling period for an independent director transitioning to a whole-time director in the same company,  holding firm, subsidiary or any company belonging to the promoter group. Sebi also tightened rules for asset management companies (AMCs) to ensure that they have more “skin in the game”. Its step could lead to fund houses investing more in their NFOs (new fund offerings) depending on risk level. At present, AMCs have to make an investment of 1 per cent of the amount raised or Rs 50 lakh, whichever is less. Sebi also reduced the minimum application value to Rs 10,000-15,000 from Rs 55,000 in REITs and InvITs and the revised trading lot will be one unit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-5
30-06-2021||Business||Reliance Industries signs deal with Abu Dhabi National Oil Co to build chemical project in Ruwais||Reliance Industries has signed an agreement with Abu Dhabi National Oil Co (Adnoc) to build a multi-billion-dollar chemical project in Ruwais, Abu Dhabi, marking the group’s first investment in a greenfield overseas project. Reliance, which operates the world’s biggest refining complex at Jamnagar, Gujarat, is becoming more international in its focus. Previously, it has bought stakes in some overseas explorations and manufacturing assets. “This is a significant step in globalising Reliance’s operations, and we are proud to partner with Adnoc in this important project for the region,” Mukesh Ambani, the chairman of Indian oil-to-telecom conglomerate, said in the statement. Last week, Ambani announced the appointment of Saudi Aramco chairman Yasir al-Rumayyan as a director on Reliance’s board and said this is the “beginning of the internationalisation of Reliance”. The group hopes to formalise a deal to sell a 20 per cent stake to Aramco in its oil-to-chemical business. In a joint statement, Reliance and Adnoc said they expected final investment decisions for the projects and awards of related engineering contracts to be taken in 2022. The planned project at TA’ZIZ Industrial complex will have a capacity to produce 940,000 tonnes of chlor-alkali, 1.1 million tonnes of ethylene dichloride and 360,000 tonnes of PVC annually, the joint statement said. Reliance and Adnoc had signed a memorandum of understanding in 2019 to build an ethylene dichloride facility in Ruwais. Sources said one of the major drivers behind the joint venture is to capitalise on the huge demand of commodities such as PVC in India. They said the project would leverage the cheap raw material costs in the region. The project will be constructed in the TA’ZIZ Industrial Chemicals Zone. It is expected to continue the momentum of Adnoc’s downstream and industry growth plans as part of which it is implementing petrochemical, refining and gas projects, with a number of projects recently completed across the downstream portfolio. In these projects, Adnoc is investing over AED (Dirham) 18 billion. Since 2018, it has also attracted significant foreign direct investment from international partners in the downstream business, including refining, fertilisers and gas pipelines. The TA’ZIZ Industrial Chemicals Zone is a joint venture between ADNOC and ADQ — the state owned holding company. It was launched in November 2020. “We at Reliance are excited to enter into a strategic partnership with Adnoc for establishing a world-class and world-scale chemical project at TA’ZIZ in Ruwais,” Ambani said. “This important milestone further bolsters our long-standing relationship with Adnoc. It is also yet another testimony to the enormous potential in advancing India-UAE co-operation in value enhancement in the energy and petrochemicals sectors,’’ the Reliance MD said. With inputs from Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-5
30-06-2021||Business||Petrol cheapest in Calcutta at Rs 98.64 a litre||Motorists in Calcutta now pay the least among the four metro cities for petrol in the country. Delhi has traditionally been the city where it is most affordable to use personal vehicles and two-wheelers. However, after a Rs 0.34 a litre rise in prices on Tuesday, petrol now costs Rs 98.64 a litre in Calcutta, while it costs Rs 98.81 a litre in Delhi. A litre of the fuel now retails at Rs 104.9 in Mumbai and Rs 99.80 in Chennai. Oil industry veterans expect Chennai to become the second metro after Mumbai to hit the Rs 100-a-litre mark, followed by Delhi and Calcutta. “Unless the taxes are cut either by the state or the Centre or international prices cool off, petrol prices should cross Rs 100 a litre in all four metros in the first week of July,” an oil industry expert said. A number of tax tweaks in Delhi and Bengal over the last 15 months changed the historical price trend. In May 2020, the Arvind Kejriwal government in Delhi had hiked the value added tax (VAT) on both petrol and diesel to shore up revenue amid the nationwide lockdown, which completely halted economic activity and dried up tax collection. After the restrictions were eased, the government rolled back VAT on diesel from 30 per cent to 16.75 per cent but the same was not done for petrol. It continues to attract a 30 per cent VAT, up from 27 per cent previously. In contrast, Bengal not only maintained the VAT on petrol and diesel, it actually cut prices by Re 1 on February 22 ahead of the Assembly elections in the state. As a result, the traditional gap between Delhi and Calcutta had narrowed and the latter overtook eventually. Bengal collects Re 1 a litre as cess from petrol as well as diesel. The price of diesel, however, continues to be the cheapest in Delhi among the four metros, followed by Calcutta. After a Rs 0.28 a litre hike overnight, diesel prices in Calcutta now stand at Rs 92.03 compared with Rs 89.18 a litre in Delhi and Rs 96.72 and Rs 93.72 a litre in Mumbai and Chennai, respectively. Bengal imposes a 25 per cent and a 17 per cent VAT on petrol and diesel, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-5
30-06-2021||India||Covid: Maharashtra reports 9,771 new cases, 141 deaths||Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 9,771 new cases of Covid-19, taking the tally to 60,61,404, while the death toll rose to 1,21,945 after 141 patients succumbed to the infection, according to a health department official. The state reported about 1,700 more cases, but 90 less fatalities as compared to Tuesday, when the new infections stood at 8,085 and the deaths at 231. The official said as many as 10,353 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, pushing the number of recovered cases to 58,19,901. The state now has 1,16,364 active Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra's Covid-19 recovery rate is 96.02 per cent, while the fatality rate is 2.01 per cent, he said. According to the official, out of 4,16,37,950 Covid-19 tests conducted so far, 60,61,404 have tested positive for coronavirus, reflecting a case positivity rate of 14.56 per cent. Currently, 6,17,926 people are in home quarantine and 4,173 in institutional quarantine, he said. According to the official, Mumbai reported 706 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 7,22,222, while the death toll increased to 15,451 with the addition of 25 fresh fatalities. He said 536 people tested positive in Pune municipal limits, which took the tally to 4,94,342, while the the death toll remained unchanged at 8165 as no fresh fatality wasreported in the city in the last 24 hours. According to the official, Nagpur, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Nashik, Aurangabad and Amravati municipal corporation areas reported 22, 269, 63, nine and 20 new Covid-19 cases, respectively. Coronavirus figures in Maharashtra are as follows: Total cases 60,61,404; new cases-9,771; total deaths 1,21,945; recoveries 58,19,901; active cases 1,16,364 total tests 4,16,37,950.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-17
30-06-2021||India||Cabinet decisions will provide additional financial support to various sectors: Modi||With the Union Cabinet approving a loan guarantee scheme for Covid-affected sectors and raising the corpus of emergency credit line guarantee scheme, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday that it will provide additional financial support to key projects in various sectors, especially in healthcare and medical infrastructure. The Cabinet chaired by Modi approved the loan guarantee scheme, enabling funding to the tune of Rs 50,000 crore to provide financial guarantee cover for brownfield expansion and greenfield projects related to health and medical infrastructure. It also approved introduction of a scheme for other sectors and lenders, including those allied to better healthcare, besides an additional funding up to Rs 1,50,000 crore under the emergency credit line guarantee scheme. In a tweet Modi said, "An important Cabinet decision that will provide additional financial support to key projects relating to various sectors particularly healthcare and medical infrastructure." As part of the package to support the Covid pandemic-hit economy, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had on Monday announced Rs 1.5 lakh crore of additional credit for small and medium businesses, more funds for the healthcare sector, loans to tourism agencies and guides, and waiver of visa fee for foreign tourists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-17
30-06-2021||India||Covid: Tweets from India grew 7 times in Apr-May, says Twitter||Microblogging platform Twitter on Wednesday said the average daily number of tweets about Covid-19 from India increased 7 times during April-May this year as compared to the February-March period.  Social media emerged as a lifeline for many during the deadly second wave of the pandemic with people turning to platforms like Twitter and Facebook with SOS calls as they looked for resources like oxygen cylinders, hospital beds, plasma donors, and ventilators.  "The average daily number of tweets about Covid-19 from India increased by over 600 per cent (7X) during the surge (April 1-May 31, 2021). People in India came together to support each other and share information, bolstering replies during the surge months by 1.5X," Twitter said in a statement.  Tweets from medical professionals in India increased by 1.5X during the surge period as they used Twitter to share important information. Also, tweets on Covid-19 grew manifold during April 1-May 31, 2021, and the service witnessed 100 per cent growth in Covid-19 conversations compared with the previous two months (February 1-March 31), it added.  "With the onset of the second wave of Covid-19 in India, Twitter emerged as a real-time helpline as people turned to the service seeking and offering help to secure life-saving facilities, medicines, food, and much more. An incredibly positive people's movement to support one another took shape on the service," Twitter said.  Twitter noted that tweets about seeking or providing medical help increased by 1958 per cent (20X). #Covid19 was tweeted 77 per cent more during April-May, while #Blood was tweeted 72 per cent more as compared to the February-March period. Similarly, #Plasma saw an 834 per cent increase and #SOS was tweeted 152 per cent more during this time.  "Tweets around #Vaccine and #Vaccination went up by 246 per cent. To support this conversation, Twitter introduced a home Timeline prompt that points people to vaccine-related updates and information from authoritative sources," it said.  Tweets with hashtags - #CoronavirusUpdates, #CoronaIndiaUpdate, #Covid19IndiaResources and others - amped up conversations by 10X, it added.  People also came forward to contribute to relief efforts, and fundraising conversations went up by 731 per cent (8x).  Mental well-being recorded 153 per cent (2.5X) increase during the surge period as people tweeted with hashtags such as #DoctorsMentalhealth, #CovidCounselling, #CovidDepression, #CovidInsomnia, and others. Tweets on #IndiaFightsCorona saw a 530 per cent increase, while #DelhiFightsCorona and #MaharashtraFightsCorona also witnessed a significant increase in tweets.  "More than ever, Twitter remains committed to serving the public conversation. It introduced a number of features and initiatives in support of the Covid-19 conversation in India," the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-17
30-06-2021||India||Narendra Modi meets council of ministers, urges to spread awareness about Covid vaccination||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday exhorted his Council of Ministers to work towards creating such an atmosphere in the country wherein everyone follows COVID-19 protocols diligently and takes vaccine to stop the third wave of the pandemic.  Underlining that the fight against COVID-19 is not over yet, Modi told the ministers that vaccination should be done on a war footing.  Chairing a meeting of the Union Council of Ministers, he asked them to ensure that the projects for which they have laid the foundations are completed and inaugurated by them.  He also asked them keep track of the projects and ensure these are not delayed, sources said.  The prime minister sought suggestions from the ministers on how to expedite economic growth of the country post pandemic.  He urged them to work on mission mode in their respective ministries.  Talking about the upcoming Parliament session, Modi asked his ministerial colleagues to prepare themselves with facts and figures to counter any changes made by the opposition, sources said.  During the meeting which lasted nearly five hours, Member (Health) of NITI Aayog V K Paul made a presentation on the coronavirus pandemic.  Modi stressed that people have to remain vigilant to contain the spread of the virus, sources said.  The prime minister said such an atmosphere should be created that all remain vigilant while strictly following COVID-19 protocols and get vaccinated so that there wouldn't be any third wave, sources said.  He suggested the ministers to follow COVID-19 protocols and wear masks while visiting their constituencies.  Modi also said several "myths" were created during the pandemic and that these should be countered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-18
30-06-2021||India||India asks EU to accept vaccination certificate issued through CoWIN portal||As the European Union relaxes travel restrictions under its 'Green Passport' scheme, India has requested the members of the 27-nation grouping to individually consider allowing Indians who have taken Covishield and Covaxin vaccines to travel to Europe, sources said. The sources said India has requested the EU member nations to accept the vaccination certificate issued through the CoWIN portal. The European Union's Digital Covid certificate framework to facilitate free movement during the Covid-19 pandemic is to come into effect on Thursday. Under this framework, persons who have taken vaccines authorised by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) will be exempted from travel restrictions within the EU. The individual member states have the flexibility to also accept vaccines that have been authorised at the national level or by the World Health Organisation. "We have requested EU member states to individually consider extending similar exemption to those persons who have taken Covid-19 vaccines in India, that is Covishield and Covaxin, and accept the vaccination certificate issued through the CoWIN portal," said a source. The sources said the genuineness of such vaccination certification can be authenticated on the CoWIN portal. "We have also conveyed to EU member states that India will institute a reciprocal policy for recognition of the EU Digital Covid Certificate," the source said. "Upon notification of Covishield and Covaxin for inclusion in the EU Digital Covid Certificate and recognition of Indian CoWIN vaccination certificates, Indian health authorities would reciprocally exempt the EU member state concerned for exemption from the mandatory quarantine of all those persons carrying EU digital Covid certificate," the source said. There have been apprehensions in India that people who took Covishield and Covaxin jabs are unlikely to be eligible to travel to the European Union member states under its 'Green Pass' scheme. The EU Digital Covid certificate or 'Green Pass' will be mandatory to travel to European countries and the document will serve as proof that a person is vaccinated against Covid-19. An EU official on Tuesday said individual member states of the European Union will have the option to accept vaccines authorised by the World Health Organisation (WHO) like Covishield for obtaining the bloc's digital Covid certificate. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday took up the issue of inclusion of Covishield in the EU digital Covid certificate scheme during a meeting with Josep Borrell Fontelles, the High Representative of the European Union. The meeting took place on the sidelines of a G20 meeting in Italy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-18
30-06-2021||India||Delhi burns as severe heat wave sweeps national capital||A severe heat wave swept the national capital on Wednesday, with the mercury soaring to 43.5 degrees Celsius, the highest recorded this year so far, the India Meteorological Department said, adding the monsoon is at least a week away. The maximum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung Observatory, the official marker for the city, was seven notches above normal, weather officials said. By July 7, conditions are predicted to become favourable for the monsoon to advance into the region, according to the MeT office. Most of the monitoring stations in the capital recorded a severe heat wave, with their respective maximum temperature remaining at least 7 degrees Celsius above the average temperature. A severe heat wave seared Lodhi Road (43.7 degrees Celsius), Ayanagar (44.2), Ridge (44), Mungeshpur (44.3), Najafgarh (44.4), Pitampura (44.3) and Narela (43.7), officials said. The monitoring station at Pusa recorded a high of 44.3 degrees Celsius, eight notches above normal, they added. For the plains, a "heat wave" is declared when the maximum temperature is more than 40 degrees Celsius, and at least 4.5 notches above normal. A "severe" heat wave is declared if departure from normal temperature is more than 6.5 degrees Celsius, according to the IMD. On Monday, Delhi recorded the first heat wave this summer with the mercury levels increasing to 43 degrees Celsius. Another heat wave has been predicted for Thursday. Light rainfall and dust storm on Friday are likely to bring the mercury below the 40 degrees mark. Usually, the capital witnesses heat waves till June 20 and cooler temperatures thereafter. The increase in the maximum temperature this time can be attributed to the delay in the arrival of the monsoon, said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD's regional forecasting centre. There has been no rainfall in the last few days and warm westerly winds are blowing across a major part of northwest India, which has not been covered by the monsoon yet, he said. After arriving two days late in Kerala, the monsoon had raced across the country, covering eastern, central and adjoining northwest India, seven to 10 days earlier. The meteorological office had earlier predicted that the wind system may reach Delhi by June 15, which would have been 12 days early. However, westerly winds have been blocking its advance into Delhi, parts of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Punjab and Haryana. Normally, monsoon reaches Delhi by June 27 and covers the entire country by July 8. Last year, the wind system had reached Delhi on June 25 and covered the entire country by June 29. The wind system is not likely to cover the remaining part of northwest India, including Delhi, Haryana, parts of west Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and west Rajasthan in the next six to seven days, the IMD said. The last time the monsoon arrived so late in Delhi was on July 7 in 2012.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-18
30-06-2021||India||Doubtful if one can refuse to take Covid jab as a matter of right, says Madras HC||The Madras High Court on Wednesday raised doubts if a citizen can refuse to take vaccine as a matter of right. "It is doubtful whether the right to refuse to take the vaccine can be exercised in such circumstances," the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said. "Vaccinating oneself may not only be to protect oneself but also in the larger interest of public health," it said. "When such larger interest of public health comes into play and it is possible that a person who has not taken the vaccine may not reveal any symptoms but still be a silent carrier, it is doubtful whether the right to refuse to take the vaccine can be exercised in such circumstances," the bench explained. The explanation followed a submission from the State that there is an element of reluctance in some quarters to take the Covid vaccine. The bench said that the State should try and persuade them with awareness campaigns and scientific data to indicate the efficacy of the vaccines and the indispensable nature thereof in dealing with the present pandemic. Though the June 29 status report indicates appropriate measures having been taken or planned to be taken at rehabilitation homes, mental care centres and the like, as prayed for by advocate Karpagam, the petitioner, the bench felt that there does not appear to be a plan in place for persons with disabilities, who are homebound and do not have the ability or resources to travel, particularly in the semi-urban and rural areas. It, however, hoped all persons with disabilities, irrespective of status and resources, are taken care of by the State in due course. The matter stands adjourned till July 28.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-18
30-06-2021||India||India received 10 per cent excess rainfall in June, says IMD||Even as southwest monsoon continues to elude parts of north India, including Delhi, the country has received 10 per cent more rainfall than normal in June, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. Currently, the northernmost limit of southwest monsoon is passing through Barmer, Bhilwara, Dholpur, Aligarh, Meerut, Ambala and Amritsar. "Since June 19 there has not been any progress of monsoon," the IMD said, inferring that most of the advancement was recorded between June 3-19. The monsoon made onset over Kerala on June 3. According to the IMD, the further advancement of southwest monsoon into the remaining parts of Rajasthan, Delhi, Haryana and Punjab is not likely till July 7. Central and north Indian plains are already reeling under searing heat that is pushing temperatures over 40 degrees Celsius. The ongoing weak monsoon spell is over central, peninsular and northwest India while northeast India, Bihar and east Uttar Pradesh are witnessing heavy rains. "For the country as a whole, cumulative rainfall during this year's Southwest Monsoon till June 30 has been above normal by about 10 per cent above Long Period Average (LPA)," the IMD said. Actual rainfall during the same period is 18.29 cm as against the normal of 16.69 cm, it said. East and northeast India have received 1.3 per cent more rainfall than normal in June. Northwest India received 14 per cent more rainfall than normal, central India 17 per cent and south peninsula 2.4 per cent, the IMD said. Southwest monsoon reached Kerala two days late. It raced through parts of the country, covering east and northeast India, central India, central peninsula and even large parts of north India much before its scheduled arrival. But it is yet to reach Haryana, Delhi, parts of west Uttar Pradesh and Punjab. "Forecasts based on model consensus show that the formation of a low pressure system over north Bay of Bengal is unlikely till July 7," the IMD said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-18
30-06-2021||India||Delhi has no Delta Plus case of Covid-19 yet, says health minister||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said the national capital has not reported any case of Delta plus variant of COVID-19 so far, adding that there is no communication from the Centre to make any special arrangement to deal with it. He said a genome sequencing lab to detect the variants of coronavirus will become operational at Lok Nayak Hospital within a week. Another such lab is being created at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, he said. "There are several variants of coronavirus, but there are only two ways to protect yourself against it -- get vaccinated and use masks. There is no separate communication from the Centre to make special preparations for the Delta plus variant. Also, Delhi has not reported any such cases so far," Jain told reporters here. He said the Delhi government is in the process of increasing hospital beds to accommodate 37,000 cases a day in case of a third wave. The Delhi government has already installed 32 Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plants with a total capacity of 29.77 metric tonnes (MT). Three liquid medical oxygen storage tanks with a cumulative capacity of 171 MT have also been installed. Jain also said the coronavirus situation is under control in Delhi, but appealed to people to continue observing Covid appropriate behaviour. "The number of cases had reduced significantly in January and February too, and people let their guards down. The experience of the last one-and-a-half-year shows one has to remain vigilant all the time," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-18
30-06-2021||India||Barring all odds Alma Chopra motivates people towards staying positive||Internationally based speaker and entrepreneur, Alma Chopra believes that one can overcome adversity and become an inspiration to others, as she has done with her own life journey. She has risen to great heights as a positive influence on others, demonstrating that anyone can achieve anything if they put their minds to it. Being an exemplary example for the world with her life experience she has shown that with a positive attitude one can fight with a serious illness like Cerebellar Ataxia. And also has been a true inspiration for many young generations. Regardless of all the challenges she experienced in life, this brave woman never gave up. A world-class speaker whose power is to reinforce belief in individuals, Alma has reclaimed her power after two decades of hiding away and living in the shadow of her infirmity. Even though she has gone through such humiliation and mental suffering that is unimaginable, her ability to rewind and replay circumstances and scenes that cause bodily or emotional pain cannot be underestimated. Speaking on her breakthrough moment, Alma says, “Our acts in life are motivated by fear and hatred. We live in a world where far too many of us are propelled by negativity. Motivating ourselves for the purpose of love is significantly less harmful, and it may even assist us in achieving the calm and tranquilly we want.” Life throws obstacles at everyone, and it's impossible to avoid them. This is why she works with audiences to help them create appropriate coping mechanisms while also strengthening their resilience during the challenging shift. She is able to help others and put a smile on people's faces through her public speaking and coaching, which also encourages her. An enabler who has destined herself to work towards moulding the norm, Alma, has made it her mission to challenge the current status quo, tells charming stories to enable her listeners to escape the self-pitying images and obtain entrance to the centre table of belief and resurrection. This is a sponsored article and curated by ABP Digital Brand Studio. The Telegraph India editorial team played no role in creating this content.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-18
30-06-2021||India||EU approval for Covishield in a month, says Serum India chief ||Vaccine major Serum Institute of India is confident of receiving approval from the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for its Covid-19 vaccine Covishield in a month, company's chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla said on Wednesday. He also said the issue of vaccine passports should be on the basis of reciprocity between the countries. "The EMA is absolutely correct in asking us to apply, which we have through AstraZeneca, our partners, a month ago, and that process has to take its time. An approval process even with UK MHRA, WHO took its time and we have applied to the EMA," Poonawalla said at India Global Forum 2021. "We are quite confident that in a month EMA will approve Covishield. There is no reason why not to, because it is based on AstraZeneca data and our product is identical to AstraZeneca more or less and it has been approved by WHO, UK MHRA. So it's just a matter of time. It is not really going to hinder anything," he said. "But the reason why it was flagged is because if the issue is not addressed now, and when India gets off the red list and when citizens want to travel they should not be refused in a given country just because they have a Covishield certificate," he added. On the issue of vaccine passports, Poonawalla said that it was a slightly different issue. "The issue with vaccine passports is slightly different. What I am trying to say is that let us take a manufacturer outside of India. Let's say they have been approved by WHO and everyone in that country gets vaccinated taking that product and now when those citizens need to travel, what good is their vaccine certificate if it is not acknowledged and reciprocity is not there between the countries," Poonawalla said. It is that level of reciprocity that is expected between all these nations, he added. On the issue of waiving of intellectual property rights on vaccines to increase the supply, Poonawalla said waiving of IP is perhaps not going to solve the immediate shortage of vaccines. However, it is a good strategy in the long term, to be prepared for future pandemics. Stating that it was difficult for the company to stop the export of Covishield as it had prior commitments, he however said Serum did it in the wake of the second wave of the pandemic hitting India. Decision of stopping the exports was particularly stressful, "because it was not just our partner AstraZeneca that needed vaccines for the other parts of the world, it was COVAX, it was other countries that we had commitments with, we had taken advance funding, we had to return some of that funding, and really explain to other world leaders as well that there was really no choice at that moment ," Poonawalla said. We had to tell them that ,"we really had to support our nation at that moment for a few months and that we would get back to them," he added. It was really difficult for everyone to digest that , but slowly as they realised what was going on in India everyone was really supportive and understanding, Poonawalla said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-18
30-06-2021||India||Odisha halts vaccination in 11 districts citing shortage||The Odisha government on Wednesday stopped the Covid-19 vaccination drive in 11 districts due to an "acute shortage" of Covishield doses, officials said. The inoculation exercise was temporarily halted during the day in Angul, Bolangir, Balasore, Bhadrak, Dhenkanal, Ganjam, Jajpur, Jharsuguda, Kendrapara, Koraput and Sonepur , they said. The authorities were administering over 3 lakh doses of the vaccines to eligible beneficiaries every day since June 21 after Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik had asked officials to accelerate the inoculation process before the possible third wave of Covid-19. But, the health department was able to give only 1.18 lakh jabs on Tuesday, an official said. Covaxin is being administered to people in the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation area, while Covishield vaccine is being used in other parts of the state. "On Tuesday, no vaccination drive was conducted in Kendrapara and Balasore. Today, the authorities stopped the immunisation programme in 11 districts due to the acute shortage of doses. The state has a stock of 38,380 vials of Covishield till this morning, and the next allocation is likely to be made on July 2," another health department official said. Health and Family Welfare Minister N K Das had recently requested the Centre to allocate at least 6 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine to carry out the immunisation programme smoothly in June, the officials said. Odisha has so far administered over 1.18 crore doses of vaccines, they said. The state on Wednesday reported 3,371 fresh coronavirus cases, which pushed the tally to 9,09,800. At least 48 more fatalities due to the infection raised the death toll to 4,018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-18
30-06-2021||India||Political leaders have been patient by don't cross limits, Haryana CM warns farmers||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday said the protesting farmer unions should not remain adamant on repeal of the new central farm laws, adding that making it a precondition for talks with the government does not serve any purpose. He also claimed that only a "handful of people" were opposing the farm laws and that "common farmers are happy". "Those spearheading the agitation are in reality not farmers. Real farmers have no objection with the farm laws, they are happy," he said. The chief minister further alleged that those opposing the farm laws are only doing so due to political reasons. "Their Punjab team is doing so because polls are approaching there. But there are no polls due in our state. Here the agenda is to defame the government using political angle. And the Congress is also supporting them in this," he said. Khattar said the word kisan (farmer) is a sacred one, but some incidents like the alleged sexual exploitation of a woman from Bengal at the Tikri border last month have "prompted people to raise questions". On Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar's appeal to the protesting farmers to end their agitation and his invitation for talks, Khattar said, "The farmer unions are adamant on only one thing -- repeal of the farm laws -- without being able to pinpoint at any shortcomings of the laws." "It does not serve any purpose if they remain adamant on just one thing and making it a precondition for talks with the government," he said at a press conference here. "What I feel is that Kisan word is a very pious word. Everyone, including common people, government and I would say even those leading this agitation have faith and respect towards farmers. But the sad part which has come out of this agitation is that some incidents have happened prompting people to raise questions," he said in an apparent reference to the sexual exploitation incident at Tikri border. The Haryana Police had last month launched a probe into allegations by the father of the victim woman, who died after showing COVID-like symptoms, at a hospital in Bahadurgarh in Jhajjar district, that she had been raped by two men she had accompanied to the farmers protest site at Tikri border. The CM also referred to the death of a 42-year-old man whose family members alleged that he was set on fire by four people in Bahadurgarh. According to the complaint lodged by the victim's brother, the four men were part of the ongoing farmers agitation at the Tikri border near Delhi. "There has been sexual assault, murder, and also disputes with local people about roads being blocked for which even panchayats have been held," Khattar said. He also referred to the alleged targeting of BJP-JJP leaders in the state over the farm laws. "I condemn their undemocratic way of work. We are exercising restraint. And what are they (those spearheading the stir) saying that the ministers, MLAs, chief minister, deputy CM cannot go to attend public functions. After all those running the government, it is their responsibility to go among the people and listen to them,"" he said. "We have always exercised restraint as they (protesters) are our own people we do not want confrontation. When they say some things, we tolerate it as they are our own people. But exceeding it beyond limit is not in anyone's interest," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-18
30-06-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccines not linked with infertility, clarifies centre||The Union Health Ministry on Wednesday said that there is no scientific evidence suggesting Covid-19 vaccination can cause infertility in men and women and asserted the vaccines have been found to be safe and effective. It further said that the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) has also recommended Covid vaccination for all lactating women, terming it as safe with no need to stop or pause breastfeeding before or after the inoculation. The statement by the ministry comes in the wake of media reports expressing concerns regarding infertility due to Covid-19 vaccination among population of reproductive age and whether the vaccination is safe for lactating women. The health ministry as clarified in the FAQs posted on the website that none of the available vaccines affects fertility of either men or women, as all vaccines and their constituents are tested first on animals and later in humans to assess if they have any such side effects, the statement said. Vaccines are authorised for use only after their safety and efficacy is assured. "Furthermore, in order to curb the prevalent myth regarding infertility due to Covid-19 vaccination, the government of India has clarified that there are no scientific evidences suggesting Covid-19 vaccination can cause infertility in men and women. The vaccines have been found to be safe and effective," the statement said. It further said that in a recent interview, Dr N K Arora, chairperson of Covid-19 Working Group of National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI) has countered these fears and allegations. He said that misinformation was also created during the administering of polio vaccine in India and abroad that children who are getting the vaccine may face infertility in the future. He assured that all vaccines go through intense scientific researches and none of the vaccines have this sort of side-effect, the statement stated. NEGVAC has also recommended Covid-19 vaccination for all lactating women, terming it as safe with no need to stop or pause breastfeeding before or after the vaccination, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-19
30-06-2021||India||Former Mumbai police commissioner's son arrested for stalking estranged wife||Former Mumbai police commissioner R D Tyagi's son Raj Tyagi was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly stalking and intimidating his estranged wife in the western suburb of Bandra here, an official said. According to the police, Raj Tyagi, who had come out on bail a few days ago in a domestic violence case, was apprehended by the police based on a complaint lodged by his estranged wife, who lives with her four children in Bandra (west), the official said. In her complaint, Tyagi's wife had alleged that he stood below their Bandra residence and followed her car in his own vehicle, he said, adding that a security guard had also spotted Tyagi standing below the building. Based on the complaint, an offence under section 354 (D) (stalking) and 506 (2) (criminal intimidation) was registered against Tyagi, the official said. Following his arrest, Tyagi produced before a court in Bandra, which remanded him to police custody till July 2, he said. Earlier, Tyagi was arrested in March in an attempt to murder and domestic violence case filed by his wife last year. The Bombay High Court had granted him bail last week on certain conditions, as he had filed an affidavit from prison stating that he will not enter the jurisdiction of the Bandra police station, the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-19
30-06-2021||India||Cabinet approves Rs 6.29-lakh cr COVID-19 relief package announced by Nirmala Sitharaman||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the Rs 6.29-lakh crore relief package announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to support the pandemic-hit economy. This was informed by Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar after the Cabinet meeting. As part of the package to support the Covid-19 pandemic-hit economy, Sitharaman had on Monday announced Rs 1.5 lakh crore of additional credit for small and medium businesses, more funds for the healthcare sector, loans to tourism agencies and guides, and waiver of visa fee for foreign tourists. Together with previously announced Rs 93,869-crore spending on providing free foodgrains to the poor till November and additional Rs 14,775 crore fertiliser subsidy, the stimulus package, which is mostly made up of government guarantee to banks and microfinance institutions for loans they extend to Covid-19-hit sectors, totalled up to Rs 6.29 lakh crore. The finance minister provided Rs 23,220 crore of additional funding to set up children and paediatric care at hospitals to prepare healthcare infrastructure to deal with any emergency arising due to Covid-19 wave hitting children. Further, to incentivise job creation, the government committed to paying the employer and employee's share to provident fund (PF) for all new recruitments done till March 2022. Previously, the government paid Rs 902 crore for 21.42 lakh beneficiaries of 79,577 establishments. With the tourism sector being hit hard by the pandemic, the minister had announced financial support to over 11,000 registered tourists, guides, travel and tourism stakeholders, in addition to free one-month tourist visas to the first five lakh tourists. Other announcements included an additional Rs 19,041 crore to provide broadband internet cover to all village panchayats, an extension of tenure of a production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for large-scale electronics manufacturing by a year and Rs 88,000 crore of insurance cover for goods exporters. The central government has announced the support measures as states start lifting restrictions after new coronavirus infections showed a decline. Two annoucements made by Sitharaman regarding the additional subsidy of Rs 14,775 crore for DAP & P&K fertilizers, and extension of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) free food grains from May to November 2021, were previously approved by the Cabinet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-19
30-06-2021||India|| After Delhi Police, NCW sends notice to Twitter over child porn||The National Commission for Women (NCW) has asked the Managing Director of Twitter India to remove all pornographic and obscene content from the platform within a week. NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma also wrote to the Commissioner of Police, Delhi to investigate the matter and take appropriate legal action. "The NCW has taken suo motu cognisance of several profiles on Twitter sharing pornographic content. Chairperson Ms Rekha Sharma has written to Managing Director, Twitter India for immediately removing all such pornographic and obscene content from the platform within a week," the women's panel said in a statement. Upon receiving a similar complaint earlier, the commission had brought the matter to Twitter's notice for immediate action. However, no action was reportedly taken by the platform, the NCW said. The commission is disturbed by the fact that despite knowing of the availability of such banned content which not only violates Indian laws but also Twitter's own policy, no action has been taken to date towards removing them. "The commission has shared with Twitter details of a few profiles sharing pornographic content on Twitter and has directed to remove all such content within one week. The platform has also been asked to communicate action taken within 10 days," it said. The move comes a day after the Delhi Police registered a case against Twitter on a complaint by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) for allegedly allowing access to child sexual abuse material on the social media platform.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-19
30-06-2021||India||Delimitation Commission to visit J&K from July 6 to July 9||The Delimitation Commission (DC) will visit Jammu and Kashmir next week for discussion with political leaders and administrators over demarcation of constituencies for the Union territory that lost its statehood and legislature in 2019. The visit, scheduled between July 6 to July 9,  has been announced after PM Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah met leaders of the key parties from the territory—many of whom were detained for close to a year after the removal of the state’s special status in 2019. “So far, the views of only one party have been aired at the commission-- which has the five MPs from J&K as associate members. Three associate members did not attend the meeting in February. The commission absolutely wants to hear the concerns of all parties concerned and we will invite all national and state parties,” a senior DC source told The Telegraph after a meeting on Wednesday. Only the two BJP MPs attended the DC meeting in February. The DC is redrawing the boundaries of seats based on the 2011 census. This is opposed by almost all Opposition parties and several civil society groups. The NC rejected the nomination of three of its MPs to the delimitation commission on grounds that delimitation should be done on the basis of the 2021 Census like the rest of India—except four North Eastern states, where there is also Opposition to delimitation. The NC, however, has recently authorised its leader Farooq Abdullah to consider any future invitation from the commission but has also stressed on the restoration of statehood before elections are held. Besides the eight national parties—of which only the CPM is part of the alliance to restore constitutional autonomy and statehood— J&K has three state parties. These are the J&K National Conference (NC), J&K Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), and the J&K National Panthers Party. The former two are also part of the alliance. Besides the four parties, those invited to the PM’s meet last week included representatives of the Congress, BJP, Apni Party and People’s Conference. The PM stressed on delimitation and elections, the first after the Assembly of the undivided state was dissolved by the governor in 2018. Wednesday’s meeting included only chairperson Justice Ranjana Desai and chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra. J&K’s state election commissioner K. K. Sharma, an ex officio member, views were heard over telephone, a source confirmed. In a statement after the meeting, the DC said that it would visit the UT from July 6 to 9. The commission explained, “During this period, the Commission will interact with political parties, public representatives and Union Territory administration officials including District Election Officers/ Deputy Commissioners of 20 districts of the Union Territory to gather first-hand information and input concerning the on-going process of delimitation as mandated under the Jammu & Kashmir Reorganization Act, 2019.” It added, “The Commission already had series of meetings related to data/ map of the Districts/ Constituencies related to census 2011. Earlier, it invited all Associate Members for interaction, which were participated by two of the Associate Members. A number of representations has also been received on various aspects concerning delimitation from civil societies and members of public from the Union Territory. The Commission has already taken note of all such suggestions and directed that these may be deliberated further in the context of ground realities concerning delimitation. The Commission expects that all stakeholders will cooperate in this endeavour and will provide valuable suggestions so that the task of delimitation is completed timely.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-19
30-06-2021||India||Child porn charges: Twitter says it has developed tools to detect restricted content ||A day after the Delhi police booked Twitter for allowing access to child porn, the microblogging platform has said it has a "zero tolerance policy for child sexual exploitation" and has developed special special tools to detect and remove content linked to child pornography and the accounts linked to it. According to a report by ndtv.com, Twitter said that "viewing, sharing, or linking to child sexual exploitation (CSE) material, regardless of the intent, contributes to the re-victimization of the depicted children and is prohibited on our service". The Delhi Police has sent a notice to micro-blogging site Twitter seeking details about steps taken by it against circulation of child pornographic content on its platform following the FIR. The police have sought to know the steps taken by Twitter officials concerned against child sexual abuse content on their platform and sought details of the accounts circulating such material. A spokesperson of Twitter on Wednesday was quoted by ndtv,com, saying that in 2019, the platform launched a feature in search prompt aimed at deterrence of child sexual exploitation. "The prompt was developed in collaboration with the Ministry of Home Affairs and NGOs in India to blacklist specific CSE search keywords in Hindi, English, Bengali and Kannada," the spokesperson was quoted as saying. "We have been at the forefront of responding to the evolving challenge of preventing the exploitation of children on the Internet and will continue to aggressively fight online child sexual abuse, as well as invest in the technology and tools that are essential to stay ahead of this issue,"Twitter said. "We will continue to invest in proactive detection and removal of content that violates the Twitter Rules and work with law enforcement and NGO partners in India to tackle the issue," the spokesperson added. The Delhi Police had registered an FIR against Twitter for allegedly allowing access to child pornography on its platform following a complaint by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR). The case was registered under relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the IT Act, police said. This comes days after the NCPCR, the country's apex child rights body, asked Deputy Commissioner of Police (Cyber Cell) Anyesh Roy to explain why no action had been taken against Twitter as per its letter to the Delhi Police dated May 29. In its letter, the NCPCR had asked the Delhi Police to book Twitter on the basis of the findings of its recent inquiry in which it had found that child sexual abuse material (CSAM) was easily available on the platform.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-19
30-06-2021||India|| International flight suspension extended till July 31, notifies DGCA||The coronavirus-induced suspension of scheduled international passenger flights has been extended till July 31, aviation regulator DGCA said on Wednesday. "However, international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case-to-case basis," the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) added. Scheduled international passenger services have been suspended in India since March 23, 2020, due to the coronavirus pandemic. But special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May 2020 and under bilateral "air bubble" arrangements with selected countries since July 2020. India has formed air bubble pacts with around 24 countries including the US, the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international flights can be operated by their airlines between their territories. The DGCA circular also said that the suspension does not affect the operation of international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-19
30-06-2021||India||SC asks Ramdev to submit full record of his comments on allopathy||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked Baba Ramdev to place before it the original record of his statement on the use of allopathic medicine during COVID-19 pandemic. "What is the original thing which he has said? You have not placed the whole thing," a bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana asked senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, who was appearing for the yoga guru. Rohatgi told the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy, that he would file the original video along with the transcript. "Okay," the bench said and posted the matter for hearing on July 5. The top court was hearing Ramdev's plea seeking stay on the proceedings in connection with multiple FIRs lodged against him by Indian Medical Association (IMA) in Bihar and Chhattisgarh over his remarks against use of allopathic medicine during COVID-19 pandemic. The Patna and Raipur chapters of the IMA have lodged complaints against Ramdev alleging that his remarks are likely to cause prejudice to the COVID control mechanism and may dissuade people from availing proper treatment against the pandemic. In his plea, he has sought transfer of the FIRs lodged in Patna and Raipur to Delhi. During the hearing conducted through video-conferencing, Rohatgi told the bench that Ramdev is a public figure and proponent of yoga and ayurveda. He said that during an event, Ramdev had read out a WhatsApp message which was sent to him. Ramdev has clarified that he has nothing against doctors or anyone, Rohatgi said, adding that several complaints have been registered against at different places. Different complaints and FIRs have been filed against him , he said, adding that these complaints be clubbed in Delhi. Rohatgi said that last year, when Patanjali had brought coronil', allopathic doctors went against him. He (Ramdev) is not against them. Why should he go to so many places. Everybody has freedom of speech, he said. The yoga guru has been booked under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to aa infection of disease dangerous to life) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) of the IPC have been invoked against him. Ramdev, whose alleged statements created a nation-wide debate over Allopathy versus Ayurveda issue, however, had withdrawn his statements on May 23 after receiving a letter from Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan who had called his remarks as "inappropriate". Ramdev has sought clubbing of FIRs on the issue and their transfer to Delhi and as an interim relief, he has also urged for a stay on the investigation in connection with the criminal complaints.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-19
30-06-2021||India||Navjot Sidhu meets Priyanka and Rahul Gandhi,  discusses role in party revamp||Punjab Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu met party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday morning, and is learnt to have discussed his role in the revamp in the party's state unit ahead of Assembly polls. He also met former party chief Rahul Gandhi at his residence here on Wednesday evening. Sidhu had said on Tuesday that he was slated to meet Rahul Gandhi but the latter denied that there was any scheduled meeting with him. The former Punjab minister is at loggerheads with Chief minister Amarinder Singh and has gone public against him. Sidhu said he had a long meeting with Vadra. "Had a long meeting with @priyankagandhi Ji," Sidhu tweeted, along with a picture with Vadra. The Congress leadership is trying to revamp the party's Punjab unit and present a united face ahead of assembly elections in the state early next year. Sources said the party leadership is trying to work out a position for Sidhu in the revamped party or state government, but he is adamant on not working with CM Singh. Rahul Gandhi has been meeting party leaders from Punjab for their views on the political situation and steps needed to strengthen the party ahead of the 2022 assembly polls. Sidhu, who had resigned from the Punjab Cabinet after he was divested of the local bodies portfolio in 2019, has been at loggerheads with Chief Minister Singh. He has attacked the chief minister over the alleged delay in justice in the 2015 incidents of sacrilege and subsequent police firing. The chief minister had slammed Sidhu for continuously attacking him over the sacrilege issue and termed the former's outbursts "total indiscipline". Earlier this month, Sidhu had appeared before a three-member panel set up by the Congress to resolve the infighting within the party's state unit. On June 22, Singh appeared before the panel, headed by Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, in Delhi. However, he returned to Chandigarh without an audience with party president Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi. AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and former MP J P Aggarwal are members of the panel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-19
30-06-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi attacks Centre over rising fuel prices||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said the long queues for public transport are not just due to Covid restrictions but also because of high petrol and diesel prices. Gandhi's remarks came amid reports of serpentine queues outside Delhi Metro stations as the average waiting time for commuters went up to nearly an hour at some places on Tuesday. "Long-inconvenient queues for public transport aren't just due to Covid restrictions. See the rates of petrol-diesel in your city to find out the real reason," the former Congress chief said on Twitter. He used the hashtag "#TaxExtortion" to attack the government over high taxes imposed on petrol and diesel. The Congress has been accusing the government of collecting crores through excise duty and taxes on petrol and diesel due to which fuel prices are hovering around or have crossed Rs 100 per litre at several places in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-19
30-06-2021||India||Private hospitals cannot procure vaccines from manufacturers, rules Centre||The central government on Tuesday announced that private hospitals must procure their vaccine orders via CoWIN after registering on the platform, and can no longer directly buy them from manufacturers. In order to balance limited supply and prevent wastage, the Centre also put a limit on the maximum number of doses a private unit can order in a month, according to a report by ndtv.com. The new guidelines come into effect from July 1, and include a formula - double the average daily consumption of vaccine doses in any seven-day period (the hospital can choose the seven-day period) of the previous month - to calculate a private hospital's "maximum monthly limit". For example, if a private hospital has ordered for July, it can select June 10-16 as the seven-day period. In that period, if it utilised 700 doses, the daily average is 100. The "maximum monthly limit", therefore, is 100 doses x 31 days (for July) x 2 (double the average), which is 6,200 doses. Hospitals joining the vaccination drive for the first time will be allocated vaccines based on the number of beds available, according to the report by ndtv.com. All private hospitals will enter required details into the CoWIN database that will then aggregate district- and state-wise demand before passing the information on to the manufacturers. No prior approval from government authorities will be necessary. The move comes a day after the Jharkhand government requested the Centre to cut down on the quota of Covid-19 vaccines for private players from 25 per cent to 5 per cent, citing lack of private healthcare facilities in rural areas and a high BPL population in the state with limited purchasing power. Other states like Tamil Nadu and Odisha had also requested for the same.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-20
30-06-2021||India||No respite from searing heat for Delhi residents||With the monsoon keeping away from Delhi and nearby areas, another hot day is likely to trouble residents in the national capital on Wednesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. A heat wave is predicted during the day as the maximum temperature is likely to settle around 41 degrees Celsius, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said. As the monsoon continued to play truant, Delhi on Monday recorded the first heat wave this summer season with the mercury soaring to 43 degrees Celsius, the highest so far this year. A severe heat wave seared Lodhi Road, Ridge and Pusa areas, where the mercury soared to 42.6 degrees Celsius, 43.4 degrees Celsius and 44.3 degrees Celsius, respectively, seven notches above the average temperature. Najafgarh (44.4 degrees Celsius), Pitampura (44.3 degrees Celsius) and Mungeshpur (44.3 degrees Celsius) also reeled under a severe heat wave. For the plains, a "heat wave" is declared when the maximum temperature is more than 40 degrees Celsius, and at least 4.5 notches above normal. A "severe" heat wave is declared if departure from normal temperature is more than 6.5 degrees Celsius, according to the IMD. Usually, the capital witnesses heat waves till June 20 and cooler temperatures thereafter. The increase in the maximum temperature this time can be attributed to the delay in the arrival of the monsoon, Srivastava said. There has been no rainfall in the last three days and warm westerly winds are blowing across a major part of northwest India, which has not been covered by the monsoon yet, he said. After arriving two days late in Kerala, the monsoon had raced across the country, covering eastern, central and adjoining northwest India seven to 10 days earlier than normal. The meteorological office had earlier predicted that the wind system may reach Delhi by June 15, which would have been 12 days early. However, westerly winds have been blocking its advance into Delhi, parts of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Punjab and Haryana. Normally, monsoon reaches Delhi by June 27 and covers the entire country by July 8. Last year, the wind system had reached Delhi on June 25 and covered the entire country by June 29. The wind system is not likely to cover the remaining part of northwest India, including Delhi, Haryana, parts of west Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and west Rajasthan in the next six to seven days, the IMD said. The last time the monsoon arrived so late in Delhi was on July 7 in 2012.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-20
30-06-2021||India||Brazil suspends Bharat Biotech's Covaxin order over graft allegations||The Brazilian government, which agreed to purchase 20 million doses of Bharat Biotechs COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin, on Wednesday announced suspension of the contract following allegations of irregularities in the deal. "By recommendation of @CGUonline, we decided to temporarily suspend the Covaxin contract. "According to CGU's preliminary analysis, there are no irregularities in the contract, but, due to compliance, the @minsaude opted to suspend the contract for further analysis," Brazil Health Minister Marcelo Queiroga tweeted. The Covaxin contract to Brazil landed in controversy after the South American country's Attorney General reportedly launched a probe into the deal. "It is noteworthy that the @govbr did not pay ANY CENT for the Covaxin vaccine. The measure does not compromise the pace of the vaccination campaign against #Covid19 in Brazil, since there is no approval from Anvisa for emergency or definitive use of the immunizing agent," Queiroga said in another tweet. Reacting to the development, Bharat Biotech in a statement emphatically denied any wrongdoing and said, "In the specific case of procurement of Covaxin by the Ministry of Health, Brazil, since the first meetings during Nov 2020 until June 29, a step-by-step approach has been followed towards contracts, and regulatory approvals, during this eight-month-long process." "EUA received on June 4. As of June 29, Bharat Biotech has not received any advance payments nor supplied any vaccines to MOH Brazil. Bharat Biotech has followed a similar approach towards contracts, regulatory approvals and supplies in several countries worldwide, where Covaxin is being supplied successfully," it added. The Hyderabad-based drug maker said reports in the media over the past few weeks had "misrepresented" the procurement process of Covaxin in Brazil and other countries. "The procurement process for COVID-19 vaccines and several vaccines for routine immunization follow a common process which is widely accepted, and established in Industry,"  it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-20
30-06-2021||India||India logs almost 46,000 fresh Covid cases, 817 casualties in a day||India logged 45,951 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,03,62,848, while daily fatalities remained below 1,000 for the third consecutive day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll rose to 3,98,454 with 817 fresh fatalities, the lowest in 81 days. According to the data published at 7 am, cumulatively 33.28 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive. The active cases further declined to 5,37,064 comprising 1.77 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.92 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. As many as 19,60,757 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 41,01,00,044 while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.34 per cent. It has been less than five per cent for 23 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.69 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 48th consecutive day.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,94,27,330 and the case fatality rate stands at 1.31 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 817 new fatalities include 231 from Maharashtra, 118 from Tamil Nadu and 104 from Karnataka. A total of 3,98,454 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,21,804 from Maharashtra, 34,929 from Karnataka, 32,506 from Tamil Nadu, 24,971 from Delhi, 22,577 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,679 from West Bengal and 16,033 from Punjab. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-20
30-06-2021||India||Cylinder blast in Delhi kills four, probe initiated||Four people including a woman died following a cylinder blast at a house in Farsh Bazaar area of Shahdara on Wednesday, Delhi Fire Service (DFS) officials said. A call about the blast was received at around 12.15 am on Tuesday night after which nine fire tenders were rushed to the spot, they said. A portion of the roof of the house collapsed due to the explosion, according to officials. "A fire broke out in a house due to leakage in the LPG gas cylinder resulting in death of four people due to smoke inhalation while another person sustained 25 per cent burn injuries and was shifted to Hedgewar hospital through CATS," DFS Director Atul Garg said. Munni Devi (45), Naresh (22), Omprakash (20), and Suman (18) died in the incident while Lal Chand (29) sustained burn injuries, officials said. An enquiry has been initiated in the matter, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-20
30-06-2021||India||Centre's failure to set up migrant database 'unpardonable': SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday termed as “unpardonable” the Centre’s “apathy and lackadaisical attitude” towards creating a national database for unorganised workers, the worst sufferers of the pandemic, and said the labour ministry was “not alive to the concerns of the migrant workers”. The court pointed out that the Centre had failed to set up a National Database for Unorganised Workers (NDUW) despite directives as far back as August 21, 2018. Such a database is central to the identification of migrant and unorganised workers who are in need of rations and to the distribution of benefits among them. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and M.R. Shah directed that the portal must be in place by July 31. The court issued directives on making available adequate rations, including foodgrains, and running community kitchens for migrant workers. “When the unorganised workers are waiting for registration and are waiting to reap the benefits of various welfare schemes of the states and the Centre, the apathy and lackadaisical attitude by the ministry of labour and employment is unpardonable. There was urgency in the portal to be finalised and implemented looking to the pandemic and the dire need of unorganised workers to receive the benefit,” the court said. “The attitude of the ministry of labour and employment in not completing the module (database) even though directed as early as on 21.08.2018 shows that the ministry is not alive to the concerns of the migrant workers and the non-action of the ministry is strongly disapproved,” the bench added. It directed the secretary, ministry of labour and employment, to ensure that the portal is finalised and launched before July 31. “Let the secretary of the ministry of labour and employment file a report to that effect within a period of one month thereafter,” Justice Bhushan, who authored the judgment, said. The court was dealing with a batch of applications from the NGO Bandhua Mukti Morcha and social activists Anjali Bharadwaj, Harsh Mander and Jagdeep Chhokar on the plight of migrant and unorganised workers facing severe hardships, including starvation, because of the pandemic and the restrictions. “We have noticed… that several states have stated in their affidavits that they are waiting for the module to be provided by the ministry of labour and employment to proceed further with the registration of unorganised workers,” the apex court said. The bench said registration was essential to provide access to the migrant workers to different schemes of the Centre and the states. It noted that although the court had passed relevant directives in August 2018 in another matter on the strict implementation of the National Food Security Act, they had not been implemented so far. At that time, the court had told the labour and employment ministry to provide the module to all states and Union Territories for registering migrant and unorganised workers, but it was yet to be done. “We impress upon the central government as well as the states and Union Territories to complete the portal for registration under the National Database for Unorganised Workers project as well as implement the same, which by all means may commence not later than 31.07.2021,” the top court said. “We make it clear that after registration is complete, the correction and updating of the data should be always possible and which is part of the process. It is only after registration of the workers that the states and the Centre shall be able to extend the benefits of the welfare schemes to them. “Prior to that unless the registration is complete, tall claims by all the states and Union Territories that they have implemented various welfare schemes for the migrant workers and unorganised workers remain only on paper without giving any benefit to unorganised workers,” Justice Bhushan said. The bench declined to entertain the Centre’s contention that it had allocated over Rs 45 crore for the portal but the process was underway with the National Information Centre, which is providing technical help for the project. The court noted the allocation was made by the government only this year whereas the directions had been passed close to three years ago. “We have noticed that this court as early as on 21.08.2018 had directed the ministry of labour and employment to make available a module to the states/Union Territories for the purpose of registration. “No exception can be taken to the central government deciding to create the NDUW portal for facilitating the states and Union Territories to register so that the National Database of Unorganised Workers may become available. A statement is made… that the NIC has been required to develop a portal for which an amount of Rs 45.39 crore has been released in the month of January/February 2021,” Justice Bhushan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-20
30-06-2021||India||Nobody can forget the night oxygen ran out ||At 9.45pm, alarms blared across the intensive care unit of Jaipur Golden Hospital. Over two dozen patients on ventilators couldn’t breathe. Some flailed their arms and legs. Others cried for help, choking sounds coming from their throats as if they were being strangled. Mechanics sprinted to the maintenance room to see what was wrong. Nurses grabbed small plastic pumps to fill the lungs of critically ill patients by hand. It wasn’t enough. Jaipur Golden, a respected hospital in Delhi, had run out of medical oxygen. Over the next seven hours, 21 coronavirus patients died. “Nobody can forget that night,” said Shaista Nigar, the hospital’s nursing superintendent. “It was a total breakdown.” Across India, amid a devastating second wave of Covid-19, hospitals ran out of beds and critical supplies, contributing to the deaths of untold thousands of people and worsening an already tragic outbreak. India’s leaders knew the country was vulnerable. Yet the Narendra Modi government and local officials alike failed to prepare for the second wave, according to interviews and a review of government documents by The New York Times. India is a major producer of compressed oxygen. But the Indian government moved too late to distribute supplies. State governments feuded over oxygen and seized tankers, creating bottlenecks and delays. When tight supplies and government missteps led oxygen to run out at Jaipur Golden, some families said the hospital offered no warning. Without a comprehensive coronavirus plan, Modi’s government has left much of the burden to states, cities, hospitals and even individuals. The oxygen crisis tragically revealed the limits of a do-it-yourself approach. That approach will be tested again. Though infections have dropped, a vaccine shortage puts India at risk of a third wave. Without adequate preparations, the second wave’s tragedies could return. “With an effective surge plan,” said Robert Matiru, a director at Unitaid, a health initiative affiliated with the World Health Organisation, “this could have been averted.” Anuradha Bansal had a 102-degree fever when she checked into Jaipur Golden on April 13. A veteran schoolteacher, Bansal had tested positive for Covid-19, along with her husband, Atul, and their two daughters. Jaipur Golden had a good reputation. A four-storey private hospital, it offered specialities like orthopaedics and paediatric gastroenterology. Its motto was “We Care… With Care”. But Anuradha was shocked by the crowds filling Jaipur Golden and other hospitals in Delhi. Sick people packed the reception area, some leaning against the walls. In her Covid-19 ward, she said, extra beds had been squeezed in. Atul, a lawyer, was lying on his back in the ICU down the hall, a plastic oxygen mask strapped to his face. He had been healthy for his 54 years, a strong swimmer who could hold his breath for minutes and ate a wholesome diet of beans, whole grain flour and yoghurt. Though the tragic experiences of other places, like Egypt, showed what happens when oxygen runs out, India was still unprepared. By April 20, Jaipur Golden was overstretched and undersupplied. “My father was seething from inside,” said Rohit Gupta, a sales manager in Delhi whose father, Satish Kumar Gupta, had been admitted to the ICU in early April. Rohit said his father soiled the bed because nobody helped him go to the bathroom. Rohit said his father cried out: “Take me away from here.” The hospital declined to comment. On April 23,  all 250 beds were full. Outside the emergency room, patients slumped in wheelchairs waited to be admitted. Seema Awasthi, a school principal from north Delhi, was propped up on her ICU bed, a ventilator feeding her lungs. At 8.45am, she sent a text to her family: “I have to be fine soon. Trying to be strong.” That same morning, Modi huddled with the chief ministers of India’s 10 hardest-hit states. “We fear a big tragedy may happen due to the oxygen shortage and we will never be able to forgive ourselves,” Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal told him on the video call. Jaipur Golden typically received its daily oxygen shipment by 5pm, said Dr D.K. Baluja, its medical director. This time, though, the truck didn’t appear. At Inox, an oxygen supply company, nobody picked up the phone. Contacted by The Times, Inox said it distributed oxygen “as per government of Delhi’s instructions”. Delhi officials said they would supply records for April 23 but then did not. At 7pm, Dr Baluja called Delhi’s oxygen command centre. Officials said they had none. Jaipur Golden was nearly out. But employees and families said they had not been told. Some family members said they would have sought canisters on Delhi’s streets had they known. Around 7pm, Anuradha was summoned to the ICU. Her husband, Atul, had suffered a heart attack. The oxygen levels on his ventilator were fluctuating. He was writhing in his bed, gasping for air. “I couldn’t bear to watch,” she said. She left. At 9.45pm, ventilator alarms rang across the ICU. The oxygen was gone. Dr Baluja later said that Jaipur Golden had a backup system of 50 oxygen cylinders. That ran out, too, he said. At 10.28pm, Ruchika Gupta telephoned from Amsterdam to check on her father, Satish Kumar Gupta. Right after the phone was answered, the receiver was put down. “Hello? Hello?” Ruchika asked. In the background, she could hear the ding-ding of the ventilator alarms and someone muttering “Hari Om, Hari Om, Hari Om”, invoking God. “My father was probably dying at that moment,” Ruchika said. Rohit Gupta, her brother, arrived at Jaipur Golden around 11.30pm. It was chaos, he said. People dashed in carrying oxygen cylinders. Distraught relatives threatened to kill doctors. One man paced around shouting: “I will not leave these doctors alone if something happens to my mother!” Two tankers arrived close to midnight: a large one from Inox, seven hours late, and a smaller one from the Delhi government. For 21 patients — Atul Bansal, Satish Kumar Gupta, Seema Awasthi, Atul Kapoor, Raj Kumar Gupta, Gurinder Singh, Parvinder Singh, Delphin Massey, Manohar Lal and 12 others — it was too late. The next morning, Dr Baluja appeared on television, weeping. “They were my patients. They were my responsibility. They came on the faith of Dr Baluja to Jaipur Golden Hospital,” he said. “And where did I put my faith? The government of India. Delhi government.” Jaipur Golden, now facing a lawsuit from several families, declined to comment further. Many of the families blame national, local and hospital officials for the deaths. Several are demanding a criminal investigation. Anuradha keeps a portrait of her husband by her bedside. “I miss him at every living moment,” she said. “They killed him.” New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-20
30-06-2021||India||SC asks Centre to provide adequate food and rations to migrants||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Centre to set up a national database for unorganised and migrant workers by July and also ensure that they receive adequate food and rations. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and M.R. Shah passed the following directions while disposing of a batch of applications filed by the NGO Bandhua Mukti Morcha and others seeking relief for unorganised sector workers and migrant labourers: ⚫ The Centre and the states must develop the National Database for Unorganised Workers portal in consultation with the National Informatics Centre for the registration of unorganised labourers and migrant workers at the earliest but not later than July 31. ⚫ All states, Union Territories, licence holders and contractors must cooperate with the Centre to complete the registration so that the benefits of the welfare schemes are available to migrant workers and unorganised labourers. ⚫ The ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution has to allocate and distribute food grains according to the demand from the states for additional dry rations for disbursement among migrant labourers. ⚫ The states must put in place by July 31 a scheme for the distribution of dry rations among migrant labourers and are free to ask for additional grains from the Centre. The scheme may be continued till the pandemic persists. ⚫ The states that have not yet implemented the one nation, one ration card scheme have been directed to do so by July 31. The Centre pointed out that Bengal, Delhi, Assam and Chhattisgarh have not put in place the scheme, which makes free rations available at the place of work. ⚫ The Centre may undertake an exercise under Section 9 of the National Food Security Act, 2013, to re-determine the total number of people to be covered under the rural and urban areas, respectively. ⚫ All states and Union Territories have to register all establishments and grant licences to all labour contractors under the law and ensure that the contractors fulfil their statutory duty of submitting the particulars of migrant workers hired by them. ⚫ The states and Union Territories have been directed to run community kitchens at places where there are a large number of migrant labourers, who do not have sufficient means to procure two meals a day. The kitchens must be run as long as the pandemic continues. The top court referred to the worldwide awareness of the right to food and said the fundamental right to life under Article 21 may include this right as well. “There has been worldwide awareness regarding right to food to human beings. Our country is no exception. Lately, all governments have been taking steps… to ensure that no human being should be affected by hunger and no one dies of hunger. The basic concept of food security globally is to ensure that all people, at all times, should get access to the basic food for their active and healthy life,” the court said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-20
30-06-2021||India||India airs weaponised drone worry at United Nations General Assembly||India on Monday flagged the use of weaponised drones for terrorist activities at the United Nations General Assembly, stating that they provide an easy-to-use low-cost option to extremists. This effort to draw attention to the use of drones by terrorists came a day after two low-intensity blasts hit the Indian Air Force station at Jammu airport that police suspect were the first attacks on Indian soil by unmanned aerial vehicles and had been carried out by militants. Speaking at the second high-level conference of the Head of Counter-Terrorism Agencies of the Member States, special secretary (internal security) in the home ministry, V.S.K. Kaumudi, described drones as an add-on to the existing worries vis-à-vis terrorism. He, however, made no mention of the incident in Jammu. “Being a low-cost option and easily available, utilisation of these aerial/sub-surface platforms for sinister purposes by terrorist groups such as intelligence collection, weapon/explosives delivery and targeted attacks have become an imminent danger and challenge for security agencies worldwide. The possibility of the use of weaponised drones for terrorist purposes against strategic and commercial assets call for serious attention by the member states. We have witnessed terrorists using UAS (unmanned aircraft systems) to smuggle weapons across borders,’’ he said. Last week, national security adviser Ajit Doval had also stressed the need to monitor new technologies used by terrorists including drones for smuggling weapons and misuse of the dark web, artificial intelligence, blockchain and social media. The possible use of drones by terrorists had also been raised in Parliament by Opposition members through various questions over the past couple of years. This was pointed out by Congress media communications chief Randeep Surjewala while demanding a comprehensive policy on tackling terrorism. Stating that the Congress stands with the government on issues of terrorism, he wanted to know if the ruling dispensation was aware of Pakistan’s ISI and terror groups using Chinese hexacopters and drones to drop arms across the border. In the last question asked about drones in the Lok Sabha in September 2020, the home ministry had said necessary guidelines — including measures to be taken by the Union and state governments — had been issued in consultation with security agencies to counter the threat of drones. Further, the Lok Sabha was informed that the ministry of civil aviation and the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) regulate the operation of drones in the country. On August 22, 2018, the DGCA had notified the Civil Aviation Requirements for civil use of Remotely Piloted Aircraft Systems, laying down the norms for the import, sale and operation of drones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-20
30-06-2021||India||Parliament monsoon session likely to be held on schedule  ||The nearly month-long monsoon session of Parliament is likely to be held on schedule, beginning from July 19, despite the Covid-19 pandemic. The Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs led by defence minister Rajnath Singh has recommended the monsoon session be held from July 19 to August 13, sources said. The monsoon session of Parliament usually commences in the third week of July and concludes before Independence Day. A fall in Covid cases in the country and a good number of MPs and Parliament staff getting vaccinated has led the government to go for a normal session to clear many pending bills and ordinances, sources said. So far, 403 members out of the Lok Sabha’s total strength of 540 and 179 out of 232 Rajya Sabha MPs have received both doses of the vaccine. Some MPs have not received the second dose as they got infected with Covid after the first jab. The normal functioning of Parliament has been affected because of the pandemic since March last year. The budget and monsoon sessions last year and this year’s budget session had to be wrapped up early because of Covid. Last year, the winter session had to be foregone because of the pandemic. The upcoming monsoon session is likely to have 20 sittings in all and is set to be stormy with the Opposition seeking to corner the government over mismanagement of the pandemic, vaccinations and the economic crisis. This will be the first session post the recent bunch of Assembly polls in which the BJP faced a drubbing in Bengal. The results will strengthen the Opposition’s attack on the government. Covid protocols, however, will be in place with no visitors allowed in the galleries and strict screening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-20
30-06-2021||India||Covid: India approves US-based Moderna vaccine||India has approved the Covid-19 vaccine from the US-based Moderna, allowing its imports and entry into the vaccination campaign, a senior health official announced on Tuesday. However, the vaccine maker’s Indian partner declined comment for now on timelines and doses. The apex regulatory authority for drugs and vaccines has approved an application received from Cipla, Moderna’s Indian partner, for emergency use authorisation of the vaccine, said Vinod Paul, the chair of an expert panel guiding the Centre on its Covid-19 vaccination policy. “Our vaccine basket is now richer by this addition… this potentially opens up a clear likelihood of the vaccine being imported into India,” Paul said. “Let’s wait and see how this opportunity will be used for imports of the vaccine into the country.” This is the fourth Covid-19 vaccine approved in India — after Covishield, Covaxin and Russia’s Sputnik V. It is the first one approved under a relaxed regulatory regime allowing the emergency use authorisation of vaccines approved by select foreign agencies without clinical trials in India. The Moderna vaccine that has 94 per cent efficacy against Covid-19 infections and 100 per cent efficacy against severe disease has already received emergency, conditional, or provisional approval in over 50 countries and an emergency use listing from the World Health Organisation. Many countries — the US, the UK, the EU, Israel, Japan, and others — had signed advance supply pacts with Moderna between August and December 2020, a period during which Indian health officials were entirely focused on the domestically-produced vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin. A query sent by this newspaper to Cipla asking about possible timelines for the imports, the number of doses likely available to India during this year, and distribution mechanisms has not evoked a response. A spokesperson representing Cipla said it would respond “as soon as possible”. While Moderna and Cipla have not yet announced a price tag for the vaccine in India, a UN agency document with prices of different vaccines has listed the Moderna vaccine’s lowest price at $15 (Rs 1,115) per dose and its highest price at $34.50 (Rs 2,564) per dose in high-income countries. Health experts believe the Moderna vaccine, when imported, is intended to be made available through private hospitals just as Covaxin, Covishield and Sputnik V for those willing to pay for the vaccines. For comparison, Covishield costs Rs 600, Covaxin Rs 1,200 and Sputnik V about Rs 900 at private centres. Public health experts tracking global vaccine supplies say the Moderna vaccine is in the near future likely to play a limited role in India’s vaccination campaign given its commitments to other markets. Moderna had by mid-June, for instance, supplied 217 million doses to the US government which has a confirmed order of 500 million doses. The company had said in February it was working to supply up to one billion doses worldwide during 2021. The Moderna vaccine is based on a novel mRNA platform that requires the vaccine to be stored at minus 20 degrees Celsius for periods up to seven months. But the vaccine may be stored at 2 to 8 degrees Celsius, the normal vaccine cold chain, for 30 days. The approval by India’s Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation allows the vaccine to be imported for use in adults 18 years or older. “The approval is for import of ready-to-inject vaccines, but we hope in the future the company will consider manufacturing in India,” Paul said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-21
30-06-2021||India||Tejashwi Prasad Yadav predicts  fall of Nitish Kumar-led government||Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav has again claimed that the Nitish Kumar-led National Democratic Alliance government in Bihar would fall and asked his Rashtriya Janata Dal legislators to be prepared for such an eventuality “This is Bihar where four governments were formed in four years. Anything could happen over the next two to three months. The NDA government could fall. You all should stay prepared for it,” Tejashwi told RJD legislators during a marathon meeting at the 10 Circular Road residence of his mother and former chief minister Rabri Devi in Patna on Monday evening. “There is a need for all of you to stand steadfast with the people. The future is yours. You must understand that everything is possible in politics,” the RJD leader and former deputy chief minister said while hinting that the Grand Alliance of the RJD, Congress and the Left parties may come to power in the state. The meeting was called to discuss the future course of action, as well as chalk out plans to celebrate the 25th foundation day of the RJD on July 5. Party chief Lalu Prasad is expected to address the foundation day programme virtually from Delhi. Tejashwi said the public have seen that the ruling dispensation in the state was a failure and has harboured no hope on it. He asserted that his party’s MLAs should fill the vacuum and termed Nitish “a fake socialist” who had nothing to do with the welfare of the people.Tejashwi’s comments come after his visit to his constituency Raghopur in Vaishali district last week where he told the people that Lalu was coming back to Patna soon and the Nitish-led government will topple in three months. The imminent return of Lalu, currently the tallest leader in the state, after an absence of over three years, coupled with the continuous bickering among the NDA partners, have led to speculation about the future of the Nitish government, which is in power with a thin majority. The RJD is the largest party in the Legislative Assembly with 75 MLAs and leads the Opposition alliance that has 110 legislators. The NDA has 126 MLAs and the support of an Independent legislator in the 243-member House. Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM has five MLAs but is not part of the two alliances, while one seat is vacant. Numerically, any party or alliance with 122 MLAs can form the government. However, the current situation is such that a shift of just a few legislators or their resignation can tilt the balance of power. NDA partners — Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular and Vikassheel Insan Party — with four MLAs each, keep voicing discordant notes frequently and could become a cause for concern. Tejashwi’s assertions have stirred a hornet’s nest with the NDA leaders attacking him for resorting to such statements to save his own party. “He (Tejashwi) is trying to save his own flock. Hence he is spreading propaganda about friction and split in other parties. He is trying to keep his MLAs united using it,” BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand said. JDU spokesperson and former minister Neeraj Kumar said the RJD legislators were thoroughly disenchanted with Tejashwi and were not going to believe his forecasts about the fall of the NDA government, which he has been making for several months. On the other hand, Congress leaders said there was no need to try to break the NDA or its constituent parties.“The BJP and the JDU are already facing trouble due to internal friction and fights. Nobody has to make any effort to break them. They are going to implode,” Congress leader Harkhu Jha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-21
30-06-2021||India||Ignou's Jyotish course faces backlash from scientists||Several scientists have closed ranks to accuse Indira Gandhi National Open University (Ignou) of promoting “pseudoscience” after the institute last week launched a postgraduate programme in astrology to make students “employable in the field of jyotish”. The master’s degree programme in jyotish (MAJY), launched by the Centre-run Ignou on June 24, will be conducted through the distance mode, as are its other courses. More than 1,000 scientists and academics have already signed a note that acknowledges India’s rich tradition of mathematical astronomy dating back to the Vedic period. “However, these achievements cannot and should not be used as a proxy to justify claims that the positions of the planets somehow have an impact on anyone’s daily life, or instruments like horoscopes can actually predict anyone’s future,” the note said. “It has been conclusively proven through numerous scientific studies around the world that phal-jyotish or astrology has no logical basis and the claimed successes do not stand statistical scrutiny,” the scientists’ note added. After more signatures are collected, the group of scientists will approach the three national science academies, urging them to issue a statement against the study of astrology. The scientists pointed out that the last time a concerted push was made to introduce astrology in academics was in 2001, when a BJP government under Atal Bihari Vajpayee was in place. Since then, several universities have been offering postgraduate courses in astrology. Aniket Sule, a signatory to the note and associate professor at the Homi Bhabha Centre for Science Education, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai, said astrology was yet to produce any evidence that could justify its positioning as a branch of knowledge. “When Murli Manohar Joshi was the human resource development minister, the first big attempt was made to promote this pseudoscience in institutions. Now it is again getting importance. This is happening because either there is a nudge from the government to institutions or some institution heads are taking such measures to please the government,” Sule told The Telegraph. Higher education regulator University Grants Commission had in February 2001 issued a notification to universities seeking a proposal for starting courses on “Jyotir Vigyan” (Vedic astrology) as a science course. The UGC had also suggested the introduction of “Karmakanda” as a vocational subject. Many universities started these courses. “We will seek the intervention of the UGC to stop universities from offering courses in astrology,” Sule said. Ignou vice-chancellor Nageshwar Rao said the university started the astrology course as part of its efforts to promote the Indian knowledge system, as suggested by the BJP government’s new National Education Policy. “The NEP has laid emphasis on the Indian knowledge system. This course will promote the Indian knowledge system. What we are doing is not new. Many universities had already started this much before us. The UGC has a paper on this in the National Eligibility Test,” he said. The NET is held to determine eligibility for the post of assistant professor and also for the award of Junior Research Fellowship in universities and colleges. Rao said the astrology course would not spread any blind beliefs or superstitions. Analysing the astrology courses offered by several universities, the scientists and academics have found that the teaching of traditional methods of mathematical astronomy constituted only a minor part. These courses are pandering to the “pseudoscience” of astrology and not focusing on the real history of Indian astronomy, the scientists feel. The note said it was time for the scientifically minded citizenry to raise their voices against “unscientific” pursuits such as astrology. The signatories include Soumitro Banerjee and Prof. Dibyendu Nandi from the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Calcutta; S. Krishnaswamy from Madurai Kamraj University; Nissim Kanekar of the National Centre for Radio Astrophysics-Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Pune; and S.G. Dani from the Centre for Excellence in Basic Science, Mumbai. Rationalist Sudesh Ghoderao, the secretary of the Maharashtra Andhashraddha Nirmoolan Samiti (MANS) and a faculty member of Bytco College, Nashik, said universities offering courses in astrology would only help the practice gain legitimacy in society. Ghoderao said the NEP’s stress on the Indian knowledge system was encouraging institutions to start courses in areas that had no scientific basis. He said it would have been better had Ignou started courses on health and hygiene during the pandemic. Chandramauli Upadhyaya, retired faculty member of jyotish at Banaras Hindu University, said the department had been there since the inception of the university in 1916. He asked the critics to present their specific objections to astrology. “We predict based on planetary positions. This gives 70 per cent success rate. Even modern medical science does not give 100 per cent success. Still if they have any specific objections, they must tell us,” Upadhyaya said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-21
30-06-2021||India||Gauri Lankesh murder case:  Sister moves SC against key accused||The sister of Gauri Lankesh has moved the Supreme Court for restoring charges that include the death penalty provision against a key accused in the 2017 murder of the journalist and trenchant critic of the Right-wing brand of Hindutva. Karnataka High Court had quashed the organised crime charge against the accused, Mohan Nayak, in April this year. The BJP-led government in the state — the prosecuting agency — has so far chosen not to challenge the high court order. The state government’s inaction has compelled Kavitha Lankesh, the younger sister of Gauri, to move a special leave petition in the Supreme Court. On Tuesday, the apex court issued notice to the Karnataka government. Gauri was shot dead in front of her home in Bangalore on September 5, 2017. She used to run the Kannada weekly Gauri Lankesh Patrike in Bangalore. Nayak, the 53-year-old accused, was originally booked by Bangalore police under sections of the Karnataka Control of Organised Crime Act (KCOCA) that entail punishments of either life imprisonment or the death penalty. The charges under the KCOCA were quashed by the high court. On Tuesday, a Supreme Court bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Aniruddha Bose sought the response of the Karnataka government after senior advocate Huzefa Ahmadi, appearing for Kavitha, complained that the high court had on April 22 committed a “grave error” by striking down the charges under the KCOCA. In her petition filed through advocate Aparna Bhat, Kavitha submitted that she was constrained to move the special leave petition on her own as she was “greatly aggrieved by the impugned order and is therefore, approaching this Hon’ble Court since the state of Karnataka which is the prosecuting agency has not challenged the same”. The BJP government in Karnataka came to power in 2019. The petitioner said that the Bangalore police commissioner had on August 14, 2018, granted sanction for Nayak’s prosecution under the KCOCA. The supplementary chargesheet filed by a special investigation team, set up by the Karnataka government following the furore over Gauri’s murder, had also invoked KCOCA Sections (1)(i), 3(2), 3(3) and 3(4) against Nayak. The SIT arrested Nayak in July 2018. The SIT had unearthed details of Nayak’s close links with Right-wing organisations such as the Sanathan Sanstha, which was how he met another key conspirator in the case, Amol Kale from Pune. The two knew each other since 2016. The SIT had said the accused were involved in organised crimes as a syndicate, thus attracting the provisions of the KCOCA, Kavitha’s petition pointed out. It was submitted that the investigation had found that Nayak had provided shelter to the suspects before and after Gauri’s murder and had also participated in a series of conspiracies — abetting, planning and providing logistics. “Therefore, he is involved in ‘continuous unlawful activity’,” Kavitha’s appeal said. Parashuram Waghmare, who gunned down Gauri, had also allegedly stayed with Nayak at least once.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-21
30-06-2021||West Bengal|| Mamata opens credit window for students, but warns of fraudsters||Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee launched one of her biggest welfare schemes, easy credit for students, on Wednesday but used the occasion to caution the youth against fraudsters, particularly those that use the internet to dupe people, at a time when her government is being targeted by the Opposition BJP for a recently unearthed fake vaccine racket. “Look at the vaccine scam. It had nothing to do with the state government, it was an isolated case,” Mamata said, while launching the student credit card scheme, the latest among welfare programmes promised before the elections, which would entitle students to soft loans for higher education. “When the attack on Parliament took place, the vehicle used had a logo of the Parliament. Government logos are copied and used. These things happen,” she said alluding to the prime accused who was impersonating as an officer of the Calcutta Corporation while organising fake vaccination camps, all the while armed with forged documents to prove his "official" credentials. Debanjan Deb, the prime accused who has been arrested with a few of his accomplices, went around the city conducting raids, distributing masks, seeking funds for projects from contractors while posing as an IAS officer. He had photographs and his name engraved in foundation stones with the who’s who of the Trinamul Congress. All of which have contributed to the embarrassment to Mamata and her government. Mamata’s comments on Wednesday came hours after the Calcutta High Court’s acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal questioned the state government. “Even if he had been an IAS officer could he have moved around with a blue beacon in his car? He moved around as a joint commissioner of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. What was the municipal commissioner doing? How could he not identify the person?” asked the acting chief justice . Mamata, however, defended her government and party, saying none could be blamed. “Many people ask for selfies. I refuse sometimes. No one knows how the photographs will be used. I am sitting in the first row of an aircraft and the photos are getting clicked from row 20. These things are happening,” she said. Mamata reminded state education minister Bratya Basu that the education department would have to take complete responsibility of the students' credit card scheme and monitor the process. “The communication code for the system should only be known to two persons and they will be held responsible if anything goes wrong,” she said. Under the scheme, a student of Class X or higher can avail a soft loan of up to Rs 10 lakh to pursue higher studies in schools, colleges, institutes in Bengal, other states and, also, abroad."No guarantor is needed for this loan. The state will stand guarantee," Mamata said at an online press conference. Any applicant can avail the facility till the age of 40. The loan would have to be repaid in 15 years. “There are many who were forced to take a break from studies for personal reasons but would like to get a second chance. This scheme will offer that,” said Mamata. “Undergraduates, post-graduates, doctoral and post-doctoral students in India and abroad can avail of a total of Rs 10 lakh as loan.” The Bengal government is among the first to offer a student credit card. Bihar is in the process of organising one. Currently, credit cards for students are only offered by some private banks, including ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-6
30-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt's aircraft search prompts Suvendu's 'pushpak rath' sneer at Mamata||The West Bengal government’s search for an aircraft operator, with the offer of an assured 45 hours of flying every month, has raised questions on the necessity of such expenditure for a cash-strapped government with Opposition leader Suvendu Adhikari coming out with a caustic tweet on Wednesday. The West Bengal Infrastructure Development Corporation had floated the tender for hiring the fixed-wing aircraft on June 11 with earnest money is fixed at Rs 10 lakh. Among the requirements listed by WBIDC are: the firm should have a minimum of five-year experience of operating a fixed-wing twin-engine aircraft with a minimum capacity of 8-10 passengers, the aircraft has to be an air-conditioned, pressurised super mid-size aircraft like a Falcon- 2000 with stand-up cabin space and be capable of flying any distance within India. The tender document mentions that the aircraft should be equipped for meeting standards of use by a VIP. “Pushpak Rath for (self-proclaimed) PM??? Dissatisfied with the helicopter's range, the process of acquiring a 10 seater airplane has been initiated. Convenient for whimsical crisscrossing of the entire country for upcoming Lok Sabha poll campaigning? On Govt expenses?” tweeted Adhikari, the BJP leader who held the transport department when he was a minister in the Mamata Banerjee government. The chief minister, who often speaks about her austere lifestyle and is known for being a frugal eater, is, however, showing an inclination to travel like her counterparts in Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat. In 2016, the Bengal government had floated a tender for an aircraft with a capacity of seven to nine passengers for a period of five years. Sources said the Bengal government pays Rs 70 lakh per month to the Delhi-based agency which had received the contract. The aircraft was lying idle for the most part of 2020 after the pandemic-induced lockdown was imposed while the state paid for it. The decision to get the aircraft in 2016 was taken after Mamata found travel by rail and road cumbersome when she used to frequent the districts, especially in North Bengal. More Opposition leaders spoke out against the Bengal government's desire for an aircraft. "When the state is going through a financial crisis such expenses are meaningless. Problem is neither Pisi (Mamata) nor Bhaipo (Trinamul all India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee) are comfortable staying on the ground," said Sujan Chakraborty, CPM central committee member. "There is a competition between Modi and Mamata on who can waste more public money. People are watching this competition," said Abdul Mannan, veteran Congress leader. In September 2011, Mamata after returning from North Bengal had complained of a conspiracy when the flight she was in could not land for around 30 minutes. Five years later, in December 2016 Mamata claimed another conspiracy to eliminate her after the flight she was in could not land at the Calcutta airport. In April 2019, during the run-up to the Lok Sabha polls, Mamata’s chopper lost its way near the Bangladesh border and took 55 minutes to cover a 22-minutes journey from Siliguri to Chopra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-6
30-06-2021||West Bengal||Centre seeks report from Bengal on fake vaccination camp in Calcutta||The Union Health Ministry has asked the Bengal government to inquire into instances of Covid-19 vaccination camps being organised allegedly by unauthorised people in some areas of Calcutta and submit a report in the next two days. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan has written to Hari Krishna Dwivedi, Chief Secretary of Bengal, seeking a factual report on the matter. Bhushan referred to a letter written to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan by Suvendu Adhikari, Leader of Opposition in Bengal, on June 25 in which attention has been drawn to the instances of Covid-19 vaccination camps being organised allegedly by unauthorised people. It is also pointed out that in some of these camps, and notably in the Kasba locality of the Calcutta Municipal area, none of the beneficiaries have received any vaccination certificates generated from Co-WIN, giving rise to apprehensions about the genuineness of these vaccination camps, Bhushan said in his letter. He said as per the guidelines, all vaccination sessions for Covid-19 have to be organised through the Co-WIN portal and all vaccinations too have to be recorded on Co-WIN. Also, vaccination certificates are generated from Co-WIN after the vaccination events are successfully recorded by the vaccinators and that, these certificates are then given to the beneficiaries in digital or physical form, he said in the letter. The Centre has also advised states from time to time that vaccination certificates must be issued to beneficiaries. "Non-issuance of these certificates, therefore, does lead to the apprehension of 'fake' vaccination camps and also raises doubts on contents of injections delivered in such camps. Such instances, if not promptly enquired into and suitably addressed, may also lead to the possibility of their recurrence," Bhushan said. "It is requested that the matter may be urgently enquired into and the factual position about the serious allegations raised in the letter referred to above, clarified immediately and that, suitable and strict action may be taken in the matter, if necessary. It is also requested that a factual report on the matter may be sent to this ministry in the next two days," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-6
30-06-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court allows Mamata, state govt to file affidavit in Narada case||The Calcutta High Court on Wednesday allowed the Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to file her affidavit before it in connection with the CBI's plea for transfer of the Narada sting tapes case. The court has however fined Mamata and the TMC government Rs 5,000 for not filing the affidavit on time. As the lawyers representing Mamata, Ghatak, the state and the CBI concluded their submission, a five-judge bench of the high court headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal reserved order on their application on Tuesday, which was filed afresh following a Supreme Court direction on the matter. Advocate General Kishore Dutta for the state and senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi representing Mamata had pleaded in favour of allowing them to file the affidavits, which was earlier refused by the high court. Appearing for the CBI, Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta had opposed the prayer submitting that it cannot be allowed after he had concluded his arguments in connection with the transfer petition of the Narada sting tape case. Annulling the high court's June 9 order refusing to take reply-affidavits of the state, its chief minister and the law minister, the Supreme Court had on June 25 urged the five-judge bench to decide afresh their pleas before deciding on the CBI petition seeking transfer of the Narada case. Following the apex court's order, the state government, the chief minister and the law minister filed fresh applications on Monday for filing affidavits. Three appeals including one by the state government were filed before the top court challenging the high court's denial for filing of affidavits by Banerjee and Ghatak in their role on the day of the arrest of West Bengal ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, Trinamool Congress MLA Madan Mitra and former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee on May 17 by the CBI in the Narada sting case. The CBI has made the chief minister and the law minister parties in its transfer application of the Narada case. It claimed that while the chief minister had sat on a dharna at the CBI office here soon after the arrest of the four accused, Ghatak had been present at the Bankshall Court premises during the virtual hearing of the case before the special CBI court there on May 17. The five-judge bench of the high court, comprising ACJ Bindal and justices I P Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Arijit Banerjee had granted interim bail on May 28 to the four Narada scam accused. The special CBI court had granted them bail on May 17 itself, but the order was stayed by the high court, which remanded them to judicial custody They had been placed under house arrest on May 21 by the high court, modifying its earlier order of stay on the bail. The Narada sting operation was conducted by journalist Mathew Samuel of Narada News, a web portal, in 2014 wherein some people resembling TMC ministers, MPs and MLAs were seen receiving money from representatives of a fictitious company in lieu of favours At that time, the four arrested politicians were ministers in the Mamata Banerjee government. The sting operation was made public ahead of the 2016 Assembly elections in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-6
30-06-2021||West Bengal||Financial assistance much preferred than loan: North Bengal tourism stakeholders||Tourism stakeholders in north Bengal said financial assistance would have helped the sector rather than loans announced by the Centre for the revival of industry. While announcing stimulus for the Indian economy in New Delhi on Monday, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said working capital loans or personal loans would be provided to people associated with the tourism industry so that they could take care of liabilities and restart businesses. She said tourist guides — around 10,700 of them across India are registered with the Union tourism ministry — could apply for a loan up to Rs 1 lakh. Travel and tourism stakeholders like hotel and restaurant owners and transporters recognised by the Union tourism ministry can avail themselves of a maximum loan of Rs 10 lakh. The Centre also decided to issue free tourist visas to five lakh foreigners as part of the stimulus. Raj Basu, a veteran in the north Bengal tourism industry, said he welcomed the decision to issue free visas. “But at the same time, we would like to say most of us cannot afford to take any loan because our earnings have dropped drastically since last year. There are huge uncertainties and we really don’t know how to repay a loan,” said Basu. Samrat Sanyal, the general secretary of the Himalayan Hospitality & Tourism Development Network, underscored another point. “A guide’s earning is completely dependent on tourist inflow. When tourist inflow has stopped, how can a guide be helped by a loan of Rs 1 lakh? How will he repay it? The government should have instead thought of some financial assistance for their sustenance during the crisis,” he said. Lukendra Rasaily, the chairman of the Sikkim Tourism Development Corporation, said the Centre should have announced the relief earlier. “Had such a relief been announced during the first wave of Covid-19, it would have helped. Many would probably have taken the loan and recovered the amount during the five months of tourism activity between the first and second waves. Now that the second wave has ruined many (tourism stakeholders) completely, they are in no position to take loans. If they do, the possible third wave will sink them completely. I feel some people will still apply for loans,” said Rasaily.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-6
30-06-2021||West Bengal||TMC reiterates demand for Jagdeep Dhankhar’s removal||The Trinamul Congress on Tuesday reiterated its demand for the removal of Jagdeep Dhankhar as Bengal governor and mounted a scathing offensive on his disagreement with the state cabinet’s draft of his address to the Assembly on coming Friday. Dhankhar had said he wanted to discuss certain “discrepancies” in the draft speech with chief minister Mamata Banerjee and hoped she would call on him on Tuesday. But Mamata didn’t go to the Raj Bhavan on Tuesday. Sources in the government said she might meet the governor before his address to the House on Friday but acceding to his demands would remain “out of the question”. Trinamul spokesperson Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said the constitutionally recognised route was that the governor would be aided and advised by a council of ministers, headed by a chief minister. “He is not swayambhu (self-manifested)…. The issue at hand is between the chief minister and the governor. But these things, which should remain confined to these two foremost constitutional figures of the state, by bringing that into the public domain, the governor has violated his oath of secrecy,” Roy told a press conference. Addressing the press conference with Roy, another Trinamul spokesperson Bratya Basu said: “… prior to this, in the legislative history of India, the address for such a session drafted by a cabinet… not one governor has talked about changing the draft, adding or removing content.” Basu and Roy repeatedly stressed the “need” for Dhankhar’s removal by the Centre. “The Centre must give Bengal freedom from him,” said Basu. “He disregards his real boss, the President of India, on his Delhi trips…. He undermines the role of BJP state president here, by appropriating the mantle of the leader of the Opposition,” he added, going on to say Dhankhar was “probably” the first governor since Independence who conducts news conferences and gives interviews to privately owned media houses on his own, demanding a code of social and mainstream media conduct for governors. “He misuses Twitter, Facebook…. Naturally, the Constitution of 1950 does not specify the dos and don’ts with regard to these things, for a governor,” said the minister. “I demand before the Centre that when various governors are misusing social media, there should be a specific guideline setting the limits of gubernatorial conduct in such spaces,” said Basu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-6
30-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal reports dip in total number of active Covid-19 cases||Bengal reported the ninth straight day of a dip in total number of active Covid-19 cases, by 464 on Tuesday to 21,116. The state reported 2,024 recoveries, 1,595 new infections and 35 deaths. With Calcutta logging 131 new infections and North 24-Parganas 176, Tuesday was the second successive day since the second wave when none of Bengal’s 23 districts reported over 200 new cases. Fifteen districts reported double-digit figures in a day, Malda and Purulia single-digit figures. Of 35 deaths, seven were from Calcutta and 11 from North 24-Parganas. Thirteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Tuesday, while three others logged one each. The total of active cases had fallen till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702, from the peak of 1,32,181 on May 21. But over 11 days till June 20, it rose by over 56 per cent, before falling by over 8 per cent again over these nine days. Now, Bengal’s recovery rate is  97.41 per cent, while the national rate is 96.88. The state’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, fell to 3 per cent on Tuesday. “We are back in the driving seat,” said a minister. “There is no doubt left that we will get over the residual impact of the second wave in a matter of weeks,” said the minister. Bengal now has a total of 14.98 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was detected in March last year. It includes 14.59 lakh recoveries and 17,679 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-7
30-06-2021||West Bengal||TMC members of Hemtabad panchayat samiti seek sabhapati’s removal||Trinamul members of the Hemtabad panchayat samiti in North Dinajpur have sought the sabhapati’s removal, accusing him of nepotism and corruption. In all, 13 members of the rural body have written to the party’s district chief Kanaialal Agarwala, requesting him to remove Shekhar Roy, their party colleague and elected head of the samiti. In the 2018 panchayat polls, Trinamul bagged 14 of 15 seats in the samiti, with one seat going to the BJP. Roy was chosen as the sabhapati. “He has indulged in corruption and nepotism and sometimes worked against the party’s interests. That is why we want his removal and have sought a nod from the district president. Then, we will table a no-confidence motion against him,” said a member. Roy denied the charges. “Some (Trinamul members) try to bag contracts of jobs in Hemtabad block. It is unethical as they are elected representatives. As I object, they want to remove me. I have no problem in stepping down. I will follow the party’s orders.” Agarwala said he has forwarded the letter to the state leadership and were awaiting instructions. Six Trinamul members of a panchayat in Dinhata-I block of Cooch Behar district were expelled from the party on Tuesday. These members of Gitaldaha-II panchayat of the block had tabled a no-confidence against the Trinamul chief of the panchayat without consulting the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-7
30-06-2021||West Bengal||Kurseong Municipality rename hall dedicated to Subash Ghisingh||A sudden move by the Kurseong Municipality to allegedly rename a new community hall planned to be dedicated to Subash Ghisingh, the former supremo of the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF), has sparked a controversy in the hills. Hill Trinamul leaders have criticised the civic body where its ally Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Binay Tamang faction) is in power. The GNLF threatened a movement if the decision wasn’t revoked. Sources said in February 2017, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced that the hall, planned in Kurseong by the state government, would be named after Ghisingh. “She had also renamed Rohini Road as Subash Ghisingh Raj Marg. We thanked her for her gesture,” said Robin Lama, a GNLF central committee member in Kurseong. The state north Bengal development department sanctioned Rs 3 crore for the hall and state PWD built it as a space for cultural and other events. A few days back, the civic body had inaugurated the hall, calling it the Municipal Community Hall, a source said. Shanta Chhetri, a Rajya Sabha member of Trinamul who hails from the hills, openly aired her disappointment. “It is disappointing that civic authorities changed the hall’s name (when) the announcement was made by none other than the chief minister,” she said. The GNLF has threatened a protest from July 1 if the new name stayed on. “We appeal to the civic body to change the name immediately. If they don’t, we will launch a sit-in at the civic body from July 1. The state government’s decision can’t be changed by a civic board,” Lama said, adding they would submit a memo to the Kurseong SDO on Wednesday. Civic body members said the political parties were making a “fuss out of a non-issue”.“We inaugurated the building after state PWD told us it was ready. We will name it in an appropriate manner once we get an official communication from the state. There is no politics in it,” said Subhash Pradhan, vice-chairman of Kurseong municipality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-7
30-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata govt to probe breach of three dykes in East Midnapore||The Mamata Banerjee government is set to proceed with an inquiry into the breach of three embankments during Cyclone Yaas in East Midnapore after three specific complaints were lodged by citizens with the anti-corruption branch (ACB) of the state government. The development is considered to be significant as it could be the first case where the ACB could be allowed to conduct a full-fledged inquiry into the breach of newly constructed embankments after the chief minister recently raised questions on the issue. “I have heard that three specific complaints have been lodged with the ACB alleging corruption in construction of embankments in East Midnapore. The complaints would be processed by the ACB soon,” said a senior state government official. According to practice, the ACB will primarily find out whether the complaints have any veracity. If the complaints are found to be true, the ACB will then seek permission from the top brass of the government to proceed. “Once the permission is granted, the ACB will lodge a case and the investigation will start,” said an official. Sources in the government said the probe could bring Suvendu Adhikari, former irrigation minister and now the leader of the Opposition, and his family within its ambit. “The embankments were built between 2014 and 2017. Although Suvendu was not irrigation minister at that time, he was the most powerful leader in the district. So, his role in building the embankments could come under scanner,” a source said. Sources also said the ACB had its technical wing to conduct probe into government projects like embankments. Sources in the irrigation department said a total of 80-100km of embankment had been constructed between 2014 and 2017 in Digha and its surroundings. The entire construction was carried out following the same design. “But the embankment were breached at three places under the impact of Cyclone Yaas. Primarily, it appears there were some issues in the execution of the project at certain places. If the design was faulty, the entire embankment would have been washed away. So, there is a scope for conducting a full-fledged inquiry into the issue,” an official said. The state government has decided to strengthen the ACB to ensure that the body can probe all the complaints lodged with it against all public servants. The state government has appointed 34 sub-inspectors, three DSPs and nine inspectors in the branch. “The chief minister is eager to strengthen the ACB to ensure that all complaints coming up against the public servants can be probed in order to ensure that corruption in government schemes and projects is uprooted,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-7
30-06-2021||West Bengal||Women hit street, block road to protest transfer of cop||Over 500 residents, mostly women, of Canning in South 24-Parganas blocked a road for hours on Tuesday to protest the transfer order for inspector-in-charge of the local police station Atibur Rahaman to Kurseong. The protesters squatted on the main Canning-Baruipur Road in front of the police station early on Tuesday. Later, another group organised the blockade that held up traffic from 9am to 11am. Rahaman, a resident of Haldia, had joined the Canning police station last October after his transfer from Bankura. Local sources said Rahaman won the hearts of women in Canning by laying stress on their safety and cracking down on hooch dens. Canning subdivisional police officer Gobinda Sikdar tried to persuade the protesters to leave, but they refused, demanding Rahaman be allowed to stay on. Finally, when Rahaman requested people with folded hands to lift the blockade, they paid heed. “It is only because of his policing that women in Canning feel safe now,” said Chandrani Chakraborty, a homemaker. Lovely Halder, another protester, added: “He forced many hooch counters to close, saving many families.” Rahaman said while he respected people’s sentiments, he was a public servant and routine transfers were a part of his service life. He said the protest against his transfer was “embarrassing”. “I am afraid this could be misconstrued,” he said. “I am a duty-bound, uniformed police officer, and routine transfers are a big part of our service life.” A senior police officer of Baruipur district said a cop is a public servant, and his transfer order is issued in public interest. “It is done according to the existing provisions, and by the discretionary powers of the appropriate authority. One cannot disobey it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-7
30-06-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal Medical College and Hospital unveils post-Covid psychiatry clinic||A post-Covid psychiatry clinic has been opened at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) here to treat people suffering from recovery trauma. Nirmal Bera, the head of department of psychiatry at the NBMCH, said hospital authorities had planned to open a specialised OPD for post-Covid psychiatric care to address psychological effects of Covid-19 prevalent among a section of patients. “This is for the first time that a post-Covid psychiatric clinic has been opened in the state. The clinic has 30 beds, but there are plans to include 10 more. Apart from the OPD of the department of psychiatry where psychiatric care was given to both Covid positive and negative patients, we now have a dedicated clinic for patients suffering from mental trauma after recovering from Covid. Those who are Covid negative will continue to visit the OPD for psychiatric treatment,” Bera added. The clinic was inaugurated on Monday by Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty appointed by the state health department in north Bengal, and Rudranath Bhattacharya, NBMCH’s patient welfare committee chairman. Doctors at the NBMCH said a number of new machineries would be used at the clinic, including Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation, a non-invasive procedure that uses magnetic fields to stimulate nerve cells in the brain to improve symptoms of depression. “The psychiatry clinic will not only treat patients but will stand by their families to help them come out of the anxiety and distress,” said a doctor at the hospital. Uttam Majumder, an assistant professor at the department of psychiatry, said many patients have visited the OPD with different mental problems in the past one year. “We have seen several patients suffering from mental issues after recovering from Covid-19. This clinic will provide them proper treatment to get rid of the psychological impact of the disease,” Uttam added. In another development, a 16-bed Covid safe home was opened at the North Bengal Dental College and Hospital (NBDCH) — located on the premises of the NBMCH on Monday. Also, around 160 people, associated with healthcare and ancillary services were handed over certificates of appreciation for their efforts during the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-7
30-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Nadda's vaccine count claim for Bengal creates stir||On the campaign trail, BJP national president J.P. Nadda had enriched Bengal’s political history by crediting the state with cradling a certain “Vivekananda Thakur”. Post-elections, Nadda is giving Amit “200-plus-seat” Shah stiff competition by trying his hand at elementary mathematics. On Tuesday, Nadda told the BJP state executive over video: “I am very sorry to inform you that if an all-time low vaccination is taking place anywhere, it’s in Bengal.” Several officials and healthcare professionals involved in the Covid vaccination drive in Bengal were perplexed. The following are some of the figures they shared: ⚫ Bengal has so far administered 2.17 crore doses “despite irregular supplies from the Centre”, they said, adding that the figure was expected to rise as the day progressed. “We administered 2.17 crore doses till Tuesday, but the Centre gave us only 1.98 crore doses.… The state government procured 18 lakh doses directly from the manufacturers by spending Rs 59 crore from the state exchequer,” said a source. “This shows that the state had the intention.… But more people could not be vaccinated because of the irregular supply of vaccines from Delhi,” the source added. ⚫ Data available in the public domain reveal that only two states have given more than 3 crore doses — Maharashtra 3.21 crore and Uttar Pradesh 3.12 crore. “Uttar Pradesh has a population of about 20 crore while Maharashtra has more than 12 crore people.… Bengal has about 10 crore people. So it can’t be said that we are lagging behind all other states,” said an official. Three more states — Rajasthan, Karnataka and Gujarat — are ahead of Bengal in terms of doses administered. Two are BJP-run, and complaints have been aired about central bias. Another official said: “Bengal has the capacity to administer 5 lakh doses every day but the state could not touch the upper limit even a single day because of the shortage in supply. We gave 4 lakh vaccines in a day last week. This proves that we have the capacity but we could administer only 1 lakh vaccines a day for many weeks because of the shortage of doses.” * On Tuesday, Bengal vaccinated more than 2.78 lakh people — trailing only Maharashtra (3.84 lakh) and Andhra Pradesh (2.88 lakh). In comparison, BJP-run states like Gujarat (2.62 lakh), Uttar Pradesh (1.86 lakh) and Karnataka (2.54 lakh) lagged behind Bengal. Senior government officials said Bengal had developed an efficient inoculation mechanism, which was proven by the zero wastage in the state as compared to 8 to 10 per cent wastage in some other states. The numbers till now may be loaded against Nadda’s claims but that is unlikely to deter either him or his party from their offensive. The same trait was on display in February when footage showed Nadda thundering from a stage that this is the land of “Vivekananda Thakur”. State BJP sources said the party would try to make the bogus vaccination camp case in Calcutta into an issue. “There has been no scam in vaccination anywhere, if it happened it happened in West Bengal…,” a source said. The case has embarrassed the Trinamul Congress as several senior leaders were seen in photographs with the kingpin. But, government sources said, the chief minister has ordered strong action and a drive has been launched to avert such scams in the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-7
30-06-2021||West Bengal||Rain triggers inundation, water-logging, erosion of river banks in Dooars, Malda||Incessant rain in north Bengal and Sikkim since Monday night led to inundation, water-logging and erosion of riverbanks, mainly in the Dooars and Malda district. According to the India Meteorological Department, similar weather conditions are likely to continue for another three-four days. “There is a forecast of steady rainfall in sub-Himalayan Bengal and the daily rainfall would range between 70mm to 200mm,” said a source at the IMD. The downpour led to flash floods in Nagrakata and Dhupguri blocks of Jalpaiguri district on Tuesday. The Sukhanijhora stream flowing through Sulkapara swelled in Nagrakata and flowed over a bridge in the morning. Around 500 families at Sukhanibusty, which is on the other side of the bridge, were isolated from the block headquarters. The Hatinala stream flowing from Bhutan spilled over the banks and flooded different localities of Banarhat in the Dhupguri block. The water entered at least 2,000 houses in the afternoon. It, however, started receding in the evening when the downpour stopped for some time. As the Ganga, Mahananda and Fulhar swelled in Malda district, erosion was reported from at least two blocks. Minister of state for irrigation and waterways Sabina Yeasmin said officials of the Farakka Barrage Project Authority had been asked to carry out urgent anti-erosion works in Kaliachak 3 block. Malda district magistrate Rajarshi Mitra said relief materials had been stocked in all blocks. “The rivers are flowing close to danger levels. Officers in various blocks are monitoring the situation. We are coordinating with them,” Mitra added. Low-lying areas like Milanpally, Ashoknagar, Haidarpara, Hakimpara, Pradhan Nagar and Champasari in Siliguri were water-logged on Tuesday. The Darjeeling district administration has identified 500 shelter points in case of evacuation of people following heavy rain and landslides. “If any flood-like situation or landslide occurs, residents of the affected area will be shifted immediately to these centres. An emergency centre was also opened at the district magistrate’s office and we are monitoring the situation round the clock. Our officers are in touch with weather experts, irrigation department and agencies concerned to collect data,” said a district administration official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-7
30-06-2021||West Bengal||Scope for defeat debate eludes Bengal BJP’s state executive meet||Several Bengal BJP functionaries who had been prepared to vent their ire against central leaders, especially Kailash Vijayvargiya, at a state executive committee meeting on Tuesday were left disappointed as the five-hour exercise lacked the scope for interactions and mostly featured speeches by the party’s top honchos. In the first such exercise since the BJP’s debacle in the Assembly polls, 50-odd members of the state committee met at the party’s office at Hastings in Calcutta, while around 250 others, including national president J.P. Nadda, joined the meeting virtually. “Although there is no set format for these meetings, a certain degree of interaction is allowed conventionally as some members of the committee are invited to voice their opinion... That is why we had hoped we would be able to speak our minds. But we remained silent listeners while our leaders kept delivering long speeches,” a state secretary said. This person added that district BJP presidents generally read out their reports — treated in the party as feedback from the ground — in front of state and the central leaders. But all the district presidents had been asked to share their written reports ahead of Tuesday’s meeting and hence, there was no scope for them to speak either. “We were asked to send the reports beforehand. Since we had joined virtually, our mics were muted and we couldn’t utter a word,” a district president said. Vijayvargiya, the central minder of the BJP for Bengal, has been the biggest target of several state leaders after the debacle. Some of the attendees who were forced to remain silent on Tuesday got livid after seeing Vijayvargiya sitting next to Nadda in the Delhi office. “He (Vijayvargiya ) had been invited to the meeting but didn’t turn up until Nadda-ji joined virtually. We had thought the party was finally doing away with Vijayvargiya. But it was disheartening to see that the man responsible for the election loss was actually being sheltered by the party president,” a state BJP secretary said. A source in the state committee said leaders at the national and Bengal levels were deliberately trying to divert attention from the most important task — an analysis of what went wrong with the party in the Assembly polls. Even on Tuesday, the primary focus of the state executive committee was on the alleged post-poll violence after a meek political resolution that described the performance in the polls “disappointing”. The meeting started with a speech by state BJP president Dilip Ghosh. Opposition leader Suvendu Adhikari also spoke at the session that concluded with an address by Nadda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-7
30-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Reasonable plea||The prime minister’s appeal to fellow Indians to put their faith in science is welcome. Narendra Modi’s plea was made in an address in which he touched upon a crucial challenge confronting India: the festering public hesitancy towards the Covid-19 vaccination programme. The pace of inoculation has been woefully slow in the country; around 4 per cent of the citizens of this populous country have been fully vaccinated. The government’s numerous lapses account for a large part of the inertia. But it must also be conceded that public reluctance to receive the jab has had a role to play too; one survey pegged the national vaccine hesitancy at nearly 30 per cent. Lack of awareness, prejudiced opinion, illiteracy and — this cannot be ignored — irresponsible statements from public figures have compounded the problem. It must be said that Mr Modi’s party has stolen a march on its rivals when it comes to disseminating patently unscientific views. Several leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party are on record endorsing, among other things, such outlandish cures for the coronavirus as cow urine, sun bathing, blowing conch shells, administering holy smoke, and so on. The flock has responded to these primitive entreaties enthusiastically: reports of cow urine therapy being administered publicly have not been unknown in New India. This is only to be expected in a country where the government has been keen to let the anti-science genie out of the bottle. Notwithstanding Mr Modi’s new-found respect for science, it must not be forgotten that the prime minister had thought nothing about blurring the lines between myth and reason: his claim of Ancient India mastering the modern marvels of cosmetic surgery and reproductive genetics bears testimony to this troubling conflation. At the root of the problem lies the tension between an authoritarian impulse and rationality. History has shown that the survival of repressive regimes is predicated upon the clouding of reason and judgment with falsehood. That is because reason — is it anathema to the BJP? — is the seed that sprouts into the fruit of enquiry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-2
30-06-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Japan asks employers to institute four-day work week, Derek Chauvin sentenced for George Floyd’s murder||Step forward Sir — The Japanese government has urged all employers in the country to institute a four-day work week, instead of the traditional five-day one. This is aimed at helping employees maintain work-life balance, and to encourage them to learn new skills. All nations must take such steps. After all,  employees must pick up new skills to stay competitive in the job market that has been shaken up by the pandemic. Soudip Karmakar,Calcutta At long last Sir — The sentencing of the former Minneapolis police officer, Derek Chauvin, to 22.5 years in prison for George Floyd’s murder has brought the tragic case to a fair end. In the 13 months since Floyd’s death, the United States of America has been forced to confront the fact that racial injustice remains deeply rooted in the American experience. Following the incident, several cities in the US have made progress in making policing less dangerous and more people-friendly. The nation has even embraced a new federal holiday that acknowledges the US’s devastating history of slavery and racial discrimination. Yet, the fact remains that the police has killed more than 1,000 people across the US since last year. Research also confirms that nearly half of those killed were people of colour. Floyd’s case may have ended with a just verdict but the crucial work of ensuring racial justice across the US is far from over. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — Sentencing Derek Chauvin to 22 and a half years’ imprisonment will not bring George Floyd back to his family. It will also not do much to eliminate the racial hatred that drives many Americans. But such hatred is not limited to the US. Categorizing people on the basis of skin colour is itself ridiculous. Why use terms such as ‘black’, ‘brown’ and ‘white’ to describe people when this could make them feel like it is the colour of skin that matters more than their identity as a human being? People of African origin have already suffered much. Although most official institutions in the US do not discriminate on the basis of skin colour, much more needs to be done to end racial injustice. People in positions of power, such as politicians, who spread hatred on the basis of caste, colour and creed must be reined in globally. Brij B. Goyal,Ludhiana||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-2
30-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Foggy figures||The Narendra Modi government has come up with a stimulus package in response to the second wave of the pandemic. The stimulus package, once again, is big on intent and woefully short on content. Indian industry has been clamouring for a long time for a burst of short-term measures to jump-start a floundering economy. However, the finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, unveiled a programme worth Rs 6.29 trillion that commits very little money upfront. What she has offered instead is a mix of promises in the form of credit guarantees worth Rs 2.67 trillion, a backstop of assurances and credit risk covers to exporters, the usual lollies of free food to the poor and subsidized fertilizers to farmers, a free visa programme of dubious merit to lure foreign tourists, more funds to the rural broadband connectivity scheme that was launched last year, and a plan worth Rs 3 trillion to shore up the fortunes of a crumbling, debt-ridden power distribution sector that has been teetering on defaults. It is hard to pierce through the fog of figures but it is clear that there are not a lot of new ideas floating around in the package. The credit guarantee programme for sectors was fashioned last year with a cap of Rs 3 trillion; it has now been expanded by another Rs 1.5 trillion. Guarantees count for nothing if they are not cashed in the event of defaults. The promise of a guarantee has provided some comfort to the banks to commit more funds to the stressed sectors. No one has yet asked the Centre to pay up. On the contrary, banks were persuaded to offer a two-year debt restructuring to stressed borrowers. The latest move only perpetuates an ultra risk-prone lending environment, which has bedevilled the banking sector for decades. Industry, markets and economists are deeply disappointed with the package of reliefs. They were hoping for the Centre to unveil a plan to boost demand in an economy that contracted for the first time since 1979-80. This would mean a commitment to raise government spending from the budgeted level of Rs 34.8 trillion in the current year. Ms Sitharaman has been tight-fisted and raised spending by less than 1 per cent from the revised estimates for last year. The finance minister has refused to borrow and spend. She has also tossed aside suggestions from several economists to get the Reserve Bank of India to ‘print money’  — that is, raise the monetary liabilities of the central bank by increasing reserve money and using it to buy government bonds. In an uncertain environment, businessmen are never going to borrow money to invest in new plants. They would rather wait till demand seeps back into the economy, which will happen only when the government comes with a credible plan for cash transfers to the poor and cranks up its own spending.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-2
30-06-2021||Opinion||Sagely leader: Dadabhai Naoroji||Speaking in Parliament after unveiling a portrait of Lokmanya Tilak in 1956, Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru stated: “We have, to my right here, the picture of Dadabhai Naoroji, in a sense the Father of the Indian National Congress. We may... in our youthful arrogance think that some of these leaders of old were very Moderate, and that we are braver because we shout more. But every person, who can recapture the picture of old India and of the conditions that prevailed, will realise that a man like Dadabhai was, in those conditions, a revolutionary figure. If I say that of Dadabhai Naoroji, how much more I can not say about Lokmanya?” There cannot be a better introduction for the present generation to ‘The Grand Old Man of India’ whose 104th death anniversary falls today. Amongst the tallest nationalist leaders of the pre-Gandhi era of the Independence movement, Naoroji was thrice the president of the INC. Although A.O. Hume was the founder of the INC, and W.C. Bonnerji its first president, yet Nehru chose to refer to Naoroji as virtually the father of the INC. This may be because many years before the INC was founded in 1885, Naoroji had founded the East India Association in 1866 in London and, later, the Bombay Presidency Association in January, 1885. This organization, along with the Indian National Conference founded in 1883 in Calcutta by Surendranath Banerjea, became the precursor of the INC. Born in 1925 in a priestly Parsi family, Naoroji left for England in 1855 to join Cama’s firm in London as a business partner. He got so involved in political activities focusing on poverty in India that he contested the election for the House of Commons in 1886 but lost in spite of the fact that Florence Nightingale canvassed for him. He, however, was successful in 1892 when he was returned from Central Finsbury constituency, representing the Liberal Party. As he had won by a margin of only three votes, the Conservative prime minister, Lord Salisbury, demanded a recount. Salisbury was right; there had indeed been an error in counting — Naoroji had won by five votes, becoming the first Asian to become a member of the British Parliament. While in England, Naoroji became famous for highlighting the unfavourable economic consequences of British rule in India. In his speeches and writings, especially in Poverty and Un-British Rule, he gave expression to his theory of drain of wealth and how it was responsible for poverty in India. It was during his stay in London that the two future ‘fathers’ of two nations — Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi and Mohammed Ali Jinnah — were to draw inspiration from Naoroji who had become very popular amongst the Indian community, especially among the youth and students. Jinnah, along with Chittaranjan Das, not only campaigned for Naoroji in the elections but also became his private secretary for a number of years. Gandhi met Dadabhai’s granddaughter, Gosi, who wrote to her grandfather, then in India: “He [Gandhi] simply worships you.” In one of his speeches Gandhi pronounced Dadabhai as a rishi from whom “I myself and many like me have learnt the lessons of regularity, single minded patriotism, simplicity, austerity and ceaseless work from this venerable man.” The Mahatma acknowledged his debts to Naoroji’s economic writings for teaching him about the horrific dimensions of Indian poverty. So did the next generation of nationalist leaders. Writes Dinyar Patel in his biography of Naoroji: “Languishing in British jail in 1934, Jawaharlal Nehru reflected on his exposure of Indian poverty, which the future Prime Minister claimed, ‘served a revolutionary purpose and gave a political and economic foundation to our nationalism’.” Sarojini Naidu believed that he “kindled the torch of freedom of India”. Indeed he did. Naoroji inarguably ranks along with Bal Gangadhar Tilak and Gopalkrishna Gokhale as the three greats Indians of the pre-Gandhi era of the freedom struggle that emerged from the birth of INC 136 years ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-3
30-06-2021||Opinion||No strings attached||The adage, misfortunes never come alone, is quite true for rural stringers working for the print media. Things were and are not good for these ground-zero workers of the fourth estate and there are strong indications of tougher times ahead. Stringers in small towns, mofussils and rural areas are the foot soldiers of the media industry. They are mostly engaged by smaller newspapers in Hindi and regional languages. These ‘on call’ or part-time workers support the newspapers by providing stories from their localities as and when sought. Informality encompasses their work. They work on the basis of oral instructions and are without much formal training and qualification. Media houses do not invest much on training stringers. These self-trained journalists thus need to have basic resources like a camera, a digital recorder and a two-wheeler as their ‘infrastructural qualification’. Often, identity cards are not issued to these reporters in order to avoid long-term employment benefits. Stringers are either paid on a per piece basis or in a lump sum payment for all stories, inclusive of all costs incurred. A more popular system is volumetric payment on the basis of column length, where they get a fixed amount per centimetre of the column of published piece. Here, rejected copies are not included while calculating payment; title space — usually printed in bigger font — is also excluded. Either way, the monthly earnings of these rural scribes are too meagre to support a decent living. Worse, the payments are released with considerable time lags. Acute pay insecurities force stringers to do supplementary jobs along with journalistic duties; many of them run retail stores, internet cafes, mobile repairing shops and so on. They also get advertisements and work as circulation agents for the newspapers. In fact, for many newspapers, the primary reason for engaging locals as stringers is to increase the circulation base and advertisement revenues. Social capital and public relation skills are considered more important while recruiting stringers than professional qualifications. To appease those who support newspapers through subscriptions and advertisements, stringers often report positively about these local patrons. At times, in order to make a decent living, certain stringers are also found to engage in blackmailing and extortion by reporting negative or fake news. Such pernicious acts can even be practised at the behest of (or with tacit consent from) employers. Stringers often face attacks from local mafias and goons on exposing activities like illegal mining or other misdeeds in rural areas. Similarly, they also have to face hostile politicians and bigwigs in the locality if they report truthfully about wrongdoings. Murder of and attacks on ground reporters are rampant in India; worse, stringers are often left in the lurch by their employers in such situations. Transformations in news production techniques and encroachment of digital media have also affected the job prospects of these newsmen considerably. With the availability of wire facilities (providing an assured pool of cost-efficient news material) and alternative forms of reporting (through television, internet and social media platforms), increasingly the traditional mode of news reporting and rural stringers are thus becoming redundant. More so in the age of citizen’s journalism, where every person with a mobile phone is a potential reporter. Soon the role of stringers will become limited to functions like distribution, circulation and ad-gathering only. The unexpected onslaught of the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdowns have severely affected the newspaper industry as a whole. In India, there has been a considerable drain in the circulation of newspapers, which eventually resulted in many austerity measures and survival strategies, including closure of smaller newspapers, shutting down of news bureaus and resizing of the workforce. At a time when readers suddenly did not want to read hard copies of newspapers, many organizations shifted their focus towards strengthening online versions. Along with this, there were also efforts to restructure the content and format of print versions by cutting down the number of pages and including all sorts of advertisements to meet at least the day-to-day running costs of business. The pandemic has thus brought in yet another layer of job insecurity which manifested in many ways including job loss, wage cuts, stagnancy in wages and delayed payments. Alongside this, grass-root reporting has become more strenuous and dangerous. Those who got the chance to work were to report from the ground, risking their health and safety as well as that of their family members; they had to work amidst crowds without masks, sanitizers and PPE kits, without following any social distancing norms. What is worse, owing to their irregular and informal status, they are also not eligible for medical cover and other benefits either from their employers or the government. Given their extremely precarious status in the labour market, any shock in the industry has much deeper implications for stringers. Unsurprisingly, with the closure of smaller newspapers and the overall decline in the print-media business due to the onslaught of the pandemic, many of the rural reporters will be forced to search for alternative livelihoods in the near future. Babu P. Remesh is the Dean, School of Development Studies, Ambedkar University, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-3
30-06-2021||Opinion||Forgotten isles||Curiously, the Goonda Act, a seemingly draconian piece of legislation that empowers Lakshadweep’s administrator to detain an accused for a year for acting in a manner that is prejudicial to public order, has been unleashed on an archipelago whose security was threatened by the occasional coconut dropping from the skies till only a few years ago. There is empirical evidence against the rogue fruit. In Borderlands, an account of a journalist’s sojourns across India’s final frontiers where the Mainland — the phrase is far from ideal — intersects with its nebulous hinterlands in complex, but illuminating, ways, Pradeep Damodaran recounts meeting an IAS officer aboard the MV Lakshadweep who “dished out statistics to prove… that this hard-shelled fruit posed the most serious hazard to pedestrians and motorists on Minicoy”. The isles’ benign security situation has not deteriorated since Damodaran’s visit. One hundred and fourteen crimes were recorded in 2017, say data from the National Crime Records Bureau: the figures were 77, 182 and 89 for the next three years. It is not known how many of these criminals are coconuts. Yet, the Wise Man of Lakshadweep insists that things must change, and has unleashed a set of legislations whose penal provisions have stoked controversy. The Lakshadweep Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation — the Goonda Act — has been accompanied by the Lakshadweep Animal Preservation Regulation and the Lakshadweep Panchayat Regulation, 2021. The second criminalizes the slaughter, consumption, sale, storage and transportation of beef and beef products in a region with a Muslim-majority population, while the third prohibits those with more than two children from contesting panchayat elections. The legislations have, understandably, been met with spirited public protest and at least one protester, a film-maker from Lakshadweep, had been slapped with sedition for her critical remark. The Kerala High Court has quashed the charge and restored chicken and beef in school mid-day meals. Indian democracy has demonstrated the shameful phenomenon of development — the administrator’s pet phrase — being antithetical to prevailing public sentiment or even public welfare. What is, however, singular in Lakshadweep’s case is that this template of development echoes an element that is integral to models of disruptive ideological transition in totalitarian polities. Political tabula rasa endorses a new beginning — a Naya Lakshadweep if you will — a supposedly pristine slate purged of preconceived ideas. What is necessary to attain this proverbial ‘clean slate’ is the erasure of a liberal, humane ethos. History bears conclusive evidence of this kind of ‘cleansing’. The rise of Nazism was predicated upon the annihilation of liberal democracy, parliamentary politics and capitalism; Mao Zedong’s Cultural Revolution sought to rid China of traditional thought and praxis; New India, of course, is on its way to exorcizing the spirit of accommodating republicanism. What is fundamental to such totalitarian purges is the crafty replacement of, as Theodor Adorno put it, historical memory with a manufactured amnesia. That majoritarianism — totalitarianism’s sibling — is anti-memory is a position that the public discourse has vigorously believed in and defended. Yet, could it be that creeping majoritarianism, such as the stain that is spreading across India’s body politic, can serve as, albeit inadvertently, a mnemonic crutch? This proposition, in spite of its challenges, merits a closer examination. In an engaging article in the Journal of Contemporary History, Geoff Eley refers to Fredrick Jameson’s interpretation of the notion of ‘nostalgia for the present’ — a collective “anxiety about the loss of bearings” — to argue that all that is familiar, all that is predictable, even mundane in their fixity, can be productively used as capital to spawn a desire, a resistance, to protect all that is being threatened. This nostalgia, writes Eley, “spells the desire for holding onto the familiar, for fixing and retaining the lineaments of worlds disconcertingly in motion, of landmarks that are disappearing and securities that are unsettled”. Given the scale and the nature of the implosion that a majoritarian project entails — incursions on land, politics, food in Lakshadweep’s case — it stands to reason that the attendant trauma of this kind of discrimination and its consequence, the kindling of a collective nostalgia of a besieged people, could well serve as a fuel to light the lamp of dissent. That nostalgia need not be inert, that it can feed resistance, has led to considerable scholarly interest in the field of memory studies. But it must also be borne in mind that the moral rehabilitation of post-War societies — Germany is a productive example here — has been made complicated by the intriguing phenomenon of ‘memory conflicts’. Writing on the occasion of the 75th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz in Time, Jacob S. Eder spotted an interesting difference in the rituals of commemoration between, say, urban metropolitan hotspots — Munich, Berlin — and the German countryside. An hour’s drive from Munich, in a quiet cemetery, Eder writes, stands a cenotaph honouring Alfred Jodl, a high henchman of the Wehrmacht, even as German towns and cities fill up with anti-Nazi memorials. Old India’s ability to utilize memory as capital for resistance against a majoritarian enterprise is beset with its own challenges too. The Mainland’s amnesia when it comes to borderlands such as Lakshadweep is not insubstantial. The erosion in the archipelago’s local way of life — Damodaran documents the disappearance of community skills, the resultant spike in migration among the youth, the waning authority of indigenous systems of arbitration and so on — caught liberal India’s attention only after the Administrator unveiled his disquieting futuristic vision for the islands. India’s amnesia, in turn, has turned the islanders’ memory insular. Word on Indian Independence, Damodaran notes, reached Minicoy in 1951. The nation and its frontiers must renegotiate past and present — memory and the nostalgia for now — on more equitable, representative terms. But the onus to remember its compact with the borderlands is greater on the Mainland. Perhaps a sudden knock from one of Lakshadweep’s rogue coconuts would go a long way in jogging India’s memory in a necessary direction. uddalak.mukherjee@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-3
30-06-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro steel incurs losses in day-long protest against pay revision||The steel production was adversely affected in Bokaro Steel Plant on Wednesday as workers as well as infuriated employees staged a massive strike demanding pay revision. The operations in almost all the mills and departments remained crippled for the entire day, as the employees abstained from performing work. At a few spots, including the most vital unit Blast Furnace, the workers also disrupted work for several hours. This was the first time in the past two decades when a strike bore an impact. It has caused huge production and revenue loss worth several crores to the BSL management. Though the strike was observed in all the steel production units of Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL), the BSL faced the worst. The 12 trade unions including five of them affiliated to National Joint Committee for Steel (NJCS) staged a strike inside the plant to mount pressure on management for pay revision and other benefits of workers. Apart from Blast Furnace, the other zones including Cold Rolling Mill, Hot Strip Mill, Slabbing Mill, HRCF, coke oven saw very poor attendance of workers roughly between 0 to 5%. BSL is a unit of Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL). Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said, “Strike called by various trade unions adversely affected the functioning of the plant. Attendance of employees in the A, B and General Shifts remained low. However, management took necessary steps for ensuring process safety and executives were deployed for operation of thermally sensitive equipment in the plant”. To control the situation, BSL management had sought help from district administration, following which sub-divisional officer (SDO), Chas, Shashi Prakash Singh reached the blast furnace and removed the agitators blocking the railway track used for transporting ladels in which hot metals were supplied to other mills. CISF personnel were engaged in controlling the agitators. The SDO said “Despite prohibitory orders against gathering issued by administration due to Covid-19, the BSL workers staged demonstrations and strikes. After being informed by the executive director (ED), we reached Blast Furnace and removed the agitators.” BSL is a 4.5 MPTA capacity steel plant with 10,781 workforce. Of them, 1,806 are executives and 8,975 are non-executives. Though the strike call was given by trade unions, but this time employees are so infuriated against the management over delay in pay revision that they wilfully abstained from work. The decision on wage revision was pending from January, 1, 2017, said sources. This is the second strike faced by BSL in the past three months. Earlier in April, 13 Krantikari Ispat Majoor Sangh led by Sangram Singh had called strike and halted production for a few hours demanding pay revision. Trade union leaders said, “All major departments inside the BSL plant faced shutdown with employees staged strike. We have demanded wage revision from the management by providing 15 percent minimum guarantee benefit, 35 percent perks, 9 percent pension and clearing the due arrears. The pay revision has been pending for the past five years”. They added, “The wages of the contract labourers will have to be increased. The ceiling on gratuity is not acceptable. The dependents of the workers who died due to corona will have to be given jobs. All chargesheet suspensions will have to be withdrawn unconditionally.” Plant sources said that the workers not only abstained from work, but also disrupted production at many departments by stopping other employees from working. BSL management virtually failed to pacify the situation. It is said that the Industrial relation department and Personnel department failed to assess the intensity of the strike after the call given by trade unions. The assessment of production and monetary loss is being ascertained by the BSL management.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-5
30-06-2021||Jharkhand||State receives over 58,000 additional doses from Centre to tide over crisis ||Jharkhand received an additional 58,590 doses of Covaxin from the Centre on Wednesday after it raised an alarm over dwindling stocks with the Centre, but several jab sites in Ranchi and elsewhere could not function as was apprehended by state health authorities. The additional doses will help Jharkhand get through the next two days as the state expects at least 6 lakh vaccine doses from the Centre on July 2, health officials said. According to a health official, Jharkhand was left with around 35,000 doses on Tuesday night. “After receiving the additional supply of 58,590 doses from the Centre, we had over 90,000 doses in stalk. This figure will drop after we get Wednesday's vaccination data,” he said. However, several vaccination centres in Ranchi remained non-operational on Wednesday due to the shortage of vaccines. Ranchi civil surgeon Dr Vinod Kumar said that barring four sites – Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), CCL Hospital, Bandobasti Karyalaya and Nepal House – all the remaining jab sites did not administer vaccines on the day. “We have more than 90 session sites in Ranchi and most of them were non-operational today (Wednesday) due to the shortage of vaccines,” said Dr Kumar, adding that the sites will resume vaccination once fresh doses are supplied to the district. Similarly, several sites in Bokaro, East Singhbhum, Dhanbad and other districts of the state either did not administer vaccines at all or vaccinated only a limited number of people, officials admitted. In order to ensure uninterrupted vaccination across the state, the health department distributed the fresh lot of vaccines to districts on Wednesday. It has decided to keep vaccine stores open through the night so that vaccination centres can collect vials allotted to them, officials said. As per data shared by the health department, Ranchi received 5,400 vaccine doses from the additional vaccines supplied from the Centre for crisis management. East Singhbhum and Dhanbad received 4,500 doses each, while 3,000 doses were given to West Singhbhum. Hazaribaghreceived at least 5,800 doses from the additional lot. “We had informed the Centre about the shortage of vaccines earlier, and the Centre was quick to provide additional doses of vaccines to us today (Wednesday) itself,” said Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer for health department’s Information, Education and Communication (IEC) wing. “The additional doses will help us continue vaccination across the state until we receive fresh stocks for July,” he added. Jharkhand has been assured 25 lakh doses of vaccines in July. Of this, 6 lakh doses are xpected on July 2, health officials said. An official involved in the immunisation programme said the state had 82,652 doses of vaccine in stock before the vaccination started on Tuesday. About 47,000 people were administered vaccines on Tuesday, which meant around 35,000 doses were left. On Monday, 87,639 vaccine doses were administered. On an average, vaccines were administered to over 1 lakh beneficiaries every day last week. The state, officials said, will continue the vaccination programme in all the 3,377 government-run vaccination centres but administer fewer doses until fresh supplies arrive. As per records with the state health department, Jharkhand has so far received 69,41,260 doses of vaccines and used 68,30,995 of them by Tuesday evening. Officials estimated that over 50,000 people were administered jabs on Wednesday. But final figures will be known on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-5
30-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Dhanbad appoints 50 doctors in record number of days||The Dhanbad district administration has appointed 50 doctors within a record 27 days as part of its effort to strengthen the infrastructure of government health institutions in preparation to fight an anticipated third wave of Covid. The move has represented itself as an example of rare efficiency even as the de-recognition threat looms large over the government medical colleges of the state from the Medical Council of India due to pending appointment of doctors. The newly appointed doctors will be deputed at Sadar Hospital Dhanbad as well as other Community Health Centre and Primary Health Centres. Uma Shankar Singh, Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, said that the appointment of doctors has been made through the District Mineral Foundation Trust fund with the aim of decreasing the dependence of common people on private health care facilities. “The entire process was carried out quite transparently as after issuance of tender on June 2 and application from doctors were received till June 18,” said Singh and added two different panels led by him and ADM (law and order) Chandan Kumar conducted the online and offline interview from June 21 to June 24 and after completing all formalities, the name of selected doctors were uploaded on district website www.dhanbad.nic.in. He further said that altogether 206 doctors were interviewed out of which 50 best applicants were selected by the panellists. The selected persons, included one each doctor in the super speciality category of Cardiologist, Nephrologist and Neurologist, besides 20 medical officers (MBBS); five dentists; four each specialist in Paediatrics and Gynaecology; four hospital manager; 3 specialists in Anaesthesia. This apart two specialists in Orthopaedics and one each Ophthalmologist Swasthya Hospital IT Manager, ENT specialist, psychological counsellor and specialist in Surgery were selected through the interview. Justifying the appointment of doctor through DMFT fund he said that the filling up of vacancies in health sectors in a mineral rich area like Dhanbad is in accordance with the aims of District Mineral Foundation Trust . During the experience of more than one years of Covid pandemic it has been realized that the filling up of the vacancies of doctors and para medical staff to strengthen the health infrastructure of government public health care institutions was quite crucial so we concentrated in this regard. “Improving the health condition of the people affected due to the mining or mining related activity in the one of most priority areas of District Mineral Foundation Trust” further said Singh while justifying the appointments of doctors and other staff being made through DMFT fund.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-5
30-06-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma elephants angry, trample over plants||A hostile herd of elephants destroyed around 35 special variants of plants, sown near the Pinderbera forest guest house inside Dalma wildlife sanctuary on Tuesday night. The herd of 22 elephants trampled over varieties of mango, banyan and peepal. The plants were sown around a small vacant space near the guest house to mark Van Mahotsav in July last year. Pinderbera forest guest house is located 14 km from Makulakocha, the main entrance to the sanctuary. Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra said the plants had grown to a height of 10-12 ft. “We had procured around 250 special variety plants for Van Mahotsav. Around 35 were sown near the Pinderbera forest guest house. Each plant was bought at Rs 150,” he added. Sources revealed that some workers who were at the guest house were petrified at the sight of the jumbos who were trumpeting and targeting the plants with their heads and trunks. Some elephants in the herd are still anchored in pockets near the guest house. A few have scattered around Badka Bandh and the Shiva temple at the top of the hill. The workers informed range officer Chandra about the incident. “We feel very sad that the plants have been destroyed by the elephants. They had grown to a height of 10-12 ft. The herd might have been hungry,” Chandra added. Foresters and village youths are on patrol duty across the 192 sq km sanctuary, 30m km from Jamshedpur. “Though the elephants have so far not entered any villages on the foothills, we need to be alert. Elephants are moving animals. Crackers have been distributed among the villagers,” a forester said. Other herds are perilously close to the human habitats downhill.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-5
30-06-2021||Jharkhand||East Singhbhum felicitates woman archer for gold win at World Cup ||The East Singhbhum District Archery Association on Wednesday honoured Komalika Bari for clinching women’s recurve team gold at the recently concluded World Cup Stage 3 in Paris. Purnima Mahto, who was the coach of the national side in Paris, was also felicitated for guiding the archers to claim the top slot. Both Komalika and Purnima returned to Jamshedpur on Wednesday early morning. District archery outfit president Dinesh Kumar, international coach Harender Singh and some archers went to Komalika and Purnima's home and presented them with bouquets and shawl. Komalika, Deepika Kumari and Ankita Bhakat won glory for the country and Jharkhand by winning the women's team gold on Sunday. The troika beat Mexico 5-1 in the summit clash to achieve the feat. Komalika, a cadet of Tata Archery Academy, claimed the yellow metal at the World  Archery Youth Championship at Madrid in 2019, was happy for being honoured and thanked Purnima for motivating them during the finals. “Ankita and I were disappointed that we did not qualify for the Olympics since it was our last chance in Paris. But our coach (Purnima) pumped up our spirits and asked us to concentrate for the finals against Mexico. Her words motivated us a lot,” the 21-year-old said. Purnima, coach at the elite Tata cradle, said the archers shot extremely well in the finals. “I would have been happier had Komalika and Ankita made it to the Olympics. But that is past now and both should continue to shoot well,” the seasoned mentor and Dronacharya awardee said. Deepika, the world number one archer, is the only woman who has qualified for the individual women’s recurve in next month’s Olympics. ESDAA president Dinesh Kumar, who is also one of the vice-presidents of Jharkhand Archery Association, lauded the efforts of Komalika, Deepika and Ankita. “It was a great achievement that has won laurels for the country and Jharkhand. Purnima Mahto should also be applauded for her role in guiding the archers. We feel extremely glad to felicitate them,” he added. Coach Singh also showered praise on the archers and said they have given a moment to rejoice to the entire archery fraternity in the country as well as Jharkhand. “Olympics qualification by Komalika and Ankita would have been an icing on the cake,” he remarked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-5
30-06-2021||Jharkhand||MGM Hospital staff protest alleged botched operation||A group of staff at MGM Medical College Hospital held a protest at the superintendent's chamber on Wednesday against alleged negligence in treatment of a 32-year-old woman whose tubectomy surgery went wrong. The unpleasant situation cropped up after the gynaecologist, Dr Shikharani, under whose unit the patient was being treated, had refused to get a dressing done of the patient identified as Rani Patro. Rani's husband Suru Patro, who is a subordinate staff of the medical college hospital, had pressed the gynaecologist to get the dressing done in a proper manner. Revealing about the matter, Patro, 38, pointed out his wife had undergone tubectomy surgery at the hospital in 2017. "But a month ago, Rani conceived despite having the sterilisation surgery. After the consultation with the gynaecologists, Rani who is a mother of two had to undergo tubectomy for the second time after an abortion on June 14," narrated Patro to The Telegraph Online. Patro said he became concerned since over a fortnight had elapsed since the second tubectomy was done, the wound did not heal up. "As there was no improvement in the wound, I had urged the gynaecologist concerned to see the dressing is done properly. My request had angered her and she refused to do the dressing. Then only I mobilised support of my fellow employees and went over to meet the hospital superintendent, demanding action against Shikharani," Patro pointed out. The subordinate staff said four years ago gynaecologist Mridula Shrivastav did a wrong tubectomy surgery and another gynaecologist refused to get the dressing done for the wound caused due a failed sterilisation surgery. While approaching the superintendent, Patro along with about 30 supporters had shouted slogans against the gynaecologist in question. Sanjay Prasad, superintendent, MGM Medical College Hospital confirmed about the protest by a section of subordinate staff over alleged negligence in treatment. "I have received the complaint and will get it investigated, "said Prasad to The Telegraph Online, adding that he would ensure that the patient in question will receive proper treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-5
30-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand records surplus rain in June ||The first monsoon month of June ended with surplus rain of 34 per cent in Jharkhand. Statistics available from IMD's Ranchi Met Centre revealed that between June 1 and June 30 the state recorded 268.6 mm of rain against a normal of 199.9 mm. Last year too Jharkhand had registered a surplus rain but it was a meagre one per cent. Statistics revealed last year the state had recorded 202.4mm, against a normal of 199.9 mm, a surplus of one per cent. In 2019, June, the state had recorded a meagre 89.6mm against a normal of 200mm, a deficit of 55 per cent. According to statistics, between 2010 and 2018, June had ended on a deficit note due to a delayed arrival of the southwest monsoon and its weak spell in the initial few weeks after the onset. This year, the southwest monsoon arrived three days early in Jharkhand on June 12. After a good shower show and heavy rains in several districts due to a vigorous monsoon, the surplus figures kept increasing and reached 109 per cent around June 19. The figures witnessed a gradual decrease later as the monsoon currents became weak over Jharkhand as the trough shifted towards north. Today, June 30, the surplus stood at  34 per cent. Statistics revealed that except for West Singhbhum, Gumla and adjoining Seraikela-Kharswan district all the rest 21 districts including Ranchi, Palamau, Dhanbad, Bokaro,Jamtara, East Singhbhum, Dumka, Hazaribagh, Koderma, Simdega, Sahebganj and Giridih figures in the rain-surplus list. Seraikela-Kharsawan and Gumla districts were facing marginal deficit rainfall. At the end of June, Jamtara, which figures in the rain- gainers list, reaped the maximum benefit with 139 per cent surplus rain. This was followed by Palamau with 110 per cent surplus rain and Dhanbad with 108 per cent surplus. Koderma and Lohardaga districts recorded over 90 per cent surplus rain. The  Ranchi Meteorological Centre also predicted a good spell of monsoon rain in July. The normal rain in the month of July, calculated on the basis of a 30-year long-term average is 334.7mm. Head of Ranchi Met Centre, Abhishek Anand said they were expecting heavy rainfall in isolated pockets of Jharkhand between July 2 and July 4, due to the impact of a trough running from north-east Uttar Pradesh to north-east Assam across Bihar and sub- Himalayan West Bengal extending upto 0.9km above mean sea level. The Ranchi Met Centre also issued an alert of moderate thunderstorm and lightning in isolated places across Jharkhand during the next four days. Notably, monsoon which went into a weak phase in Jharkhand during the last few days was expected to revive in the first week of July.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-5
30-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand stares at acute vaccine shortage  ||Jharkhand may have to put Covid-19 immunisation drive on hold in many parts of the state from Wednesday as it stares at a shortage of vaccine doses supplied by the Centre, health officials said on Tuesday, adding that the next supply of vaccines is likely to reach the state on July 2. By end of Tuesday, vaccination centres across the state had utilized almost the entire stock available. According to a state health department report, the first dose of vaccine was administered to 36,342 residents and the second dose to 10,724 residents. As per data with the National Health Mission (NHM), Jharkhand was left with only 82,652 doses before vaccination centres opened on Tuesday. The state is left with around 35,000 doses of vaccines, which may get used on Wednesday itself. The state has received a total of 68,82,670 doses of vaccines so far. “The very few vaccine doses left with us will be used on Wednesday. We will resume vaccination of Jharkhand residents as soon as the vaccine supplies reach us,” said Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer of health department’s Information, Education and Communication (IEC) wing. On Tuesday, the state government requested the Centre to cut down on the quota of Covid-19 vaccines for private players from 25 per cent to 5 per cent, citing lack of private healthcare facilities in rural areas and a high BPL population in the state with limited purchasing power. In a letter addressed to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, additional chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh stated that private hospitals were unable to utilise the 25 per cent quota of vaccines fixed for them and the government will be in a better position to use the vaccines if the quota of free vaccines provided to the state is increased to 95 per cent for Jharkhand. Meanwhile, the active caseload of Covid-19 dropped below the 1000-mark in the state on Tuesday as at least 148 Covid patients recovered while 94 fresh cases of infection surfaced across the state on the day, the NHM stated in a bulletin. As per the NHM bulletin, the state also reported two Covid casualties, one each in Dhanbad and Bokaro, which took the Covid toll to 5113. With 20 cases, East Singhbhum was the only district to report a double-digit-spike on Tuesday. The district also reported 21 recoveries, which brought the active caseload there down to 108. While Pakur did not report fresh Covid cases, Ranchi reported a spike of three cases against 45 recoveries. The active caseload in Ranchi, the worst-affected district in terms of caseload and casualties, dropped to 252 – the highest in the state. The state on Tuesday tested swab samples of 55,254 residents and around 0.17 per cent of them were found infected by Coronavirus, NHM data highlighted. So far, over 3.45 lakh people have been affected by Covid-19 in the state and 98.24 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of the patients could not survive. The doubling rate of cases further rose to 2741.43 days in Jharkhand on Tuesday against the national average of 625.87 days, while the growth rate remained 0.03 per cent against the national growth rate of 0.11 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-5
30-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand govt to provide water connections to 9.5 lakh households||The Jharkhand government is planning to provide tap water connections to 9.5 lakh households by March next year after it received nearly four-fold increase in central grant under the Jal Jeevan Mission. The Jal Jeevan Mission is a central government scheme that was launched in 2019 with an aim to supply water through pipes to about 18 crore rural households across the country. “We are happy to receive the central grant of Rs 2,479.88 crore as this would give a boost to the mission. We have set a target of providing tap water connections to nearly 9.5 lakh households by the end of the 2021-22 fiscal and stay on course to provide water supply to all households before 2024. This huge investment in rural areas will create new employment opportunities, accelerate economic activities and also boost rural economy,” said state drinking water and sanitation minister Mithilesh Thakur after the grant was released on Tuesday. The central grant under the scheme for Jharkhand has been enhanced from Rs 572.24 crore in 2020-21 to Rs 2,479.88 crore in the current fiscal. “The pace of construction of infrastructure for piped water supply in rural areas had slowed down a bit due to the Covid pandemic and delay in announcement of the schedule of rates. However, the rates were finalised in February this year. With the increase in grant, we will go all out in ensuring that the maximum number of houses get piped water connections before the end of the 2021-22 fiscal and achieve the target of providing drinking water to all households in the state by 2024,” said S.K Jha, chief engineer, project management unit, drinking water and sanitation. In Jharkhand, out of 58.95 lakh households in 29,752 villages, only 7.72 lakh households (13 per cent) have received tap water connections. On August 15, 2019, when the Jal Jeevan Mission was launched, only 3.45 lakh (5.85 per cent) households had a tap water supply. In 22 months, 4.27 lakh households (7.24 per cent) in the state have got tap water connections. However, in comparison to the national average of 23 per cent, the pace of providing water supply in Jharkhand has been slow. In 2020-21, only 2.99 lakh tap water connections were provided in Jharkhand making it a big ask to provide connections to the remaining eligible 51.23 lakh households. Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in a letter to chief minister Hemant Soren earlier this month had emphasised the work of providing connections should start in all the villages so that the state can provide tap water supply to all rural households by May 2024. The minister had hoped that the enhanced allocation will enable Jharkhand to expedite the implementation to achieve various planned activities under the Jal Jeevan Mission to provide tap water connection to every rural household.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-5
30-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand government to develop tribal religious places||The Jharkhand government will work for the conservation and development of religious places of the tribals in the state. While taking the decision at its meeting held at the Project Bhavan secretariat in Ranchi on Tuesday evening, the state cabinet also decided that a maximum amount of Rs 5 crore will be spent for developing one such religious place. “The cabinet today (Tuesday) decided to take up projects for the conservation and development of religious places of the tribals,” state’s principal secretary (cabinet coordination) Vandana Dadel said. Such plans would apply for places like sarna, jaher sthan, hargori and masna, she added.“The government (has) decided to revise the earlier provision of erecting boundary walls only for demarcation of such places and instead also developing those,” she said, adding the construction work would be carried out in an eco-friendly manner. Such plans, aimed at infrastructure development of those places, will include provision for availability of drinking water, construction of multi-purpose hall, installing solar power system, besides beautification of those places by developing gardens and drive ways, she elaborated. “Display of tribal paintings and other things would also be encouraged so that those places depict the tribal culture of the state,” Dadel further said. Any such work involving an expenditure of over Rs 25 lakh will be done by inviting tenders while those costing below that amount could be done through local beneficiaries’ committees, she added. The state cabinet also took seven other decisions on Tuesday Among those, the cabinet decided to raise a corpus fund of Rs 25 crore for Jharkhand Rajya Fasal Rahat Yojana so that the farmers could be paid a compensation, in case of damage of their crops, from interest earned from the fund. It also decided to seek approval of the governor for the rules meant for online electronic filing (e-filing) in the courts of the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-5
