01-05-2021||Other||Lucknow records 3,125 fresh Covid-19 cases, 34 more deaths||The daily case count in the state capital dropped below 3,500 on Saturday with 3,125 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in the past 24 hours during which there were 34 more deaths, including that of a senior official of the National Health Mission.Lucknow’s death toll has reached 1,834 since the start of the pandemic in March last year. As many as 6189 patients recovered during the day.On April 9, there were over 2,900 fresh cases here and the number of daily new cases had gone past 4,000 the next day.“Lucknow has reported a total of 2,07,909 Covid cases till now, of which 1,65,003 have recovered and the recovery rate is 79.36%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Surgeons.Medicine traders seek assurance of medical careMedicine traders have written a letter to the district administration for help. They said they won’t be able to carry out the sale of medicine for long without assurance of medical care.Office bearers of the Lucknow Chemist Association (LCA), a body of wholesale and retail chemists in the city, demanded that the district administration ensure beds were available for medicine traders if they got infected with Covid-19 and needed hospitalisation.The association said traders were getting infected and deaths were being reported from among them and their family members.Harish Shah, president of LCA, wrote a letter to the district magistrate on the issue. A spokesperson Mayank Rastogi said medicine traders were at risk but they were not considered corona warriors.“Almost every day, news about death from among the traders or their family members is coming. That is the reason why we shall not be able to work for long without the support of the administration,” said Suresh Kumar of the association.New oxygen plantAn oxygen generating plant with the capacity 125 cylinders per day started at the Vivekananda Polyclinic that runs a 93-bed Covid facility. The hospital already had an oxygen plant with a capacity of 175 cylinders per day. The total capacity has now become 300 cylinders per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-records-3-125-fresh-covid-19-cases-34-more-deaths-101619893793998.html
01-05-2021||Other||UP begins giving jabs to 18+ in seven districts||Uttar Pradesh began the Covid-19 vaccination drive for people in the 18-44 age group in seven districts with chief minister Yogi Adityanath launching the programme from Veerangana Avantibai Hospital in the state capital.At the launch, the chief minister said the state government had decided to vaccinate people aged between 18 and 44 years free of cost.“We have decided to give free vaccines to people between 18-44 years of age. People above 45 years of age are being given free vaccine by the central government,” he added.On April 20, the Uttar Pradesh cabinet had decided on free Covid-19 vaccination for those above 18 years of age among the poor even in private hospitals in the state. The vaccination in government hospitals is already free. On Saturday, the chief minister also said the vaccine would be given to those above 18 years at 85 centres in seven districts for the next five days. Thereafter, the drive for those above 18 years will be launched in all the districts.The seven districts — Lucknow, Kanpur, Prayagraj, Meerut, Gorakhpur, Bareilly, and Varanasi — have been chosen as they have a high active caseload.In Lucknow, 2,704 beneficiaries took the Covid vaccine on Saturday and about 500 people did not turn up despite registering for it.A total of 3,200 doses were arranged to start the drive in Lucknow where several enthusiastic youths reached vaccination centres as early as 9am.Among those who took the vaccine in the state capital, 1,641 were male and 1,063 female. Only those who had done the pre-registration were given the doses.“We vaccinated 255 beneficiaries between the age of 18 and 45,” said Dr SC Sundariyal, director of Civil Hospital.The other vaccination centres in Lucknow for the 18-plus age group included King George’s Medical University, Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences, Sanjay Gandhi PGI, Lok Bandhu Raj Narain hospital, Rani Laxmibai Hospital, Jhalkaribai hospital, Avantibai hospital, Balrampur hospital and BRD hospital. Each vaccination centre was given 300 doses of Covaxin.Also, the vaccination drive for people above 45 years is being organised at 2,500 centers across the state.The chief minister said the state government was committed to zero wastage of the vaccines.“The scientists of our country have provided us with ‘swadeshi’ vaccine. The state government is procuring Covid vaccines directly from the manufacturers to give jabs to people above 18 years,” he added.The state government has decided to float global tenders to procure five crore vaccine doses and has already placed orders for one crore doses.“The vaccination drive will be expedited across the state to protect the people from infection. The health workers are doing exemplary work in giving jabs. People should respect the health workers and corona warriors. Teamwork will help UP in fighting the pandemic,” he said.Yogi called upon people to follow the Covid protocol — wear facemask and maintain social distancing after taking the jab.“It has been observed that recovery from infection is fast among people who have taken the vaccine dose. At the vaccination centre, protocol has been implemented at the waiting areas and observation areas set up for the beneficiaries,” he said.Earlier on Friday, the chief minister monitored the supply of doses to vaccination centres in seven districts.State plane brings vials from HyderabadOn his direction, the state plane was sent to Hyderabad to transport vials from Hyderabad- based Bharat Biotech International Limited that manufactures Covaxin. The vaccine doses were supplied to the vaccination centres in the seven districts, said a state government officer.“The seven districts where the vaccination drive was launched for beneficiaries above 18 years included Lucknow, Kanpur, Prayagraj, Meerut, Gorakhpur, Bareilly, and Varanasi. Here, the active cases are high. Hence, we begin from these districts and more districts will get the benefit later,” said additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad.In Varanasi, the vaccination of beneficiaries above 18 years against Covid-19, began at 17 centres.In Prayagraj, 2,410 individuals aged between 18 and 44 years were vaccinated against Covid-19 at 10 vaccinations centres in Prayagraj, on Saturday.District nodal officer for Covid-19 vaccination RS Thakur said that 3,000 doses of Covaxin had been received by Prayagraj for the vaccination of individuals aged between 18 and 44.In Meerut, 2450 beneficiaries turned up at 10 vaccination booths to receive the jabs. The overall vaccination percentage was 81.4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-begins-giving-jabs-to-18-in-seven-districts-101619893615077.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column: Rediscovering Chandigarh through social media||From pinning that inspiring image on Pinterest to sharing photographs on Instagram, ours is an age of visual content. Virtual platforms have made sharing such content with family, friends and designers significantly easier.Interwoven with the theme of design, social media has been presenting itself as an interesting phenomenon in Chandigarh. Hashtags and location tagging have proven instrumental in providing the youth a window to discover the architectural gems of the city.Earlier, architectural marvels such as the Le Corbusier Museum, Sector 19, were largely visited by the architectural community. However, the advent of social media has been a game changer, drawing people from all walks of life.Repository of ideasThis trend has created public awareness about design and its value in the individual’s experience of a space. Professionals such as architects and interior designers engage with this cyberspace phenomenon on a daily basis as well. Inspiration has come for many a designer through social media. A photographer’s still life work, for instance, may be the source of inspiration for designing an entire space. Also, social media widens our cognisance of interesting new building material and spatial accents that are being created across India and the world, helping us offer multiple options to our clients. The multitudinous nature of these options extends to Chandigarh’s cultural milieu. Instagrammable places such as the new underpass connecting the Rose Garden and Sector 17 have become spaces of brimming activity. The quest for posting novel pictures on social media has led people to the city’s many hideouts. The Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary is one such place. Cycling groups, brought together by Facebook, have also been touring the nooks and corners of the city.Boost to tourismMarketing in the age of social media has been greatly exploited by some designers. In an era where perception rules the roost, virtual presence is a means to create that perception. This potential can be exploited by the Chandigarh administration, which should use the space to proactively market the city’s uniqueness and boost tourism.Another feather to social media’s proverbial hat is bringing people together.Chandigarh’s architect Le Corbusier had based the city’s design on the neighbourhood unit concept leading to the birth of sectors. Nevertheless, the community living that Chandigarh was designed for saw a delayed inception. The 2020 lockdown largely confined people to their sectors. Subsequently, WhatsApp groups of sector residents were formed to assist each other. Thus, knitting the city’s residents together in this hour of crisis.Data overload: The flip side Data overload is the other side of the coin. The deluge of fake news on social media can be confusing and sifting through narratives and counter narratives is a constant struggle, as is choosing a concept for one’s architectural space. Being spoilt for choice has confused many an architect and interior designer’s clients. Attractive shots are presented online after intense spatial styling and picture editing. Just like the unreal beauty standards seen in air-brushed photographs, which are the source of a variety of body image issues, the heavily edited architecture and interior design images create utopian visions in the minds of clients. When the actual space is created, it appears to be different from the mirage created by these online images, leaving clients disgruntled.A bespoke space is what clients want. That is what makes them embark on this virtual image search journey in the first place. And that is what should be responsibly delivered by designers and other project associates. However, a side note of truth should be served as well. Bagging projects on the basis of false promises of delivering a precise rendition of these images is unethical.Social media dilemmaThe potential of social media can be used to vivify life in Chandigarh. The city’s repute as one of the best experiments in urban planning and modern architecture can be built upon.Not only would this serve in increasing the intracity people-to-people connection but also help in promoting tourism. The architectural community has been an asset here and social media the catalyst. In the field of design, social media is both a boon and a bane. You may like how it facilitates vision creation or dislike how it distorts visions. Whatever your stance, social media is here to stay. The trick to resolving this ‘social media dilemma’ lies in using it as a tool to create, curate and connect.( The writer is a Chandigarh-based architect)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-rediscovering-chandigarh-through-social-media-101619892895138.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Emergency parole can’t be counted as part of sentence of convict: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday dismissed a petition filed by a murder convict seeking direction to the state government to count his Covid emergency parole leave as part of his sentence while considering his case for premature release.The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale dismissed the petition filed by Inden aka Mohiddin Sayyed Ali Shaikh, holding that in view of Rule 20 of the Prison (Bombay Parole and Furlough) Rules, 2020 parole leave cannot be counted as sentence undergone by a convict.Shaikh had moved the HC in December 2020 to include his parole leave in the sentence undergone by him. He was arrested on murder charges on November 8, 2002 and was subsequently convicted for murder and sentenced to life imprisonment. HC has since dismissed his appeal against conviction in 2011 and confined his life term.On February 22, 2018, the home department decided Shaikh’s plea for premature release, declaring that the Ambernath resident will have to undergo total imprisonment of 26 years, including remission.It was submitted before HC on his behalf that Shaikh would have completed the 26-year term in November 2020, but he was released on emergency Covid parole leave in May 10, 2020 and what remains now was a meagre term of five months. He therefore urged the HC to direct the authorities to include his emergency parole leave in the sentence undergone by him.Jail authorities opposed his plea contending that Rule 20 of the Prisons (Bombay Furlough and Parole) Rules, 2020 states that parole is not an incentive, and thus shall not be counted towards remission of the sentence.Besides, jail authorities also pointed out that after being released from jail in May 2020, Shaikh has joined a political party, creating tense atmosphere in Ambernath in view of ensuing civic elections. Besides, they claimed, Shaikh had failed to abide by a parole leave condition to report to local police station once a month.HC accepted the contention based on Rule 20 and dismissed the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/emergency-parole-can-t-be-counted-as-part-of-sentence-of-convict-bombay-hc-101619892834527.html
01-05-2021||Other||Punjab roadways’ Batala GM among four staffers held for graft||The vigilance bureau on Saturday arrested four employees of Punjab Roadways, including the Batala depot general manager, for taking bribe from private bus operators in lieu of undue favours and causing loss to the state exchequer. The private bus operators were allowed to flout the time table, and also permitted to park for extra time at bus counters so that they could get more passengers. Senior superintendent of police (vigilance-Amritsar range) Parampal Singh said, “We had a tip-off that some officials were defrauding the state government by facilitating unauthorised movement of private buses across the state.”He added, “After monitoring activities of suspicious employees, the department arrested general manager Arvind Sharma, inspector Iqbal Singh, sub-inspector, Rana Gurwinder Singh Uppal and conductor Sukhchain Singh. They have been booked under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act.”The SSP added that they had also booked deputy director state transport Parneet Singh; station supervisor Satnam Singh; inspectors Tarsem Singh, Jasbir Singh and inspector (retd) Punjab Roadways Raj Kumar Raju, but all of them were absconding.“Our investigation shows that Uppal, who was a member of central flying squad that checked violations by private buses, was taking money from bus stand in-charges, drivers and conductors of Punjab Roadways. This staff gave favours to private bus operators. Uppal acted as the middle-man between lower-rung employees and senior staffers. We have found that such malpractice is prevalent across the state.”He claimed that the vigilance had issued strict warning to officials of the department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-roadways-batala-gm-among-four-staffers-held-for-graft-101619892781207.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: More takers for 5-year law course, despite delayed admissions||Admissions to law colleges in the state ended in the last week of April and surprisingly, five-year law courses have witnessed a dip in seat vacancies this year. Information shared by the state common entrance test (CET) cell showed how 6,864 of the total 10,440 available seats in state law colleges for the five-year LLB were taken this year (only 34.25% seats vacant), much better than the past few years when the seat vacancy stood between 48% to 60%.“Every year after admissions end, we [law colleges] witness a lot of shuffling among students who end up withdrawing admission from one institute and applying to another. This year since the entire process was delayed and extended over a period of two and a half months, students are not withdrawing admissions and this could’ve resulted in more admissions,” said the principal of a suburban law college.Nearly 16,200 students had appeared for the state entrance exam for the five-year law course in October 2020. Admissions to most professional courses, however, were delayed this year and law was the worst affected. Admissions that started only in January 2020 were marred by several errors, eventually extending the admissions process till April this year. While there is excitement among stakeholders to witness increase in admissions at law colleges, many feel the number is still very low compared to the registrations received this year.“If 16,000 students cleared the law entrance exam, how can only 6,800 confirm seats? Obviously, the delay in admissions pushed more students to opt for seats in neighbouring states where admissions were conducted without much delay,” said Sachin Pawar, president of the Student Law Council. He added that the state’s decision to keep extending law admissions dates has cost several aspirants their future.Last month, state minister for higher and technical education, Uday Samant, called for additional admission rounds for the three-year law course where over 767 seats remained vacant after online and offline admission rounds. These additional rounds were conducted by the state CET cell between April 23 and 29, but the final data on vacant seats in the three-year law course has not yet been made available by the admissions body.Despite verbal assurances by Samant, giving first-year law students and colleges extra time to complete their curriculum for the current academic year, students are worried if colleges will manage to complete the curriculum, even with extra time. “Instead of nine-10 months that colleges usually get to complete the entire year’s portion, our batch will get four or five months, if we are lucky. We are fearing the exams because in most cases, colleges have only now started online lectures for the first-year batch,” said Ashutosh Sairam, a first-year LLB (five years) student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-more-takers-for-5-year-law-course-despite-delayed-admissions-101619892775170.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||PhD applicants double at University of Mumbai; experts raise doubts over capacity||Nikesh Patil, 31, completed his masters in political science in 2018 and was all set to appear for the preliminary eligibility test (PET) in May 2020, but had to delay his plans by a year as the world was grappling with Covid-19. This year, he is one of the 11,000-odd candidates who appeared for the PET exam conducted by University of Mumbai (MU) for Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) and has managed to successfully clear the exam as well.“Now that I’ve cleared the exam, I’m unsure if I’ll manage to pursue my PhD this year itself because most guides at the university are already managing a few students and cannot possibly take up more candidates,” said Patil, who now plans to continue working as a visiting faculty at various city colleges for another year before applying for PhD next year. The university considers PET results valid for three years, making it possible for people like Patil to pursue their dreams next or the year after that as well.Before 2021, MU had managed to hold its last PET exam in December 2018, and the number of applications made headlines with an almost 85% rise in PhD applicants. From 3,350 and 3,333 in 2016 and 2017 respectively, the varsity received 6,168 applications in 2018, which included maximum applications for the science and technology stream, followed by humanities and then the commerce and management stream.After not being able to hold the exam due to various reasons in 2019 and due to Covid-19 pandemic in 2020, MU was expecting an even bigger turnout for the entrance exam this year. “In 2018 itself we witnessed a rise in applications because the exam was held after a break of almost 16 months. This year, PET was held after over two years, so we were not surprised to receive 11,351 applications for PhD alone,” said a senior official from the MPhil and PhD department of the university.The varsity had originally planned to conduct PET in May 2020, for which registrations took place between February 27 and March 31 last year, but due to the national lockdown, MU could not conduct the exam. This year, registration began in January and was extended till March in order to accommodate students who cleared their postgraduate programmes in December 2020. The entrance exam was held between March 25 and 27.“The number of applications is almost double because applicants from last year and this year have applied together. We were also very happy to see that almost 55% of the applications were from female candidates,” said the MU official.Experts, however, feel that the rise in PhD applications will not materialise into rise in number of research scholars, due to the lack of appropriate number of guides across various departments of the varsity. At present, officials have confirmed that MU boasts of around 1,500 professors, associate professors as well as assistant professors who can work as guides with PhD as well as MPhil students. However, these guides are already working with enough number of students at present, making it impossible for them to mentor anymore.“This year, maximum applications have come for the chemistry department, where our teachers are already clearing a backlog of previous years’ research candidates. A professor is not allowed to mentor more than eight candidates at a time, and in our department, most professors are already working to the maximum capacity,” said an associate professor from the department of chemistry. She added that many students who could’ve cleared their PhD by now were delayed last year due to the lockdown that left them unable to continue field work or research to complete their thesis.To make matters worse, the university has, this year, decided to extend the validity of the December 2018 PET exam candidates by another year to December 2022. “This means that apart from the 4,304 candidates who cleared the exam this year, we will also see more students from the 2018 batch who could not pursue their research projects last year due to the lockdown. The varsity is not equipped with enough staff to mentor so many students,” added the associate professor.In 2020-21, the total number of PhD and MPhil degrees awarded at the annual convocation ceremony dropped by over 63% compared to 2019-20. Many blamed the lockdown for the small number of doctorates awarded by the varsity this year. Not only was the university and its various departments under complete shutdown for the first few months of the lockdown, candidates highlighted several other issues including lack of proper e-learning resources, unavailability of remote access to science labs and/or libraries, poor internet facility, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/phd-applicants-double-at-university-of-mumbai-experts-raise-doubts-over-capacity-101619892714525.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 68 cops died of Covid in April, second highest in a month||April 2021 has turned out to be the second deadliest month of Covid-19 pandemic for the Maharashtra Police, as the force lost 68 personnel to the infection. The police force saw the highest of 89 Covid deaths in September 2020, followed by 55 deaths in August. This year January, February and March together saw a total of 36 fatalities. The second wave of Covid-19 has led to more fatalities in the police department, despite nearly 85% of its personnel having received the first dose of vaccine and 50% having received both the doses. Last month, the police force recorded more than 6,000 new cases of Covid-19. In the past 24 hours, 165 new cases, including 25 officers and 140 constables, were reported.Cities where the police force saw maximum fatalities are Mumbai with 109 deaths, Thane (35), Pune (17), Nagpur (21), Navi Mumbai (12) and Nashik (11).So far, a total of 40,948 police personnel contracted the virus, of whom 422 (35 officers and 387 constables) have died since April 2020. Currently, there are 3,811 active cases. Around 36,715 police personnel have recovered, while around 11,129 are quarantined.Additional director general of police (administration) Sanjeev Singhal said it was unfortunate that 68 policemen lost their lives, but the fatality rate of police is less compared to the general public. The peak could be attributed to overall second wave, he said.“To bring effective check on this, we are aggressively pursuing vaccination of police personnel and have instructed all unit commanders to ensure strict adoption of Covid-appropriate behaviour,” Singhal said.According to Mumbai Police spokesperson deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Chaitanya Siriprolu, a total of 8,605 police personnel tested positive for Covid-19 in the city. Of them, 109 succumbed to the infectious disease. Currently, there are 453 patients in the force who are undergoing treatment at various facilities. The city police force also expedited the vaccination drive for its personnel. The Mumbai Police has a strength of around 45,000 personnel, of whom 33,691 have received the first vaccine dose, while 21,915 have got both the doses. “Compared to the November-February period, daily cases of infection among police personnel in March and April have gone up. But due to vaccination, the number of serious patients is low,” said a senior officer from Mumbai Police.In the view of surge in Covid-19 cases, Mumbai Police also opened its dedicated Covid care centre at Kalina with a capacity of 720 beds. The other three Covid centres may also be reopened if need arises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-68-cops-died-of-covid-in-april-second-highest-in-a-month-101619892654014.html
01-05-2021||Other||Get IIT-K to analyse Covid curve in all UP districts: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday asked officials to engage Indian Institute of Technology-Kanpur (IIT-K) for rigorous analysis of the Covid curve in all the 75 districts of the state. Such analysis would help in pandemic management. “In view of the Covid peak, experts all over the country have been coming up with analysis. Coordinate with IIT-K for district-wise rigorous analysis of UP,” he said while reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the state. Explaining the chief minister’s directive, a senior state government official said that various experts had been doing analysis using technology and mathematics to indicate how and when the Covid infection or recovery graph would rise and fall. The IIT-K already has been doing such analysis and has made them public. It would do more as and when the state government asked it to do so. Professor Abhay Karandikar, director of IIT-K, said: “This is a part of a national super model where along with leading experts, doctors, and IIT-K Prof Manindra Agrawal have been working on predicting the peak. The prediction of peak done district wise has shown remarkable fit with observed data and hence reliable estimates can be done. This will help plan the medical emergencies. However, this is just a model and we need to be prepared for the worst-case scenario.” The chief minister also asked officials to ensure adherence to Covid-19 norms during the counting of panchayat election votes on Sunday. “Make all arrangements for smooth and Covid-safe counting process. Ensure that all the counting centres have rapid antigen test (for quick testing of Covid) right outside the centres. The health department must make all related arrangements for this,” he said. “The counting process must happen following all Covid safety protocols. Appoint a separate senior police officer for each of the districts with regard to the counting of votes for the panchayat polls,” he said. Yogi said the state was now also getting oxygen from Jamnagar (Gujarat), Durgapur and Barjora (West Bengal) and Rourkela (Odisha) to augment supply. Create a manpower bank Retired doctors, retired army personnel, experienced paramedics, and final year students of medical and paramedical courses should be engaged as there would be the need for trained human resource in hospitals in view of the fast-changing scenario, he said. “It would be better if we have a manpower bank in the state so that we can deploy people as and when they are needed,” he said. He asked the medical education minister to work on the idea. In the last 24 hours, the number of recoveries (38,826) was higher than the number of fresh Covid-19 cases (30,317), the chief minister said. He also said that the state 2,66,326 conducted tests of which nearly half were RT-PCR tests in the past 24 hours. Medical help for pregnant women The chief minister also asked for creating a system for ensuring medical attention to pregnant women in the state. They should get ambulance and medical help immediately when required, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/get-iit-k-to-analyse-covid-curve-in-all-up-districts-yogi-101619892593913.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal place of sensitive origins: Maharashtra govt||In a bid to curb transmission of Covid-19 and to stop the “influx of other variants of coronavirus” from other states, Maharashtra on Saturday declared Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal as the places of “sensitive origin”.It means the travellers coming from these two states will have to carry negative RT-PCR tests within 48 hours of their train travel. They will also have to go through a mandatory 15 day home quarantine even if they are carrying a negative report. The order was issued by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte on Saturday.Last month, the state had declared Kerala, Goa, Gujarat, Delhi and NCR region, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand as places of “sensitive origin”.The decision has been taken to curb the transmission of coronavirus in the state and also to stop the influx of other Covid-19 virus variants into the state from other locations, stated the order.“These places will be considered the places of ‘Sensitive Origin’ from the date of this order till the time it is retracted or till Covid-19 stays notified as a disaster,” it added.The passengers who are not carrying the RT-PCR negative report will have to undergo a rapid antigen test at the station. All the passengers without symptoms and without needing to be moved to quarantine centres by district management authority, without fail shall be stamped on their hands for compulsory home quarantine for 15 days. This is required for those passengers who are carrying the negative RT-PCR test as well as those who have tested negative in a rapid antigen test at the station or otherwise, said the standard operating procedure for the place of sensitive origins.Meanwhile, the state government clarified that shops selling meat, fish as well as mangoes will be allowed all seven days but they can be opened between 7am to 11am, according to a clarification issued by Aseem Gupta, principal secretary, relief and rehabilitation department.However, all these shops can send home delivery for customers after 11am personally or through e-commercial services. There are no restrictions on cargo movements, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uttar-pradesh-and-west-bengal-place-of-sensitive-origins-maharashtra-govt-101619892473901.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Covid second wave: April accounted for 39% of Maharashtra’s cases, 20.58% of deaths||The second wave of Covid-19 in Maharashtra has been massive with nearly 39% (38.88%) of the state’s total cases and 20.58% of its fatalities coming in April alone. Mumbai too saw a huge spike in its tally as it recorded 36% of its total cases and nearly 11% (10.93%) of its deaths in April alone.Maharashtra, on Saturday, reported 63,282 fresh cases and 802 fatalities, taking the total tally and death toll to 4,665,754 and 69,615. The state’s active case count stood at 663,758. Mumbai, meanwhile, reported 3,897 new cases and 90 fatalities.Last month alone Maharashtra recorded 1.78 million (1,789,492) cases and 14,164 deaths.While Mumbai added 233,698 cases and 1,435 deaths in April, the number of cases is significantly higher from September 2020 when Maharashtra peaked its first wave. In the first wave, Maharashtra saw its peak on September 11 with 24,886 cases. The state added 591,905 and 12,079 deaths in September alone. The cases added in September were 42% of the total cases then. The deaths reported in September was nearly 33% (32.94%) of the total deaths. The state had tested 2,646,276 in September and a positivity rate of 22.36%In the previous wave, Mumbai had recorded 59,463 cases in September which were 29% of the city’s total cases then. It reported 1271 deaths in September, which was 14.23% of the city’s total fatalities then.The high numbers have also resulted due to ramped-up testing, including RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Tests. In April, the state tested 7,314,139 samples and had a positivity rate of 24.46%.Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state’s Covid task force said, “The second wave has hit Maharashtra massively. It was predicted in October-November last year. The second wave was always anticipated to be ferocious and more lethal. However, the upside was that the positivity rate was under control even though the sheer number was high.”Meanwhile, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray directed authorities in Mumbai, Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad to become self-sufficient with regards to oxygen availability. Thackeray, during a meeting with officials from these municipal corporations, said that authorities must keep the health infrastructure ready to treat children, as it is suspected that the third wave could hit children. Thackeray, according to a statement from the chief minister’s office, said, “The first wave saw many senior citizens and people with comorbidities getting affected. In the second wave, people between the age of 30 and 50 were affected more, along with several cases of children contracting the virus. This could increase further in the possible third wave, therefore we need to prepare and plan. Hospitals should have treatment facilities for children.”The chief minister also said that a separate control room should be set up to ensure that patients with mild symptoms that isolated at their homes are admitted to the hospital at the right time to save their lives. He said that the responsibility of keeping in contact with such patients should be given to experienced and retired doctors. The decision was taken after it was observed the condition of people with mild symptoms suddenly grew critical.The cases are now declining in urban areas, while semi-urban and rural areas are stabilising. The deaths, however, are still high with the state adding over 800 fatalities for the past three days. Thackeray cautioned the corporations in Mumbai, MMR, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad and said, “Currently, many municipal corporations are seeing the daily figures stabilising, but the threat has not passed yet. Looking at the possibility of a third wave, we must make all corporations self-sufficient in terms of medical oxygen supply. They should not depend on others for oxygen in any situation. They should ensure that there is enough stock of drugs and ventilators.” Thackeray also asked corporations to be prepared for monsoon-related ailments. He said that immediate treatment should be given to patients coming in with monsoon-related ailments including fever, cholera, jaundice, leptospirosis, dengue etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-second-wave-april-accounted-for-39-of-maharashtra-s-cases-20-58-of-deaths-101619892293964.html
01-05-2021||Other||400th birth anniversary of 9th Sikh guru: Accept farmers’ demands to mark historic day, Akal Takht to Centre||Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Saturday said in view of the 400th birth anniversary of ninth Sikh master Guru Tegh Bahadur that fell on Saturday, the Centre must meet all demands of farmers protesting at the borders of Delhi, including the repeal of the three farm laws. “Governments usually do such tasks in the wake of this kind of historic centenary, like releasing prisoners from jail. As we mark the 400th Parkash Gurpurb, the union government should meet all demands of farmers. This will ensure they return home safely, as the covid-19 pandemic has taken a turn for the worse,” said the jathedar. He was addressing a gathering at a function at the Gurdwara Manji Sahib Diwan Hall in the Golden Temple complex. Even as a lockdown is in force across Punjab, devotees thronged the gurdwara in numbers, with most not wearing masks. There was no social distancing. Kar Sewa organisations and Damdami Taksal had made special langar arrangements.When queried on the large gathering of devotees at the function, he said, “When love with the Guru outdoes fear of covid-19, we cannot stop devotees from gathering in gurdwaras. Everyone should take precautions, while paying obeisance. Getting frightened by the disease is not the right approach.” Taking on the Union government on the issue of oxygen shortage, he said, “If people are dying of covid-19 amid oxygen shortage, the Centre is responsible for it.”Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Bibi Jagir Kaur said a documentary depicting the journey of the ninth Guru from his birth to martyrdom will be commissioned. “Biographies of contemporary pupils of the guru will also be circulated through documentaries. The bani (hymns) of the guru will be translated into five other languages,” she said.“A chair will be set up in the name of Guru Tegh Bahadur at Sri Guru Granth Sahib World University, Fatehgarh Sahib. Houses would be set up in the name of Sikhs associated with him, and research will be done,” she added. SGPC held another function at the guru’s birthplace Gurdwara Guru Ke Mehal, where the bhog ceremony of the Akhand Path concluded early in the morning. Sikh religious personalities and preachers addressed the gathering, after which a gurbani kirtan was performed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/400th-birth-anniversary-of-9th-sikh-guru-accept-farmers-demands-to-mark-historic-day-akal-takht-to-centre-101619892114494.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Lockdown impact: Only 8 lakh passengers travel by Mumbai locals||After the Maharashtra government imposed strict lockdown measures under the BreakTheChain campaign on April 14, the number of passengers travelling by local trains have significantly reduced. On average 800,000 passengers are travelling daily by local trains on the Central and Western Railway lines.Nearly 500,000 passengers travel by local trains on Central Railway (CR) and 300,000 passengers travel by local trains on the Western Railway (WR) currently.Before the lockdown, 3.8 million passengers travelled by local trains on the Central and Western Railway, while two million travelled by trains on the CR and 1.8 million travelled by trains on the WR.“We are not allowing any unauthorised passenger to enter the station premises. There are limited entry and exit points to the railway stations and strict checking of identity cards and medical documents of passengers are being done at the entrance of the railway stations.” said a senior railway official.The Maharashtra government under its BreakTheChain measure to curb the spread of coronavirus did not suspend public transport services but has implemented restrictions including not allowing the general public to travel by local trains.Only the citizens working in essential services, travelling for medical purposes and people travelling to and from vaccination centres are permitted to commute by the local trains.Autorickshaws are allowed to have two passengers only, excluding the driver; taxis are allowed to operate with 50% of vehicle capacity, while Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) buses are not allowed to ferry any standees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lockdown-impact-only-8-lakh-passengers-travel-by-mumbai-locals-101619891993854.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Good Samaritans help weather the coronavirus storm||On May 6, 2020, as the first wave of Covid-19 hit Mumbai, Tabassum Dhorajiwala , 39, lost her husband, Ahmed. A positive Covid test report – no hospital admitted him without it – took too long to arrive due to the same backlog that Mumbai faces even now, and in the meantime, his condition deteriorated. Dhorajiwala was devastated, but of this loss, a resolve was born. “The struggle to find the right resources at the right time eventually cost me my husband’s life, so that very day I decided to help whomever I can with resources,” said Dhorajiwala, a resident of Mohammad Ali Road. On May 24 last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a national lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus. What followed was one of the world’s longest (68 days) and strictest lockdowns (even road transportation was not allowed in its initial phases) that epidemiologists largely agree went a long way to arrest the spread of the pandemic on the lockdown. However, millions of migrant workers were affected in Mumbai and other urban centres; many returned to their hometowns in northern India, as they lost earnings and homes. This year, as cases began to spike in Maharashtra – between 18-31 March, the state drove 60% of them - the city began to run short of oxygen and beds. Social media was replete with pleas of people seeking beds, as the city ran out of critical infrastructure.When Rajesh P (name changed) needed help with admission to a hospital and oxygen, a local volunteer group - Choti Si Asha group put together a list of doctor contacts from hospitals across South Mumbai. “The aim was to get in touch with a doctor whenever we need help. After my husband passed away, I stayed in touch with these doctors and now, whenever people need help with hospital beds or oxygen, we reach out to these doctors and other officials and find out how we can help those in need,” she said.In May last year, Dhorajiwala started working with Choti Si Asha to distribute ration kits to people in need. They called it NESH, or No one ever sleeps hungry and it catered to people across Mumbai whose income source had dried up due to the lockdown. Between May and July, the group distributed as many as 80,000 packages. This year, she is volunteering to find oxygen tanks for those affected with Covid-19.Ronita Ghosh, 40, moved to Pune in August last year and started a customised catering service called Jikoni Foods. In the past 10 days, Ghosh’s kitchen has been busy preparing khichdi to distribute to frontline workers, patients and relatives outside Sassoon General Hospital. Up at 7am, Ghosh soaks anywhere between 10 to 12 kilos of rice and lentils, cleans and cuts vegetables, assisted by a team of three staff members. By noon, 500 boxes of khichdi are ready. Around 20 volunteers, whom Ghosh met through social media, help with packing and delivering the food. What started as a small initiative with 50 boxes has now grown into a reliable food service network for those sitting in the waiting rooms of the hospital hopeful to get their relatives admitted. “The packets are for anyone hungry,” said Ghosh, who is now known as “dabba didi” by those at the hospital. All of her food boxes are biodegradable, and spices and rotis procured from home entrepreneurs. Social media has emerged as an important network for spreading information about available resources for those in need of testing facilities, or hospitals where beds, ventilators and oxygen supply are still available. A host of volunteers are helping people with the right leads. One among them is Shatakshi, a 20-year-old student from the Mithibai College in Vile Parle who only goes by one name, who is verifying leads and passing on information to people over social media platforms, Twitter and Instagram. When her grandmother was ill and needed immediate hospitalisation, the family couldn’t find a bed as the hospitals in Bihar, her home state, were full. The leads available on social media were too confusing and the family did not have the time to verify these leads. On April 15, Satakshi’s grandmother passed away. Satakshi and a group of friends from her college wanted to ensure that others wouldn’t have to go through the same thing. “I came up with this idea after I couldn’t do anything for my grandmother and we lost her. My friend and I call up hospitals in Mumbai, Gujarat, Bihar daily and prepare data in an excel sheet and upload it on our Twitter and Instagram accounts,” she said. “If I have verified it personally, then I upload the tweet mentioning my name and time and date of verification for people’s ease along with #SoS tag,” she said. Social media has also helped fund Ghosh’s khichdi dabba initiative: her customers send amounts ranging from ₹100 to ₹1,000 which she uses to buy raw materials for the food and eco-friendly packaging material. “I intend to continue this meal service to those at Sassoon Hospital even after the pandemic,” she said. Not everyone is on social media, but that hasn’t stopped them from helping out. When a close friend residing in the same residential complex tested positive for Covid-19 and struggled to manage the cooking all by themselves, Hemant Shah got together with his family and started a tiffin service for the neighbour. Now, they’re catering to 6 to 10 families in their locality of Goregaon west. The banking professional from Goregaon, his wife and daughter-in-law Krishna, deliver home-cooked food to people till 7.30pm every day. The meal includes chapatti, a vegetable, dal, rice, salad and buttermilk. Shah’s driver uses the family car to make deliveries and the Shahs don’t take any money for it. “As of now less traffic allows faster delivery, hence we can deliver the food in 10 minutes,” he said. Their volunteer efforts have spread through word of mouth, and the Shahs often get calls or texts seeking their help.As the pandemic takes a toll on the mental health of people, professionals are offering free counselling services online. A group of research scholars with a background in psychology, social work and medicine is one such volunteering initiative. Sanket Shirsat, an alumnus of the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai, who is currently pursuing a PhD from the Department of Social Work, Jamia Milia Islamia, New Delhi, launched a campaign last Saturday to provide free counselling services in vernacular languages such as Gujarati, Malayalam, Hindi and Marathi. “We’re living in a time of uncertainty, and many people are feeling stressed, anxious and panicked. We’ve received close to 20 calls so far. There’s distress over workload, anxiety over the new virus strain, people laid off from work are depressed. The pandemic has posed a variety of triggers; people unable to switch to new jobs; some are stuck in abusive households. We listen to people and help them develop coping mechanisms,” said Shirsat, founding member of the Affirmative Actions for Inclusive Foundation, which he started with PhD colleagues from various institutes. The Foundation was set up last August when Shirsat and his colleagues distributed dry ration, protective gear, food and clothes in many villages of Maharashtra. Even as this work continues, the foundation has brought together around 30 students (all from psychology and social work courses) from across the country to offer the free counselling service. Contact details have been shared on all social media platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-good-samaritans-help-weather-the-coronavirus-storm-101619891933920.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Set up national committee under SC to tackle Covid crisis, says Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena on Saturday said that the Supreme Court (SC) must immediately form a national-level committee to tackle the Covid-19 management and distribution of vaccines. Sena leader and Rajya Sabha member of Parliament (MP) Sanjay Raut said that time has come to keep politics aside and handle the second wave that has gripped the country, if not then the “country will be ruled by corpses”. In the suo moto proceedings on the Covid-19 crisis, SC on Friday had asked the Centre about its plans on implementing a lockdown, oxygen distribution to states, vaccine prices and availability of medicines. Last week, the Apex court took cognisance of the issues related to the oxygen supply, drug supply, and various other government policies and measures concerning the Covid-19 pandemic.Lauding the “interest” shown by the Apex court on the Covid-19 handling, Raut said, “SC should form a national committee to look into all these issues [of vaccination and Covid-19 management]. There are several states where even the government does not know what is happening. Now, politics should be kept aside… Everybody needs to come together. The country will only survive if we do work that is devoid of politics. If not, then the country will be ruled by corpses.”“A committee should be immediately formed with the help of the SC, which looks at the requirement of the state, that there is no discrimination, that there is no political interference,” Raut told reporters in Mumbai.The Sena chief spokesperson said that there is no “transparency or clarity” over the vaccination drive in the country. He also raised the inadequate supply of doses to Maharashtra. “Maharashtra is still awaiting the stock; CM said in his address, even Karnataka chief minister [BS] Yediyurappa ji has a similar opinion. Other states are also complaining. So, the question arises what is the Centre doing?” He added, “Maharashtra is not getting the vaccine stock it requires. The vaccination centres are shut for the last two-three days.” According to Raut, the Covid situation has gone out of hand in several states. He added that the Apex court-monitored committee should look at the equal and adequate distribution of drugs, vaccines and medical oxygen. “This is a national calamity and if the Centre is not handling it seriously or if they have lost control, then the Supreme Court should for a national-level committee, which can tackle the issue in conjunction with the central government. From oxygen to vaccination, from Remdesivir to other drugs, from [hospital] beds to other health infrastructure must be given as required.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-set-up-national-committee-under-sc-to-tackle-covid-crisis-says-sanjay-raut-101619891753898.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Palghar receives 23 rail coaches to treat Covid patients||Western Railway (WR) on Saturday morning provided 23 non-AC rail coaches parked at platform 3 at Palghar railway station to treat Covid patients. The coaches can treat up to 414 patients at a time. Rajendra Gavit, MP from Palghar, had written to railway minister Piyush Goyal last week after members of the Dahanu Vaitarna Pravasi Sevabhavi Sanstha (DVPSS) highlighted the shortage of Covid beds in Palghar hospitals. Goyal agreed to provide rail coaches. “On Friday GVL Satyakumar, deputy regional manager, WR, Mumbai signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Palghar district collector Dr Manik Gursal, and on Saturday, we provided the rail coaches,” said Sumit Thakur, chief public relations officer, WR.The district collector had sought AC coaches in view of summer heat, but WR agreed to provide non-AC coaches. However, air coolers are to be installed in the coaches with around 9 big desert air coolers in each coach. Each coach can treat 18 patients, said Thakur. “We hope to start admitting Covid-19 patients on Sunday onwards,” he said adding,, “We will send more coaches as soon as the present 23 coaches are occupied at Palghar.”“There are more than 17,500 Covid patients in Palghar district and there is a paucity of hospital beds. Hence, rail coaches are the best option and we need more coaches to manage 2,000 patients — 500 each in Dahanu, Boisar, Palghar and Vasai,” said a government official.Earlier, Nandurbar and Nagpur districts had received such rail coaches to treat Covid-19 patients. In Nandurbar, 57 patients are currently admitted in the special Covid express coaches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/palghar-receives-23-rail-coaches-to-treat-covid-patients-101619891693844.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Vulnerable Haryana govt employees to not attend office||The Haryana government has on Saturday issued instructions to exempt from duty employees who fall in the category of persons with severe disabilities and employees suffering from hypertension, blood pressure, heart or lung disease, cancer, other chronic diseases, and pregnant staff.These employees, whether regular, contractual, outsourced, daily wager or those on ad-hoc basis, will not be called for duty even if they are engaged in essential services, according to an order issued by the state government as a preventive measure for safety of this section of employees.If required, these employees will work from home, provided they have the necessary infrastructure. This exemption will remain in force till further orders.Last year on May 8, 2020 and July 16, 2020, the government had issued orders advising that while drawing up roster of staff, employees with severe disabilities may not be called for duty till further orders.According to the letter issued by the office of chief secretary, it had been brought to the notice of the government that May-July 2020 instructions were not being complied with. The employees were being forced to attend office regularly. “Consequently, they are approaching government for necessary guidance,” reads the letter sent to all administrative secretaries, head of departments and commissioners of all divisions in Haryana, DCs, managing directors, chief administrators of boards/corporations, and registrar of all universities.Vulnerable persons including employees of the age of 50 years or above, those suffering from hypertension, blood pressure, heart or lung disease, cancer and other chronic disease are at high risk and will not be exposed to any frontline work requiring direct contact with the public.Similarly, pregnant women employees are also advised to work from home, said a spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vulnerable-haryana-govt-employees-to-not-attend-office-101619891516877.html
01-05-2021||Other||People struggling to get beds, oxygen and medicines in Haryana||As Covid-19 cases continue to surge in Haryana, people are struggling to get hospital beds, oxygen cylinders, ICU beds and medicines, especially in Rohtak, Sonepat, Jhajjar and other NCR districts.An army personnel of a village in Jhajjar said that he and his wife tried to get an oxygen bed for his 48-year-old mother, whose Covid report tested negative but CT scan confirmed 60% lung damage.They managed to get a temporary oxygen bed at a private hospital in Rohtak at 5.30pm. His wife said they made several calls to PGIMS officials, private hospitals, helpline numbers, etc and at last, PGIMS medical superintendent Dr Puspha Dahiya assured them of providing an oxygen bed.A Kathura resident said that he tried for three days to get an oxygen bed for his father, who is a retired army personnel.“Despite all efforts, we did not get a bed in Rohtak, Jhajjar and Sonepat. Finally, my mother’s friends helped in getting a bed at army hospital, Ambala, where he is undergoing treatment,” he added.Similar is the story of hundreds of patients who are failing to get oxygen beds in Rohtak, Sonepat, Jhajjar, Hisar and Jind.HT team spoke to many district health officials and private hospital staff in these districts and they said that oxygen beds, cylinders and ICU beds are unavailable.Dr Arvind Dahiya, head of Kainos Hospital in Rohtak, said that they have no ICU beds and they are helpless.Jhajjar civil surgeon Dr Sanjay Dahiya said all ICU and oxygen beds in district are occupied and they are getting hundreds of calls every second with people seeking help.Senior functionaries of PGIMS admitted that they don’t have vacant oxygen and ICU beds and many patients have to go back due to this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/people-struggling-to-get-beds-oxygen-and-medicines-in-haryana-101619891399271.html
01-05-2021||Other||No infection spread at protest sites, agitation will continue: Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait addressed a ‘Kisan-Mazdoor Mahapanchat’ in Ambala’s Dhurali village and interacted with the media in Kurukshetra on Saturday.He said that there is no spread of Covid at farmers’ protest sites adding that the agitation will continue. “We have gheraoed Delhi from all sides and there is no plan to vacate the dharna sites,” Tikait said.“Government is eager to end the agitation in the name of Covid and we are constructing concrete houses at the site to continue the protest. We’ve started a second war and it will continue till November/December. However, we’ve deferred the march to Parliament due to the risk of infection spreading further and the hot weather,” he said.“Dharna spots are like our villages and colonies, but if the government imposes lockdown, we will follow it like people follow government guidelines in their villages and cities,” he added.Most attendees at the rally were seen flouting the social distancing norms. Except for Tikait and the union’s state president Rattan Mann, no one was seen wearing a mask.On organising mahapanchayats at this hour and recent cases for flouting norms in Bhiwani, Tikait said, “This wasn’t a rally, farmers just gathered here and I informed them about the infection and the state of the agitation.”On supply of oxygen, medical services and movement of ambulances being affected due to farmers’ protest, Tikait said, “It is a rumour being spread by the government to defame farmers. Farmers are providing all support to Covid patients by arranging oxygen and ambulances for them. Farmers have not stopped any emergency vehicles, essential services and school vans in the past five months,” Tikait said.“When there is a good response from the public, the government registers cases. But what about BJP-JJP leaders? Who’ll book them?” he added.He alleged that the Modi government has failed to provide healthcare services and oxygen supply to patients and that he should resign.He refuted the allegations of rift with farm leader Gurnam Singh Charuni and said, “He is a senior leader of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha and we are working together.”ORDERED PUNITIVE ACTION AGAINST THEM: SSP AKHTARThe mahapanchayat took place while the government has enforced Section 144 of the CrPC in Haryana which prohibits gathering of four or more people at a place without permission.SSP Hamid Akhtar said an FIR has been ordered against the organisers and leaders for flouting orders issued by the state government.“On Friday, we asked them to defer the programme, but they still organised it by flouting Section 144,” Akhtar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-infection-spread-at-protest-sites-agitation-will-continue-tikait-101619891154567.html
01-05-2021||Other||Illegal mining racket busted in Amritsar, two arrested; area SHO suspended||Police unearthed an illegal sand mining racket near Kassowal village of Ajnala sub-division along the Ravi river on Saturday after conducting a raid. Two persons have been arrested with the recovery of nine trucks, four tractor trailers, a JCB and other machines. The raiding team found large mounds of sand at the river banks and in the hinterland area nearby. The station house officer (SHO) of the area has been suspended for negligence in effectively curbing illegal mining operations in the area. Senior superintendent of police (SSP-rural) Dhruv Dahiya said the newly-formed Enforcement Directorate on mining had written to his office on authorised mining sites in the area and conditions set down for mining operations, including the requirement of physical demarcation of sites.“We had information that large-scale illegal mining racket was being run along the banks of Ravi river in the area of Kassowal village. A raid was conducted and we noticed serious procedural compliance failures with no physical demarcation at all. The contractor also failed to produce any government permission,” the SSP added. The arrested men are Ranjit Singh, of Teja village in Gurdaspur, and Daljit Singh, of Bahadurgarh Jandiya village in Bathinda. Police have also booked nearly a dozen unidentified persons involved in the racket and raids are on to nab them. A case under Sections 379 (theft), 420 (cheating), 468 (forgery for cheating), 471 (fraudulent use of electronic document), 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code, and Section 21 of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, and Section 26 of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) Act has been registered at the Ramdas police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/illegal-mining-racket-busted-in-amritsar-two-arrested-area-sho-suspended-101619891094449.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||IAS, IPS officers with MBBS degree to deal with Covid battle in hospitals||Five Haryana cadre Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers and three Indian Police Service (IPS) officers having MBBS degrees were on Saturday pulled out from administrative duties.Now as a stop-gap arrangement to combat the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, they will be part of medical teams creating and running additional Covid hospitals in Panipat and Hisar.The IAS officers having MBBS degrees include Dr Chander Shekhar Khare, Dr RS Dhillon, Dr Sangeeta Tetarwal, Dr Manoj Kumar, Dr Vaishali Sharma. And the three IPS officers include Dr Dheeraj Kumar, Dr Anshu Singla and Dr Arpit Jain.The services of these officers have been placed at the disposal of additional chief secretary (ACS, health) Rajeev Arora for creation and running of 500-bed hospitals in Panipat and Hisar and any other duty required from time-to-time.Meanwhile, the state government has deputed 22 senior IAS officers as in-charges of different districts for monitoring Covid preparedness.These IAS officers will monitor the availability of beds, review availability of adequate health care infrastructure such as isolation beds, oxygen support beds, ICU beds, ventilators, life-saving drugs and consumables, masks, PPE kits, sanitizers, oxygen reserve, etc in government and private health facilities.In another measure, the government has assigned responsibility of coordinating and monitoring the Covid management measures especially in relation to health infrastructure and availability of medicines in districts to the cabinet ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ias-ips-officers-with-mbbs-degree-to-deal-with-covid-battle-in-hospitals-101619891034326.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana fails to start third phase of vaccination||The Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP-JJP coalition government could not kick-off the third phase of vaccination from Saturday for the population in 18-44 age bracket in the absence of vaccine and remained evasive about the status of vaccine availability.Additional chief secretary (ACS, health) Rajeev Arora said the state government has sought 66 lakh doses of the vaccine which will be allotted in a phased manner.Haryana has placed an order for procuring 66 lakh doses of vaccine for inoculating everyone above 18 years of age. This included 40 lakh doses of Covishield and 26 lakh doses of Covaxin. The vaccine will be provided free of cost at government medical institutions.Haryana is expecting over three lakh doses of Covishield and over one lakh doses of Covaxin from the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech by Sunday.In a statement, government said Haryana has received “part supply of Covid-19 vaccine doses” and that it will start vaccination of the 18-44 age group soon.Despite being asked, government officials did not specify the quantity of vaccine doses or the “part supply” the state has received for the third phase and from when next phase of vaccination will begin.The health officials dealing with immunisation in districts said that they are waiting for the vaccine supply.Karnal chief medical officer Yogesh Sharma said the vaccine for 18-44 age group is likely to reach by Saturday evening and vaccination may begin from Sunday as per registration on the Cowin portal.Panipat chief medical officer Dr Sanjeev Grover said, “Vaccination for 18-44 age group will be started soon after the vaccine doses reach here.”Jhajjar civil surgeon Dr Sanjay Dahiya said registration for eligible persons aged above 18 has been opened on Cowin portal but vaccination will start from May 3.“Due to shortage of stock, we did not start the inoculation process today. We are vaccinating people aged above 45 as we have enough stock to inoculate them. We have made all arrangements to start vaccination from Monday,” he added.Dadri immunisation officer Dr Ashish Mann said they are expecting to receive vaccine doses by Sunday and will start vaccination from Monday.A senior functionary at PGIMS, Rohtak had said that they are yet to receive the vaccine doses for third phase of the inoculation drive starting from Saturday.On Friday, Ambala civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh had indicated delay of three to four days in starting vaccination due to lack of supply of vaccine doses.(With inputs from Ambala, Karnal, Rohtak)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-fails-to-start-third-phase-of-vaccination-101619890978510.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||125 Covid fatalities reported in Haryana||With 125 more people succumbing to Covid-19, Haryana on Sunday witnessed the biggest number of fatalities in a day. The number of active cases in state also crossed the 1-lakh mark.The state recorded 13,588 new cases and 50,823 samples were taken in the last 24 hours, according to the health bulletin.Seventeen people died of Covid in Hisar; 12 each in Gurugram, Panipat and Panchkula; nine in Ambala; eight in Bhiwani; seven in Fatehabad; five each in Faridabad and Karnal; four each in Rohtak, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar, Jhajjar, Kaithal, Jind and Charkhi Dadri; three in Sonepat; two in Rewari; and one in Palwal, raising the state’s death toll to 4,341.On Saturday, Gurugram logged 4,099 fresh cases, Faridabad 1,751, Sonepat 920, Hisar 897, Ambala 365, Karnal 740, Panipat 549, Rohtak 348, Rewari 236, Panchkula 446, Kurukshetra 211, Yamunanagar 333, Sirsa 409, Mahendergarh 526, Bhiwani 312, Jhajjar 264, Palwal 100, Fatehabad 291, Kaithal 207, Jind 458, Nuh 105 and Charkhi Dadri 21.Meanwhile, 8,509 people recovered; 15,668 people were vaccinated; and the active case tally rose to 1,02,516.FIRST DAY OF WEEKEND LOCKDOWNOn the first day of the weekend lockdown in district, Karnal police were seen struggling to keep people inside their homes.Despite clear instructions issued by the administration, people were seen travelling, forcing police to challan them for not providing a valid reason for coming out on the streets.Shiv Charan, in-charge of Sector 6 police post in Karnal, said 25 people have been challaned for not wearing masks or following Covid guidelines.Panipat superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia said total 250 people were challaned and six FIRs were registered under Section 188 of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act.Meanwhile, people remained indoors and most private vehicles remained off the roads in Rohtak, Sonepat, Hisar, Sirsa, Fatehabad and Jhajjar districts on Saturday.Barring pharmacies and essential goods shops, business and trading activities came to halt in these districts.Police imposed fines on people for venturing out without any reason.ADMIT ONLY CRITICAL PATIENTS IN ICUKarnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav made a surprise visit to private hospitals in city and the hospitals were directed to admit only critical patients in the ICU wards.Not a single bed was available in Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital by Saturday evening as all 210 beds with oxygen support and 70 beds in the ICU of the hospital were occupied.No empty bed was available in the ICU of Covid hospitals in Panipat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/125-covid-fatalities-reported-in-haryana-101619890859409.html
01-05-2021||Other||100 villagers in Odisha’s Malkangiri fall sick after consuming lassi||At least 100 people, including children, fell ill after consuming lassi at a market in Odisha’s Malkangiri district on Friday, officials said.People of Kurti village under Padia block of Malkangiri had gone to weekly Kurti hat (fair) on Friday when they consumed lassi from a shop to beat the scorching heat. However, after returning home, most of them complained of severe stomach ache and started vomiting, the officials said.“Around 60 of them turned serious around midnight and were immediately rushed to the nearby hospital in critical conditions. We suspect either the lassi was spurious or the lassi seller put something in the beverage that contaminated it,” said Prafulla Nanda, Malkangiri chief district medical officer. “We have sent the sample of the beverage to a laboratory for tests,” he added.The CDMO said after receiving the information, a medical team reached the area and took stock of the situation. A fire service team has also been pressed into service to move the critical patients to the hospital.“The condition of most of the patients is stable now. They were admitted to the hospital in time and provided quality treatment,” said a doctor.Locals said some poisonous insect may have fallen into the drink while it was being prepared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/100-villagers-in-odisha-s-malkangiri-fall-sick-after-consuming-lassi-101619888334170.html
01-05-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan bypolls: Counting of votes in 3 assembly seats on Sunday||The counting of votes in the bypolls to Sahada, Sujangarh and Rajsamand assembly seats in Rajasthan will be held on Sunday.Chief Electoral Officer Praveen Gupta said all preparations for the counting of votes have been completed.He said only those people with double vaccination certificates or negative reports of RT-PCR test will be allowed at the counting venue.The officer said all the employees or officers appointed in the counting hall will be wearing masks, face shields and gloves amid the COVID-19 pandemic outbreak.He said counting will be done in 30 rounds in Sujangarh, 28 in Sahada and 25 rounds in Rajsamand.According to officials, 60.37 percent voters exercised their franchise during the bypolls held on April 17.In the 200-seat assembly in the state, the Congress has 104 MLAs, BJP 71, RLP three and the CPI(M) and RTP two MLAs each as well as 13 independents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-bypolls-counting-of-votes-in-3-assembly-seats-on-sunday-101619880301722.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chitkara University’s school of pharmacy gets ₹3 lakh grant||Society Of Toxicology (SOT) has sanctioned a grant of US $4,000 ( ₹3,00,000) to Chitkara University’s school of pharmacy for its initiative to create a safer and healthier world.The grant was sanctioned under the SOT global initiative funding, 2021. SOT encourages proposals to represent collaborations between the society, SOT component groups, SOT committees, and other toxicology organisations. SOT serves the needs of the scientific discipline to enhance human, animal, and environmental health, life-long learning and intellectual scientific stimulation; and diversity of representation in all activities of the society and integrity.Nitin Verma, principal, Chitkara school of pharmacy, Chitkara University, Himachal Pradesh, had applied for the funding. He said the grant will be used to conduct a conference on the theme ‘The science of PFAS: Chemistry, public health, multimedia measurements and Environment’ in August 2021, as one of the priorities under the sustainable development goals — clean water, sanitation and climate action. Experts from the USA, Canada, Australia and other parts of the world will participate in the conference.“It is designed to provide assessment practices as well as latest methods in chemical, pharmaceuticals, pesticide, cosmetics and medical devices risk assessments. The participants will learn all aspects of risk assessment and will receive a certificate documenting their successful completion of the course,” said Dr Ashok Chitkara, chancellor, Chitkara University, Punjab and Chitkara University, Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chitkara-university-s-school-of-pharmacy-gets-3-lakh-grant-101619880953959.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM virtually joins people in offering prayers on 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur||Amid the Covid-19 restrictions, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday virtually joined the people in offering prayers to mark the 400th birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Tegh Bahadur.The chief minister prayed for the safety and well-being of all in the challenging pandemic situation and exhorted the people to follow Guru's universal message of love, secularism, religious tolerance, freedom of faith and peaceful co-existence. Terming it an occasion to spread the message of Guru Sahib's supreme sacrifice for the sake of humanity and religious freedom, he said the life and philosophy of the ninth Guru remains a beacon of inspiration for the world.Singh said he was extremely blessed to lead his government, in its previous tenure, to celebrate the 400th anniversary of the installation of Guru Granth Sahib at Harmandir Sahib in 2004, Amritsar, and in constructing memorials, including one dedicated to '40 Mukte' (Liberated Ones) at Sri Muktsar Sahib, and several commemorative gates at Fatehgarh Sahib."We have also been fortunate to celebrate the 550th 'Prakash Purb' of Guru Nanak Dev and 350th 'Prakash Purb' of Guru Gobind Singh during our present tenure," an official release quoting Singh said.The chief minister said the state government had made elaborate arrangements to celebrate this mega event with 'Nagar Kirtan' (religious procession) from Guru Ka Mahal (Amritsar) to Anandpur Sahib, and 'Akhand Path' and 'Kirtan Darbar' at Anandpur Sahib.It had also planned to hold an exhibition on the life and teachings of Guru Tegh Bahadur, an exhibition on handicrafts, the Punjabi literary festival, drama (Hind-di-Chadar), sports event, multi-media light and sound show and a Sufi Music festival, said the CM.However, the second wave of Covid had forced change in plans and these events are now being held in virtual format to avoid large gatherings and ensure public safety.As and when the situation improves during the year-long celebrations, grand events will be held on the ground to commemorate the historic occasion, he said.To mark the occasion, a day-long 'Kirtan Darbar' was organised, in which several prominent 'raagis' performed 'kirtan' on TV channels and digital platforms. Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Sunil Jakhar exhorted the people to follow the path of righteousness in the true tradition of humanity, as illustrated by Guru Tegh Bahadur.Meanwhile, devotees paid obeisance at gurdwaras including the Golden Temple in Amritsar on the occasion of 'Parkash purb' of the ninth Sikh guru.They started assembling at gurdwaras in the morning to offer prayers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-virtually-joins-people-in-offering-prayers-on-400th-birth-anniversary-of-guru-tegh-bahadur-101619878703838.html
01-05-2021||Other||NCB raids Goa cafe, seizes narcotics as part of multicity operation||A raid by sleuths of the Narcotics Control Bureau at a cafe at the Arambol beach in Goa has yielded a significant haul of narcotic drugs and the arrest of one person while the hunt is on for another, officials said.Narcotics Control Bureau officials raided one Negi Café, opposite Arambol Beach in North Goa and seized 58 grams of Amphetamine (commercial quantity), 15 blots of LSD (commercial quantity), cocaine, mephedrone, heroin and ecstasy/MDMA in intermediate quantity.The main accused, a Nigerian national identified as one Mustafa and also known as Tiger, is believed to be behind the stash of narcotics. He is missing while efforts are on to trace him.“Mustafa is a notorious drug trafficker of North Goa area. He was running his drug trade from Negi Café. Efforts are on to intercept and nab him,” Sameer Wankhede, zonal director of the Narcotics Control Bureau, who supervised the raid, said.The raids were part of a multi-city operation under which searches were also conducted in Mumbai. One Irfan Ansari, 24, was intercepted at Lokhandwala Circle, Andheri (W) and 56 tablets of ecstasy/MDMA (commercial quantity) were seized on the midnight of 30.04.2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ncb-raids-goa-cafe-seizes-narcotics-as-part-of-multicity-operation-101619878673995.html
01-05-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal relaxes partial lockdown rules within 24 hours||The Mamata Banerjee administration, which imposed a partial lockdown on Friday, relaxed some of the rules on Saturday, as per the state government order. “Use of masks, sanitisers and physical distancing would be compulsory in all public places,” the order stated. The state government on Saturday allowed weddings and other familial gatherings to continue while putting a cap on the number of invitees to such gatherings at 50. Even though retail shops and markets have been allowed to remain open only twice a day – 7 am to 10 am and then from 3 pm to 5 pm – the modified order issued on Saturday said that sweetmeat shops and shops dealing with electricity, telecom, transport, milk supply etc will remain outside the confines of the lockdown. With West Bengal witnessing a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases in the last two months, the state administration had opted for a partial lockdown from Friday. Friday’s order had prohibited all kinds of social, cultural, academic, entertainment-related gatherings, including weddings. Shopping malls, cinema halls, restaurants and bars, sports complexes, gyms, spas, swimming and beauty parlours were shut down in the previous order even as home deliveries and online services were allowed. Market-timings were also restricted while allowing only essential services such as medical shops and grocery. West Bengal registered 17,512 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, up from 216 cases reported on February 26 when the Election Commission announced the poll schedule, prompting health experts to link the surge in cases to maskless political rallies that violated Covid protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-relaxes-partial-lockdown-rules-within-24-hours-101619878313616.html
01-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi sets up Covid-19 donation portal to collect funds, medical equipment||The Delhi government on Saturday launched a portal through which people from around the world can donate funds or medical equipment to strengthen its fight against the raging Covid-19 pandemic.Anyone interested in contributing to Delhi's fight against Covid-19 can do so by providing equipment or funds through the website -- delhifightscorona.in/donate, an official statement said."Indian citizens and the diaspora have always been at the forefront of helping governments deal with calamities in the country. We request you to provide as much support as you can," the statement quoting chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said.Delhi government is looking to get urgent support for a range of equipment such as oxygen concentrators, cylinders, and other such things, through the initiative, said Jasmine Shah, vice-chairperson of Dialogue and Development Commission (DDC) of Delhi.The DDC has been coordinating with donors and well-wishers who want to support the Delhi government's Covid-19 response. "They are playing the role of 'Corona Heroes'. Over 5,000 oxygen concentrators and 36 oxygen PSA plants have already been committed by donors and will arrive in Delhi soon," Shah said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sets-up-covid-19-donation-portal-to-collect-funds-medical-equipment-101619874077720.html
01-05-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal issues additional rules for Covid-19 partial lockdown. Check details||The West Bengal government on Saturday issued a few additional rules in connection with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-necessitated partial lockdown imposed in the state a day ago. In a new order, the state government informed that no more than 50 people are to be allowed in weddings and other congregations that have already been planned. Moreover, the principle of keeping shops open for three hours in the morning and for two in the evening would also now be applicable to all retail and stand-alone outlets-shops as well, except for the ones providing essential services. Shops and other commercial establishments which do remain open throughout the day would have to ensure that proper Covid-19 protocols are being adhered to in their premises.The West Bengal government on Friday imposed a partial lockdown across the state, in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases. All shopping malls, beauty parlours, cinema halls, restaurants and bars, sports complexes, gyms, spas, and swimming pools remain closed, according to a government release. Home delivery of items and online services, however, have been allowed to continue.In an addendum, the West Bengal government on Saturday issued two prominent additions to the already existing curbs. These are related to weddings, marriage functions, and other planned public gatherings; and retail establishments."Marriage gatherings and other familial gatherings will also be seriously restricted and subjected to strict observance of Covid appropriate norms (e.g. strict use of masks, sanitizers, physical distancing, etc). Generally speaking, the number of invitees to marriages and other familial gatherings should be restricted to the minimum possible number, and at no point of time should there be congregations of more than 50 persons in any ceremony," the government order read.Regarding the functioning of retail outlets, the order notes: "The principle of keeping shops open in bazaars/hats during 7-10am in the morning and 3-5pm in the afternoon will apply to all retail and stand-alone outlets-shops also, excepting in case of retail outlets providing services relating to healthcare, electricity, telecom, transport, grocery, sweets, meat shop, milk supply, etc. which will remain outside the confines of the embargo. Use of masks, sanitizers, and physical distancing would be compulsory in all these public places."The curbs were imposed with immediate effect and will remain in place until further orders, the government said.Anticipating a gathering on the day of the counting of votes in the recently concluded assembly election, the government has also said that all activities related to electoral counting processes and victory rallies will be held in accordance with the order issued in this regard by the Election Commission of India (ECI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-issues-additional-rules-for-covid-19-partial-lockdown-check-details-101619875172678.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||HP’s pharma hub struggles to meet demand as raw material imports dip||The second Covid-19 wave has hit the pharma hub in Himachal Pradesh’s Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) industrial area hard as the cost of raw material, particularly active pharmaceutical ingredients (API), has trebled due to the ban on international cargo flights and delayed clearance by China. The pharma hub produces several primary life-saving, anti-inflammatory and anti-viral drugs that are exported worldwide. After the Covid-19 outbreak, pharma companies had also been producing drugs to fight coronavirus and these medicines are being supplied across the country. Also read: All you need to know about oxygen concentratorsThe cost escalation is primarily due to the ban on international cargo flights and delayed clearance by China that supplies 85% of the API, a key drug manufacturing material, to India. Rajesh Gupta, the president of the Himachal Drug Manufacturers Association, said: “There is a big demand of API after the second wave, but imports are on a slide, leading to the shortage.” Raw material for Covid drugs costlier The drugs for which the cost of raw material has shot up include paracetamol ( ₹ 350 to ₹790 a kg), Propylene Glycol ( ₹140 to ₹400 a kg) and Ivermectin ( ₹18,000 to ₹52,000 a kg). Similarly, the cost of API for Doxycycline has gone up from ₹6,000 to ₹12,000 a kg and Azithromycin ₹8,000 to ₹12,000 a kg. All these medicines are used for treatment of Covid-19 patients. He said the pharma companies were finding it difficult to boost the production of medicines, including the ones needed for Covid patients. Packing material cost goes up, too Gupta said that the cost of packing material was also weighing heavy on the industry. He said the price of the main packing material, PVC, has gone up from ₹110 to ₹180 a kg. There has also been a 25% increase in the price of mono carton and corrugated packaging material, while aluminum prices are up by 40%. “The industrial association has brought the matter to the notice of the state government, but the price control of drugs is an issue that pertains to the Centre,” said state drug controller Navneet Marwah. API-monitoring cell sought Gupta said the Himachal Drug Manufacturers Association (HDMA) has urged the Government of India to set up an API-monitoring cell for regulating the prices of bulk drugs. FACT CHECK *The BBN industrial belt has about 650 pharma units. The ₹40,000-crore drug industry in Himachal Pradesh accounts for every second drug produced in the market. *Indian pharma companies import more than 65% of APIs from China. There are 67 such ingredients that are sourced from different locations in China. They include B12, B1, B6 and vitamin E ingredients and fermentation process-based APIs. *Both active and inactive ingredients come together to form any medication. The API is the portion of a drug that has therapeutic effects on the body, the chemical compound that makes one feel better. Inactive ingredients are the non-medicinal, but important and necessary, components of the drug.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hps-pharma-hub-struggles-to-meet-demand-as-raw-material-imports-dip-101619871473645.html
01-05-2021||Delhi||After Fabiflu row, BJP MP Gautam Gambhir says will give oxygen concentrators for free||As thousands of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients in the national capital gasp for oxygen, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Gautam Gambhir on Saturday said he will distribute 200 oxygen concentrators among people for free from Sunday onwards, ANI reported. "I've ordered 200 oxygen concentrators and will distribute them among people for free. It will start tomorrow. People have to bring doctor's prescription and patient's oxygen level details to get oxygen concentrators," he said, according to ANI.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe East Delhi MP said the step has been taken to strengthen the city’s fight against the second wave of the virus. "The concentrators, that have been bought by the MP out of his own pocket, will be made available to all those suffering from mild to moderate COVID-19 infection at home," a statement issued by his office said.Also Read: Row over Gautam Gambhir’s offer of free FabiFlu from his officeEarlier last week, the MP's decision to offer free antiviral drug Fabiflu from his local office had triggered a row. Following his announcement, the Opposition accused him of hoarding the drug. “People of East Delhi can get ‘Fabiflu’ from MP office (2, Jagriti Enclave) for FREE between 10-5. Kindly get Aadhar & prescription,” Gambhir had tweeted, without mentioning how he managed to get the supply of the medicine which can only be bought on a doctor’s prescription. The Delhi High Court had also questioned if Gambhir had license to procure and distribute the drug in large quantities.Commenting on the situation in Delhi, the cricketer-turned-politician said people are desperately looking for oxygen cylinders while the Arvind Kejriwal-led government was "abdicating" its responsibility. "Delhi does not deserve this chaos and I will do whatever it takes, whatever is in my power, to help the people in their fight against one of the toughest battles we have seen in recent times," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-fabiflu-row-bjp-mp-gautam-gambhir-says-will-give-200-oxygen-concentrators-for-free-101619870934463.html
01-05-2021||Delhi||Vaccination for people between 18-44 yrs in Delhi to start on Monday: Kejriwal||Large-scale vaccination against Covid-19 for people between 18 years and 44 years in the national capital will start on Monday, said Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal.Speaking to ANI, the chief minister said, "Vaccination for people between 18-44 years started at only one centre. This is symbolic only. We have received 4.5 lakh vaccine doses. It is being distributed in all districts. Large-scale vaccination in Delhi will begin from the day after tomorrow. There is no walk-in for now. I request people to come only with registration and appointment."Asked about the shortage of oxygen in Delhi hospitals, Kejriwal said, "There is a major issue of oxygen. SOS is coming from all hospitals. We have spoken in the court and written to the Centre that Delhi requires 976 tons of oxygen daily but we have been allotted only 490 tons of oxygen. Yesterday we received only 312 tons. How will this work?""I request the decision-makers with folded hands to provide oxygen to Delhi. People are waiting outside of hospitals just because of the shortage of oxygen. We have prepared 5000 beds at Radha Soami Centre but only 150 functional as there is no oxygen. We prepared 1300 beds at Commonwealth Games and Yamuna Sports Complex. We have prepared 2500 beds in Burari. If we get oxygen, there will be 9000 oxygenated beds in Delhi within 24 hours," stated the chief minister.Hospitals in the national capital are grappling with the acute shortage of oxygen due to a surge in Covid-19 cases.The Centre on April 19 had announced a ''liberalised'' policy, making all above 18 years of age eligible to get vaccinated from May 1. It has also allowed state governments and private hospitals to purchase vaccines from manufacturers. Per the revised rules, the centre will receive 50 per cent of the vaccines supplied; states and private hospitals will get the remaining doses.The country had started the Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16 with two vaccines -- Covishield (Oxford-AstraZeneca's vaccine manufactured by Serum Institute of India) and Covaxin (manufactured by Bharat Biotech Limited).Delhi recorded 375 Covid-19 deaths and over 27,000 new cases with a positivity rate of 32.69 per cent on Friday, according to the state health department. With the addition of fresh infections, the total Covid-19 count of the national capital has gone up to 11,49,333. The city also reported 25,288 recoveries from the disease. This is the ninth consecutive day the city has seen daily fatalities of over 300. A total of 10,33,825 people have been cured of the coronavirus infection in Delhi while the total death toll stands at 16,147.The country reported over 4 lakh new Covid-19 cases and 3,523 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vaccination-for-people-between-18-44-yrs-in-delhi-to-start-on-monday-kejriwal-101619866566386.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Teachers prefer govt over private schools for their kids in Punjab||A growing number of schoolteachers and education department officials are admitting their children in government schools in Punjab. Figures released by the education department show that more than 2,000 teachers and officials chose to admit their children in government schools instead of private ones during the enrolment drive till April 30. There are 314 such teachers and education department employees in Fazilka district, the highest in the state, followed by 298 in Bathinda, 208 in Ludhiana, 174 in Patiala and 120 in Fatehgarh Sahib. Also read: Heartbreaking to see Covid crisis overwhelm India’s health systems: US lawmakersIn the Doaba region, 91 such teachers and employees in Jalandhar, 55 in Hoshiarpur, 44 in Kapurthala and 41 in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar admitted their children in government schools. Punjab education secretary Krishan Kumar said that infrastructure in government schools has improved and so has the teaching-learning process over the past few years. “School teachers have put in concerted efforts at the cutting edge. By admitting their wards in government schools, the teachers have reposed faith in their own capabilities, which in turn, gave a fillip to the enrolment drive,” he said. Smart schools draw 3.86 lakh more students There are 12,976 smart schools in the state. Nearly 3.86 lakh more students have taken admission in government schools across the state since 2017. There were 22,91,840 students in government schools in the 2017-18 academic session, while 26,78,399 students took admission in 2020-21. Kulwant Rai, a teacher at the government primary school at Rurka Kalan, who got his four-year-old daughter admitted in kindergarten in the same school, said: “Now, government schools develop the overall personality of kids.” Naresh Kumar, computer teacher at Chandpur Rurka, shifted his daughter from a private school to get her admitted in Class 6 in a government school, saying the smart schools have the competitive edge. Extra-curricular activities, English medium draw students Rajinder Singh, a teacher at Government Primary School, Rastgo, in Bhogpur block of Jalandhar got his son and daughter admitted to the school as it offers opportunities for all-round development through extra-curricular activities unlike private schools that limit themselves to the syllabus. Gurpreet Kaur, a teacher at the Government Primary School at Vimpalke village, said she chose the school for her daughter, who is a kindergarten student, since English medium has been introduced in government schools. “It’s the need of the hour. When there is complete infrastructure in government schools, why pay extra fee in private schools?” Over 1.31 lakh children took admission this year As many as 1,31,261 students shifted from private to government schools during the ongoing enrolment drive that ended on April 30. Of them, 15,398 are students in Ludhiana district, the highest in the state, followed by Patiala with 10,807 students, Hoshiarpur with 10,559 and Jalandhar with 8,854 students. A total of 18,912 students from private schools took admission in Class 4 and 16,829 students joined in Class 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/teachers-prefer-govt-over-private-schools-for-their-kids-in-punjab-101619869133526.html
01-05-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand fails to launch 3rd phase of vaccination drive for want of supply||Facing delay in vaccine supplies, Jharkhand which could not launch the inoculation drive for the people in the age-group of 18-44 years Saturday, has sought Centre's intervention for facilitating procurement of at least 50 lakh vaccine doses, Chief Minister Hemant Soren said. The state had placed demand for 50 lakh vaccine doses in advance to launch the vaccination campaign for 1.57 crore population in the 18-44 age-bracket under the Liberalised and Accelerated Phase 3 Strategy of Covid-19 vaccination for which registration had commenced since April 28. "There are issues concerning supplies and we have written to the central government for facilitating procurement of at least 50 lakh doses," Soren told PTI. The CM said that the state was fully geared up to start the vaccination campaign as soon as it received the lot. "We hope to start vaccination for 18-44 once we start receiving the doses from both the manufacturers," he said. Soren has already announced free vaccination for people in the younger age group. The state had placed orders with the Pune-based Serum Institute of India for 25 lakh doses of Covishield and with the Hyderabad based Bharat Biotech for another 25 lakh doses of Covaxin to launch the drive. Health Minister Banna Gupta told PTI, "We have placed an order for 50 lakh vaccine doses. They are saying that it will be supplied between May 15 to May 30. "We are fully equipped to start the vaccination drive for the age group of 18-44. If you give us vaccines today we will start the campaign from tomorrow." Gupta said the state has made arrangements for inoculation of about 4.5 lakh people in a day. The minister said that 1.57 crore population in the state fell in the age group of 18-44 years, while the population of those above 45 years including frontline health workers was 83 lakh. Asked about the people vaccinated in the state so far, the minister said the first dose of vaccine has been administered to about 25 lakh people above the age of 45 years including health workers while the second shots have been given to about 4 lakh people. Chief Minister Soren, who himself recently took the first jab of the vaccine, urged people especially the elderly to come forward to take the vaccine. Meanwhile, the central government vide a letter has asked the state to directly procure vaccine doses from the manufacturers. "As you appreciate that the next phase of vaccination starting from May 1, 2021, the government of India has liberalised the process and provided more flexibility and control to the states. The states can now directly procure vaccine doses from the manufacturers. "We urge the state to plan vaccination drives according to the availability of doses and also to ensure that citizens are informed well in advance," Vikas Sheel, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare wrote to the state government. The letter mentions that 3.87 lakh doses of vaccine are likely to be available to the state in May. "...Based on discussions with the manufacturers of vaccines for facilitating a smooth roll out of the next phase of expanded vaccination programme in your state, 3,87,560 number of Covishield vaccine doses of Serum Institute of India (SII), Pune are likely to be available for your state, under the other than Government of India channel in the month of May 2021", the letter mentioned. It also said that the state may take necessary action to obtain supplies for commencing vaccination from May 1, 2021 as per policy guidelines issued by the Ministry. The Union Health Ministry on Saturday said over 79 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses are available with the states and Union territories and over 17 lakh doses will be supplied to them in the next three days. As per the government data, centre has so far provided nearly 16.37 crore vaccine doses to states/UTs free of cost. Of this, the total consumption, including wastages, is 15,58,48,782 doses, according to official data available till Saturday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-fails-to-launch-3rd-phase-of-vaccination-drive-for-want-of-supply-101619868105448.html
01-05-2021||Delhi||'How can Delhi breathe?': Kejriwal after 8 die in Batra Hospital due to oxygen shortage||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday urged the Centre with "folded hands" to provide Delhi with the required quantity of oxygen after eight Covid-19 patients, including the head of the gastroenterology department, died due to the oxygen crisis at Batra Hospital."I request the decision-makers with folded hands to provide oxygen to Delhi," he said. The hospital ran out of oxygen for 1.5 hours on Saturday, resulting in the loss of lives.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Kejriwal pleaded for the provision of life-saving oxygen as he cited SOS calls from hospitals across the Union territory. The chief minister said there is a major issue of oxygen in Delhi and even after speaking to courts and writing to the Centre about Delhi's requirement of 975 tonne of oxygen daily, only 490 tonne have been allotted."SOS is coming from all hospitals. We have spoken in courts and written to the Centre that Delhi requires 976 tons of oxygen daily but we have been allotted only 490 tons of oxygen. Yesterday we received only 312 tons. How will this work?" ANI quoted Kejriwal as saying.ये खबर बहुत ही ज़्यादा पीड़ादायी है। इनकी जान बच सकती थी -समय पर ऑक्सिजन देकरदिल्ली को उसके कोटे की ऑक्सिजन दी जाए। अपने लोगों की इस तरह होती मौतें अब और नहीं देखी जाती। दिल्ली को 976 टन ऑक्सिजन चाहिए और कल केवल 312 टन ऑक्सिजन दी गयी। इतनी कम ऑक्सिजन में दिल्ली कैसे साँस ले? https://t.co/h7C5bcFtD6Terming the Batra hospital incident 'painful', Kejriwal said these lives could have been saved by giving oxygen on time. "How can Delhi breathe in such low oxygen," Kejriwal said, referring to the Centre's allocation of Oxygen to Delhi, which is far below Delhi's requirement.The national capital is facing a heavy shortage of oxygen, hospital beds, ICU beds and other essential medical supplies required to fight the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) that has gripped the entire country.Delhi on Friday found more than 27,000 people infected with Covid-19, and 375 died due to the disease. Additionally, the country touched the grim milestone of over 400,000 new Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/how-can-delhi-breathe-kejriwal-after-8-die-in-batra-hospital-due-to-oxygen-shortage-101619860858694.html
01-05-2021||Bangalore||Yediyurappa launches Covid-19 vaccination drive for people above 18 years in Bengaluru hospital||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Saturday inaugurated the vaccination drive for people above 18 years of age at Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital in Bengaluru."Flagged off the fourth phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive to inoculate all citizens between 18-44 years of age. Our government is committed to vaccinating every citizen at the earliest and preparations are underway for the smooth and orderly rollout of vaccines to all," the Chief Minister tweeted.Yediyurappa also said that the state government is leaving no stone unturned to ensure the availability of sufficient stock of vaccine in Karnataka."Vaccine is by far the biggest weapon in our battle against coronavirus. Government is leaving no stone unturned to ensure availability of sufficient stock of vaccine in the state and has already initiated the process of procuring two crores doses over and above Centre's allocation," he said.The Chief Minister further added that to facilitate the treatment of coronavirus patients, 4,000 ICU beds will be set up in Bengaluru on a war footing."At least 4,000 ICU beds will be set up in Bengaluru on a war footing. 500 ICU beds in each of the eight Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) zones will augment the healthcare infrastructure and reduce the caseload on existing hospitals," he said further.India starts the vaccination drive for those in the 18-44 age bracket from today as the country continues to battle the second wave of Covid-19.The country had started the Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16 with two vaccines -- Covishield (Oxford-AstraZeneca's vaccine manufactured by Serum Institute of India) and Covaxin (manufactured by Bharat Biotech Limited).The second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive to inoculate people above 60 years and those over 45 with comorbidities against the coronavirus began on March 1.The third phase began on April 1 for all above 45 years of age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/yediyurappa-launches-covid-19-vaccination-drive-for-people-above-18-years-in-bengaluru-hospital-101619864653579.html
01-05-2021||Delhi||Man dozes off at wheel after visiting Covid-stricken wife, rams into Delhi police picket, kills constable||A 42-year-old man allegedly rammed his car into a police picket killing a constable in southwest Delhi's Vasant Vihar area early on Saturday morning, officials said.The accident took place around 4am at Al-Kauser picket when the accused, Samit Yadav, dozed off while he was returning from a hospital after attending to his Covid-19 positive wife, police said.The deceased constable was identified as Munshi Lal, 57, they said."The offending vehicle, Honda CRV, rammed into the picket tent that was erected for staff to ensure lockdown and dragged Lal for 30 to 40 meters," Deputy Commissioner of Police (southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh said.The constable was rushed to AIIMS trauma center where he died during the course of treatment, he said.Yadav, a resident of Munirka, who works in the IT sector, was apprehended from the spot, police said.He told police that he fell asleep while returning from Max Hospital, Gurgaon, to attend to his wife, the DCP said.Yadav was taken to Vasant Vihar police station and given a PPE kit and isolated in police station premises. His medical test will be conducted soon, police said, adding a case has been registered under relevant sections of law and investigation is underway.Lal, an ex-serviceman, was posted in Vasant Vihar police station on August 28, 2020, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-dozes-off-at-wheel-after-visiting-covid-stricken-wife-rams-into-delhi-police-picket-kills-constable-101619863416743.html
01-05-2021||Lucknow||UP to prioritise vaccination in 7 districts with high Covid positivity rate, most active cases||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said that the health authorities are vaccinating people aged 18 years and above for free with priority in seven districts which have reported high Covid-19 positivity rates as well as have high active caseload. At least 85 centres have been dedicated to people above the age of 18 years in Lucknow, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Bareilly, Kanpur and Meerut.Vaccination will begin in these seven districts first and will continue for five days following which the vaccination drive for all ages will kick off in the rest of the districts, the chief minister said. He also highlighted that people above the age of 45 will be given free vaccines by the government of India.“At least 2,500 centres for people above 45 years have begun vaccination under Phase III today. We've also begun vaccination for people above 18 years and have included 7 districts where the positivity rate and the number of active cases are highest. Lucknow, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Bareilly, Kanpur and Meerut have 85 separate centres dedicated to people above 18 years of age,” Adityanath was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“In the next five days, vaccination will be done in these 85 centres in these 7 districts following which everyone will be vaccinated in other districts. We have decided to give free vaccines to people between 18-44 years of age. People above 45 years of age are being given free vaccines by the central government,” he further added.He also pointed out that the state government ordered 10 million coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine doses as Uttar Pradesh kicked off the third phase of the vaccination drive. Adityanath also said that the state has directly purchased the vaccines from the pharmaceutical companies and has also floated global tenders to produce at least 50 million doses of the vaccine.“We have ordered 10 million vaccine doses. We have also received vaccine doses for people aged 45 years and above. We have purchased directly from the companies and also floated global tenders for producing 50 million vaccines in Uttar Pradesh. I am sure that we will be able to take this (vaccination under Phase III) forward successfully,” Adityanath was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra continued her criticism of the state government over inadequate testing and mishandling of the pandemic in the state on Saturday. In a series of tweets, where she attacked the government for holding rural body elections in the state, she highlighted that the government failed to help its citizens during the second wave.“People are dying in homes across rural UP, and these deaths are not being counted as Covid-19 (deaths) because people aren’t being tested,” Priyanka said in a tweet. She also said that the government is terrorising the medical community as well as citizens and tried to cover the truth. “The government’s actions are designed to cover up the truth and terrorise both the public and the medical community, which is working tirelessly to save lives,” Priyanka further added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-to-prioritise-vaccination-in-7-districts-with-high-covid-positivity-rate-101619861154919.html
01-05-2021||Ranchi||Padma Shri ' ₹5' Ranchi doctor rues crass commercialisation of medical services||What can ₹5 buy you in India? Perhaps not even a cup of tea at roadside kiosks that dot marketplaces, and definitely not medical treatment for hundreds of poor Covid-19 patients whose distressed cries for help are echoing in hospital corridors across the country.But the humble ₹5 coin goes a long way if you happen to be a patient of this octogenarian doctor in Ranchi.Despite his own failing health and old age, compassion drives Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee, 85, to treat the poor who make a beeline for his clinic. He even waives the paltry ₹5 consultation fee for those who cannot pay.Honoured with the nation's fourth-highest civilian award - Padma Shri - Mukherjee has one appeal to make to the medical fraternity: "Treat one poor patient free of cost a day"."If you are a doctor, you should ponder how much is enough. Somewhere it has to stop. Compassion and empathy are an integral part of your profession and the pursuit of materialism has to end somewhere," Mukherjee, who has been a messiah for the poorest of the poor for over 55 years, said in an interview with PTI.Inflation and the rising cost of living and maintaining his clinic have forced the doctor to increase his consultation fee to ₹50 now, but he clarified "it is only for those who can afford and are willing to pay. Those who cannot afford need not pay even a paisa".Mukherjee, who has cardiac and prostate problems, said the cost of sanitising his small chamber located in the heart of Ranchi at Lalpur has forced him to hike the consultation fee.The increase is also because of his own rising medication costs which is about ₹200 a day. "But poor are not under any compulsion to pay," he said.Even now he treats up to 20 patients a day."I was compelled to increase my fees to ₹50 as I have to earn for my roti-daal at this age. I have to consume medicines worth ₹200 daily for heart and other complications. However, it is up to the poor how much they can afford to pay...There is no compulsion at all," he said."I cannot bear the sight when a poor mother comes to me and says please see my child as the child specialist has refused to examine for free and I have no money. How can medical professionals be like that? When a child is cured and the mother smiles, it gives me immense satisfaction and pleasure that is beyond any monetary sum," he said.He said he could never understand how doctors, even his students, charge ₹500, ₹1,000 from poor patients who do not have money for one square meal.When asked if he felt sad that none of the NGOs or organisations formed by his students came forward to extend a helping hand for his medication or other assistance in these difficult times, Mukherjee said, "Times have changed and I never expect anything from anybody.""Society has changed a lot. Morality, ethics have to be revived...We are considered not up to date but out of date. It is useless to talk about who helps you. This is a selfish world but give to the society what you can with no regrets and be content," he added.Mukherjee, an MBBS from Patna Medical College in 1957 and a former Head of the Department of Pathology, RIMS (erstwhile Rajendra Medical College and Hospital) has provided medical services in Bihar and Jharkhand and claims to have trained about 3,500 medical students including those holding post-graduate degrees.To keep Covid-19 at bay, this general physician's formula is very simple."I would like to advise one thing which is not being emphasised now neither by the government nor by the media- regular gargle and cleaning of the nostrils. The virus enters through the nose and lodges in the throat before affecting other parts. If we gargle three or four times, then we can kill the virus."Also, apply mulstard oil to your nostrils and keep it clean. This is what I advise to all poor patients. This should be made compulsory for all," stresses Mukherjee.He suggested gargling with antibiotic, antiseptic solutions or with salt or alum besides cleansing the nasal passage with plain water to keep the disease at bay.He held Covid inappropriate behaviour of people responsible for the exponential surge in the pandemic.A documentary on Mukherjee was screened on Kaun Banega Crorepati (KBC) show where superstar Amitabh Bachhan had lauded him for his appeal "Desh ke sare doctor har roz ek patient ka muft ilaaz karein (Every doctor in the country should treat one patient for free every day)."Mukherjee, who began practising in Ranchi in 1966, was honoured with Padma Shri in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/padma-shri-rs-5-ranchi-doctor-rues-crass-commercialisation-of-medical-services-101619858885789.html
01-05-2021||Noida||10 more Covid-19 deaths, 1,310 new cases in Noida||With 10 more fatalities, the death toll due to Covid-19 reached 212 in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar on Friday while the infection count climbed to 41,312 with 13,10 new cases, official data showed.The number of active patients in the district rose to 8,267 from 8,130 the previous day, according to the figures released by the UP Health Department for a 24-hour period.On the bright side, 1,163 patients got discharged during the period with the overall recoveries reaching 32,833 in the district, the fifth highest in the state, it showed.Gautam Buddh Nagar now has a death toll of 212 with a mortality rate of 0.51 per cent. The recovery rate of patients reached 79.47 per cent from 79.17 per cent the previous day, the statistics showed.Meanwhile, the number of active Covid-19 cases in UP reached 3,10,783 from 3,09,237 on Thursday as the overall recoveries climbed to 9,28,971 and the death toll surged to 12,570 on Friday, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/10-more-covid-19-deaths-1-310-new-cases-in-noida-101619855956044.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s BMC to vaccinate 1,000 people in 18-44 age group today; all slots full||Mumbai took baby steps to launch the Covid-19 vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group on Saturday with 1,000 vaccines to be administered at five vaccination centres run by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), a symbolic start to coincide with the formation of the state in 1960 on May 1 which is observed as Maharashtra Day.In a tweet well past midnight, the BMC announced that the jabs would be given to 200 people each at five centres from 1pm on Saturday and asked people to get their appointment on the CoWIN app or website. BMC officials said the slots were full within hours.The 5 centres where vaccination begins at 1 pm are Nair Hospital, Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar, Cooper Hospital in Vile Parle, Seven Hills Hospital in Andheri, and the BKC Jumbo facility. Each centre will have 200 doses.Maharashtra had initially indicated that it would miss the May 1 timeline announced by the Centre for the launch of the immunisation programme for all adults younger than 45 but was later nudged by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to start a limited drive to commemorate Maharashtra Day.Last evening, Thackeray said the vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group will begin in a limited way. The slots would be opened up over the next few days and weeks as the state government procures more vaccine doses.In Mumbai alone, the BMC has estimated that 9 million people in the 18 to 44 age group would need vaccination through public and private centres.Many people who saw the BMC’s early morning tweet announcing the limited vaccination were disappointed. One person, Sanjay P, complained on Twitter that they were not able to see any vaccination slots for Mumbai but spotted open slots in other cities such as Pune and Nagpur.Another Twitter user Gunjan Lahiri said, “Why are the vaccination centres not being updated on the app? I heard there are 5 sites in Mumbai that are vaccinating the 18+ but when you search it says “no vaccination centres available for booking.”In line with the Centre’s guidelines, people in the 18-44 age group need an online appointment to get the jab. No walk-ins are allowed.Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar told reporters on Saturday morning that people should not rush to the vaccination centres unless they have an appointment. “If you have registered but have not received a message, don’t go to the centre and crowd for no reason,” she said.The civic body also appealed to people to wear double masks if they are going for the vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-bmc-to-vaccinate-1-000-people-in-18-44-age-group-today-all-slots-full-101619853532128.html
01-05-2021||Election:||Supreme Court allows UP panchayat polls counting, no victory rallies permitted||The Supreme Court on Saturday allowed the Uttar Pradesh government and State Election Commission to go ahead with the counting of votes polled during the rural body elections in the state earlier in April, starting Sunday. The top court, however, said that no victory rallies shall be permitted during or after the counting of votes. It added that Class I gazetted officials will be responsible for adherence to Covid-19 protocols at each counting centre.Amid concerns raised by the top court over the counting exercise during the distressing second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Uttar Pradesh government said that over five lakh local representatives, who will be elected after the result of panchayat polls is announced, will further help manage the crisis triggered by the coronavirus pandemic.The SEC, meanwhile, assured the court all Covid-related guidelines will be followed and no victory procession will be allowed. The UP government also agreed to not lift local curfews till the counting is completed at that particular counting centre. Government officials, candidates and their representatives will be allowed at a counting centre only after they present a Covid-19 negative report or vaccination certificate, it said. The top court has also directed SEC to preserve CCTV footage of the counting centres in till Allahabad High Court concludes hearing the pleas before it, according to news agency PTI.A bench headed by justice AM Khanwilkar on Friday asked the state government and SEC about the arrangements for counting of votes in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. It was hearing the appeal filed by one Sachin Yadav challenging Allahabad High Court order allowing the panchayat elections to continue in the state.Meanwhile, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Friday slammed the government over the polls and demanded that the government provide financial support and a government job to dependents of employees who died due to coronavirus disease while on duty during the panchayat elections. "It would have been better if the government had postponed panchayat polls and extended its date due to the rising cases of coronavirus. It would have prevented a number of deaths of employees on election duty. It is very sad," she wrote on Twitter in Hindi.Polling for the four-phased rural elections in Uttar Pradesh ended on April 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/supreme-court-allows-up-panchayat-polls-counting-no-victory-rallies-permitted-101619852511807.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai rolls out vaccine for 18+, mayor says ‘don’t go unless you get message’||The third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive was rolled out in Mumbai at five centres on Saturday even as the Maharashtra government said it would begin the campaign only after receiving an ample number of vaccine doses for people in the 18 to 44 age group. As people eligible in this phase prepare to get inoculated, Mumbai’s mayor Kishori Pednekar asked them to not step out unless they receive a message on their phone number registered on the CoWin portal.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here “People who have registered on CoWin and received a message can go to vaccination centres. Don't go to centres until and unless you receive a message. If you have registered but have not received a message, don't go to the centre,” Kishori Pednekar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Good morning Mumbai. Registration for vaccination of our 18-44 year old Mumbaikars, at 5 centres, is now open on https://t.co/e3boNo2aRx . Please note that each centre can register 200 Mumbaikars each. #MyBMCVaccinationUpdate #MyBMCUpdates #WeShallOvercome https://t.co/LqSDVptBfeThe five centres in Mumbai where people can get themselves vaccinated are Nair Hospital, Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar, Cooper Hospital in Vile Parle, Seven Hills Hospital in Andheri and the BKC Jumbo Facility between 1pm and 6pm on Saturday. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday night clarified that vaccination will be only be done on basis of appointment and that mere registration is not enough. No walk-ins are allowed too, the civic body said.The Mumbai mayor, however, said that priority will be given to those aged between 45 and 60 years who are coming in for their second dose. “Vaccines will be given to people between 18 to 44 years of age only after they have registered and received a message. Vaccine centres will function as and when we receive vaccines,” she added.Kishori Pednekar also urged the citizens to follow Covid-19 norms and wear double masks to prevent themselves from contracting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “I request everyone with folded hands to wear a mask, that too double masks. People are requested to not step out of their houses unnecessarily,” she said.The crucial phase of the vaccination drive in Mumbai kicks off a day after the city recorded a one-day jump of 3888 Covid-19 cases and 89 fatalities on Friday. BMC said that the city’s daily positivity rate, the number of Covid-19 cases as a percentage of the total tests done in the city, was 9.94%. The rate slipped to a single digital for the first time in 45 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-rolls-out-vaccine-for-18-mayor-says-don-t-go-unless-you-get-message-101619850532656.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Not enough Covid-19 vaccines for people aged 45 and above: Maharashtra Deputy CM||Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has said that the state had planned a big Covid-19 vaccination event for Saturday but has only received 3 lakh doses out of which 20,000 doses have been given to Pune district, adding that the state government does not even have the stock to vaccinate people aged 45 and above.Speaking to reporters, Pawar said, "We had planned a big event for today but we received only 3 lakh doses for today. Out of that 20,000 have been given to the Pune district. Today, we don't have vaccine stock to vaccinate people aged 45 and above hence vaccination centers in Pune district were closed."The third phase of the vaccination drive for those in the 18-44 age bracket started from Saturday in the country despite some of the states flagging the shortage of vaccines and expressing their inability to start vaccination of people aged above 18 years.Pawar further said, "We had taken a decision in a cabinet meeting that people aged 18 to 44 years will start getting vaccinated from May 1. 5.71 crore people are there in this age category in Maharashtra and we have to vaccinate around 12 crore people. 6.5 crore vaccine doses were supposed to be purchased and we had approved that purchase. The state finance department is ready to clear the payment in one go."He said that Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla had told Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray that it was difficult for them to provide vaccines in such a large amount, adding that to procure sufficient vaccine doses, the state government has also done bookings with Bharat Biotech."Adar Poonawala told the CM that it is difficult to give the vaccines in large stock. We have done booking with Bharat Biotech as well. We are trying to conduct the vaccination as early as possible. We are also trying to get the central government's permission for importing vaccines from other countries. The first lot of vaccines from Russia will be received today but its price is not yet clear," said the Deputy CM.Responding to the state government's action on fire incidents in hospitals, Pawar said, "Fire audit of the hospitals was ordered. Most of the government hospital's audit had been completed as well, some are remaining and they too shall be covered soon. For private hospitals also an inspection has been ordered which will start very soon."Further responding to a question on extended restrictions in Maharashtra amid rising cases, Pawar said, "Not only Maharashtra but many other states have imposed or extended lockdown."The state government had on Friday extended the ongoing restrictions till May 15. The restrictions imposed to curb the infections were initially in place till May 1.Maharashtra recorded 66,159 new Covid-19 cases on Friday and the state currently has 6,64,683 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/not-enough-covid-19-vaccines-for-people-aged-45-and-above-maharashtra-deputy-cm-101619848583350.html
01-05-2021||Pune||Vaccination centres in Pune to remain closed for 2 days: Ajit Pawar||Covid-19 vaccination centres in Pune will remain closed for the next two days due to the shortage of vaccines against the coronavirus disease, news agency ANI reported citing Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. "We had planned a big event for today but we received only 3 lakh doses. Out of that 20,000 have been given to Pune district. Today, we don't have vaccines to inoculate people aged 45 years and above," Pawar said, according to ANI.Pawar, who is also Pune’s guardian minister, also said that Maharashtra, the state worst hit by Covid-19, is planning to procure "as many vaccines as possible" for the immunisation drive.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageThis comes as the immunisation drive is set to open for all above 18 years of age from Saturday. Before this only people above 45 years of age were being administered the vaccine against the coronavirus disease.According to a release by the district administration, vaccination for people in the 18-44 age group in rural areas will take place between May 1 and May 7 at 14 locations, and per day 100 doses will be given at each centre. The state health department's data said the district has vaccinated 44.11% of the estimated population aged above 45 years with the first dose as of April 27. Out of the 1.17 crore estimated population of the district, 35 lakh are estimated to be those aged above 45 years. Out of the 35 lakh, 15.54 lakh have got the first dose.The nationwide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 and it is currently using Covishield, developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca and being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for the inoculation drive.Earlier, state chief minister Uddhav Thackeray requested PM Narendra Modi to give a nod to the state to prepare apps for the process that can be linked with the Centre’s Co-Win. Thackeray also said Maharashtra’s Covid-19 situation is better due to the restraint shown by all and there is no need for a stricter lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/vaccination-centres-in-pune-to-remain-closed-for-2-days-ajit-pawar-101619848511217.html
01-05-2021||Jaipur||Cong MLA threatens resignation, demands CBI probe for Prajapat encounter case||A Congress MLA from Barmer district said he will resign from the assembly if a CBI probe is not ordered into the killing of smuggler Kamlesh Prajapat in a police encounter, which he claimed was fake.Prajapat, a resident of Cheeter Ka village in Barmer, was killed on the outskirts of Barmer city on April 23 night. Barmer SP Anand Sharma had said that following an input on the location of Prajapat, police reached there to catch the accused, but he tried to escape and attempted to kill a policeman. In self-defence, police were forced to open fire in which Prajapat was killed.“Only a CBI probe could reveal the truth in the case. Though I am an MLA of the ruling party in the state, justice is first priority for me. I am demanding a CBI probe and justice to the family. I will resign if my demand is not accepted,” Madan Prajapat, Congress MLA from Pachpadra constituency, said at a press conference on Thursday.Along with Madan Prajapat, union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, BJP leader Rajendra Singh Rathore, and Congress leader and former MP Manvendra Singh also demanded a CBI probe into the case.The leaders alleged that it was a planned murder by the Barmer police, after two videos related to the encounter circulated on social media.The viral videos related to the encounter purportedly show that Prajapat had not fired at the police. They show that police had fired at the accused. In the videos, policemen are purportedly seen breaking the windshield of Prajapat’s car and lifting him into another vehicle.Meanwhile, community members formed a committee to intensify their demand for a CBI probe.“Some videos of Kamlesh Prajapat encounter that went viral on social media show that it was a police killing not am encounter. The phone call details of deceased Kamlesh Prajapat could reveal the facts of the case,” said former Barmer council chairperson Balram Prajapat, who is heading the committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/cong-mla-threatens-resignation-demands-cbi-probe-for-prajapat-encounter-case-101619836170957.html
01-05-2021||Indore||Indore to remain under Janata curfew till May 7||Janata curfew has been extended in Indore in Madhya Pradesh till May 7 amid a rise in coronavirus cases, an official said on Friday.The order was issued under section 144 of CrPC by Collector Manish Singh, he added.The urban areas of the district, the worst hit in the state, have been under janata curfew since April 20.As per the order, movement of people will be allowed for essential and emergency purposes, while milk, grocery, fruits and vegetable outlets will remain open for a fixed period of time in the day.Indore has a caseload of 1,10,840, including 1,139 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/indore-to-remain-under-janata-curfew-till-may-7-101619835460730.html
01-05-2021||Delhi||'State has failed’: Sombre note in Delhi high court hearing after petitioner dies of Covid-19||“The State has failed us,” the Delhi high court observed on Friday, after it was informed in the middle of a hearing that a petitioner, who sought the court’s help three days ago to secure an intensive care unit (ICU) bed, had succumbed to Covid-19.“The State has failed in its fundamental obligation to protect the basic fundamental right -- i.e, the right to life as contained under Article 21,” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli told the teary relatives of the petitioner.The petitioner, Atul Kumar Sharma, was admitted in Maharaja Agrasen Hospital’s casualty wing, and approached the high court on Tuesday to direct the state authorities to allocate him an ICU bed. The hospital told the court that it was taking care of the patient but had no ICU beds free.The high court had said it couldn’t consider an individual case but appealed to all hospitals and authorities to make arrangements. On Friday, when the bench was again appealing to counsels to consider the petitioner’s case, advocate Amit Sharma told the court that his brother-in-law Atul had expired. He burst into tears and said, “I have failed…”The bench stopped him. “No Mr Sharma, you have not failed. The State has failed.” Silence descended among the judges, counsels and over 150 participants who had joined the video conferencing hearing.The emotional exchange capped an eventful day in court where senior lawyers broke down and pleaded for help, the state government counsel expressed helplessness, and judges said it was getting tough for them.“It is the complete failure of the State that everything including hospital beds and medical oxygen is in short supply. It is a war and not a battle,” the court remarked earlier in the day after Bar Council of Delhi (BCD) chairman Ramesh Gupta, broke down while mourning his colleagues who died of Covid-19.Gupta, who was appearing in a petition seeking medical facilities for lawyers, submitted that a private hospital agreed to treat the lawyers but didn’t have ICU beds. “We want my lords to come to our rescue. We do not want to criticise anyone or any government. We have ₹4-5 crore in our funds and will arrange more from lawyers. We only want my lords to help us. Sir kuch karo aap (Sir please do something).”Delhi government’s standing counsel Santosh Kumar Tripathi also became emotional while informing the court about a colleague’s demise.”Daily we are losing our dear ones,” he said.The court empathised. “We understand your pain. We are going through the same. This surge of Covid has such a huge number...nobody could have imagined that this will attack us in this way... Finances are not the issue here. The problem is infrastructure….The problem is we don’t have doctors, nurses, attendants, oxygen and medicines. It is a complete failure of the state,” the bench said.“It’s getting tougher for us,” the bench said.The court criticised the “hotchpotch situation” in Delhi and compared it to the way Mumbai was handling its infection load.“In Bombay what the municipal corporation has done is, you’re asked to register if you have Covid, and then they go door-to-door with bed and facilities. But we cannot do that in Delhi. It’s too late to devise a system now. Its complete hotchpotch. Central government… Delhi government….municipal corporations not one but three…Politically different parties.. Complete hotchpotch,” the bench remarked.The court directed authorities to immediately release 170 oxygen concentrators seized by Delhi Police from the black market . It also recalled an order passed earlier this week, where it had directed the Delhi government to take over a refiller plant. Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, said supplies were being affected due to this and several stakeholders asked him to bring back the vendor.During the proceedings, advocate Himanshu Dagar, representing Gandhi Nursing Home, told the court that 95 people were on the death bed because the hospital didn’t receive a single oxygen cylinder in the last 48 hours. He said that the hospital suffered two deaths on Thursday and had no oxygen cylinders at present.“We are at the complete mercy of God,” he said. To this, Mehra expressed helplessness and said that problems still existed in the supply system despite allocations being made.The court directed the Delhi government to sort out the issue and also issued notice to the two refillers assigned to the hospital. It asked the government to explain why the supply wasn’t done.The bench asked the Delhi government to look into the possibility of converting SUVs into ambulances and whether buses could be used for carrying oxygen cylinders instead of ambulances.It also asked the administration to look into scaling up Rapid Antigen Test in addition to RT-PCR tests through mobile vans for hospital staffs and using hotels for health workers so that their family members are not infected.The matter will be now heard on Saturday.The court was hearing a plea by lawyer-petitioner Rakesh Malhotra, who along with several hospitals, had sought directions to the Centre and the Delhi government for better facilities and continuous supply of oxygen in the hospitals and nursing homes of the Capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/state-has-failed-sombre-note-in-delhi-high-court-hearing-after-petitioner-dies-of-covid19-101619820415726.html
01-05-2021||Delhi||5 lab staff held for issuing fake Covid-19 test reports||Five employees of a medical diagnostics laboratory were arrested for allegedly giving out fake Covid test reports, Delhi Police said on Friday. According to Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south), the arrested suspects handed out 400 such fake reports -- both positive and negative -- since April 23.The company, Genestrings Diagnostic Centre, said that the reports were not generated by the lab, and added that they informed police about the wrongdoing of their employees as soon as they noticed it. The company stressed that while some of their staff were involved in the crime, the laboratory had no role to play. It added that all authentic reports have QR codes, which can be easily be used to distinguish them from the fake reports that were being handed out.Police said the probe started after 45 members of a large, extended family in south Delhi’s Khirki Extension said they received false results from Genestrings Diagnostic Centre in Sarvodaya Enclave.The family members was reportedly tested by two technicians of the lab over a few days, and some of them were declared positive for Covid-19, said DCP Thakur. One of them, Rishab Shukla, said he was given a positive result on Monday. “But Shukla didn’t have any symptoms, and decided to get himself tested at another lab again on Wednesday. This time his result was negative,” said the DCP.Shukla then went to Genestrings Diagnostics, and was shocked to learn that his name was not in their records, and that his sample had never reached them.He contacted the police, which registered a case of cheating and criminal conspiracy at Malviya Nagar police station. The five people arrested are application scientist Manish Kumar Singh, his two colleagues Satender and Nikhil, and two lab assistants, Pragyanand Sharma and Himanshu Sharma.Police said that initially the technicians planned to have doctors test the samples, and share the results without entering the details in the laboratory’s records. They would use the lab’s letterhead to print out a the report, and pocket the money paid by clients of for the tests.“But as the load of the samples increased, the suspects began dishing out fake results without even testing them,” the DCP said.“On being approached by a few patients to authenticate reports bearing our lab’s name, we found out that they were not issued by us, nor tested at our lab. We immediately called the local police station in-charge to investigate what seemed to be a fake report issue,” said Chetan Kohli, COO of Genestrings Diagnostic Centre.“Five of our employees were identified to be a party to this crime without the knowledge of lab management or the lab head,” he added. “All our reports have QR codes which can be easily used to check the authenticity of reports.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/5-lab-staff-held-for-issuing-fake-covid-19-test-reports-101619819542369.html
01-05-2021||Delhi||7 held for running factory producing fake remdesivir||A BPharm graduate and a BCom graduate, both from Uttarakhand’s Haridwar, were among seven arrested on Friday for running a factory producing fake remdesivir injections, which were widely sold in Delhi and other states for huge profits, Delhi Police’s crime branch said.Vatan Kumar Saini (32), who holds BPharm and MBA degrees, and Aditya Gautam (33), a BCom graduate, told the police that they have sold more than 2,000 fake remdesivir vials in the black market through their agents in the past few weeks. The police said a 40-year-old woman events manager based in Delhi, who herself recently recovered from Covid-19, was helping them sell the fake vials in the national capital.Remdesivir injections are in huge demand across India, as Covid-19 infections surge. WHO has said there is no evidence it reduces mortality or obviates the need for ventilation in hospitalised people, but it has been found by some studies to help those in early stages of the infection who need supplemental oxygen.Delhi Police’s ongoing investigation into those arrested recently for trying to sell remdesivir injections in the black market helped them trace the vials to the manufacturing unit in Uttarakhand, the crime branch said.The crime branch said on Thursday that they carried out searches in the manufacturing facility in Uttarakhand’s Kotdwar and a trading company in Haridwar, both run by Gautam and Saini. The two were allegedly passing off injections of antibiotic azithromycin as the antiviral drug remdesivir, as the packaging of both drugs are similar. The men would replace the labels on the antibiotic vials with fake ones that they printed out, said deputy commissioner of police (crime) Monika Bhardwaj.DCP Bhardwaj said 198 vials of the fake remdesivir, one packing machine, one barcoding machine, 3,000 empty vials and packing materials of azithromycin, an antibiotic used in the treatment of a number of bacterial infections, were seized from the factory.Thee duo was selling one remdesivir vial for around ₹6,000 to ₹10,000 to their agents, who further sold it to needy customers for prices ranging between ₹25,000 and ₹40,000. The injection is available for a price between ₹900 and 3,500, but shortages have resulted in a thriving black market. Many states have channelised sales of remdesivir .Delhi has been hit by a severe shortage of drugs such as remdesivir, faviprarir and ivermectin, a scarcity that has been exacerbated by hoarders and black marketeers who are selling them at rates 10-15 times their retail value. For instance, HT reported earlier that a dealer in north Delhi offered to sell a customer a vial of remdesivir for ₹25,000, as against an MRP ranging from ₹899 and ₹3,500.DCP Bhardwaj said police have initiated the procedure to seal Gautam’s medicine manufacturing company, “Nectar Herbs and Drugs” in Kotdwar.According to the police, the first lead about the interstate racket came when the crime branch team on April 23 arrested Mohammad Shoaib (28), and Mohan Kumar Jha (40), with 10 remdesivir vials that they were trying to sell to a decoy customer outside Batra Hospital in south Delhi.After their arrest, the two told the police that they got the vials from two others, Manish Goyal and Pushkar Chanderkant Pakhale, who were subsequently arrested on April 25 from Delhi’s Yamuna Vihar with 12 more vials of remdesivir.The duo disclosed that their main supplier was one Sadhna Sharma and she was arrested the following day from Yamuna Vihar itself. A total of 160 vials of fake remdesivir injections were recovered from her, the DCP said.“Sharma underwent treatment for Covid-19 at a private hospital in Krishna Nagar. Sharma needed remdesivir injections for her treatment but could not get one because of its scarcity. In her efforts to obtain an injection for herself, Sharma came in contact with Saini and joined his illegal trade,” said Bhardwaj.“Prime facie, it appears that except Sharma, the other four arrested persons did not know that the injections were fake. Sharma told us that the fake injections were coming from Uttarakhand through Saini,” Bharadwaj said.On April 27, Saini was arrested from his home in Haridwar from where one packing machine, 3,000 empty vials for packing fake remdesivir injections, and packing materials of azithromycin were seized. During his interrogation, Saini pointed to Gautam, who was arrested on April 29 from Roorkee. His company premises in Kotdwar was also searched. The computer on which fake labels were prepared and 16 fake remdesivir injections were recovered, the DCP said.AIIMS director Randeep Guleria earlier this week asked doctors to exercise caution while prescribing remdesivir to patients and said the drug being used to treat Covid-19 is not a “magic bullet”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/7-held-for-running-factory-producing-fake-remdesivir-101619819326549.html
01-05-2021||Delhi||3 private hospital chains say will open jabs up today; others still not sure||Three large private hospital chains– Max, Apollo, and Fortis – said that they will roll-out the third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive for everyone aged 18 and above from May 1, announcing that they have some stocks from the manufacturers directly. Other private hospitals, however, said they were unsure of whether they will receive any doses from the Delhi government.The Delhi government, which has ordered 6.7 million doses each of Covishield and Covaxin, is likely to get its first supply by Sunday, officials said. Government hospitals, on the other hand, have not received any instruction on immunising people below the age of 45 and are unlikely to do so with the existing stock provided by the Centre, which is meant only for people in the older group.According to a statement by Max healthcare group, four centres at Panchsheel Park, Patparganj, Shalimar Bagh and BLK hospital in Rajinder Place will begin administering Covishield from Saturday. “Max healthcare… will be starting universal vaccination drive from select hospitals in the network in NCR. As the supplies of the vaccine pick up all hospitals in the network will be used to vaccinate citizens,” said the group in a statement.Everyone will have to seek an appointment on Co-WIN platform of the government for receiving the shots, according to the rules previously announced by the government.Indraprastha Apollo hospital, as part of the group’s national vaccine roll-out, will also begin the immunisation drive in Delhi. The hospital hasn’t revealed which of the jabs will be used.All Fortis centres across North India will roll out the drive from Saturday with Covaxin.“Fortis will administer Covid vaccines for 18+ at its centres across North India from tomorrow. Fortis centres in other cities will commence vaccination as soon as supplies are made available by the authorities. The hospital will administer Covaxin from tomorrow at ₹1,250/dose; this includes cost of the vaccine and administration charges,” said a hospital statement.Union government officials said some states will begin vaccinations for the under-45 adult population from May 1, but expect teething troubles. “Government guidelines clearly say those private vaccination centres that will procure vaccine doses can start vaccination. Based on the availability of vaccine doses, and the way states coordinate with vaccine manufacturers, in some states vaccinations will definitely be launched in the 18-plus category. Any new process takes time to grow and stabilise,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union ministry of health, during the briefing on Friday.“The guidance tools for vaccinating 18-44 years category are being shared with the states by the central government, and we feel that once this (additional) vaccination drive commences the way it has been designed, it will stabilise gradually. When the programme was launched on January 16, there were fewer vaccination centres across the country, which increased in due course. Similarly, this will also pick up speed in coordination between the private sector, the state, and the vaccine manufacturers,” the official said.He also said that the Centre asked the state governments to account for the vaccine doses that have been distributed to the private vaccination centres, and later start vaccination with additionally procured doses.In government-run hospitals in Delhi, officials were unsure of when they will be able to give doses to these groups. A doctor from Delhi government-run Rajeev Gandhi Superspeciality hospital said, “We will continue vaccinating people over the age of 45 years for now. As soon as we get instructions and doses from the Delhi government, we will start immunising people between the ages 18 and 44.”“So far, we have not received any information from the Delhi government on vaccinating those below the age of 45 years. We will continue immunising those who are 45 years and above as usual,” said a senior administrator from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), asking not to be named.Hospitals other than the large chains have been unable to secure any doses from the vaccine manufacturers and are unsure whether they will get any from the Delhi government.“We have contacted Serum Institute of India that has said they will be able to provide doses only after six months. Sputnik will come only in July we have been told. And, we are yet to hear from Bharat Biotech. For now, we will not be able to immunise anyone, even those who have received their first dose at the hospital. We might get doses from the Delhi government, but we haven’t received any communication to that effect,” said Dr DS Rana, chairperson, Sir Ganga Ram hospital.All private centres have been removed from the government’s Co-WIN platform for now and are likely to be added once they get the doses, according to the hospitals.“For now, we have to put everything on hold as there is no clarity on whether we will receive any doses from the Delhi government. From what we have heard, doses will go to government hospitals for the time being. People who have taken their first shot at our hospital will have to be referred to government hospitals for their second dose for now,” said Jasleen Kaur, general manager marketing, Indian Spinal Injury Centre.Experts believe that not vaccinating everyone over the age of 18 years might lead to disproportionate number of severe infections among young people.“The number of vaccinations has already gone down – maybe because of the lockdown, or because people have seen news about others getting the infection even after vaccination (what they do not realise is that the infection is mild), or because they think they might get the infection from the vaccination centres. This will further endanger people below the age of 45 years, who are completely unvaccinated and are getting severe disease during the second wave,” said Dr Anoop Mishra, chairman of Fortis Centre for Diabetes, Obesity and Cholesterol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/3-private-hospital-chains-say-will-open-jabs-up-today-others-still-not-sure-101619819066298.html
01-05-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram among 9 Haryana districts under weekend lockdown beginning today||The Haryana government on Friday announced Gurugram as one of the nine districts across the state to be put under a weekend lockdown from 10pm on Friday till 5am on Monday.The other districts are: Panchkula, Faridabad, Sonipat, Rohtak, Karnal, Hisar, Sirsa, and Fatehabad.The weekend lockdown order was issued by Vijay Vardhan, chief secretary and chairperson of the Haryana State Executive Committee, under the Disaster Management Act, 2005.“Whereas, the Covid-19 pandemic is again posing threat to public health, the Haryana government has considered it necessary to take effective measures to prevent its spread in the state,” excerpts from the order read.The order states that general public are not allowed to leave their homes, travel on foot or vehicles on the streets or any public places during this time period.The Covid-19 situation has been grim in the city, especially over the past three weeks, with acute shortage of Covid-19 hospitals beds, oxygen, and medicines.Before April 11, the highest single-day Covid-19 recorded cases was 964 on November 8 last year. Since then, the city’s Covid-19 cases have been continuously surging, with Gurugram recording 5,042 new coronavirus cases on Thursday, as per the district administration’s daily health bulletin, the highest single-day figure since the pandemic started.As per Vardhan’s order, only those tasked with law and order, municipal services, health, electricity, fire, government machinery tasked with Covid-19 related duties, executive magistrates, police personnel, military, Central Armed Police Force (CAPF), accredited journalist are allowed movement provided they show their identify cards.For general public, movement for appearing in examination, those on examination duties on production of admit or identity cards, those engaged in manufacture of essential goods are also exempted.Vardhan’s order further stated that there will no curb on movement of inter-state and intra-state essential and non-essential goods.“Hospitals, veterinary hospitals and all related medical establishments, including their manufacturing and distribution units, both in public and private sector, such as dispensaries, chemist, pharmacies (including Jan Aushadhi Kendra) and medical equipment shops, laboratories, pharmaceutical research labs, clinics, nursing homes, ambulance will continue to remain functional. The transportation of all medical personnel, nurses, paramedical, other hospital support services will be permitted,” it says.Under the commercial and private establishment category, those engaged in telecommunications, internet services, broadcasting and cable services staff, IT services; delivering essential goods, including food, pharmaceuticals, medical equipment; petrol pumps, LPG, petroleum and gas retail and storage outlets are also exempted along with people deputed in power generation, transmission and distribution units and services, cold storage and warehousing services, private security services, and farming activity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-among-9-haryana-districts-under-weekend-lockdown-beginning-today-101619818809152.html
01-05-2021||Gurugram||Spike no bar: Gurugram to see 300 weddings in 15 days||Gurugram will see around 300 weddings in the next fortnight, officials said, highlighting one of the factors that could result in a further spike in Covid-19 cases in a district that has seen the number of daily cases rise by 374% in the past fortnight. The district currently has 36,693 active cases, up from 7,741 on April 15.The 300 itself, is a number that has come down from 700, after the district administration on Friday released an order prohibiting such events within so-called Large Outbreak Regions — areas where localised increase in cases are being reported. For operational purposes, a large outbreak area is one where there are 15 or more cases, while a containment zone is an area where at least five Covid-19 cases are reported.“Till Thursday, approvals were given to around 700 weddings, but this has now come down to around 300 as permission for many such events were cancelled, especially those scheduled to take place in areas falling in large outbreak regions,” said a senior official from the district administration.Under the current norms, 50 guests are allowed for weddings taking place outdoors while a limit of 30 guests has been set for indoor functions -- both, if the experience of the first wave of the disease, and the restrictions imposed then are any indication, are likely to be honoured more in breach than observance.A release issued by the district information department on Friday said all permissions given by sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) of Gurugram Jitendra Kumar’s office for weddings and other functions in areas falling in containment zones have been revoked with immediate effect.Officials from the district administration said that they feared the weddings could turn into super-spreader events.Yash Garg, deputy commissioner of Gurugram said: “Permissions are being given for weddings outside containment zones despite the imposition of Section 144 in the district as they are exempt with prior permissions from the administration. But it will be better if people understand that this is not the right time for celebrations.”Many experts believe a spate of weddings in Delhi in the early part of the year were the cause for a spike in cases. In March, a central government panel found that events, such as weddings, were one of the causes for the resurgence of Covid-19 in India.While some fear that these weddings can make things worse, district administration officials said they plan to keep a tight leash on them.Usha Kundu, assistant commissioner of police (headquarters), said, “We have over 2,000 personnel deployed to ensure Covid-19 protocols are followed. We strictly monitor that one chair is left in between guests at tables to maintain social distancing, people do not gather in crowds for photographs and they wear masks at all times.”But representatives of a local hotel association admitted that guests often break rules.Manbeer Choudhary, president, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Haryana said, “Staff at all hotels follow safety measures of double masks, sanitisation, noting down mobile numbers of guests, and social distancing; but it becomes difficult for hotels when guests do not cooperate.”Choudhary said he expects more people to apply for permission because, according to the Hindu calendar, there are 18 auspicious wedding dates in the month of May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/spike-no-bar-gurugram-to-see-300-weddings-in-15-days-101619818707743.html
01-05-2021||Delhi||MCDs offer space to set up Covid facilities||With health care facilities across the national capital burdened by the unprecedented rise in Covid-19 cases and citizens complaining of difficulties in finding hospital beds, the three civic bodies -- east, north, and south -- have written to the Delhi government, offering to convert their schools and community centres into Covid care hospitals and isolation centres.The second wave of Covid-19 across the country — and the fourth wave in Delhi — has turned out to be the deadliest one yet in terms of cases and fatalities. Delhi is currently recording at least 25,000 new Covid cases and over 300 deaths every day.At present, Delhi has 21,199 beds for Covid-19 patients, of which 5,032 are ICU beds. Besides, there are over 5,000 beds in dedicated Covid care centres and 204 in dedicated healthcare centres.The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Thursday sent a list of 20 schools and six community centres to the Delhi government that could be converted into Covid isolation centres. Officials said each school can have 50 beds. The civic body runs around 360 primary schools.East civic body mayor Nirmal Jain said that they have told the Delhi government that these spaces can be immediately used for Covid patients. “We are ready to give these spaces at the earliest. We have assured that we will arrange water, electricity and sanitation facilities. The government can set up beds and other medical infrastructure. We will help in that as well,” he said.Similarly, the North MCD has also offered its primary schools to the Delhi government to convert these into Covid-19 hospitals, isolation, and care centers. The north civic body runs 714 primary schools.North Delhi mayor Jai Prakash on Friday said that the municipality had written to the Delhi government on April 19, offering to convert their schools, community centres, and polyclinics into dedicated Covid facilities. He said that around 7,000 beds can be added by letting the government use the municipality-owned buildings, including nearly 5,000 beds at its primary schools. “We have assured the government that we will provide every possible help from our side to fight this pandemic. We all know that citizens are running from pillar to post to find hospital beds and any addition at this time will only help save lives,” he said.He said that they have sent a list of 100 schools where beds can be set up. “In each school building, at least 50 beds can be set up,” he said.Meanwhile, the south Delhi municipal corporation officials also said that they have offered all available resources to strengthen the public health infrastructure in the city. “We are also working with our officials to identify which schools can be offered as dedicated Covid facilities. We will be releasing the list for the government in the coming days,” said south Delhi mayor Anamika Mithilesh Singh. The south corporation runs around 580 primary schools.A Delhi government official, who wished not to be named, said, “The government is keen on expanding the healthcare infrastructure as much as possible. In case these schools and community centres (offered by MCDs) are required, the government will make use of them. Some isolation centres are already operating in MCD schools in Delhi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mcds-offer-space-to-set-up-covid-facilities-101619817767074.html
01-05-2021||Delhi||Distress calls on Delhi’s child helpline surge amid rise in Covid-19 cases||After losing their parents to Covid-19 on Friday, two siblings, aged 20 and 18, attempted to take their lives on the same day but the timely intervention of the neighbours, who alerted police, saved them. They were later rescued from south Delhi.A day earlier, the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) helped a 15-year-old boy, who was struggling to take care of his mother alone after she tested positive for Covid-19.Amid a rise in both Covid-19 cases and fatalities, authorities, including the DCPCR, the Delhi Police, and several NGOs, are now working to ensure children of deceased patients and those who are ill are getting all the assistance they need. Officials said the child distress helpline are receiving many calls from children seeking help.The DCPCR has also launched a helpline +91-9311551393 to address the needs of children who have lost parents or whose parents are hospitalised or are in any distress.Anurag Kundu, chairperson of DCPCR, said he will ensure that the calls pouring into the helpline are looked into within 24 hours.“Children are the most vulnerable in these testing times as they remain dependent on others to provide for them. The helpline is receiving numerous cases wherein a child has lost all sources of support and is in need of immediate care. The Commission is committed to resolving all such cases in less than 24 hours,” said Kundu.For instance, after two children lost both their parents within a day, the commission coordinated with NGOs, following which local staff interacted with the duo and counselled them. “The relatives and neighbours are taking care of the children now. The Commission has been checking in on them everyday,” read a statement released by the commission.The commission said citizens could call the new helpline number and inform about children in distress.Sonal Kapoor, founder of Protsahan, said the most important thing is to work on closure for such children. “We aren’t taught how to deal with emotions involving grief, trauma, and death. A lot of adults, including caregivers and NGOs, are also in denial and children too struggle to process these emotions. The challenge is to establish a routine in the child’s life. While government agencies can put children in shelter homes and provide essentials, the focus should also be on psycho-social needs on grief and trauma healing,” she said.In another case, the DCPCR also facilitated the process of cremation for two children who lost their father and provided medical assistance, along with Covid tests, to them while their relatives arrived in a few hours.Last week, in Rohini, three children aged below 10 were living with their grandmother after their father died of Covid-19 and their mother was hospitalized with the infection. Volunteer groups provided essential supplies like fruits, milk, and bread after seeing the SOS call on social media. However, they pointed out that their grandmother was “very old to feed and manage them.”Kundu responded to the SOS asking his team to “make sure the children have all medical help, food and to daily check in on them at least for the next 15 days. Also, see if the children can talk to their mother over the phone.”In another case, a 14-year-old lost all his family members to Covid-19 and has been in home isolation after testing positive for the infection with no one to look after him. After receiving SOS messages on social media, the commission provided assistance to the child.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/distress-calls-on-delhi-s-child-helpline-surge-amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-101619817590248.html
01-05-2021||Other||Cleaning of road gullies begins in Mohali’s Sectors 67 and 68||The mayor of Mohali, Amarjit Singh Sidhu, on Friday inaugurated the work of cleaning of road gullies in Sectors 67 and 68.Sidhu said that ₹33 lakh would be spent on cleaning and repairing of road gullies, and new road gullies would be constructed wherever needed.The mayor further said similar work would be started immediately in Sectors 66 to 69 and 76 to 80 on priority.Meanwhile, the cleaning of the nullah (N-choe) at the rear side of NIPER and clearing of the wild grass had already been started, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cleaning-of-road-gullies-begins-in-mohali-s-sectors-67-and-68-101619817349927.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board receives 105 e-bids for 36 dwelling units||The Chandigarh Housing Board has received 105 bids for 36 dwelling units in the e-auction of its properties.The CHB had invited e-tenders for the sale of 109 built-up dwelling units on a free-hold basis. The units are available in Sector 38 (West), Sector 49, Sector 51 and in Sector 63. The last date for submission of e-bids was April 30 by 2pm.All the technical e-bids (first envelope) were opened as per the schedule at 3pm on Friday and all the e-bids have been declared technically qualified.The chief executive officer of CHB, Yashpal Garg, said, “This time, the response has been very good; last year no bid was received for these units. We reduced the reserve prices of these units by about 10%. Total 105 bids have been received against 36 dwelling units.”Considering curfew/lockdown related issues due to the pandemic, the financial bids (second envelope) will be opened on May 3 from 10am onwards, said Garg.The details of successful highest bidders for each of the dwelling units will be uploaded on the website, www.chbonline.in, after opening of all the financial e-bids. Considering that a total 105 e-bids have been received, it is expected that the opening of financial bids may take some time and the result of the e-tender may be uploaded on the website by the afternoon of May 3.The highest bidder is allowed to deposit 25% of the bid amount within five working days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-housing-board-receives-105-e-bids-for-36-dwelling-units-101619817229892.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Hockey legend Yash Pal Vohra dies due to Covid at 92||Rajasthan Royals’ opener Manan Vohra’s grandfather Yash Pal Vohra, a former hockey player of Punjab, succumbed to Covid-19 on Friday, at the age of 92.A contemporary of hockey legends such as late Balbir Singh Senior, Dharam Singh and Bakshish Singh, Yash Pal Vohra had played for Punjab during the 1950s and 1960s. He had also made it to the 24-member Indian hockey probables list for the 1956 Olympics but had missed the cut due to an injury. After he quit playing, Vohra became an administrator and worked for the promotion of the sport. He was the founder secretary general of Chandigarh Olympic Association (COA) and served the unit for 25 years. He had also been the secretary of Hockey Chandigarh for several years. He successfully ran the Rock Rovers Hockey Club and looked after the sport for decades. He was also a first-class hockey umpire and inspired many to take up the role.“He was my hero and I took up umpiring after watching him in that role. I spoke to him just two days ago, and he was doing fine. But this terrible disease took him away from us. His immense contribution took Chandigarh Hockey to great heights,” said Satinder Sharma, an international hockey umpire. Since 1971, Vohra and his late brother SN Vohra had been organising an All India Gurmit Memorial Hockey Tournament (A- Grade) and in 2019 was its 48th edition in a row.“He always wanted to provide a platform to young hockey players. Gurmit Memorial Hockey Tournament was one such meet which gave a chance to talented players from across India. We would like to take Vohra Sahab’s legacy forward with pride and passion,” said Anil Vohra, general secretary of Hockey Chandigarh.Manan’s parents and grandmother had also tested positive for the virus but have recovered. “Manan is in Delhi for the Indian Premier League and wanted to fly back home for the last rites of his grandfather. But I told him to carry on with his game as his grandfather would have also wanted the same. His grandfather was his inspiration and driving force,” said Manan’s father Sanjeev Vohra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hockey-legend-yash-pal-vohra-dies-due-to-covid-at-92-101619816989756.html
01-05-2021||Other||Mohali admn hands over eight ventilators to two private hospitals||A day after Hindustan Times reported that eight ventilators were lying unused at the civil hospital in Phase 6, the health department handed them over to two private hospitals.Four units were given to Max Hospital in Phase 6 and the other four to Fortis Hospital in Phase 8.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said, “We have handed over the ventilators to private hospitals to use during Covid period. Once this is over, they will hand them back to us.”Member of parliament Manish Tewari said, “I took up the issue (after it was reported) with the deputy commissioner of Mohali and told him to either hand them (the ventilators) over to private hospitals in Mohali or to PGIMER in Chandigarh.”DC Girish Dayalan said that the ventilators were received under PM CARES, but were not used due to technical issues: “These ventilators were to be used in the Mohali Medical College; the process of human resource recruitment and infrastructure creation is on.”Abhijit Singh, zonal director of Fortis Hospital said the hospital will administer Covid vaccine at the hospital tomorrow the moment supplies were made available by the authorities.HT had reported how at a time when a Covid patient had died while waiting for an ICU bed at a private hospital in Mohali on Wednesday, eight ventilators were lying unused at the civil hospital for the last eight months in the absence of infrastructure and/or staff to operate them.The district has around 30 private hospitals with 256 ICU beds. None of the nine government facilities offers one, even as the Mohali assembly constituency is represented by the Punjab health minister.The civil surgeon said that the civil hospital needed permanent anaesthetic personnel besides other facilities, for which a request had been submitted with the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mohali-admn-hands-over-eight-ventilators-to-two-private-hospitals-101619816812112.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Police file challan against four in Chandigarh property grab case||Nearly two months after the first arrests in the Sector-37 property grab case, the Chandigarh Police on Friday filed a chargesheet against four accused, including a suspended inspector, a journalist and a property dealer. In the challan, police have also invoked the Prevention of Corruption (PCA) Act against the accused – journalist Sanjeev Mahajan, realtor Manish Gupta, suspended Chandigarh Police inspector Rajdeep Singh and Satpal Dagar, brother of a UT deputy superintendent of police. They are accused of kidnapping and torturing Rahul Mehta, 48, the only surviving heir of his family, in April 2017 to secure the general power of attorney of his 338 square yards house and selling it to Manish’s brother Saurabh Gupta for ₹2.9 crore in March 2019.Running into 18,132 pages, the challan has listed 78 witnesses. It will be taken up for hearing on May 3. Sanjeev and Manish were the first to be arrested in the case on March 2, followed by Satpal on March 4 and inspector Rajdeep on March 12.Apart from them, police had also booked liquor baron Arvind Singla and businessman Khalendra Singh Kadyan, to whom the property’s GPA was transferred, slain bouncer Surjit Singh, and Ashok Arora, Shekhar and Daljit Singh, who purportedly acted as witnesses in the sale of the house.After the transfer of the GPA, Rahul was abandoned at a stud farm in Gujarat in June 2017, before being shifted from one charitable home to another in Maharashtra, Delhi and Rajasthan, where he was finally traced. He is now in police protection.IPC’s Section 328 added on victim’s statement The challan has been filed under Sections 328, 331, 344, 365, 386, 419, 420, 452, 464, 465, 466, 467, 468, 471, 473, 474, 477, 166, 201 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 13(1), (2) of the Prevention Of Corruption Act.Police added Section 328 (causing hurt by means of poison with intent to commit an offence) of the IPC against the accused after Rahul alleged that he was intoxicated by the accused.In his statement to the court, Rahul had said he was the sole owner of the house, which he never sold to anyone. But, Sanjeev, Surjit and two others forcibly entered his house and occupied the upper floor in April 2017. They assaulted him and locked him up in a room, and kept torturing and threatening to kill him, he alleged. After forcibly securing his signature on blank papers and cheques, Surjit left him at a stud farm in Bhuj, Gujarat.Victim’s cousin settled abroad also among witnesses Police have listed Rahul’s cousin Rajiv, who is settled in the UK, as a witness. Rahul’s mother (since deceased) had transferred a part of the property in question to her sister, who also died later. Thereon, there was a dispute between Rahul and her son Rajiv, who moved the high court.Rajiv had told the police that he visited the house in 2017 to discuss the court case with Rahul, but met Surjit there and was told that Rahul was not at home. Rajiv had later also met Sanjeev, who told him that Rahul was safe at some place and they were taking care of him. Sanjeev further claimed that Rahul had transferred his share of the house to his name, and offered ₹25 lakh to Rajiv to withdraw the court case.Four accused at largeOn March 26, Chandigarh Police had announced a cash reward of ₹50,000 for information leading to the arrest of four accused – Arvind, Saurabh, Khalendra and Gurpreet Singh Mani, but they remain at large. According to police, after the property’s GPA was transferred in favour of Khalendra and Arvind, Saurabh had purchased it and Gurpreet had acted as a witness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/police-file-challan-against-four-in-chandigarh-property-grab-case-101619816689837.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Deadly April accounts for 20% of all Covid fatalities in Chandigarh||At 15,725 Covid cases, April has been a sickening month for city residents with an average of 525 persons testing positive for debilitating virus every day. The figure also means that of 41,923 cases in the city to date, every third (35%) has come in this month. There have also been 99 deaths in April, 20.7% of 478 deaths in the city. The number of active cases has surged from 2,900 on April 1 to 6,906 on April 30. According to experts, there is unlikely to be any respite in the first two weeks of May, at least. The sharp increase in cases comes when Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds are already in short supply. Testing levels have increased, but are drowned by the surge in infections. The number of infections between March and April increased by 200%, but the corresponding increase in tests has been just 65%. The positivity rate has seen a spurt from 5% to 16%.“The next two weeks are crucial. The trajectory of the past two weeks indicate that cases will go up for the next two weeks. With respect to cases, the fatality ratio has been low. The absolute number of deaths is concerning,” said Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of community medicine and school of public health at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER). Dr GD Puri, chairman of Covid-19 management panel, at PGIMER said one of the reasons for increased deaths can be the public’s run over health facilities and hospitals. “When there are lower number of hospitalisations, extra care is provided. Now, admissions are happening at a fast pace and facilities are being exhausted. This impacts health care services and leads to increased fatalities,” Dr Puri added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/deadly-april-accounts-for-20-of-all-covid-fatalities-in-chandigarh-101619816330604.html
01-05-2021||Other||At 20, Ludhiana sees its highest ever single-day toll||With 20 Covid deaths in the last 24 hours, the district on Friday recorded its highest single-day toll since the outbreak last year. With this, the district’s cumulative tally has touched 1, 375 of which, as 75 deaths were reported in the last five days alone. Out of the 20 who died on Friday, 12 are men while eight are women, the youngest being a 32-year-old woman.The district also logged 792 fresh infections in the last 24 hours, taking the active cases count to 7, 790. The case tally now stands at 54,586.Amongst the men who died are a 79-year-old resident of Tibba Road, a 78-year-old resident of Guru Arjan Dev Nagar, two 65-year-old residents of Jammu Colony and Shakti Nagar, three 61- year-old residents of Dholewal, Bhamiyan Kalan and Bharat Nagar Chowk, a 57-year-old resident of Civil Lines, a 55-year-old resident of Shivpuri, a 56-year-old resident of Kitchlu Nagar, a 43-year-old resident of Kot Mangal Singh and a 41-year-old resident of Urban Estate.Among the women who succumbed to the virus are two city residents aged 86 and 80, apart from a 70-year-old from Karimpura, a 60-year-old resident of Baba Deep Singh Nagar, a 55-year-old resident of Dhandran, a 50-year-old Basti Jodhewal resident, a 42-year-old from Nim Wala Chowk and a 32-year-old residing near Sangeet Cinema.There are 1, 425 beds occupied in different private hospitals in the city while 143 beds are occupied in isolation wards in government hospitals.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to the residents to adhere to all the safety protocols like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently to save themselves and everyone around them.Administration fixes ambulance ratesAmid reports of private ambulances fleecing Covid-19 patients, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Friday fixed the rates for private ambulances in the district to regulate the maximum amount of fare that can be charged by ambulances. Divulging the details, the deputy commissioner said that the charges for ambulance vans applicable in the district are a minimum of ₹2,500 for the first 25km and an additional ₹12 per km for additional travel. Similarly, for Innova ambulance, minimum of ₹2,500 for the first 25km and an additional ₹12 per km for additional travel and for ambulance equipped with a ventilator, the fare will be ₹5,000 for the first 25km, and an additional ₹25 per km for additional travel. The rates will be applicable between these points. Sharma said strict action will be taken against those who charge more than the fixed prices from the Covid patients.RTA secretary Sandeep Garha said that anyone can contact the ambulance helpline number 7814363850 in case of any difficulty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-20-ludhiana-sees-its-highest-ever-single-day-toll-101619815849852.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||One-year-old among 27 succumb to Covid in Chandigarh tricity, second highest ever||Covid-19 claimed the lives of 27 people across the tricity on Friday, second only to the all-time high of 29 deaths on April 28.Among the deceased was a one-year-old child from Mauli Jagran in Chandigarh that reported 13 fatalities, the city’s highest single-day toll since the pandemic began in March last year.Mohali reported eight deaths for the second day in row, while six people died in Panchkula.On the infections’ front, the numbers dipped further for the second consecutive day, as 1,905 people tested positive for the virus, 9% lower than 2,096 on Thursday and 11% lesser than 2,159 on Wednesday.Mohali again led the daily tally with 857 cases, followed by 724 in Chandigarh and 324 in Panchkula. The latest deaths pushed Chandigarh’s toll to 478, while the total cases reached 41,923, of which 6,906 are active. The city’s recoveries stand at 35,263.Of the 46,470 patients infected in Mohali so far, 9,031 are still recuperating at hospitals or in home isolation. On Friday, 683 patients recovered, taking the recoveries to 36,944. As many as 595 people have succumbed to the virus in the district.Panchkula’s tally climbed to 21,043, of which 18,181 patients have got cured, leaving 2,655 active cases. The toll reached 207 with the six deaths that included four were males, aged 88, 51, 55 and 48, and three females, aged 44 and 45.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/oneyearold-among-27-succumb-to-covid-in-chandigarh-tricity-second-highest-ever-101619815669913.html
01-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana residents throng markets hours before weekend lockdown sets in||With shops closing at 5pm, an hour before the weekend lockdown came into effect at 6pm on Friday, unprecedented rush was witnessed at grocery, fruit and vegetable shops at markets all over the city from 4pm onwards.Residents thronged Ghumar Mandi, which resulted in traffic jams on the roads. Many of them parked haphazardly, leading to further chaos. Many customers were also seen hoarding essential items like vegetables, fruits, bread and butter.To handle the huge demand, many shopkeepers stocked up on items such as milk, curd, lassi and butter, which were sold out at many places by 5pm.Vegetable and fruit vendors also set up their stalls at 3pm. Usually, they reach the markets at 5pm. Here too, heavy rush was seen, and stock was sold out. The situation was the same at all markets like Model Town, Pakhowal Road, Jawahar Nagar, Sarabha Nagar and BRS Nagar. In Ghumar Mandi, several kiryana stores closed at 4pm, to avoid crowding.Sabun Di Hatti grocery store in Ghumar Mandi, which usually receives a footfall of around 50 customers everyday, saw 100 to 120 customers on Saturday. At Full Stop store on College Road, several shelves were found empty as shoppers purchased items in bulk. Even at the milk stores, stocks were sold out. Ram Gopal, owner of Krishna store, Civil Lines, said, “We opened our store at 8.30am and rush was witnessed between 10am and 3pm. I have five employees, but it was not enough to handle the heavy footfall. The government had given enough time to residents for shopping, but people are still visiting markets one to two hours before lockdown and violating social distancing norms.”At Mani Ram Balwant Rai departmental store, long queues were witnessed between 11am and 2pm and store owners asked all the customers to maintain physical distance.Sushil Kumar, a resident, said, “I prepared a list and went to market in the morning and found no rush at the grocery stores at 9am. At 4pm in the afternoon, when I was coming back from office, I found traffic snarls in the market near my house. It took me 20 minutes to cross the road while the market is just five minutes away from my home.”Vivek Kumar, who owns a grocery store, said, “I have supplied extra packets of milk to the customers for two days as the shop will remain closed on the weekend. Most customers have already bought the items they require.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-residents-throng-markets-hours-before-weekend-lockdown-sets-in-101619815550272.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||88% of Covid victims in Punjab suffered from serious ailments||Eighty-eight percent of the patients who died of Covid-19 in Punjab had serious co-morbid diseases while the rest of the deaths could purely be attributed to the infection, an analysis of the state health department till the second week of April has revealed. Among the deceased with co-morbidities, diabetic patients have emerged as more prone to the virus, accounting for 45% of the fatalities. Also, 43% of the victims with medical history were suffering from hypertension. Besides, 18% of the deceased were already suffering from heart diseases while 9% had kidney problems. State Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said, “These were patients with a major co-morbidity and were already being treated. Nearly one-third of the patients who succumbed to the virus had two to three co-morbidities.” “It was also found that 77% of those who died reported for the first time at their nearest health centre even as their symptoms had reached severe level. Only 14% reported when their symptoms were moderate while 8% reported when they still had mild complications,” he added. Of 2,096 fatalities in April, 586 in last 5 days April has been the deadliest month during the pandemic run in Punjab so far, with 2,096 succumbing to the virus with daily average daily deaths at 69. Of these, the state recorded 586 deaths in the last five days only.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/88-of-covid-victims-in-punjab-suffered-from-serious-ailments-101619815313259.html
01-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana-based industrialist Dinesh Lakra succumbs to Covid||In yet another blow to industry in the city, Dinesh Lakra, 56, managing director of Lakra Industries, one of the leading textile and garment manufacturers in Ludhiana, succumbed to Covid during the wee hours of Friday.As per information, Lakra tested positive on April 25. Initially, he remained under home isolation and was admitted to SPS hospital on April 27, after he faced breathing difficulties.He is survived by his father Sudarshan Lakra, mother Chand Rani, wife Vandana Lakra and two sons- Anmol and Lohash. Dinesh was also national vice-president of Laghu Udyog Bharati and member of the governing body of Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC). Dinesh’s uncle and president of Ludhiana Knitters Association, Ajit Lakra, said, “It all happened in just five days after he (Dinesh) contracted the disease on April 25. He breathed his last at around 2.30am on Friday morning. Apart from the personal loss, the industry has lost an entrepreneur, who worked for the betterment of the sector.”President of Ludhiana Woollen Manufacturers Association and Knitwear Club, Darshan Dawar said, “It is a huge loss to the sector and it also reminds us of the alarming situation. People should follow all the guidelines and if possible, a self-imposed lockdown for a few days should be observed.” In September last year, Darshan Lal Sharma,72, managing director of Vardhman Yarns and Threads Limited and Tarsem Kumar Jain, 82, group chairman of the Jain Udhay group, had succumbed to Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianabased-industrialist-dinesh-lakra-succumbs-to-covid-101619815309787.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination for 18+ age group not to start in Chandigarh tricity on May 1||Running out of vaccine supplies, Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula will not be starting the vaccination drive for 18-44 age group on Saturday.Awaiting more stocks, the three cities will be utilising their remaining doses for people aged above 45.“The existing stock of nearly 1 lakh vaccines will be used for the 45+ age group for the first and second dose. The drive for 18+ beneficiaries will start only after adequate supplies are received,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida.Earlier, UT had sought permission from the Centre to allow administering the available doses to the new group, but it was denied.Meanwhile, there is no clarity on when more doses will arrive in Chandigarh and Mohali, while Panchkula is expecting them on Saturday. “Vaccines for the 18-44 age group will be received by Saturday evening and we expect to start the next phase by Monday,” said Dr Meenu Sasan, district immunisation officer. In Mohali, the drive will be suspended at private facilities from Saturday onwards due to shortage of vaccine. “We will continue the drive for the 45+ age group at 110 government centres in district, including 40 mobile vans,” said Dr Rajendra Bhooshan, in-charge for the vaccination drive in Mohali. Abhijit Singh, zonal director, Fortis Hospital, Mohali, said they had returned the unutilised vaccines to the government and will now buy more directly from the manufacturers. “We can resume the drive only after we get the vaccines and the slots on the CoWin portal are opened,” he said.Meanwhile, Panchkula administration has constituted a committee to monitor the demand of oxygen, hospital beds and medicines. HSVP’s estate officer Mamta Sharma has been appointed as the nodal officer to ensure supply of oxygen to all hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccination-for-18-age-group-not-to-start-in-chandigarh-tricity-on-may-1-101619815249671.html
01-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana defers vax drive for 18+ age group due to shortage||The Covid vaccination drive for the 18+ age group, which was scheduled to start nationwide on May 1, has been put on hold in the district. District epidemiologist Dr Puneet Juneja said they are yet to receive vaccines to inoculate the 18+ age group, due to which the commencement of the drive had to be deferred. He added that they are left with a limited stock of vaccines and fresh stock is expected to arrive in a couple of days.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjivan Kakkar has confirmed that the vaccination campaign for the age group of 45 years and above will continue as per routine.Covidshield centres in the cityHe said that the first and second doses of Covidshield are being administered at the Ludhiana civil hospital, MCH Vardhman, Urban Primary Health Centre, Jawaddi; Urban Community Health Centre (CHC), civil surgeon’s office; Urban CHC, Subhash Nagar; Urban CHC, Shimlapuri; Urban Primary Health Centre, Dholewal; Urban Primary Health Centre, Dugri; Model Gram dispensary, Old Krishna Mandir; Urban Primary Health Centre, Bhagwan Nagar; ESI Model Hospital, Police Line; UPHS, Salem Tabri; UPHC, Sabji Mandi; UPHC Shivpuri and Haibowal dispensary.Covaxin centresThe first and second doses of Covaxin will be administered at Ludhiana civil hospital, MCH Vardhman, Urban Primary Health Centre, Model Town and Urban Primary Health Centre, Sunet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-defers-vax-drive-for-18-age-group-due-to-shortage-101619815129741.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity comes on common ground, weekend curfew clamped||As the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic continues to sweep the tricity, Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula administrations on Friday clamped a weekend curfew in an effort to battle their rising cases.The curfew first started in Mohali at 6pm on Friday. Panchkula enforced it at 10pm, but in Chandigarh, it will come into force at 5am on Saturday.The public movement restrictions will continue through Sunday, before ending at 5am on Monday across the tricity.Thereon, the daily night curfew will remain in force from 6pm to 5am in Chandigarh and Mohali, and 9pm to 5am in Panchkula.Punjab was the first to announce the weekend restrictions earlier this week. Haryana enforced the curfew in nine districts on Friday afternoon. Chandigarh, too, followed suit, announcing its decision around 7.30pm on Friday. “Our imposition of weekend curfew was contingent upon Haryana doing the same in Panchkula. A curfew in Chandigarh can be effective only if it is imposed in the entire tricity,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida.The administration has come under criticism for repeatedly changing its stand on the imposition of weekend curfew. After first clamping it on the April 16 weekend, UT decided against it on April 23, only to reimpose it now. Opposition political parties, including Congress and AAP, have termed the administration “confused” on the issue. What it means “No person shall leave their home or shall move on foot or by vehicle or travel or stand or roam on any road or public places,” states the order issued by deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.Issuing the same order in Panchkula, deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja appealed to residents to stay indoors till Monday morning.All essential commodity shops and restaurants in the tricity will be allowed to remain open, but only for home delivery. These include shops and vendors dealing with food, groceries, fruits and vegetable, dairy, meat, animal fodder, pharmaceuticals and medical equipment. In Chandigarh, shops will be closed by 2pm, but restaurants can continue delivery till 9pm. Similarly, home delivery by eateries is allowed till 9pm in Mohali as well, but shops here will down shutters by 5pm and by 6pm in Panchkula.All private offices will remain closed, and only industries manufacturing essential products, such as masks, sanitisers and medicines, can operate during the weekend. Those specially issued a restricted movement curfew pass are exempted.Any breach of the order will invite action under Sections 51 and 60 of the Disaster Management Act and Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.17 areas sealed in UT, MohaliThe UT administration on Friday declared 15 more micro-containment zones in the city, while two such zones were also notified in Mohali. The affected areas in Chandigarh are parts of Sectors 8, 9, 15, 16, 22, 23 and 25, and Sarangpur, Khuda Lahora and Dhanas. In Mohali, these are Usha Yarn area in Dera Bassi and Skynet Enclave in Zirakpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-comes-on-common-ground-weekend-curfew-clamped-101619814893285.html
01-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana hospitals run full to capacity||The second wave of Covid-19 is literally choking the health infrastructure in the district with all government and private hospitals running full to capacity even as relatives of Covid-19 patients, who require critical care, are running from pillar to post in search of beds. Social media, including Facebook, Twitter and Whatsapp, are flooded with messages of patients’ kin who are looking for hospitals, more so with a ventilator support system available.Many are also claiming that they have lost their loved ones due to non-availability of Level- 3 (L3, critical) beds in Ludhiana. As per the data shared by the district administration, there are 481 beds earmarked for Level-3 Covid patients, out of which 454 are currently occupied. While these are official figures, the long queues of people waiting outside hospitals, waiting for a bed to fall vacant for their ailing kin, tell a different story. Family members of Kamini Garg, a 55-year-old from Barnala who had lost her battle to Covid on April 28, said that they were not able to secure a Level-3 bed for her even as her daughter and son-in-law are practising doctors. Yogesh Agrawal, a relative of the deceased, said that for three days, they kept going from one hospital to another looking for beds but had no luck. “We had even applied online at each hospital but to no avail. She was first admitted at a hospital in Moga and was rushed to Ludhiana when her condition deteriorated. She died in the isolation ward, waiting for a critical-care bed,” he said.The relatives of 50-year-old Gurmeet Singh are also going through a similar ordeal. Her niece Rashminder Kaur said, “I, along with my husband, am struggling to arrange a Level-3 bed for my aunt. She is currently undergoing treatment at a hospital on Ferozepur Road. The hospital authorities have told us that her condition is deteriorating and she needs to be shifted to an L3 facility but all hospitals are turning us away.” Dr Gaurav Sachdeva, the medical in-charge of the Covid unit of Arora Neuro centre, said the situation is grim and the patient load is phenomenal. “The seriousness of the situation can be gauged from the fact that for every four patients discharged from the hospital, there are eight others waiting to get admitted. We have 10 ICU beds and are adding three more beds,” said Dr Sachdeva. Burden of outsiders The health infrastructure of the district is also crippling due to the influx of patients from outside. As per information, around 41% of the hospitals in Ludhiana are occupied by outsiders. As the health system is bursting at seams, even nursing homes have no space. While the state government has not framed any policy and has said it will welcome patients from any part of the country in wake of this national crisis, hospitals have no option but to turn away the patients due to non-availability of bed. “My brother’s oxygen is falling below 80. He has been recommended ventilator support but we are not getting any in Delhi or Noida. We tried Ludhiana but all hospitals denied L3 facilities to us as we are not from the city,” said Pragati, a Noida resident, who also shared her ordeal on various Whatsapp groups in Ludhiana. As on April 28, there were 785 Ludhiana residents admitted in private hospitals across the district while the number of residents from outside the district stood at 325. At Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, as many as 90 patients are from Ludhiana while 110 are from outside the city. Similarly at Christian Medical College and Hospital, 120 patients are from city while 35 of those admitted are from outside. At Fortis hospital, 30 Covid patients belong to Ludhiana wile 20 are from outside. On Friday, police commissioner Rakesh Kumar Agrawal shared an advisory on Facebook, urging people to not to call their relatives to the district for treatment. “Please do not call your relatives and friends for Covid treatment in Ludhiana. This is choking our hospital infrastructure as beds are almost full,” he wrote. The hospitals are also battling severe staff crunch in these pressing times. “Nearly 80% of our staff is deployed on Covid duty. The doctors are hard pressed and working till long hours to save the lives of those suffering from ailment,” said Dr Baldeep of Deep hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-patients-kin-set-out-on-frantic-hunts-for-beds-as-ludhiana-hospitals-run-full-to-capacity-101619814890782.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||No ventilator facility in govt hospitals of 4 Punjab districts||No government-run hospital in Bathinda, southern Punjab’s largest city, is equipped with ventilators to treat critically ill Covid-19 patients even as the pandemic is already into its second year. This despite the fact that the assembly constituencies state cabinet ministers Manpreet Singh Badal and Gurpreet Singh Kangar represent in the Punjab assembly are in Bathinda district. As a result, patients ailing with level-3 infection are forced to shell out 25 times for life support in private hospitals. Even the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Bathinda, a central government-run healthcare facility, started ventilator facility only on Friday. The hospitals in the district, including private facilities, have about 700 beds for level-2 (needing oxygen support and level-3 patients wherein critically ill are put on ventilator support. Also, the ventilator facility is not available in government-run health care facilities in Mohali, Moga and Fatehgarh Sahib districts. Doctors say a patient may have to pay ₹1,000 a day for ventilator facility at a government hospital while private centres charge from ₹15,000-25,000 for the same. Government hospitals in Moga district earlier had two ventilators which were given to the Faridkot Medical College last year. The government hospitals in the district have 79 beds for level-2 patients. Therefore, all critical patients are referred to GMC Faridkot. “It is an utter failure of the state government that government sector hospitals were not equipped with ventilators. The government claims to have spent a whopping ₹1,000 crore to strengthen healthcare infrastructure since the Covid outbreak. Bathinda is a glaring example of deplorable facilities in civil hospitals,” said public health activist Dr Vitull K Gupta, also president of Association of Physicians of India (Malwa chapter). Even as there are eight civil hospitals in Fatehgarh Sahib district, none has ventilator facility for Covid-19 patients. Critical patients are either shifted to Gian Sagar Medical College or Patiala-based Rajindra Hospital. Fatehgarh Sahib MP Amar Singh has given grant to the district administration to arrange ventilators. Not even a single government hospital in Mohali district, which is represented in the assembly by state health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, has a ventilator. (Inputs by Vishal Rambani and Harmandeep Singh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-ventilator-facility-in-govt-hospitals-of-4-punjab-districts-101619814711961.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ventilators in many Punjab hospitals lying unused for want of trained staff amid Covid surge||Ventilators in several government hospitals in Punjab are lying out of use amid a health emergency in the wake of the second coronavirus outbreak in the state and elsewhere in the country, exposing the health department’s lack of preparedness to fight the pandemic. In most cases, the ventilators are lying idle as the hospitals don’t have the requisite trained staff to operate them. In Amritsar district, the government and private hospitals have 300 ventilators of which 200 of them are reserved for Covid-19 patients. “Of these, only 30-40 remain occupied. We are prepared for the worst scenario,” said Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh.Amritsar Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) medical Superintendent Dr KD Singh said, “We have 137 ventilators at the hospital, but 50 of them have not been installed yet. We are waiting for technicians to install them. The demand for oxygen beds has increased drastically in the past few days.”A senior doctor said even as the GMCH has enough ventilators to handle rising number of cases, it is short of manpower to operate the equipment. “For every five patients on ventilator, we need four anesthesiologists and as many as technicians and X-Ray technicians besides 20 staff nurses for three shifts in a day. We don’t have enough specialist doctors. Besides, many doctors go on quarantine leave after catching the infection. We have deputed some anesthesiologists and technicians from the civil hospital here due to staff shortage,” he added. In the neighbouring Gurdaspur district, there are only 2 ventilators at a government hospital but they are lying non-operational in the absence of required staff. “We refer critical level-3 Covid patients to Amritsar GMCH,” said Gurdaspur civil surgeon Dr Harbhajan Rao. In Pathankot district, all the 18 ventilators in government hospitals are lying non-operational. Civil surgeon Dr Harbinder Singh said, “We do not have level-3 facility for Covid-19 patients in government hospitals. Also, there is no intensive care unit (ICU) at or specialist doctors to treat patients on ventilators. But we have 13 ventilators in private hospitals for Covid-19 patients.” In Tarn Taran district, three ventilators in government hospitals are lying out of use due to staff shortage. “We have 20 level-3 beds in private hospitals but we refer patients to GMC Amritsar for ventilator support. We do not have infrastructure and doctors for treating patients on ventilators in government hospitals,” said civil surgeon Dr Rohit Mehta. In Rupnagar district, none of the 10 ventilators in government hospitals is operational. The administration has written to the higher authorities to make arrangements so that they could handle critical patients. Also, government hospitals in Ferozepur, Fazilka, Mansa and Muktsar districts have seven, six and four each ventilators, respectively, and all of them are not in use. Fazilka civil surgeon Dr Harinder Singh said, “Our team of doctors is learning to use ventilators. The civil hospital may not be a designated government institute to handle a Covid patient with level-3 complications but we will try to provide them life support.” In Jalandhar district, 45 of a total of 165 ventilators in 62 hospitals are occupied, as per details shared by the district administration. In the Jalandhar civil hospital, all of the 18 ventilators were functional with 16 of them in use, officials claimed. Faridkot, Patiala, SBS Nagar districts fare betterGuru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH), Faridkot, which caters to south Malwa districts of Bathinda, Mansa, Muktsar, Moga, Ferozepur, Fazilka and Faridkot, has six Covid-19 patients on life support system. The hospital has 76 ventilators on standby in its 450-bed isolation facility. GGSMCH medical superintendent Dr Shilekh Mittal said the occupancy of level-2 and level-3 beds with oxygen requirement has witnessed a sudden increase. Presently, 270 Ccovid patients, including 65 level-3 patients, are undergoing treatment at the hospital. The Rajindra Medical College and Hospital, Patiala, has nearly 100 ventilators which health department officials claimed are functional with adequate staff to operate them. The hospital is currently getting critically ill patients from Ludhiana, Sangrur and Fatehgarh Sahib districts besides the National Capital Region (NCR).“We are having optimum oxygen and trained staff for ventilators round the clock,” said Patiala Development Authority chief administrator Surbhi Malik, who is Covid-19 nodal officer at Rajindra Hospital.In SBS Nagar district, the administration claimed that all 10 ventilators in hospitals are functional. Civil surgeon Dr Gurdeep Singh Kapoor said they have opened ventilator facilities at government hospitals for patients admitted to private hospitals for free. In Hoshiarpur district too, 10 ventilators installed at the civil hospital were functional, an official said. In Ludhiana, all 16 ventilators are occupied. (Inputs by Mandeep Kaur Narula, Vishal Rambani, Gagandeep Singh, Parteek Singh Mahal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ventilators-in-many-punjab-hospitals-lying-unused-for-want-of-trained-staff-amid-covid-surge-101619814649794.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura firing case: Sikh outfits burn copies of HC verdict, term it political, flawed||Protesting against Punjab and Haryana high court verdict quashing reports filed by special investigation team (SIT) led by former inspector general of police Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh in Kotkapura firing case, Sikh outfits, led by former Akal Takht jathedar Bhai Ranjit Singh, on Friday burned the copies of the judgment while terming it ‘political and flawed’. Number of activists of Sikh outfits and political parties gathered at Kotkapura main chowk, where the firing incident had taken place in 2015. The protesters, who refrained from observing Covid appropriate behaviour, held placards, one of which read ‘Justice did Injustice to Sikhs’. Bhai Ranjit Singh alleged that the judiciary was biased and the Captain Amarinder Singh-led government betrayed the Sikhs in sacrilege-related cases and Maur bomb blast case. “Badals were voluntarily playing into the hands of the establishment to enjoy power, perks and privileges,” he added. Former leader of opposition and Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira said by burning the copies, they have registered their protest against the ‘flawed judgment’, which is totally unacceptable to the people. “Sikh community is upset over the miscarriage of justice. Our act was on the lines of agitating farmers burning three contentious farm laws in Punjab. It’s a democratic form of protest as this verdict has killed all hopes of justice in aggrieved families and Sikh community,” he added. SAD (Democratic) leader and Lehragaga MLA Parminder Singh Dhindsa said, “We don’t expect any justice from the present state government as the HC verdict has reflected its utter failure to defend the SIT report in the court.” Dal Khalsa spokesman Kanwar Pal Singh said denial of justice in sacrilege-related cases will push the state back to 80s. Sukhraj Singh, son of Bhagwan Krishan who was killed in Behbal Kalan firing incident, MLA Balwinder Singh Bains, MLA Kultar Sandhwan, MLA Pirmal Singh and ex-MP Sadhu Singh were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kotkapura-firing-case-sikh-outfits-burn-copies-of-hc-verdict-term-it-political-flawed-101619813929835.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab defers inoculation for 18+, Haryana to start drive today||The Punjab government on Friday deferred the inoculation for 18-45 years category due to “non-availability” of the vaccine. However, Haryana’s home and health minister Anil Vij told PTI that the vaccination for the 18-plus category in the state will start from Saturday. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh made it clear that “due to non-availability of vaccine, Phase III of vaccination for the 18-45 age group cannot be started as scheduled”. He also said all vaccinations at private health facilities will remain suspended from Saturday. Amarinder said as the balance of unutilised vaccines had to be returned to the government of India by all private health facilities by Friday evening, these facilities will have no vaccines to administer from Friday for 45+ population, while they could not vaccinate 18-45 age group as they had no supplies for the same. According to an official statement, Singh said his government was pursuing the matter of vaccine shortage with the Centre, as the situation was critical. “The state had received two-lakh doses but that was not sufficient even to meet the two days’ requirement of the 45+ age group,” said Singh, while reviewing the Covid vaccine situation at a virtual meeting. However, Anil Vij said, “We have got the message from the SII and more vaccines are reaching us. The rollout for the 18-45 year category will start tomorrow as scheduled”. Vij further said Haryana has sought 40 lakh doses from the SII and 26 lakh from Bharat Biotech, the manufacturer of Covaxin. “We will get these in phases,” he said. However, Haryana is still to receive the vaccine meant for 18-plus category.Punjab officials said in the meeting that an order for procurement of 30 lakh doses of Covishield for the age group of 18-45 years was placed with the SII on April 26, only to be told that the availability of vaccine will be known in four weeks. A senior Punjab health department official said, “In the video-conferencing with the Centre, we were told that Serum Institute of India (SII) will supply 3-lakh doses, from the bookings made by the state, in May only. However, we are writing to the SII to be specific with the dates so that we can start the drive for 18-plus category.” Further, the SII had asked the Punjab government to indicate demand for the next three-four months, with advance payments to be made. They had informed the government that supplies would be delivered in a phased manner, every month, the statement said. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-defers-inoculation-for-18-haryana-to-start-drive-today-101619813872661.html
01-05-2021||Other||Bombay HC orders state to allot 20K Remdesivir vials to Nagpur, Akola, Bhandara||The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court (HC) on Friday directed the state to allot 20,000 Remdesivir vials to Nagpur, Akola and Bhandara by Saturday evening, in addition to their regular quota. The court also warned that any failure in providing the drug in adequate quantity would be considered a breach of Article 21 (Right to Life) and attract penal provisions against erring officials.HC’s directions came after these districts, in the past 10 days, had a backlog of the drug, used in the treatment of Covid-19 patients.With this order, Nagpur will get 15,000 additional vials of Remdesivir, while Bhandara and Akola will get 2,000 and 3,000 vials, respectively.A division bench of justice Sunil Shukre and justice Avinash Gharote, while hearing a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL), passed the order after a five-hour marathon hearing.“If we do not rise to the occasion, it would lead to unmitigated disaster,” the court noted while asking the state to respect the right to life of all citizens and reminding it about the duty to provide all necessary health infrastructure to fight this pandemic.Senior Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer Vijay Waghmare, who is the nodal officer for Remdesivir, informed the court that till Thursday, the state had received 308,000 vials, while another 34,000 vials are in transit, and 94,000 vials are expected in the next two days. HC asked the officer to finalise a district-wise plan and fix entitlement of each district by Friday night and disburse the Remdesivir received as per Centre’s revised allotment letter, dated April 24. HC expressed dismay to note that despite repeated orders, such entitlement order has not been passed so far. Amicus curiae (friend of court) Shreerang Bhandarkar and Indian Medical Association’s counsel advocate Bhanudas Kulkarni informed HC that From April 21-30 (barring April 28-29), Nagpur had received 23,198 vials, with a shortfall of 25,479 vials, as per the Centre’s allotment formula based on active patient load.The senior officers present during the hearing informed that around 3,500 vials are being received and later allotted around 4,423 vials for Nagpur. At Akola, the daily requirement of Remdesivir vials is 900, while there is a deficit of 300-500 vials per day. Similarly, Bhandara requires 1,110 vials per day but receives only 200. Similar shortfalls are reported from all districts. HC noted that the entire state is reeling under acute shortage of Remdesivir, but considering the number of serious patients admitted in these districts, at least additional 25,000 vials are required for Vidarbha districts, and they must be supplied by the state. HC asked the state to discontinue the private purchases of Remdesivir, as it is leading to more confusion. The state can invoke powers under Disaster Management Act to go for direct purchase by discarding tender process and get it from private manufacturer for the price finalised by the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority. HC again reminded private hospitals and doctors to use Remdesivir judiciously and stop its indiscriminate prescription. The World Health Organization (WHO) and medical experts have described it only as an investigational drug. But some of the doctors are not paying any heed to WHO guidelines and expert opinion, HC lamented. It directed private hospitals to not give direct prescription to patient or relatives to procure Remdesivir on their own and avoid prevailing chaos.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bombay-hc-orders-state-to-allot-20k-remdesivir-vials-to-nagpur-akola-bhandara-101619813809121.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||SMO nabbed accepting bribe from subordinate||The Vigilance Bureau (VB) on Friday nabbed a senior medical officer (SMO) red-handed while accepting a bribe of ₹4,000 from his subordinate at Threawal village falling under the Majitha sub-division.Dr Raju Chauhan, posted at the primary health centre (PHC), Threawal, has been booked under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act, 2018, at the VB’s Amritsar range police station.Dr Gurbakshish Singh, posted as a community health officer (CHO) under the National Rural Health Mission (NRHM) at the health and wellness centre, Abdal village in Amritsar, approached the VB alleging that the SMO was demanding for ₹4,000 each from CHO’s working under him. He also threatened to stop their promotions if the bribe was not paid per month, he alleged.Senior superintendent of police (SSP-vigilance) Parampal Singh said: “A trap was laid and the SMO was arrested red-handed while accepting ₹4,000 from the complainant.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/smo-nabbed-accepting-bribe-from-subordinate-101619813269716.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab working on revival of 12 pvt oxygen plants to meet demand||Battling with rising oxygen demand due to the devastating second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, Punjab is making efforts to revive and re-energise about a dozen small and medium oxygen plants to augment the supply of life-saving gas in the state. These plants located in Mandi Gobindgarh, Pathankot, Muktsar, Bathinda, Ludhiana and Fatehgarh Sahib and having an installed capacity of more than 20 metric tonnes have been lying defunct or manufacturing oxygen for industrial or captive use. The state authorities, particularly the industries department, are trying for their revival and expediting medical oxygen licenses to units producing industrial oxygen. Director-cum-secretary, industries, Sibin C said the department had identified a dozen-odd such plants for revival and re-energisation of their oxygen plants and facilitating grant of licenses for medical oxygen supply to try and meet the rising demand. Punjab, which is seeing a sharp spike in oxygen demand due to the rising trajectory of Covid cases and panic buying, presently requires 200 to 210 metric tonnes of medical oxygen daily on an average. The state has been managing so far with almost 70% of its supplies coming from the quota allocated by the Centre and the remaining from oxygen generation units in the state barring an occasional hiccup, according to sources. The oxygen demand is expected to jump by 50 to 100 MT in a week or so, according to official projections. Sibin said two units in Pathankot and Mandi Gobindgarh started supplying 550 oxygen cylinders to hospitals on Thursday. Another four units are expected to start the supply of medical oxygen cylinders to hospitals across the state within a week. The air separation unit (ASU) of Green Field Industries Private Limited in Muktsar, which was set up in 1996 and has been lying idle for the past eight years, is being renovated at a cost of ₹20 lakh and will resume its operations in a week’s time and start supplying 400 oxygen cylinders per day. Company owner Rajvir Singh said he had shut the ASU after a jump in power tariffs in the state and started oxygen refilling by procuring liquid oxygen from Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh. “The administration and a company, Setia Paper Limited, have come forward to help renovate the plant,” he said. Ramesh Chander of Ajay Gases in Mandi Gobindgarh, which supplies industrial oxygen, is expecting the license for manufacturing medical oxygen from the Food and Drug Administration anytime. “We have been supplying 500 medical oxygen cylinders for the past three days, pending license for medical oxygen. There is a separate unit with capacity to refill 1,200 cylinders per day, but we are not getting liquid oxygen despite efforts,” he said. Also, Ludhiana-based Aarti Steel is exploring the option of setting up a five tonne per day pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen generating plant whereas Modern Steel, Fatehgarh Sahib, has started the process to install a compressor at its PSA for filling cylinders, according to government sources. However, two plants in Amritsar and Bathinda have not been found to be feasible as they have been lying closed for the past five years. The chief minister’s office (CMO) is monitoring the progress. Industries and commerce minister Sunder Sham Arora had also on Thursday directed the officials to expedite the licensing process for closed oxygen plants. BATHINDA REFINERY TO SUPPLY O2 HPCL-Mittal Energy Limited (HMEL), which has an installed oxygen capacity of 35 metric tonnes per day, is getting ready to supply oxygen. The company has placed an order with a Noida-based firm for installation of compressor at the outlet of PSA for filling oxygen cylinders. The compressor will be sourced from Italy and the installation work is expected to be completed by May-end, according to sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-working-on-revival-of-12-pvt-oxygen-plants-to-meet-demand-101619812851970.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Lockdown no solution, enforce Covid restrictions strictly: Capt||Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday ruled out imposing a complete lockdown in Punjab. Charing a virtual emergency meeting to review the Covid-19 situation in the six worst-hit districts of Ludhiana, Mohali, Jalandhar, Bathinda, Patiala and Amritsar, the CM said: “Lockdown is not a solution as it will lead to exodus of labourers and force them to go to states with even lesser medical facilities.” The CM also directed the district administrations to enforce restrictions strictly and to stop dine-in facility in high positivity areas, with Covid testing of staff in restaurants by the health department. Urging the industry to set up Covid treatment centres and makeshift hospitals, he stressed on the teamwork to fight the pandemic.He also directed the chief secretary to encourage retired doctors and nurses to rejoin for handling Covid facilities and suggested setting up of temporary healthcare facilities in halls or gymnasiums. Micro-containment strategy must be strictly implemented and encouraged, he said.Amarinder expressed concern over the fact that 14 districts in the state currently had over 10% positivity rate and five had more than 60% bed occupancy. A prefabricated 10-bedded hospital will come up at Mohali and a 250-bedded temporary hospital is being set up near Bathinda refinery, with oxygen supply from the refinery, he said, urging all departments to be prepared for the peak and identify areas in the various districts for establishment of temporary hospitals. Additional 2,000 beds for Covid patients are being added in the state, he said. Strict action against black marketers: CMAmarinder warned of strict action against black marketing, hoarding of oxygen cylinders or smuggling of the life-saving gas out of Punjab.Urging private hospitals to increase beds, he said these would be supplied adequate oxygen by the government agencies and no punitive action will be taken in case of any mishap due to lack of oxygen.Even as health minister Balbir Sidhu expressed concern over people of Punjab not getting space in hospitals due to patients coming from outside, the CM said he was not in favour of refusing hospital care to any patient from other state. The CM said he had spoken to the Union home minister for additional oxygen allocation to the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lockdown-no-solution-enforce-covid-restrictions-strictly-capt-101619812669583.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||J&K clocks biggest one-day spike of 3,532 cases||Jammu and Kashmir on Friday recorded its biggest single-day spike of 3,532 Covid cases, raising its tally to 1,76,079, officials said. Of the new cases, 2,360 cases are from Kashmir while 1,172 are from Jammu. With 30 Covid deaths —17 in Jammu and 13 in Kashmir, the UT’s death toll reached 2, 283. So far, the toll of people who succumbed to the virus in April has reached 289. Officials said with 932 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 495 in Jammu district, 315 in Baramulla.The number of active cases have reached 28,359. As many as 1,287 patients have recovered, including 977 from Kashmir and 310 from Jammu.As many as 1,45,441 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to around 83% against 98% in the first fortnight of February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-clocks-biggest-one-day-spike-of-3-532-cases-101619812309624.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||J&K: Barricades, deserted roads return as 84-hr lockdown kicks in||As an 84-hour lockdown began in Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday evening to tackle the surge in Covid-19 cases, police personnel were seen implementing the same on roads and highways across the UT on Friday.The decision to go under lockdown was taken by the UT administration after its Covid cases crossed the 3,000 mark. As per the order, the curfew will be lifted on Monday morning. Essential services, however, have been exempted from the lockdown.The police have erected barricades at several places, especially on prominent highways, to prohibit the movement of people on the roads. However, government employees and essential service providers are being allowed to move without any hindrance.In Srinagar district, top police officials toured towns and cities to monitor the lockdown implementation. Business hub Lal Chowk wore a deserted look as only security personnel and other frontline workers were seen on the roads. At many places, the police have placed barbed wires to restrict any non-essential movement.Srinagar mayor Junaid Azim Mattu on Friday expressed gratitude towards the citizens for adhering to the lockdown.“Gratitude to the people of Srinagar for cooperating fully to ensure the corona curfew is as much a people’s initiative as an administrative measure for our good,” tweeted Mattu, while posting pictures of the lockdown in the old city area on the social media.Similarly in Jammu, all major rotaries, arterial roads and public places wore a deserted look as residents stayed indoors on the first day of the 84-hour lockdown.All commercial establishments, markets, and shops also remained closed. However, essential services providers, including vegetable vendors and grocery stores, were allowed to operate from 6am to 10pm on Friday, besides chemist shops, other allied medical support and vehicles carrying agricultural produce.Marriages with a gathering limit of 50 persons as per the Covid SoPs were also allowed. The wedding invitation cards were considered as valid passes for the movement of such people.Curfew violations in Baramulla Meanwhile, the Baramulla police registered eight cases for violation of the lockdown orders.“While enforcing the lockdown in the district and implementing the orders thereof, Baramulla Police registered 8 cases against shopkeepers/ riders for violating instructions and running their businesses unnecessarily and beyond timings allowed. Further, some vehicles were moving on roads without valid justification, cause and pass,” a police spokesperson said.Officials said that the lockdown — in effect from 7pm on Thursday up to 7am Monday — is meant to prevent the spike in Covid cases in Srinagar, Budgam, Ganderbal, Baramulla, Anantnag, Kulgam, Pulwama, Jammu, Kathua, Udhampur and Reasi districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-barricades-deserted-roads-return-as-84-hr-lockdown-kicks-in-101619812012607.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 114 deaths, 6,132 new Covid cases||Punjab on Friday recorded 114 deaths, taking the toll from the pandemic to 9,022, while 6,132 fresh cases raised the infection count to 3,70,973, according to a medical bulletin. This is for the fourth day in a row that the state has reported over 100 deaths. The number of active cases rose from 54,954 on Thursday to 55,798.Twenty new deaths linked to the virus were witnessed in Ludhiana, 17 in Amritsar and 12 in Patiala.Mohali recorded a maximum of 857 fresh Covid-19 cases, followed by 792 in Ludhiana, 696 in Bathinda and 544 in Jalandhar.A total of 5,106 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the recovery count to 3,06,153, according to the bulletin.There are 99 critical Covid-19 patients who are on ventilator support while 669 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 72,21,431 samples have been collected for Covid-19 testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-114-deaths-6-132-new-covid-cases-101619812009638.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||550 court employees infected with Covid in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh: HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday said that at least 550 court employees in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh are Covid positive. In a statement, the high court said that a large number of officials and their families are afflicted with Covid and numbers are increasing rapidly. As on April 29, two judges of high court, three judicial officers and 62 other officials are positive. In district courts, around 100 judicial officers and 400 other court employees are positive, the high court said, adding that a spouse of a judicial officer in Punjab has succumbed to the virus and an employee in high court too has died. There are around 20,000 employees in high court and district courts in the two states and Chandigarh. The statement appears to have come in the wake of Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association (PHHCBA) threatening to launch an agitation demanding that cases be listed without the “online mentioning” process. The high court said that in view increasing Covid infections, the courts are functioning in a restrictive manner. It further said that cases will be taken up through video conferencing only. Urgency of cases for listing will be determined by the judges nominated by the chief justice. All pending matters listed for hearing between May 1 and May 28 have been adjourned for hearing in August and September. The high court also said that in case of urgency, a lawyer can request for advancing of hearing on old cases through online mentioning. The PHHCBA, acting on the move, passed a resolution requesting the high court to withdraw the order on listing of cases through mentioning. “The executive committee will be left with no other alternative but to resort to agitation mode in case the needful is not done within seven days,” Bar president GBSD Dhillon said adding, that the Bar was not kept in loop while taking a decision. The high court had restarted physical hearing of cases in February. However, it was suspended last week in view of rising number of cases. Now, cases are being taken up through video conferencing and listing of cases in most categories is being decided after an online mentioning for the same is done. The approval is granted for hearing by designated judges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/550-court-employees-infected-with-covid-in-punjab-haryana-chandigarh-hc-101619811889514.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Former HP CM Virbhadra Singh hospitalised at IGMC||Veteran Congress leader and former chief minister Virbhadra Singh was admitted to Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMC) after he complained of restlessness. Doctors say his condition is stable. IGMC senior medical superintendent Janak Raj said, “He has been admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) and his condition is stable. He is undergoing some tests.” The octogenarian had tested positive for Covid on April 13 and was hospitalised at Max Hospital, Mohali. He was discharged and brought to Shimla on Friday morning in a chopper. Later in the day, the 86-year-old developed breathing problems and was hospitalised in the cardiac care unit’s ICU. The leader’s son Vikramaditya Singh, a legislator from Shimla rural, had also tested positive on April 11. He was co-in-charge for elections in the Mandi municipal corporation and was at the forefront of the campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-hp-cm-virbhadra-singh-hospitalised-at-igmc-101619811710426.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Three Punjab-origin brothers get life term for murder in UK||Three Indian-origin brothers found guilty of stabbing to death a 22-year-old man in a dispute in London over a year-and-a-half ago have been sentenced to life imprisonment by a UK court.Kamal Sohal, 23, Sukhminder Sohal, 25, and Michael Sohal, 28, were found guilty of the September 2019 murder of Osvaldo de Carvalho in the Acton area of west London following a trial at Croydon Crown Court in south London on February 16.At the same court on Thursday, Kamal Sohal was sentenced to life imprisonment with a minimum term of 22 years and Sukhminder and Michael Sohal were both sentenced to life imprisonment with a minimum term of 19 years before being considered for parole.Antoine George, 24, a fourth man found guilty of manslaughter in the case, was sentenced to nine-year imprisonment.“This is a particularly tragic case with Osvaldo’s family having to live with the pain of his loss. We know there had been previous hostility between these two groups and sadly that culminated in the events that unfolded that evening,” said Detective Chief Inspector (DCI) Vicky Tunstall, who led the investigation for the Metropolitan Police Specialist Crime South Command.“The Sohal brothers had no qualms about arming themselves and – in Kamal’s case – running down a busy main road waving the weapon around in full view of all those around. They then subjected Osvaldo – who had no chance of defending himself – to a brutal and sustained attack. Osvaldo’s family, I hope, can find some comfort to their pain, knowing that his attackers have now been given lengthy prison sentences,” she said.During the trial, the court heard the convicted men and Osvaldo had been involved in an ongoing dispute when Sukhminder and Michael met Osvaldo and two of his friends on September 24, 2019. They went on to call their brother, Kamal, for support and reinforcement.On receiving this call, Kamal grabbed a large hunting knife which he “brazenly brandished” as he ran along the Uxbridge Road in west London to the scene from his home nearby. George, who had also been in the house, went with Kamal to the scene of the dispute.After his arrival and following a brief chase the three men in the victim’s group ran from the scene; the two friends heading one way, and Osvaldo running a different way.Witnesses described him being chased by a group of men, some armed with knives. They caught up with Osvaldo, surrounded him and stabbed him, and then ran off leaving Osvaldo lying on the ground dying. The three brothers left the scene and returned to Kamal’s address, the Met Police said.“Knife crime has a huge, terrible impact on our communities and I hope the sentencing today reflects the seriousness with which violence of this kind will be taken, and deters potential offenders from carrying dangerous weapons,” said DCI Tunstall.“Reducing violent crime in communities across London continues to be the Met’s top priority. We are working tirelessly – day and night – to take weapons off the street, engage and reassure the public, and keep our communities safe,” she added.Later, George is said to have left the area in a car which had been parked on the driveway outside Kamal’s flat. A post-mortem examination revealed that Osvaldo had suffered multiple stab wounds, including a deep wound to his left leg which would have been caused by significant force. But the fatal wound was a stab wound to his back which was so deep it nearly passed through his body.The Met Police found that in a bid to cover their tracks, later that evening Michael and Sukhminder had set fire to clothes they had been wearing at the time of the stabbing.During the police investigation, it was found that on the day of the murder, George and Sukhminder Sohal went to a shop in Hounslow, south-west London, that sold knives and purchased the weapons used and transported them to Kamal’s flat. But the court heard that those weapons were never recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-punjab-origin-brothers-get-life-term-for-murder-in-uk-101619811709531.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Bed capacity in Nahan govt hospital to be increased to 110: Jai Ram||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday said the bed capacity in Government Hospital, Nahan, will be increased to 110 beds and 25 beds will be added to the Ayurveda Hospital, which will be used as a dedicated Covid care centre. Dr YS Parmar Government Medical College principal has been authorised to temporarily hire 50 nurses, four data-entry operators, 20 Class 4 employees, three lab technicians and 10 operation theatre assistants for Covid duty on outsource basis through an authorised service provider agency till June 30 to deal with Covid crisis, the CM said, while presiding over a meeting in Nahan to review the situation after a second wave of infections. The CM said the government will also ensure a smooth supply of essential logistics such as personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, face masks, sanitisers and oxygen, so that people are not inconvenienced. He said the government will also take over a few private hospitals in the district.He directed the district administration to increase the bed capacity by exploring possibilities to take over halls of Government Degree College, Nahan and Zila Parishad Bhawan at Nahan. He said this will enhance the bed capacity by 200 beds.Power minister Sukh Ram Chaudhary stressed the need for segregating panchayats into hypersensitive and sensitive based on the number of cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bed-capacity-in-nahan-govt-hospital-to-be-increased-to-110-jairam-101619811229962.html
01-05-2021||Other||Mumbai resident arrested for raping 19-year-old||Wadala police arrested a man for allegedly repeatedly raping a 19-year-old woman from his neighbourhood last May when she had visited his home to watch television.The 41-year-old has been arrested for rape, molestation, threats and other relevant sections of the Protection Of Children from Sexual Offences Act (Pocso). The police have also booked the accused’s wife, as after learning about the incident, she allegedly circulated the survivor’s mobile number on social media, claiming her to be a call girl.The accused’s left for work on a merchant ship, while his wife went to their native town in Kerala.“He came to Mumbai a few days ago and was arrested him, based on the survivor’s statement. His wife is still in Kerala and we have not arrested her yet,” said senior inspector Shahji Shinde from Wadala police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wadala-resident-arrested-for-raping-19yearold-101619810988850.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||14.77 lakh people inoculated in Himachal||Himachal Pradesh has inoculated 14.77 lakh people, of which 2.37 lakh have been administered the second dose as well, a government spokesperson said on Friday. The spokesperson said the number of Covid positive cases was increasing in the state but most patients were asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. “These cases are recommended to be kept under home isolation, as per, revised guidelines issued by the government of India. All Covid positive patients that do not have any symptoms and have oxygen saturation of over 94% are clinically asymptomatic cases,” said the spokesperson. While all positive cases with fever or upper respiratory tract symptoms without any shortness of breath and an oxygen saturation of over 94% are clinically assigned as mild cases and should isolate at home. He said COVID positive patients must isolate in a separate, well-ventilated room and away from other people at home, especially elderly and those with co-morbid conditions like hypertension, cardiovascular disease and renal disease. He said the patient should at all times use triple-layer medical mask and discard the mask after eight hours of use. Patient must take a healthy diet, rest and drink lots of fluids to maintain adequate hydration. Hand hygiene, using soap and water and washing hands for at least 40 seconds or using an alcohol-based hand rub are a must. “The patient must be in communication with their physician and promptly report in case of deterioration. The patient or care giver must keep monitoring their health,” he said. He said immediate medical attention must be sought if serious signs or symptoms develop such as difficulty in breathing, dip in oxygen saturation, persistent pain or pressure in the chest or mental confusion or inability to move. Patients under home isolation will end isolation after 10 days of onset of systems and three days after breaking fever. There is no need for testing after the home isolation period is over. Regarding medicines in home isolation, he said, it has been categorically advised not to attempt procurement or administration of remdisivir at home. There is limited role of oral steroids too. However, inhalational Budesonide can be added if symptoms do not resolve after five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1477-lakh-people-inoculated-in-himachal-101619810929573.html
01-05-2021||Other||Maharashtra hospital fire: Vasai court rejects bail pleas of CEO, director||Vasai sessions court judge Aditi Kadam on Friday rejected the bail pleas of Vijay Vallabh Hospital’s chief executive officer (CEO) Dr Dilip Bastimal Shah, 56, and director Dr Shailesh Dharamdev Pathak, 47. The duo has been arrested for culpable homicide in connection to the April 23 fire that had killed 15 Covid-19 patients at the Virar hospital.Dr Shah and Dr Pathak are lodged in Thane jail, said additional public prosecutor Jaiprakash Patil, who appeared for the state. Opposing Dr Shah and Dr Pathak’s bail pleas, Patil said before the court that only six fire extinguishers were in working condition when the blaze broke out, while 14 extinguishers were non-functional and their operational validity had expired. Patil also submitted that the hospital management had ignored the renewal of the working permits of extinguishers.He further argued that the hospital had not applied for a fire audit to obtain the mandatory no objection certificate (NOC) from the Vasai civic body. Patil also said that the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) in its report said that the hospital “under-used” the sanctioned power supply and was not running on optimum power. On these grounds, the hospital is liable for negligence, Patil submitted.Defence counsel Siddhesh Naik said the fire was caused by the excess presence of oxygen in the ICU and hence the duo should be tried for death due to negligence not amounting to culpable homicide and that it would be unfair to keep them inside the Thane jail during the Covid-19 pandemic. But the court rejected the bail pleas of the two accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-hospital-fire-vasai-court-rejects-bail-pleas-of-ceo-director-101619810868912.html
01-05-2021||Other||Pharmacy student held for raping six-year-old in Mumbai||Oshiwara police have arrested a final-year pharmacy student for allegedly raping a six-year-old girl on Thursday evening. According to the police, the girl’s and her parents stay on a rented house owned by the accused’s father at Jogeshwari West. On Thursday evening, when the 23-year-old accused was alone, he lured the girl to watch television at his house and raped her. He threatened her against revealing the incident. However, when the girl’s mother returned from work, the survivor revealed the incident. The girl’s mother then approached the police and registered a case against the accused, following which the man was arrested for rape under the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012. “He will be presented before the court on Saturday,” said an officer from Oshiwara police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pharmacy-student-held-for-raping-six-year-old-in-mumbai-101619810508877.html
01-05-2021||Other||This April was cooler than usual for Mumbai, says IMD||The city saw a cooler-than-usual April this year, according to the India Meteorological Department. Though officials did not provide comparative numbers for previous years, they confirmed that temperatures have been lower during the ongoing pre-monsoon season and unlike last year, the state also did not see any heat waves. They attributed this largely to the consistent present of rain-bearing weather systems over parts of central India (including parts of western and central Maharashtra). The minimum temperature remained slightly higher, with an average of 25.21 degrees Celsius for April (up from a normal of 24.2 degrees Celisus), as per the IMD’s automatic weather station in Santacruz. The average maximum temperature reading of 33.8 degrees Celsius for the month was just above the normal reading of 33.2 degrees Celsius. “A persistent low level wind discontinuity over the state has also brought in moisture from the Arabian Sea, which is one of the factors why Mumbai in particular has not seen above normal temperatures. Even Pune has seen a cooler-than-usual April due to thunderstorms and frequent precipitation,” said a spokesperson at IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai. While the highest daytime reading last month stood at 35.8 degrees Celsius on April 7, it remained at just above 33 degrees Celsius on most other days, settling around 34 degrees Celsius only in the past week. On Friday, the mercury in Mumbai dipped to 33.4 degrees Celsius, but it is expected to climb to about 35 degrees Celsius by May 5. Partly cloudy sky with possibility of thunder lightning has been predicted for Saturday and Sunday. There are no predictions of a heatwave at present, though officials have warned that temperatures will rise sharply this month once the influencing weather systems dissipate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/this-april-was-cooler-than-usual-for-mumbai-says-imd-101619810269979.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||HP records 2,358 cases, 10 deaths||Himachal Pradesh recorded 2,358 new cases on Friday, pushing the state’s Covid count to 99,287 while the death toll mounted to 1,484 after 37 more patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 594 were reported in Kangra, 442 in Mandi, 220 in Hamirpur, 195 in Solan, 186 in Shimla, 183 in Una, 179 in Bilaspur, 139 in Sirmaur, 121 in Chamba, 42 in Kullu, 35 in Kinnaur and 22 in Lahaul-Spiti. Ten fatalities were reported in Kangra alone followed by seven in Sirmaur, five in Shimla, four each in Hamirpur and Una, three in Mandi, two in Kullu and one each in Kinnaur and Solan. Active cases in the state touched 18,425 while recoveries reached 79,310 after 1,730 people recuperated. Kangra is the worst hit district with its tally reaching 17,785, followed by Shimla where 14,767 people have been infected so far and Mandi with 14,359 cases. Solan’s caseload climbed to 12,891, while Sirmaur has 7,000 cases, Una 6,794 cases, Hamirpur 6,442 , Kullu 5,849, Bilaspur 5,410 , Chamba, 4,364, Lahaul-Spiti 1,879 and Kinnaur 1,747. DGP home quarantined Himachal Pradesh director general of police Sanjay Kundu isolated himself on Friday after he came in contact with somebody who has tested positive for the virus. State vigilance and anti-corruption bureau additional director general of police Anurag Garg has been given the charge of DGP. All urgent and administrative decisions requiring decision at DGP level will be handled by ADGP Anurag Garg till resumption of duty by Sanjay Kundu, states a notification issued by the governor’s office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-records-2-358-cases-10-deaths-101619810269439.html
01-05-2021||City||Mumbai cops, bookie part of Vaze’s plan to kill Hiran: NIA||Mumbai Police officers Sunil Mane and Riyazuddin Kazi, former policeman Vinayak Shinde and cricket bookie Naresh Gor were part of main accused Sachin Vaze’s alleged larger conspiracy to eliminate Thane auto parts dealer Mansukh Hiran, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) has claimed.The federal agency made the claim while opposing Gor’s bail plea on Friday and stated that the SIM cards used by Vaze were provided by the bookie. It added that the mobile phone on which Hiran was called was purchased by Vaze and the SIM in it was provided by Gor, said NIA.The federal agency further claimed that if released, Gor could jump the bail and tamper with the evidence.Gor approached the special NIA court for bail, claiming that he was never contacted by Vaze, an assistant Mumbai Police inspector, who is under suspension.Gor in his bail plea filed through law firm, Diamondwala & Co, claimed that he has been made a scapegoat by the investigating agency at the instance of Vaze. He has also claimed that he was not aware of any conspiracy or the purpose for which the SIM cards were going to be used.The 31-year-old cricket bookie was arrested by the Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad on March 21, after it started investigating Hiran’s murder. Later, his custody was handed over to NIA, when the federal agency took over the case from ATS.According to NIA, Hiran’s murder was linked to the explosive-laden Scorpio found parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s south Mumbai residence Antilia. On February 25, the Scorpio was found abandoned near Antilia with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threatening note, and a case was registered with Gamdevi police station on the same day.Vaze was originally investigating the case, but was removed after reports emerged of his links with Hiran, who was in possession of the SUV and had reported it stolen on February 17. Hiran was found dead in a creek on March 5. It subsequently emerged that Vaze had borrowed the car in November and returned it on February 5.NIA took over the explosives case on March 8 and Vaze was arrested on March 13. The federal agency took over the murder case on March 24 and Vaze was named the main accused in both the cases.To contain the damage, the Maharashtra government transferred police commissioner Param Bir Singh for his alleged management of the case. He subsequently wrote a letter to the chief minister alleging that the then home minister Anil Deshmukh had instructed Vaze and some other Mumbai Police officers to extort ₹100 crore from bars and restaurants, hookah parlours. When no action was forthcoming, Singh approached the courts.The Bombay high court eventually asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct a preliminary enquiry into the matter, prompting Deshmukh’s resignation. Accordingly, CBI conducted an inquiry and registered an offence against Deshmukh on April 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-cops-bookie-part-of-vaze-s-plan-to-kill-hiran-nia-101619809881892.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid situation grave in Punjab, Chandigarh: HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday observed that the Covid-19 situation is grave in Punjab and Chandigarh.The observations were made by the high court bench of justice Rajan Gupta and justice Karamjit Singh after perusing status reports on the virus situation, which indicated that Covid-19 designated hospitals have almost exhausted its bed availability. The court did not make any remark with respect to Haryana as it had failed to submit a report. The court deferred the hearing for afternoon and summoned the Haryana chief secretary for a hearing through the online mode.The high court was hearing an application from amicus curaie Rupinder Khosla, who had sought revival of a case disposed of last week in which the court was monitoring Covid-19 situation in the two states and Chandigarh.Khosla told court that there is non-availability of essential drugs such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab. Oxygen, ICU beds, ventilators and oxygen concentrators are in short supply due to which a number of deaths are being reported. “It is almost at its edge and can tilt over any time. Before the situation gets out of hands, intervention of this court is imperative,” Khosla had said, pointing to status report on availability of beds for critical care. “..we feel that the situation is indeed grave,” the bench observed ordering revival of petition and impleading Centre’s health ministry and ministry of home affairs as parties. In the afternoon hearing, the Haryana chief secretary told court that there has been sudden dearth of oxygen as some plants in Roorkee, Rewari and Baddi (Barotiwala) have collapsed. “As a result, oxygen has been sought from the plants from Rourkela and Angul in Odisha by means of road, rail and other means,” he said, adding that even Indian Air Force has flown a few sorties to fetch the oxygen from these far flung places. All efforts are being made to meet the demand of deficit oxygen, he told court further assuring that a detailed report would be filed within two days. The Punjab government told the court that the bed capacity has been enhanced and supply of oxygen and essential drugs has been increased. The Centre told court that a virtual control room has been set up and states can raise their demand there.The court said that investigating agencies should act against hoarding of oxygen cylinders, oxygen concentrators and essential medicines. The court further advised that patients may be segregated into three categories, such as critical, mild to moderate and mild and the plan be drawn up accordingly. The court, while deferring the matter for May 4, directed that district-level nodal teams be set up as ordered on April 23 and compliance reports be filed. “In case of failure to do so, this court will examine whether there is any wilful disobedience of the orders passed by this court by any district,” the bench said. Punjab has 1,230 ventilatorsPunjab has told the court that the state has 1,230 ventilators, 524 in government and 706 in private sector. The daily consumption of oxygen is about 227 metric tonnes and central government allocation is of 177 metric tonnes. The demand for the remaining oxygen is being met through other sources. As of beds and occupancy, the state told court that government sector has 4,193 level-2 category beds and 1,210 are occupied. As of level- 3, there are 550 beds and 523 are occupied. In private sector, 4,678 beds have been allocated for level-2 patients, of which 3,084 are occupied. As of level-3 category, there are 1,486 beds and 1,149 are occupied, the state said.‘16,340 FIRs registered, ₹42 cr fine collected’The Punjab government told the high court that since May 2020, 16,340 FIRs have been registered and 22,561 persons have been arrested for violation of lockdown guidelines. A sum of ₹42.83 crore were collected in fine and a total of 10 lakh persons have been fined for various violations. As many as 7,82,566 challans were isued for not wearing masks alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-situation-grave-in-punjab-chandigarh-hc-101619810089491.html
01-05-2021||Other||Allegations against ex-Maharashtra min: CBI submits interim probe report to court||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday filed an interim report of investigation into the corruption allegations against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh.A senior CBI officer, confirming the development, said the report was filed based on the evidence collected so far during various search operations and after recording the statements of several witnesses.An application was moved by the central agency on Friday before the special CBI court, seeking permission to submit the report. The court allowed the plea and accepted the report filed in a sealed cover.On April 21, the central agency has registered an offence against Deshmukh under sections 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act and 120B of the Indian Penal Code for allegedly attempting to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of public duty.The first information report (FIR), based on former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh’s allegations, was registered against Deshmukh following preliminary enquiry ordered by the Bombay high court on April 5, after a bunch of petitions, including those filed by filed by lawyer Jaishri Patil and Singh, called for probe against the former home minister.In his March 20 letter addressed to the Governor and the chief minister, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh intermittently summoned Mumbai Police officers, especially Sachin Vaze – who has been suspended since his arrest in the Antilia explosives scare and trader Mansukh Hiran’s murder cases – and two other officers of the enforcement branch. Singh claimed Deshmukh had instructed the officers to extort ₹100 crore for him from establishments like dance bars, bars and restaurants, and hookah bars in Mumbai every month.In the FIR, CBI claimed, “The preliminary enquiry prima facie revealed that a cognisable offence was made out in the matter, wherein the then home minister of Maharashtra Shri Anil Deshmukh and unknown others have attempted to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of their public duty.”“The enquiry has also revealed that Shri Sachin Vaze, assistant police inspector, Mumbai Police, had been reinstated into the police force after being out of the service for more than 15 years. The enquiry further revealed that Shri Vaze was entrusted with most of the sensational and important cases of Mumbai Police and at the then home minister’s knowledge,” read the FIR. It also mentioned the allegations made by Singh against Deshmukh.A day after registering the FIR, CBI had conducted searches at Deshmukh’s premises in Mumbai and his hometown Nagpur. CBI had also obtained records of investigation and evidence gathered from Vaze by National Investigation Agency (NIA) which is probing the Antilia and Hiran’s murder cases. The agency has so far recorded statement of several people, including of Deshmukh, his personal assistant, secretary and some police officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allegations-against-ex-maharashtra-min-cbi-submits-interim-probe-report-to-court-101619810089984.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||CBI submits interim report in Anil Deshmukh case||Mumbai: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday filed an interim report of its preliminary enquiry into corruption allegations against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh made by former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh.A senior CBI officer said the report is based on the evidence collected so far during various search operations and on the basis of statements of several witnesses. The agency moved an application before the special CBI court on Friday , seeking permission to submit the report. The court accepted the report filed in a sealed envelope.On April 21, the central agency registered a case against Deshmukh under sections 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act and 120B of the Indian Penal Code.The first information report (FIR), based on Singh’s allegations, came after CBI was ordered to conduct a preliminary enquiry by the Bombay high court on April 5.Singh took legal recourse after his March 20 letter to the chief minister and the governor, alleging that Deshmukh ordered Mumbai police assistant inspector Sachin Vaze to extort money from restaurants and bars. His complaint came after he was removed as commissioner for his handling of the Antilla explosives case.An SUV laden with explosives (20 loose sticks of gelatin; no timer or detonator) was found parked outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence, Antilia, in south Mumbai on February 25. Vaze, who was part of the Mumbai crime branch, was initially lead investigator in the case. However, after a Thane-based businessman linked to the car, turned up dead, Vaze was transferred out of his department. He was later arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) as prime suspect in the explosives case. He has also been named suspect in the murder investigation of the businessman, Mansukh Hiran.Deshmukh, a leader of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), and the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government sought to brazen out the issue initially as Singh approached the Supreme Court seeking a CBI investigation into the alleged extortion racket. The top court refused to intervene and said Singh could approach the high court. Deshmukh resigned citing moral grounds after the high court asked the CBI to conduct the preliminary inquiry within 15 days and left it to the discretion of the agency’s director to decide the further course of action.In its FIR, CBI claimed, “The preliminary enquiry prima facie revealed that a cognisable offence was made out in the matter, wherein the then home minister of Maharashtra Shri Anil Deshmukh and unknown others have attempted to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of their public duty.”“The enquiry has also revealed that Shri Sachin Vaze, assistant police inspector, Mumbai Police, had been reinstated into the police force after being out of the service for more than 15 years. The enquiry further revealed that Shri Vaze was entrusted with most of the sensational and important cases of Mumbai Police and at the then home minister’s knowledge,” read the FIR. It also mentioned the allegations made by Singh against Deshmukh.A day after registering the FIR, CBI conducted searches at Deshmukh’s premises in Mumbai and his home town Nagpur. CBI also obtained records of investigation and evidence gathered from Vaze by National Investigation Agency (NIA) which is probing the Antilia explosives case. The agency has also recorded statements of several people, including Deshmukh, his personal assistant, secretary and some police officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cbi-submits-interim-report-in-anil-deshmukh-case-101619809887012.html
01-05-2021||Other||Allahabad University, constituent colleges to remain closed till July 4||The Allahabad University has decided to prepone the summer vacations by 10 days which would now begin from May 4 instead of May 15 and end on July 5, said a varsity official.The preponing of the vacation has been done in view of the fact that the university was seeing a rising number of fatalities among the teaching and non teaching staff due to Covid and the families of almost all the university employees were affected by Covid-19, said AU public relation officer (PRO) Jaya Kapoor. Over 100 staff and teachers of AU and colleges have been infected with the virus so far.Earlier this month, owing to the pandemic and many of the teaching and non-teaching staff members being infected with coronavirus, the varsity had decided to close the main campus and constituent colleges till April 20. Later, when the cases continued to rise in the city and more staff members were infected, authorities extended the duration of closure of AU till April 30.According to Kapoor, an online meeting of the all the deans of the university was convened by the vice chancellor, on Monday. “It was decided in the meeting to prepone the summer vacations from the scheduled May 15 to May 4. It will reopen on July 5, 2021,” she said. The varsity authorities had begun its annual exams for undergraduate and postgraduate courses from April 3 through online mode. However, after a few days when the campus of AU and its constituent colleges were closed till April 20 the exams were postponed. Later, the controller of examination had said the exams would be held from April 30 but soon that decision was withdrawn.In terms of examinations, the PRO said the meeting of the examination committee will be held shortly and the decision would be conveyed to the stakeholders via appropriate mediums.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allahabad-university-constituent-colleges-to-remain-closed-till-july-4-101619809368843.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Class 10 internal assessment: The hurdles ahead for Maharashtra board||A few days after the state government cancelled Class 10 (SSC) exams in the state, the education department is weighing in all its options to draw up a fair marking criterion for students. With the academic futures of nearly 17 lakh students at stake, the government needs to first address all the challenges concerning the options that are being considered in place of physical exams.Cancellation of examsOn April 20, the state government following a cabinet meeting decided to cancel Class 10 state board exams owing to growing Covid-19 infections and resultant lockdown. State education minister Varsha Gaikwad announced that students will be marked based on internal assessments. Since then, the state education department has held numerous consultation meetings with various stakeholders including schools, teachers, parents, educationists and technology firms to assess and understand feasible ways of marking students.Anticipating future challengesSome suggestions that were discussed in a few of these meetings included promoting all students and conducting entrance tests for junior college admissions, marking students based on internal exams conducted at the school level, marking students based on their cumulative performance of two-three years etc. Experts who have been a part of these discussions said that while the specifics of each of these options can be worked out later, what also needs to be looked into is the challenges they are likely to pose in future and address them right away. “For instance, if we promote all students without giving them scores, these students might get a college seat because the state will look into it. But they might have problems when they apply for a job, for instance, where the requirement is 50% pass marks in Class 10 exams. These seem minor challenges but it is imperative to address them now to avoid future confusion,” said an expert on the condition of anonymity.Need mechanism for internal assessmentsWhile the education department is mulling the use of scores of internal assessments, experts said there needs to be a mechanism in place to identify and fix the possible inflation of scores. “Schools are likely to inflate marks when it’s left up to them. Hence, it will be better if their inputs are compared with data from the board over the years. The state board has data on school wise and subject wise performance of students across the state. For instance, if the number of distinction holders in a school has always been 10% of the total students and this year the number goes to 20 or 30%, then that deviation can be caught and identified,” said an official. The state board had not asked schools to conduct exams in a specified format this year. As a result of this, many worry that school data on internal assessments might not be consistent.Experts also said that the government needs to ensure that the solution that it comes up with is as fair as possible. “Conducting an entrance exam, for instance, will be unfair because students have not been informed about this in advance. Suddenly, we cannot ask students to write an exam which they are not prepared for. Also, there are various questions about who will set the papers, what the syllabus for these exams will be etc. which will add to the anxiety of students,” said Basanti Roy, former secretary of the Mumbai divisional board.The challenge of equivalenceRizwana Shaikh, a teacher from a government-aided school in Mumbai said, “The government needs to strike a right balance between equivalence and assessing the child’s performance in the best possible way at the moment. Our students should not lag behind their counterparts from other boards during admissions.” Some solutions the state board has come up with in the last few years to bring about a level playing field for state board students vis-a-vis other boards comprise best-of-five scores of six subjects are considered for calculating overall scores of students. The others include setting aside 20 of 100 marks for internal assessments such as orals and practicals, and between 3 and 25 bonus marks for excelling in areas such as sports, drawing and different performing artsOfficials from the education department said they are awaiting the assessment criteria from CBSE and ICSE before they can finalise their own. This year, the CBSE, ICSE, IGCSE and IB have all decided to cancel physical exams and go with internal assessments and predicted grades for Class 10 students.OPTIONS BEING EXPLORED BY THE BOARD- Internal assessments: Schools will be asked to submit data of internal scores. This data can then be cross verified with the trend for the last year/s and student scores can be calculated with the help of statistical tools.- Entrance exams at junior college level: Junior colleges where competition is fierce can conduct entrance tests at their level. In a recent meeting with principals of colleges, however, it was conveyed that colleges are not equipped to conduct such exams and hence the board will have to handle it if needed.- Calculating cumulative scores: An overall performance of a student over a period of time (2-3 years) will be assessed to arrive at his/her scores for the exam.Boardwise numbersClass 10 student data (2020)SSC: 17,54,367CBSE: 73,484ICSE: 23,336||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/class-10-internal-assessment-the-hurdles-ahead-for-maharashtra-board-101619808708904.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Case in cities decline, rural areas a concern||Till a week ago, five districts were contributing the greatest number of cases to Maharashtra’s daily infection and death tally: Mumbai, Pune, Nashik, Nagpur and Thane. By April end, two of these districts – Mumbai and Pune -- have begun to record a decline in the numbers, though experts said it is still too early to see this as cause for cheer, as the state’s surge now seems to be driven from rural parts of the state and smaller districts with poorer health care infrastructure. Since mid-March, Maharashtra has seen a sharp uptick in the number of Covid-19 cases. In the week ending April 8, the daily average of new cases reported from Maharashtra was 51,469. In the week ending April 29 the average daily new cases were 63,652. According to Union health ministry figures, Maharashtra also led the surge in deaths reported over a 14-day period: 45.2% between February 18 to March 3; 42.7% in the first fortnight of April. Though it is no longer leading the surge in latter metric anymore, it continues to remain the most affected state in the country. “During the first wave, the virus spread from big cities to smaller ones and then to the peripheral/rural areas. This time it may not be exactly same this time, we expect the curve to tread on similar lines. The districts or the cities with weak health infrastructure and weaker tracking-testing fail to contain the spread effectively. In some districts like Sangli and Amravati which border neighbouring states, the spread become difficult to contain because of the inter-state mobility,” an official from state health department said on condition of anonymity. The surge is no longer coming from densely populated urbanized districts like Mumbai, Thane and Pune, but from smaller ones like Nashik, Ahmednagar, Hingoli and Yavatmal among others, where the tertiary infrastructure is not well developed. “Smaller districts like Hingoli, Parbhani, Ratnagiri do not have tertiary care facility. We have asked these district administrations to ramp up the infrastructure so that they can take on the extra load of cases and arrest the spread,” state health minister Rajesh Tope said. The numbers bear this out. In the week between April 22 and 29, Mumbai’s active cases dropped from 82,616 to 67,255; Thane’s dropped from 80,743 to 56,973; and Pune’s from 117,337 to 104,529. In the same time period, Nashik saw a spike from 46,706 to 52,954; Sangli from 9,600 to 13,095; Chandrapur from 18,388 to 26613; and Amaravati from 6,280 to 7,243. As on April 28, 23 districts reported more growth rate than state’s rate of 1.55%, while in districts like Yavatmal, Chandrapur, Ratnagiri, it was more than 3%. The weekly test positivity rate (TPR) of these districts was high too. Nashik, Ahmednagar, Osmanabad, Hingoli reported more than 34% positivity rate against state’s rate of 25.38%. Simply put, TPR rises when most of the people who are getting tested are positive anddeclines when most samples tested return negative. But this rate, experts say, has to be correlated to the number of tests. Trends across the pandemic show that when tests declined, TPR went up. Nagpur district has reported 50,000 cases and 638 deaths in the week between April 24 and 30. Of these, 19,002 cases and 239 deaths were recorded in rural areas of the district. The district continues to face an acute shortage of beds and oxygen, along with anti-viral drugs, like Remdesivir. Dr Pinak Dande of Dande Multi-Speciality Hospital said, “We are virtually helpless as we cannot provide beds to new patients as several infected persons are on the waiting list. Moreover, it’s very difficult to cope with the existing patients despite doing our best because of inadequate oxygen supply and life-saving drugs.” On Friday, Nagpur added 6461 new cases while Nasik added 4,696; by comparison, Mumbai added 3,888 and Pune 10,019 new cases to the state’s tally of 62919 new infections. The state now has a total of 4.6 million cases, and the death toll rose to 68813 after the addition of 828 fresh deaths on Friday. The recovery rate in the state is now 84.06%.Experts pointed out that the surge indicated that these districts are yet to reach the peak, which will continue to drive up the state figures. Falling numbers, TPR In the first week of April, Mumbai’s daily case average stood at 9737. In the following week, the daily average dropped slightly to 8879 and to 8074 in the third week. In the ongoing fourth week of the month, the daily case average has further declined to 5628. On the other hand, the number of deaths has shown a rise. There has been a steady downward trend in testing in the city: starting April 22, the number of tests has ranged from 41,826 to 30,428 (April 27). However, Mumbai’s daily Covid-19 test positivity rate – the percentage of tests that are positive, or TPR – has been on a steady decline, data shows. From 30% on April 4, when the city recorded the highest single-day surge of 11,206 cases, the test positivity rate came down to 10.79% on April 29, with cases dropping to 4,174. Maharashtra continued to report a daily caseload of more than 60,000 cases, by reporting 62,919 fresh cases on Friday taking the tally to 4,602,472 and the death toll to 68,813 after the addition of 828 fresh deaths. Mumbai saw a further drop in cases as there was an addition of 3888 new cases, pushing the tally to 648,471 and toll to 13,125 after the addition of 89 deaths.Pune district topped the chart of new cases with 10,019 cases, including 4,365 in Pune city. The district also logged the highest, 150 deaths on Friday, while it continues to have the highest, 106,019 active cases. State’s second capital Nagpur and Nashik district reported 7,170 and 4,696 cases and 44 and 34 deaths respectively.69,710 patients recovered against 62919 new infections on Friday resulting in an improvement in the recovery rate which stands at 84.06%. This also helped to reduce the number of active patients to 662,640.State’s daily test positivity rate dropped to 21.68% after conducting 290207 tests in the last 24 hours. “It is very difficult to predict virus behaviour, but I think, what Mumbai and MMR helped in reducing the number is curbs on local train travel. Major chunk of office too has been shut down helping in reducing the crowding. But in rural areas all activities at marketplaces, wedding ceremonies continue as usual making it difficult to bring cases under control. But I believe that these areas are reaching their peak and are likely to stabilise in next few days. It would help bringing down the overall state cases,” Dr Rahul Pandit, member of state-appointed task force said. Dr Kapil Aher, district health officer of Nashik said, “The spread of virus in Nashik is rapid because of the urbanisation and mobility due to the commercial, agricultural activities. The cases in the district have started stabilising though the downward trend may take a couple of weeks to begin.” Officials said that tracking-tracing and testing in smaller districts and rural areas have been poor. “Many of our backward districts are lagging in the tracing, which needs to be more than 20 people per infection, besides the low testing. Secondly the poor health infrastructure also causes rapid spread as the infected people are not properly isolated,” the official quoted above said. The case fatality rate (CFR) is high across the state: the weekly CFR rose to 0.94%, in the week ended on April 25, from less than 0.5% a month ago. In districts like Sindhudurg and Nanded, it is 3.66% and 3.46% respectively. Dr Avinash Supe, head of the death audit committee appointed by the state government said they expect the CFR to start dropping in next few weeks. “The rise of CFR always lags behind the rise in cases by 2-3 weeks and similarly its fall comes two weeks after the cases start falling. Secondly, the percentage of mortality is not as high as it was in the first wave, when it had crossed 6-7%. Yes, in numbers the deaths are more, but we have been doing our best to bring it down. We have been interacting with rural, district level doctors virtually on individual cases helping them in clinical and ICU management and medical protocol to reduce the mortality,” he said. “The police authorities have been told to pull all strings to ensure that strict implementation of the lockdown SOPs. The administrations have been directed to ramp up tracing and testing which will help them in reducing the cases,” another official from the health department said. (With inputs from Pradip Maitra)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-case-in-cities-decline-rural-areas-a-concern-101619808528827.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||No response to Maharashtra’s global tender for O2, Remdesivir||Three days after the Maharashtra government floated a global tender to purchase liquid medical oxygen, Remdesivir injections and other essential items, it has not got any response from any company. Food and drugs administration (FDA) minister Rajendra Shingne said the state will again float the tenders, although the shortage is not as acute as before. The list of items to be purchased include 25,000 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen, 40,000 oxygen concentrators, 27 oxygen ISO tanks, a million Remdesivir vials and 132 pressure swing absorption plants. The tender was floated on Tuesday on the recommendation of a three-member committee. Officials said the three-day deadline was issued as the state needs to immediately procure these items. “No company has shown any interest in supplying so far... Global tenders usually take time. As there is no response yet, the state government is thinking about issuing a fresh tender,” said Shingne. Shingne also said there is still shortage of Remdesivir injections. He said the Centre did not provide 170,000 vials of the drug which were due to come to Maharashtra till April 30, as per the schedule made by the Centre. According to the minister, the lockdown has so far only decelerated the growth in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai, while the rest of Maharashtra still continues to report over 60,000 cases. So, the need for Remdesivir is significant. The state needs 65,000 vials a day. “We have around 670,000 active cases so even today, we need around 65,000-70,000 injections daily. Barring Mumbai and its suburban areas, there is no sign of decline in daily cases in the rest of Maharashtra despite the lockdown. We will still need more Remdesivir. Between April 21 and April 30, the Centre has given 170,000 fewer injections. That backlog needs to be cleared and daily 65,000-70,000 shots should be provided.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-response-to-maharashtra-s-global-tender-for-o2-remdesivir-101619808469425.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Confusion over Centre’s directive on Covid vaccine supply to private hospitals||Even as the inoculation of those between the 18-44 age group is slated to start from today, there is still a lack of clarity on the supply of vaccination to private hospitals. Some private hospitals in Mumbai have claimed that they do not have any clarity over the supply of vaccination from the government, which could reduce the pace of the drive.State health minister Rajesh Tope on Friday said that if the Centre directs the state to not sell vaccines to private hospitals for the inoculation of citizens over age 45, the state will follow it as the vaccination drive is a national programme.“The vaccination for above age 45 is a national programme which runs as per the rules of the Centre. Today, we are vaccinating people across 4,200 centres, which including both private and government-run hospitals. If they [Centre] say that it (vaccination) should not be done in private hospitals, we will follow it,” Tope told reporters on Friday.Private hospitals across the state purchase the vaccines, which it gets from the Centre, from the local authorities to carry out the vaccination of people over age 45. Though the exact number of how many people get vaccinated in private and government-run hospitals are not available, a significant number choose private hospitals to get vaccinated, especially in urban areas.The lack of clarity could impact the pace of vaccination of the people above age 45, which is considered a “vulnerable group”. Till April 29, Maharashtra had inoculated 10,964,761 people over age 45. Of these, 1,404,673 or only 12.81% had taken their second shot.Reeling under shortage of vaccines, the drive in Mumbai has already been suspended till May 2. Some private hospital in Mumbai said that there is no clarity over how the drive will proceed after Sunday. Dr S Narayani, zonal head of Fortis Hospital, Mumbai said, “We have no clarity on the drive. We have been hearing about it (purchase from open market). We are awaiting clarification on it. As of now, we do not have any stock left.”A representative of another private hospital in Mumbai, who did not wish to be named, also said that there was no clarity. “The stock was very less in this week. We have not heard anything formally from the government or the local administration on what happens after May 1,” he said. Another doctor involved in the vaccination management at a private hospital in Mumbai said, “The lack of planning and clarity could hurt the state further that is reeling under the second wave. The limited quantity of stock will delay the completion of vaccination for all. The herd immunity will not develop in the population at a stage where there is talk of a third wave later this year.”When asked if the vaccination of this age category will slow down, Tope said, “Whoever has not taken their second dose will have to take it. Whether to do it at a private [hospital] or take the record and take the second dose in the public hospital, will have to be seen. It is important to complete the vaccination process.” Apart from slowing down the drive, senior health department officials said that it will put an additional burden on government and municipal bodies. “So far, a considerable number of people gets vaccinated in private hospitals. If this decision is made by the Centre, the entire traffic will be diverted to government-run centres. It will add to the chaos there,” an official said requesting anonymity.Besides that, the minister said there is no clarity if the Centre will regulate the vaccine supply for the remaining 50% stock for the 18-44 vaccination. Tope sought clarity if the state government will be given preference over private hospitals if there is high demand and low supply.As per the Centre’s orders, the two manufacturers—Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech—have been told to give 50% of their monthly production to the Government of India. “The remaining 50% includes state governments, private hospitals, industrial private hospitals. There is a big question mark that if there is a huge demand with the two companies, then who will they give priority to? Will the Government of India have to regulate; this is a question [before us]. So far, there is no clarification on this,” Tope said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-confusion-over-centre-s-directive-on-covid-vaccine-supply-to-private-hospitals-101619808468824.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai sees positivity rate in single digit after 45 days||After 45 days, the city’s daily positivity rate was down to a single digit – 9.01% – on Friday, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) data. Mumbai reported 3,888 cases on Friday. Of the 43,525 tested samples, 3,925 samples were positive. However, deaths continue to rise, with the city reporting 89 deaths on Friday, according to BMC data. The city’s case tally is 648,471 and toll 13,125, according to the state health department. Positivity rate is the number of positive Covid-19 cases in comparison to the total tests. On March 13, Mumbai’s daily positivity rate was 9.48%, which went up to 15% around March 20. In April, the positivity rate hovered around 11-27%, and it went down to 9.94% on Friday. The city’s highest ever positivity rate was 27.94%, reported on April 4. So far, Mumbai has conducted a total of 5,380,473 tests. The overall positivity rate is 11.9%. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said, “Our positivity in single-digit now with around 4,400 tests. Of these, 85% cases are asymptomatic today. Mumbai is perhaps the only city in India with single digit positive even with high testing.” The city’s recovery rate is 87% with 568,083 recoveries and the mortality rate is 2.02%. There are 65,670 active cases in the city. According to BMC’s data, Dahisar, Borivali, Kandivali, Malabar Hill, Grant Road, Churchgate and Colaba continue to contribute the most to the city’s daily average growth rate of 0.86%. The BMC has maintained that even though the cases are dipping, the lockdown announced by the state up to May 15 will remain in force in the city. In the past few days, the daily number of Covid-19 cases in the city has been on a decline. The highest number of cases reported in the city so far was 11,206, on April 4. By mid-April, Mumbai was reporting on 7,000-8,000 cases a day. On April 15, Mumbai reported 8,209 Covid-19 cases, which dropped to 5,867 cases on April 24. These further dropped to 3,840 cases on April 26. However, although the positivity rate has gone down, the number of deaths in the city is on the rise. A week-on-week death rise analysis of the state health department data reveals that between April 4 and April 10, 190 deaths were reported, 357 deaths in the next week between April 11 and April 17, followed by 425 deaths between April 18 and April 24. On the increasing deaths, Chahal had on April 20 said, “Mumbai had 953 deaths in the past 70 days since the second wave started with 2.66 lakh positive cases. Our death rate has been 0.03% (13.6 deaths per day). Delhi had 240 deaths in 1 day yesterday.” Dr Madhav Sathe, former microbiology professor at Nair Hospital, said, “Cases in Mumbai are going down slowly which shows that lockdown restrictions have helped in lowering Covid cases. Not only positive cases, but aggressive vaccination will also reduce fresh cases, which will result in reducing the deaths. Heavy load of active serious cases has put enormous pressure on the healthcare system, which has also resulted in increased mortality. Health infrastructure is unable to handle this sudden rise in active cases which has resulted in difficulty in getting life-saving drugs, oxygen, ICU beds for needy patients, even test reports are made available after three to four days after sample collection that is causing delay in treatment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-positivity-rate-in-single-digit-after-45-days-101619808409506.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC quashes case against senior citizen booked for cheating||The Bombay high court (HC) recently quashed the first information report (FIR) and charge sheet filed against a 72-year-old south Mumbai resident, who was serving as the secretary of a society at Marine Drive, for alleged cognisable offences committed by him in 2013. The court held that as a magistrate inquiry was initiated in the matter in 2013, the complainant could not have lodged a second complaint in 2015, based on which the FIR and charge sheet were filed. The accused, Mahendra Dholakia, allegedly cheated and coerced two brothers who owned a flat in the society to sell the flat to him at a lower rate on false pretext. A bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale, while hearing the petition seeking quashing of the FIR and charge sheet, was informed by advocate Sneha Singh that an FIR was filed against her client in March 2015 and he was booked under sections 193 (giving false evidence), 211 (wrongful institution of criminal proceedings), 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code. Singh submitted that the FIR was filed based on directions of the magistrate who took cognisance of the February 2015 complaint filed by Deepak Kriplani, under section 156 (3) of the Criminal Procedure Code. Following this, the charge sheet was filed in 2016. Singh then informed the court that in 2013 Kriplani had lodged a similar complaint with the magistrate, but as it was pending adjudication, the magistrate could not have taken cognisance of the second complaint. In light of these facts, she sought quashing of the FIR and charge sheet against Dholakia. Kriplani brothers had come in possession of the said flat in 2010. However, as the share certificate was misplaced, Dholakia, who was the then secretary of the society, offered to buy the flat from them at lower rate. Kriplanis then lodged a complaint of cheating against Dholakia in 2013 before the magistrate. However, the magistrate kept the inquiry pending as Kriplanis and Dholakia reached an understanding in 2014 and it was decided that Dholakia would pay a sum of ₹65 lakh for the flat. Thereafter in 2015, Kriplanis lodged the second complaint with the magistrate. Advocate Subodh Desai, for Kriplanis, submitted that the two complaints were different and hence the petition by Dholakia for quashing the FIR and charge sheet was not maintainable. After hearing the submissions, the court observed that as Kriplanis had not informed the magistrate of the first complaint and as the same was alive at the time of lodging of the second complaint, the second complaint and the action initiated against it could not be maintainable and hence quashed the FIR and charge sheet. The court, however, allowed Kriplanis to challenge the rejection of the 2013 complaint by the magistrate while the HC was hearing the petition by Dholakia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-quashes-case-against-senior-citizen-booked-for-cheating-101619808348838.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra DMER extends residency of PG medical students||Days after the National Medical Commission (NMC) asked all postgraduate (PG) medical students to continue working as residents in hospitals as part of the Covid task force, the state Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) released a circular on Friday reinstating the decision.“We are bound by NMC rules and will have to follow it. DMER has informed all colleges in Maharashtra to ensure that NMC rules are followed,” said TP Lahane, director of DMER. He added that as of yet, there was no clarity on the period of extension from NMC.Final-year PG medical examinations have been stalled in most states due to the deterioration of Covid-19 situation. Similarly, no fresh admissions to PG medical and diploma courses were done due to the postponement of National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET PG) exams. Students of most PG colleges were roped in last year to augment trained manpower for treatment of Covid and non-Covid patients. The fresh NMC directive seeks to ensure that the current batch continues to serve as resident doctors to help deal with the present crisis until fresh admissions are made to PG courses and final-year examinations are held. NEET-PG exams are generally conducted in the month of February every year and the final-year examinations are generally held between April-May in colleges in the state.“The start of the 2021-2022 academic session will be delayed and the new batch of first-year PG students will join only after NEET-PG examination is held, followed by counselling to allocate colleges,” the NMC circular released on April 27 said. It further stated that the students’ continued deployment as residents will help ensure there is no shortage of hands to deal with the surge of Covid-19 cases. NMC has also advised colleges to continue providing accommodation and stipend to PG students during this extended period.Meanwhile, a group of PG students approached state health minister Rajesh Tope and asked for at least a 45-day period to prepare for their exams. “We’ve been working nonstop for some months now, left with no time to prepare for the exams. We hope the state government considers this before scheduling our final exams,” said the letter addressed to Tope.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-dmer-extends-residency-of-pg-medical-students-101619808289334.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Urgent need to streamline Remdesivir supply, say doctors||Proprietors of small to mid-sized hospitals and nursing homes said they are struggling to obtain adequate quantities of antiviral drug Remdesivir under the new allocation system introduced in the state 10 days ago. Where hospitals were earlier able to procure vials directly from manufacturers (through medical representatives of pharma companies), they now have to obtain them from district collectors, based on requests sanctioned by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).“This has made the supply extremely erratic. Our need is about 40 vials per day. Before FDA stepped in, we could buy between 200 to 300 vials at a time and that would keep us steady for a short period. Now we are on our toes every day wondering how many vials will come. We get about 20 vials every two days. In the past five days, we have received stock only on three days,” said Dr Prince Surana, proprietor of Surana Hospital in Chembur which has 70 Covid beds.Under the existing protocol, a particular hospital or nursing home is eligible to receive Remdesivir for 10% of the active Covid patients under treatment, on a day-to-day basis. Each hospital raises their daily requirement with the area’s concerned health officer, who then forwards the same to FDA, which makes the doses available at the collector’s office.“But this quota is not enough. In every hospital, more than 5% of admitted patients will need Remdesivir. After all, they are admitted because their oxygen saturation is low. Every patient whose oxygen level is less than 95 should get the injection. So yes, one consequence of this system is that the drug is not reaching the facilities as per their need,” said Dr Deepak Baid, former president of Medical Consultants Association.Another consequence, doctors said, is that relatives of patients are unnecessarily sent on treasure hunts to find the drug elsewhere (usually in the black market), which is exhausting and also puts them at risk of fraud. “If we don’t have enough doses, we have to give patients’ relatives prescriptions and ask them to find vials elsewhere. But we know this is futile given the demand,” said Surana.Nevertheless, doctors largely agreed that FDA’s active oversight in the matter is required so that smaller districts do not run out of supplies, as witnessed recently in Latur, Bhandara and Aurangabad. They also said the procurement system has improved over the past 10 days, but not enough to assuage their concerns. “Initially through FDA, we were only getting about 10% of the daily need. Now we are getting about 40% of the requirement, which is also not enough. The biggest worry is whether tomorrow’s stock will come or not,” said Dr Amit Thadani, director, Niramaya Hospital in Kharghar which has 60 Covid beds. “Some days you get five doses, some day six doses, and someday 20 doses. But our requirement is about 30 to 40. We are at the mercy of the collector’s office,” he added.“The Centre has kept the control of Remdesivir supply with itself. We have streamlined its distribution through district collector to curb black marketing. The supply of Remdesivir from the Centre is still less. Compared to the schedule given to Maharashtra till April 30, we have got 170,000 fewer injections. We need 65,000-70,000 injections on a daily basis,” said FDA minister Rajendra Shingne.Even though Remdesivir has been proven to have “little or no impact” on Covid mortality, it remains in high demand, with Maharashtra’s daily requirement of around 70,000 vials. The consensus among doctors is that while it may not be a “silver bullet”, it does cut down the patient’s hospital stay and reduce their viral load. “So not having adequate doses is, in fact, a strain on the system even though the drug has little impact on mortality. In my experience, it can play an important role in recovery, especially when used in the right combination with other drugs,” said Sandeep Kothari, a chemist at CritiCare Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-urgent-need-to-streamline-remdesivir-supply-say-doctors-101619808170439.html
01-05-2021||Other||Delhi civic bodies offer to convert their buildings to bolster city’s health infra||New DelhiWith health care facilities across the national capital burdened by the unprecedented rise in Covid-19 cases and citizens complaining of difficulties in finding hospital beds, the three civic bodies -- east, north, and south -- have written to the Delhi government, offering to convert their schools and community centres into Covid care hospitals and isolation centres.The second wave of Covid-19 across the country — and the fourth wave in Delhi — has turned out to be the deadliest one yet in terms of cases and fatalities. Delhi is currently recording at least 25,000 new Covid cases and over 300 deaths every day.At present, Delhi has 21,199 beds for Covid-19 patients, of which 5,032 are ICU beds. Besides, there are over 5,000 beds in dedicated Covid care centres and 204 in dedicated healthcare centres.The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Thursday sent a list of 20 schools and six community centres to the Delhi government that could be converted into Covid isolation centres. Officials said each school can have 50 beds. The civic body runs around 360 primary schools.East civic body mayor Nirmal Jain said that they have told the Delhi government that these spaces can be immediately used for Covid patients. “We are ready to give these spaces at the earliest. We have assured that we will arrange water, electricity and sanitation facilities. The government can set up beds and other medical infrastructure. We will help in that as well,” he said.Similarly, the North MCD has also offered its primary schools to the Delhi government to convert these into Covid-19 hospitals, isolation, and care centers. The north civic body runs 714 primary schools.North Delhi mayor Jai Prakash on Friday said that the municipality had written to the Delhi government on April 19, offering to convert their schools, community centres, and polyclinics into dedicated Covid facilities. He said that around 7,000 beds can be added by letting the government use the municipality-owned buildings, including nearly 5,000 beds at its primary schools. “We have assured the government that we will provide every possible help from our side to fight this pandemic. We all know that citizens are running from pillar to post to find hospital beds and any addition at this time will only help save lives,” he said.He said that they have sent a list of 100 schools where beds can be set up. “In each school building, at least 50 beds can be set up,” he said.Meanwhile, the south Delhi municipal corporation officials also said that they have offered all available resources to strengthen the public health infrastructure in the city. “We are also working with our officials to identify which schools can be offered as dedicated Covid facilities. We will be releasing the list for the government in the coming days,” said south Delhi mayor Anamika Mithilesh Singh. The south corporation runs around 580 primary schools.A Delhi government official, who wished not to be named, said, “The government is keen on expanding the healthcare infrastructure as much as possible. In case these schools and community centres (offered by MCDs) are required, the government will make use of them. Some isolation centres are already operating in MCD schools in Delhi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-civic-bodies-offer-to-convert-their-buildings-to-bolster-city-s-health-infra-101619808168770.html
01-05-2021||Other||‘Shooter Dadi’ Chandro Tomar succumbs to Covid-19||Chandro Tomar, popular as ‘Shooter Dadi’, succumbed to complications arising from a Covid-19 infection, in a hospital, here, on Friday afternoon. She was 89.Her niece, Seema Tomar, who is also aninternational shooter, confirmed the death of her aunt. She was admitted on April 26 to aprivate hospital in Meerut for other health problems but later, she was diagnosed as Covid-19-positive. Chandro Tomar shot into limelight after she picked up a gun at the shooting range in her Johri village of district Bagpat as a senior citizen and won many medals in competitions. She then became popular as ‘Shooter Dadi’ and was quite active on Twitter and used to tweet in support of ongoing farmers’ movement.Bollywood paid tribute by making a film ‘Saand ki Aankh’ on Chandro and her sister-in-law (husband’s younger brother’s wife) as both were famous and popular for their passion of shooting.Believed to be the oldest woman competitive shooter, Chandro was also an inspiration to rural girls in the region who also picked up shooting as a sport after seeing grandmothers in typical rural attire shooting at a range and winning laurels for the country. Shooter Dadi won many awards in the senior citizen category including Stri Shakti Samman presented by the President himself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shooter-dadi-chandro-tomar-succumbs-to-covid19-101619808108810.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: What will it take to make work from home stick?||As the country enters its second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, work from home (WFH) has moved from being a lockdown trend to a signal that the future of work — and the open office — is no longer what we’re used to.Murat Erer, senior insights analyst, LinkedIn, pointed out in a blog post that globally the volume of job searches using the “remote” filter increased by 60% between March and May 2020. “India leads the pack in terms of remote job application growth,” Erer said. Even the ministry of commerce is considering making WFH a permanent solution for employees of IT companies working out of special economic zones, the Economic Times reported recently.The benefits outweigh the pain, professionals agree.When the lockdown was announced in 2020, Parveen Mahtani was just over a month into her new job as chief legal officer at Mahindra Lifespace Developers Ltd. She now believes that WFH is the ecologically-sound choice, not just because of the reduction in vehicular emissions, but also the reduced reliance on paper it necessitates.“It was tough to juggle between work and home discussions and have meetings with my kids doing their work in the background or the dog barking,” Mahtani said. But the return to WFH has one unique advantage: “Because we started relying more on document management software in 2020, it’s reduced the volume of paper we go through.”A few, like author and columnist Aparna Piramal Raje, saw productivity peak in the absence of distractions. “I could focus my complete attention towards writing my book, as there was no way to travel or do anything else,” she said.“In 2020, when the pandemic required us all to switch to remote work, it [wasn’t easy in the beginning]. Now, over a year into it, we’re looking at this as a possible new working model,” said Minakshi Achan, executive vice-president of network brand and creative head, Star & Disney India. In the pre-pandemic world, commuting between her apartment in Bandra (West) and her Parel office took an hour and a half. “Now, one isn’t stuck in traffic jams for hours.”However, WFH had its downsides. Anil Nair and Sheetal Parekh, partners in STEM card games company Pretty Geeky said their earnings dried up in 2020 as the restrictions on movement meant they couldn’t transport products from their Sion warehouse to buyers.So what will it take for WFH to become truly sustainable?Accentuating inequality According to Vivek Pandit, director, McKinsey & Co, a consultancy firm that helped its clients make the shift to WFH last year, a hybrid work model, which involves a combination of WFH and clocking in at an office would likely stay even after the second lockdown ends.He based his findings on a McKinsey survey — which built on research conducted by McKinsey Global Institute and looked at 800 jobs and 2,000 tasks carried out by working professionals in nine countries — which also pointed out that the potential for remote work is highly concentrated among “highly skilled, highly educated workers in a handful of industries, occupations and geographies”. “Remote work thus risks accentuating inequalities at a social level,” the report said.What’s more, the report stated, certain sectors lend themselves more readily to remote work. “Finance and insurance have the highest potential, with three-quarters of time spent on activities that can be done remotely without a loss of productivity. Management, business services, and information technology have the next highest potential, all with more than half of employee time spent on activities that could effectively be done remotely.”By comparison, sectors like agriculture and retail services — where a vast majority of India’s 464 million work force is employed — don’t lend themselves to remote work.All the same, the report found that globally, more than 20% of the workforce could work remotely three to five days a week as effectively as they did from an office, and if remote working took hold at that level, then at least three times as many people would be working from home than before the pandemic. This would have a profound impact on everything from transportation to consumer spending.Studies have shown that companies need to re-look at work flexibility more seriously, to enable their employees to work from their homes, as these often come with multiple demands: of space, time, and attention.“Last year, we realised that many in our team were experiencing inner turmoil. This time, we’ve been able to assure them on many levels – including on the issue of job security – and keep morale high. But a lot of organisations aren’t able to do the same,” Shobhan Kothari, partner at the award-winning architectural firm ADND, said.Recently, Columbia University looked at the experiences of 226,638 people across Asia, Europe and North America. The study found incidences of depression and anxiety across all regions on account of the deterioration of relationships and the distancing due to the pandemic. Other studies have shown how a lack of communication with employees results in anxiety, which is known to decrease work performance, reduce job satisfaction, and negatively affect interpersonal relationships at work.“A lack of vision for post-pandemic work puts talent at risk. Teams should share frequently what works and what doesn’t, and companies should listen actively,” Pandit said.Nair of Pretty Geeky believes his employees could be just as productive working from home, but Nair, himself, can’t wait to get back to an office. CEO and managing partner of advertising firm L&K Saatchi & Saatchi until 2019 – where his “office was like a lounge” -- Nair isn’t at all thrilled about going back to working at his dining table due to the second lockdown in Maharashtra. “At home, people will always talk to you when you’re on a business call.”Design solutions Space Matrix, a multinational design consultancy headquartered in Singapore, recently set up an experience centre in their Gurugram office to showcase new features that can be incorporated into the design of workspaces.“‘Work’ isn’t the operative word when it comes to designing office spaces now,” says Akshay Lakhanpal, CEO, Space Matrix, India. The beta lab – as this space is called -- also allows clients to get an idea of how a contactless design might work: with features like a café that employees need not queue up at (orders can be placed on phones), remote-parking access, touchless sign-ins and so on.Having got a taste of WFH, many executives now want to work in an environment that offers the sort of comfort that home does, he said. For those who cannot take work home, his company has found ways to bring a little touch of home to work: by introducing multisensory experiences like music and fragrance.“Over the past year many organisations have made design changes for better air circulation; placing acrylic partitions between individuals; positioning workspaces to allow for six-feet distance between individuals. But this is all so new, how efficiently it works, remains to be seen,” Kothari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-what-will-it-take-to-make-work-from-home-stick-101619808048808.html
01-05-2021||Other||In trying times, how the young wielded social media to provide succour||As anguished relatives searched for hospital beds, oxygen and medicines in these troubled times, social media platforms came alive with youngsters taking the responsibility of helping them. In Kanpur, where chaos prevailed in the third week of this month, countless people were helped. The youngsters kept tabs on availability of beds in Covid-19 hospitals. They helped with the admission of people, reached out to people who could help with procuring/refilling oxygen cylinders, arranged for medicines like Fabiflu, which had disappeared from pharmacies, and even found plasma and blood donors. Their network helped in different cities of Uttar Pradesh constantly passing on leads to each other. “People were desperately looking for genuine information and help; along with others, I built resources calling hospitals and Covid command centres about availability of beds,” said Harsh Chauhan, a law student and blogger from South Kanpur. “We check and cross-check the information, which we share on our accounts,” said Mudit Sapra, who is Covid-19 positive but continues with the work. “The biggest problem was finding ICU beds or beds with ventilators. But I will continue to work day and night till as long as this phase lasts,” he said. Punit Bhatia, working with a private firm in Alwar, Rajasthan, got help for his sinking father-in-law, and moved from Chunar to Varanasi, after he got support from one such group. He was not being admitted in any hospital, he was alone with his wife in a car with SPO2 level critically low at 60. “My friend shared the information on Twitter, and in less than an hour, a girl called Anushka Tulsyan contacted us and got a bed in the district hospital. Now, he is recovering. I can’t thank her enough and her friends,” said Punit, who is from Kanpur. Tulsyan was contacted and appraised of Bhatia’s situation by a Kanpur poet. In his 20s, he doesn’t want his identity to be known. This young poet is part of a bigger network comprising students of Tata Institute of Social Sciences, IIT Kanpur, Delhi, Jamia Milia and other institutes. Apart from beds, this group extended help with oxygen cylinders, referral letters of chief medical officer (CMO) need for hospitalisation, and medicines. They created a limited database of plasma donors whom they cajoled to donate. “The toughest part was the oxygen; looking for resources was tedious. Everyone worked tirelessly to keep sharing information about its availability. We put up doubly verified information, complete with location and phone numbers, for people to avail,” he said. Like them, Sharad Tripathi used multipleplatforms to reach out to people to help. “At a point, I was getting 200-250calls in a day for help. The number of calls had gone down now. I used mycontacts and developed resources. I think I could help one person out of 15-20people, but even that is very satisfying,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-trying-times-how-the-young-wielded-social-media-to-provide-succour-101619807929455.html
01-05-2021||Other||5 lab staff held for issuing fake Covid reports||New Delhi: Five employees of a medical diagnostics laboratory were arrested for allegedly giving out fake Covid test reports, Delhi Police said on Friday. According to Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south), the arrested suspects handed out 400 such fake reports -- both positive and negative -- since April 23.The company, Genestrings Diagnostic Centre, said that the reports were not generated by the lab, and added that they informed police about the wrongdoing of their employees as soon as they noticed it. The company stressed that while some of their staff were involved in the crime, the laboratory had no role to play. It added that all authentic reports have QR codes, which can be easily be used to distinguish them from the fake reports that were being handed out.Police said the probe started after 45 members of a large, extended family in south Delhi’s Khirki Extension said they received false results from Genestrings Diagnostic Centre in Sarvodaya Enclave.The family members was reportedly tested by two technicians of the lab over a few days, and some of them were declared positive for Covid-19, said DCP Thakur. One of them, Rishab Shukla, said he was given a positive result on Monday. “But Shukla didn’t have any symptoms, and decided to get himself tested at another lab again on Wednesday. This time his result was negative,” said the DCP.Shukla then went to Genestrings Diagnostics, and was shocked to learn that his name was not in their records, and that his sample had never reached them.He contacted the police, which registered a case of cheating and criminal conspiracy at Malviya Nagar police station. The five people arrested are application scientist Manish Kumar Singh, his two colleagues Satender and Nikhil, and two lab assistants, Pragyanand Sharma and Himanshu Sharma.Police said that initially the technicians planned to have doctors test the samples, and share the results without entering the details in the laboratory’s records. They would use the lab’s letterhead to print out a the report, and pocket the money paid by clients of for the tests. “But as the load of the samples increased, the suspects began dishing out fake results without even testing them,” the DCP said. “On being approached by a few patients to authenticate reports bearing our lab’s name, we found out that they were not issued by us, nor tested at our lab. We immediately called the local police station in-charge to investigate what seemed to be a fake report issue,” said Chetan Kohli, COO of Genestrings Diagnostic Centre.“Five of our employees were identified to be a party to this crime without the knowledge of lab management or the lab head,” he added. “All our reports have QR codes which can be easily used to check the authenticity of reports.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5-lab-staff-held-for-issuing-fake-covid-reports-101619807930134.html
01-05-2021||Delhi||7 held for running factory producing fake remdesivir; already sold 2,000 injections in Delhi||A BPharm graduate and a BCom graduate, both from Uttarakhand’s Haridwar, were among seven arrested on Friday for running a factory producing fake remdesivir injections, which were widely sold in Delhi and other states for huge profits, Delhi Police’s crime branch said. Vatan Kumar Saini (32), who holds BPharm and MBA degrees, and Aditya Gautam (33), a BCom graduate, told the police that they have sold more than 2,000 fake remdesivir vials in the black market through their agents in the past few weeks. The police said a 40-year-old woman events manager based in Delhi, who herself recently recovered from Covid-19, was helping them sell the fake vials in the national capital. Remdesivir injections are in huge demand across India, as Covid-19 infections surge. WHO has said there is no evidence it reduces mortality or obviates the need for ventilation in hospitalised people, but it has been found by some studies to help those in early stages of the infection who need supplemental oxygen. Delhi Police’s ongoing investigation into those arrested recently for trying to sell remdesivir injections in the black market helped them trace the vials to the manufacturing unit in Uttarakhand, the crime branch said. The crime branch said on Thursday that they carried out searches in the manufacturing facility in Uttarakhand’s Kotdwar and a trading company in Haridwar, both run by Gautam and Saini. The two were allegedly passing off injections of antibiotic azithromycin as the antiviral drug remdesivir, as the packaging of both drugs are similar. The men would replace the labels on the antibiotic vials with fake ones that they printed out, said deputy commissioner of police (crime) Monika Bhardwaj.DCP Bhardwaj said 198 vials of the fake remdesivir, one packing machine, one barcoding machine, 3,000 empty vials and packing materials of azithromycin, an antibiotic used in the treatment of a number of bacterial infections, were seized from the factory.Thee duo was selling one remdesivir vial for around ₹6,000 to ₹10,000 to their agents, who further sold it to needy customers for prices ranging between ₹25,000 and ₹40,000. The injection is available for a price between ₹900 and 3,500, but shortages have resulted in a thriving black market. Many states have channelised sales of remdesivir . Delhi has been hit by a severe shortage of drugs such as remdesivir, faviprarir and ivermectin, a scarcity that has been exacerbated by hoarders and black marketeers who are selling them at rates 10-15 times their retail value. For instance, HT reported earlier that a dealer in north Delhi offered to sell a customer a vial of remdesivir for ₹25,000, as against an MRP ranging from ₹899 and ₹3,500.DCP Bhardwaj said police have initiated the procedure to seal Gautam’s medicine manufacturing company, “Nectar Herbs and Drugs” in Kotdwar.According to the police, the first lead about the interstate racket came when the crime branch team on April 23 arrested Mohammad Shoaib (28), and Mohan Kumar Jha (40), with 10 remdesivir vials that they were trying to sell to a decoy customer outside Batra Hospital in south Delhi. After their arrest, the two told the police that they got the vials from two others, Manish Goyal and Pushkar Chanderkant Pakhale, who were subsequently arrested on April 25 from Delhi’s Yamuna Vihar with 12 more vials of remdesivir. The duo disclosed that their main supplier was one Sadhna Sharma and she was arrested the following day from Yamuna Vihar itself. A total of 160 vials of fake remdesivir injections were recovered from her, the DCP said.“Sharma underwent treatment for Covid-19 at a private hospital in Krishna Nagar. Sharma needed remdesivir injections for her treatment but could not get one because of its scarcity. In her efforts to obtain an injection for herself, Sharma came in contact with Saini and joined his illegal trade,” said Bhardwaj.“Prime facie, it appears that except Sharma, the other four arrested persons did not know that the injections were fake. Sharma told us that the fake injections were coming from Uttarakhand through Saini,” Bharadwaj said.On April 27, Saini was arrested from his home in Haridwar from where one packing machine, 3,000 empty vials for packing fake remdesivir injections, and packing materials of azithromycin were seized. During his interrogation, Saini pointed to Gautam, who was arrested on April 29 from Roorkee. His company premises in Kotdwar was also searched. The computer on which fake labels were prepared and 16 fake remdesivir injections were recovered, the DCP said.AIIMS director Randeep Guleria earlier this week asked doctors to exercise caution while prescribing remdesivir to patients and said the drug being used to treat Covid-19 is not a “magic bullet”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/7-held-for-running-factory-producing-fake-remdesivir-already-sold-2-000-injections-indelhi-101619807928828.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body assures HC of Covid preparedness||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in its affidavit filed in the Bombay high court (HC) has informed that it has more than 21,000 beds in dedicated Covid hospitals (DCH) and dedicated Covid healthcare centres (DCHC) in the city, of which more than 4,000 beds were vacant. The affidavit, filed in response to the allegations of mismanagement of Covid-19 treatment facilities during the second wave by state and civic authorities, also stated the civic body has sufficient supply of Remdesivir and oxygen for treating Covid-19 patients. BMC also said that it has floated tenders to install oxygen generation plants at 12 hospitals under it to resolve the issue of shortage. BMC added that the number of Covid-19 testing had gone down due to lockdown restrictions as there were lesser people outside. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by city-based lawyer Sneha Marjadi through advocates Simil Purohit and Arshil Shah, was informed by senior advocate Anil Sakhare for BMC that as per court directions, it had filed an affidavit enumerating the various measures initiated by it to tackle the surge in Covid-19 cases during the second wave. The affidavit filed by Dr Mangala Gomare, in-charge executive health officer, addressed the various issues pertaining to mismanagement raised in the PIL and stated it has listed the same under the heads of bed management, supply and availability of Remdesivir, supply and availability of oxygen, Covid-19 testing and crematoriums. With regards to beds, the affidavit states that BMC has full-time ward-wise war rooms to inform people of availability of beds in each ward. On receiving calls, a team visits the caller and if needed advices hospitalisation and calls for an ambulance. It further states that as on April 27, the total bed capacity in all DHC and DCHC was 21,706, of which 17,021 were occupied and 4,685 were vacant; thus, the civic body was well equipped for admission of Covid patients. The affidavit stated that it has sufficient supply of Remdesivir. BMC on April 27 had a stock of 13,110 vials of the antiviral drug whereas its requirement for a seven-day period was around 12,033, leading to some excess which was then sent to Pune (500 vials) and Thane civic bodies (1,100). BMC also said there are a total of 72 crematoriums for Hindus, 70 for Muslims and 8 for others. Among the 72 crematoriums, 14 are electric furnaces while 17 are PNG furnaces. The civic body also added that one of the PNG furnaces run by a private trust at Walkeshwar was not functional, and that it had asked the trust to get it functional soon. It also added that it will install air pollution control system in private crematoriums under its jurisdiction if the need arises. With regards to Covid-19 testing, the affidavit stated that 5.5 million tests were conducted since the beginning of last year, of which 3,816,386 (69%) were RT-PCR tests and 1,727,116 (31%) were antigen tests. BMC has submitted that in April, till the date of filing affidavit, 1,172,559 tests were conducted — the highest monthly testing count so far. “However, from the day of strict lockdown, from April 22, testing has gone down to some extent. Since testing at crowded places like malls, railway stations, markets etc. has gone down, this has affected average testing per day. Normally, the number of testing reported on every Monday is less than average, due to weekly off to the staff of testing labs and weekly maintenance of machinery used for testing in these labs,” stated the affidavit.While the HC on Thursday sought details from BMC about fire audits of hospitals and their compliances, it will hear the PIL next on May 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-assures-hc-of-covid-preparedness-101619807868728.html
01-05-2021||Delhi||State has failed’: Sombre note in Delhi high court hearing, after petition dies||: “The State has failed us,” the Delhi high court observed on Friday, after it was informed in the middle of a hearing that a petitioner, who sought the court’s help three days ago to secure an intensive care unit (ICU) bed, had succumbed to Covid-19. “The State has failed in its fundamental obligation to protect the basic fundamental right -- i.e, the right to life as contained under Article 21,” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli told the teary relatives of the petitioner.The petitioner, Atul Kumar Sharma, was admitted in Maharaja Agrasen Hospital’s casualty wing, and approached the high court on Tuesday to direct the state authorities to allocate him an ICU bed. The hospital told the court that it was taking care of the patient but had no ICU beds free. The high court had said it couldn’t consider an individual case but appealed to all hospitals and authorities to make arrangements. On Friday, when the bench was again appealing to counsels to consider the petitioner’s case, advocate Amit Sharma told the court that his brother-in-law Atul had expired. He burst into tears and said, “I have failed…”The bench stopped him. “No Mr Sharma, you have not failed. The State has failed.” Silence descended among the judges, counsels and over 150 participants who had joined the video conferencing hearing.The emotional exchange capped an eventful day in court where senior lawyers broke down and pleaded for help, the state government counsel expressed helplessness, and judges said it was getting tough for them. “It is the complete failure of the State that everything including hospital beds and medical oxygen is in short supply. It is a war and not a battle,” the court remarked earlier in the day after Bar Council of Delhi (BCD) chairman Ramesh Gupta, broke down while mourning his colleagues who died of Covid-19.Gupta, who was appearing in a petition seeking medical facilities for lawyers, submitted that a private hospital agreed to treat the lawyers but didn’t have ICU beds. “We want my lords to come to our rescue. We do not want to criticise anyone or any government. We have ₹4-5 crore in our funds and will arrange more from lawyers. We only want my lords to help us. Sir kuch karo aap (Sir please do something).”Delhi government’s standing counsel Santosh Kumar Tripathi also became emotional while informing the court about a colleague’s demise.”Daily we are losing our dear ones,” he said.The court empathised. “We understand your pain. We are going through the same. This surge of Covid has such a huge number...nobody could have imagined that this will attack us in this way... Finances are not the issue here. The problem is infrastructure….The problem is we don’t have doctors, nurses, attendants, oxygen and medicines. It is a complete failure of the state,” the bench said.“It’s getting tougher for us,” the bench said.The court criticised the “hotchpotch situation” in Delhi and compared it to the way Mumbai was handling its infection load. “In Bombay what the municipal corporation has done is, you’re asked to register if you have Covid, and then they go door-to-door with bed and facilities. But we cannot do that in Delhi. It’s too late to devise a system now. Its complete hotchpotch. Central government… Delhi government….municipal corporations not one but three…Politically different parties.. Complete hotchpotch,” the bench remarked.The court directed authorities to immediately release 170 oxygen concentrators seized by Delhi Police from the black market . It also recalled an order passed earlier this week, where it had directed the Delhi government to take over a refiller plant. Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, said supplies were being affected due to this and several stakeholders asked him to bring back the vendor. During the proceedings, advocate Himanshu Dagar, representing Gandhi Nursing Home, told the court that 95 people were on the death bed because the hospital didn’t receive a single oxygen cylinder in the last 48 hours. He said that the hospital suffered two deaths on Thursday and had no oxygen cylinders at present.“We are at the complete mercy of God,” he said. To this, Mehra expressed helplessness and said that problems still existed in the supply system despite allocations being made.The court directed the Delhi government to sort out the issue and also issued notice to the two refillers assigned to the hospital. It asked the government to explain why the supply wasn’t done. The bench asked the Delhi government to look into the possibility of converting SUVs into ambulances and whether buses could be used for carrying oxygen cylinders instead of ambulances.It also asked the administration to look into scaling up Rapid Antigen Test in addition to RT-PCR tests through mobile vans for hospital staffs and using hotels for health workers so that their family members are not infected.The matter will be now heard on Saturday.The court was hearing a plea by lawyer-petitioner Rakesh Malhotra, who along with several hospitals, had sought directions to the Centre and the Delhi government for better facilities and continuous supply of oxygen in the hospitals and nursing homes of the Capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/state-has-failed-sombre-note-in-delhi-high-court-hearing-after-petition-dies-101619807750343.html
01-05-2021||Delhi||Centre has a ‘special duty’ towards people of Delhi, Supreme Court says||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Centre to urgently consider Delhi’s enhanced medical oxygen requirement in light of the fourth wave of Covid-19 in the city, observing that it has a “special duty” to the people of the national capital. “Delhi represents the nation. There is hardly anyone ethnically Delhiite. Forget that somebody (Delhi government) wasn’t able to lift oxygen, but you have to push through because you have to protect lives. You have a special responsibility towards Delhi as the Centre,” a bench, presided over by Justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. The remarks came after Mehta, representing the Union government, pointed out that all the states were required to gather their resources to lift oxygen from the points of procurement, but the Delhi government failed to do so because it did not have enough tankers to carry the oxygen. The law officer made this statement as the bench, which also included justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, heard a public interest litigation registered suo motu (on its own) by the top court to manage various issues arising out of the second Covid-19 wave in the country and iron out issues between states and Centre at the national level. The court also asked Centre to consider increasing Delhi’s medical oxygen quota from the current 490MT, which has been a repeated demand of the Delhi government, and ensure that supply reaches the Capital. The allotted 490MT, the bench said, has not reached the Capital even once because of logistical constraints. “Please give them 200MT straightaway and make sure it arrives there. The Centre has a very valuable responsibility when the citizens of Delhi are concerned. Otherwise between today and Monday, we will have 500 deaths on our hands if we don’t do anything. I’m shaken. Please, do something. You have to do it,” justice Chandrachud told Mehta. While the S-G retorted that the death of 500 people could not be attributed to the oxygen shortages, the bench said the Centre’s role was not confined to allocation of oxygen, and that it also has a “very important role” in arranging for tankers for their transportation. “We will place your submission at the highest [pedestal], and we will accept Delhi’s inability, but we are not here on recrimination. We are not criticising you at all. But you should also know Delhi represents people from the entire country. The Centre has a peculiar role. You are the national government, and it is the national capital,” the bench told Mehta. “According to you, Delhi has not been able to lift [oxygen], but we cannot tell people that your parents or children or spouse cannot be helped because of this situation. This is a commitment we owe to the citizens and people who live here and not to different levels of government. You have to give us the solution,” it told the S-G, who assured the bench that the Centre will look into all the issues and will try to resolve the matter. The matter will now be heard on May 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-has-a-special-duty-towards-people-of-delhi-supreme-court-says-101619807688797.html
01-05-2021||Ranchi||Over 10 lakh tests, 1 lakh positive cases, 1400 deaths in April alone||The terrible ferocity of the second wave of covid-19 infection across Jharkhand can well be assessed by looking back to the growth of cases and fatalities in April during which over 1 lakh cases and more than 1400 deaths were reported alone.The state, which had discovered its first 1 lakh cases in seven months between March 31-October 27 last year, detected the same number of cases in just one month in April this year. However, the mortality growth is very disturbing as the state recorded even more number of deaths in April than what it had together reported in the first 12 months of pandemic’s outbreak.While Jharkhand registered a total of 1,113 covid-19 deaths till March 31 this year, it added another 1,427 deaths in just 29 days in April.According to state health department’s bulletin, Jharkhand discovered 1,03,249 cases and reported 1,427 deaths between April 1-29. It, however, saw 48,770 recoveries during this period. These cases came after testing 10.02 lakh samples with positivity rate stood at 10% (out of 100 samples tested, 10 returned positive) indicating greater spread of the infection.The growth of cases broke all previous records in turbulent April, The state reported highest ever single day spike in positive cases and mortality on April 28 when 8075 cases were discovered and 149 deaths were registered. Till April 29, the state has 55,877 active cases.Jharkhand during last year peak had discovered 3331 cases on August 31 and that too after holding a special testing drive on campaign mode. After April 20 this year, the state has been discovering more than 5000 cases on daily basis.Jharkhand’s capital Ranchi, which is the hardest hit by the pandemic and stood at the top of the covid list, alone discovered over 32,000 cases and registered 548 deaths out of the 1 lakh cases and 1427 deaths reported from across the state.According to April 30 morning bulletin, the state has thus far reported a total of 227,450 cases including 55,877 active cases, 169,033 recoveries and 2540 deaths.Seven days covid-19 growth rate in the state was 2.10% against the national average of 1.18%.The state’s all parameters on covid-19 stood poor in comparison to the national average. On April 29, the seven-day covid-19 growth rate in the state was 2.55% against the national average of 1.36%. While state’s seven days doubling period was 27.52 days, the national average was 51.48 days. Jharkhand’s recovery rate was 74.31% against the national 82.10%. The state’s mortality rate stood at 1.11% against the national average of 1.10%.The rising number of cases in the state has put the health care and services in crisis causing much trouble to patients, many of them had died in want of adequate and timely treatment.The state is facing acute shortage of oxygen supported beds and life saving drugs particularly remdesivir injection meant for covid-19 treatment.Many Jharkhand parliamentarians and legislators have released constituency funds for meeting the growing demand of oxygen cylinders and medicines.BOXWeekly progress of positive cases and deathsApril 1-7: 6707 /38April 8-14: 16,884 /141April 15-21: 29,564 /317April 22-28: 44,133 /786||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-10-lakh-tests-1-lakh-positive-cases-1400-deaths-in-april-alone-101619799648309.html
01-05-2021||Other||Hiran murder: Arrested Mumbai cops, bookie part of Vaze’s larger conspiracy, says NIA||Mumbai Police officers Sunil Mane and Riyazuddin Kazi, former cop Vinayak Shinde and cricket bookie Naresh Gor were part of main accused Sachin Vaze’s alleged larger conspiracy to eliminate Thane auto parts dealer Mansukh Hiran, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) has claimed. The federal agency made the claim while opposing Gor’s bail plea on Friday and stated that the SIM cards used by Vaze were provided by the bookie. Also, the mobile phone through which Hiran was called was purchased by Vaze and the SIM in it was provided by Gor, said NIA. The federal agency further claimed that if released, Gor may jump the bail and tamper with the evidence. Gor has approached the special NIA court for bail, claiming that he was never contacted by Vaze, an assistant Mumbai Police inspector, who is under suspension. Gor in his bail plea filed through law firm, Diamondwala & Co, has claimed that he has been made a scapegoat by the investigating agency at the instance of Vaze. He has also claimed that he was not aware of any conspiracy or the purpose for which the SIM cards were going to be used. The 31-year-old cricket bookie was arrested by the Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad on March 21, when it was investigating Hiran’s murder case. Later, his custody was handed over to NIA, as the federal agency took over the case from ATS. According to NIA, Hiran’s murder was linked to the explosive-laden Scorpio found parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s south Mumbai residence Antilia. On February 25, the Scorpio was found abandoned near Antilia with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threatening note, and a case was registered with Gamdevi police station on the same day. Vaze was originally investigating the case, but was removed after reports emerged of his links with Hiran, who was in possession of the SUV and had reported it stolen on February 17. Hiran was found dead in a creek on March 5. It subsequently emerged that Vaze had borrowed the car in November and returned it on February 5. NIA took over the explosives case on March 8 and Vaze was arrested on March 13. The federal agency took over the murder case on March 24 and Vaze was named the main accused in both the cases. To contain the damage, the Maharashtra government transferred police commissioner Param Bir Singh for his alleged management of the case. He subsequently wrote a letter to the chief minister alleging that the then home minister Anil Deshmukh had instructed Vaze and some other Mumbai Police officers to extort ₹100 crore from bars and restaurants, hookah parlours. When no action was forthcoming, Singh approached the courts. The Bombay high court eventually asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct a preliminary enquiry into the matter, prompting Deshmukh’s resignation. Accordingly, CBI conducted an inquiry and registered an offence against Deshmukh on April 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mansukh-hiran-murder-arrested-mumbai-cops-bookie-part-of-sachin-vaze-s-larger-conspiracy-says-nia-101619787287739.html
01-05-2021||World||In Mexico, ancient Maya cave reveals mysterious painted hand prints||Dozens of black and red hand prints cover the walls of a cave in Mexico, believed to be associated with a coming-of-age ritual of the ancient Maya, according to an archeologist who has explored and studied the subterranean cavern.The 137 prints, mostly made by the hands of children, are more than 1,200 years old, which would date them near the end of the ancient Maya's classical zenith, when major cities across present-day southern Mexico and Central America thrived amid major human achievements in math and art.The cave is located near the northern tip of Mexico's Yucatan peninsula, where the towering pyramids of urban centers like Uxmal and Chichen Itza still stand, and lies some 33 feet (10 meters) below a large ceiba tree, which the Maya consider sacred.Archeologist Sergio Grosjean argues that the hand prints were likely made by children as they entered puberty, due to a analysis of their size, with the colors providing a clue to their meaning."They imprinted their hands on the walls in black... which symbolized death, but that didn't mean they were going to be killed, but rather death from a ritual perspective," he said."Afterwards, these children imprinted their hands in red, which was a reference to war or life," he added.Other Mayan artifacts found in the cave include a carved face and six painted relief sculptures, which date from between 800-1,000 A.D., a time when severe drought struck the region and may have contributed to the classical Maya's sudden abandonment of major cities.While the first Mayan settlements date back nearly 4,000 years, there were still large centers when Spanish conquerors arrived in the early 1500s.Several million Maya continue to live in communities scattered across southeastern Mexican states like Chiapas and Campeche, in addition to Guatemala and Belize.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-mexico-ancient-maya-cave-reveals-mysterious-painted-hand-prints-101619888487357.html
01-05-2021||World||More perilous phase ahead for Biden after his first 100 days||Joe Biden's presidency is entering a new and more perilous phase where he is almost certain to face stiffer Republican opposition and also have difficulty keeping Democrats united as he pushes for $4 trillion in additional spending on programs that have echoes of the New Deal and the Great Society.Past the 100-day mark, with positive approval ratings and a far-reaching, nearly $2 trillion Covid-19 relief bill to show for it, Biden is now facing far more uncertain terrain. The president is racing against the calendar, governing with the most slender of majorities on Capitol Hill while knowing that historically the party that holds the White House loses seats in midterm elections, which would cost Democrats control of Congress after the 2022 vote.His next 100 days will feature his first foreign trip but will be dominated by his push to pass his expansive plans on infrastructure and children, families and education, which would expand the social safety net for children, increase taxes on the wealthy and fund projects that his critics say are infrastructure in name only.Overall, his approach is less about stimulating the economy than stabilizing it over the long term with middle-class jobs, and proving that a democracy, even a bitterly divided one, remains capable of doing big things.“In another era when our democracy was tested, Franklin Roosevelt reminded us: In America, we do our part,” Biden said in his address to Congress on Wednesday night. “That’s all I’m asking. That we all do our part. And if we do, then we will meet the central challenge of the age by proving that democracy is durable and strong.”Biden has made personal overtures to Republicans in Congress, but the efforts were aimed at least as much at Republican voters, who have been far more supportive of his plans. A nod to bipartisanship is also important to reassure moderate Democrats such as Sen. Joe Manchin of West Virginia that the president is at least trying to win over Republicans, even if in the end he might push ahead without them.His task may be easier given the hopeful signs of a strong economic recovery, with an annualized growth rate of 6.4% during the first three months of the year. With the relief bill passed, Biden’s economic team is now able to focus on structural issues such as income inequality, systemic racism and shortfalls in public investment.“These were ideas that were germinating pre-pandemic,” said Heather Boushey, a member of the White House Council of Economic Advisers. “It feels like these are things that we’ve known we needed to do.”Several aides are now focused on distributing billions of dollars from the relief package for housing assistance, school upgrades and state and local government aid.The administration also wants to measure the results of the spending to show Congress that its relief programs are succeeding.One example: The expanded child tax credit is of critical importance because Biden has proposed extending the one-year increase through 2025 as part of his families plan.“We know that implementing the enhanced child tax credit right is critical not just to cutting child poverty this year but to showing it can be done well so that it builds support for extending it on and on,” said Gene Sperling, named by Biden to oversee the relief programs.With such expensive and wide-ranging programs, Biden has not shied away from comparisons between his own ambitious legislative agenda and those championed by a pair of his Democratic predecessors, Franklin D. Roosevelt and Lyndon B. Johnson. When the $1.9 trillion Covid relief bill was passed in March, Biden gathered with Harris and a few senior staff members in the Roosevelt Room to watch the vote.Biden recalled that it was in that room where, as vice president, he and President Back Obama watched the final passage of the Affordable Care Act some 11 years earlier. But he remembered that room being packed with people, something impossible to do during the pandemic.“If we didn’t have Covid, we’d probably all be raising a glass together but instead this is what we are doing,” Biden said, according to two White House officials who were not authorized to speak publicly about private moments.The meaning was clear: Even in a moment of triumph, the pandemic was ever-present. But now, with virus cases falling and vaccinations spreading, Biden must guide the nation toward reopening from Covid-19 lockdowns.He took a cautious step Tuesday by highlighting changing guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on outdoor mask-wearing. More fundamental steps are ahead as Biden tries to guide the country toward resuming normal activities, fully reopening offices and schools and safely fulfilling pent-up demand for travel, dining and entertainment.To this point, the public has largely gone along. Gallup polling shows Biden’s average approval rating over his first three months in office is 56%, higher than Donald Trump’s at 41% but slightly lower than Barack Obama’s at 63%.But Biden fares less well on some specific issues such as immigration and the border. West Wing officials were caught off guard by the rise in the number of migrants, many of them children, streaming across the U.S.-Mexico border, creating a humanitarian upheaval and handing Republicans a political cudgel.“The border and immigration has been a huge challenge, and it will continue to be in the next 100 days and beyond,” said David Axelrod, who was a senior advisor to Obama. “The president’s desire to confront issues like gun violence and voting rights may continue to outstrip the capacity a bare Senate majority allows, which may anger his progressive base.”Biden has counseled patience to some of the left, stressing the importance of sequencing legislation, prioritizing the infrastructure plan before turning to thornier issues such as immigration, voting rights, guns and policing. The president blitzed through executive actions on those issues but will likely need cooperation with Congress for any meaningful action.That won't be easy. The Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, derided Biden's agenda as a “multitrillion-dollar shopping list that was neither designed nor intended to earn bipartisan buy-in, a blueprint for giving Washington even more money and even more power to micromanage American families.”There has been some bipartisan momentum on policing after the guilty verdict in the killing of George Floyd, a Black Man, who died under the knee of Derek Chauvin, a former Minneapolis police officer. But gridlock threatens other issues, with rising chatter from Democrats on Capitol Hill that a change to the filibuster may be needed.“Things will begin to percolate on parallel tracks,” said White House senior adviser Steve Ricchetti. “There is a lot of work on immigration and police reform and criminal justice reform being done in the committees and in the White House, we’re engaged in serious, healthy dialogue. And then we’ll see what’s ready to go and when.”But Biden will also have to turn his focus to international affairs.The defining relationship will be with China, which Biden invokes as an economic rival that can only be defeated if democracy is repaired at home. He has so far largely continued Trump's tough approach and maintained most tariffs.He has ordered urgent help to India, a nation reeling from Covid-19. In a jam on Iran sanctions, the president will be forced to choose which Trump-era sanctions to lift in a bid to coax Tehran back into compliance with the its nuclear deal.In June, he is scheduled to make his first trip overseas as commander in chief, heading to Britain for an economic summit and then to Brussels to pledge support to NATO, the military alliance built as a bulwark to Moscow’s aggression.And, while not finalized, negotiations are being held to add a third stop: a summit, elsewhere in Europe, with Russia’s Vladimir Putin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/more-perilous-phase-ahead-for-biden-after-his-first-100-days-101619885977274.html
01-05-2021||World||Roger Stone says he took ‘not a dime’ from anyone seeking Trump pardon||Republican operative Roger Stone denied asking a political ally of U.S. Representative Matt Gaetz for $250,000 in exchange for attempting to secure a pardon in a child sex-trafficking and identity-theft case.The Daily Beast reported Thursday that Stone offered to help Joel Greenberg, a former Florida tax collector who’s expected to plead guilty this month, get a pardon from President Donald Trump before he left office. The pardon was never granted.The report was based on alleged text messages between Stone and Greenberg, as well as an alleged written confession by Greenberg saying that he and Gaetz, a Florida Republican and Trump ally, paid for sex with women as well as with a 17-year-old girl.Stone, who was himself pardoned by Trump after being convicted of lying to Congress and tampering with witnesses in an effort to protect the president during the Russia probe, said in a text message late Friday that his communications with Greenberg were “clipped out of context.”“I told Greenberg he would need a lawyer (I am not a lawyer) and that he should be prepared to wire a $250,000 retainer to the right lawyer if he could find one,” Stone said. “I made no effort whatsoever to secure a pardon for Mr. Greenberg and I took not a dime from him or anyone else seeking a pardon.”The Daily Beast report quotes Stone saying to Greenberg in a Jan. 13 text, “I hope you are prepared to wire me $250,000 because I am feeling confident.”Gaetz has repeatedly denied wrongdoing. His outside public relations firm, Logan Circle Group, said in a statement Saturday about the Daily Beast report that details of the criminal case against Greenberg are evidence of his ability to deceive and distort the truth. The firm pointed to an April report on Greenberg’s case by Politico, including federal claims that he created a bogus Facebook account to falsely accuse a teacher of having sex with a child.“Congressman Gaetz has never paid for sex, nor has he had sex with a 17 year old as an adult,” Logan Circle Group said. “Politico has reported Mr. Greenberg’s threats to make false accusations against others, and while The Daily Beast’s story contains a lot of confessions from Mr. Greenberg, it does not add anything of substance, and certainly no evidence for the wild and false claims about Rep. Gaetz.”Greenberg’s lawyer, Fritz Scheller, didn’t immediately respond to a phone call or email seeking comment on Saturday.Around the time Greenberg’s plan to plead guilty was revealed in court on April 8, Gaetz hired one of Trump’s criminal defense lawyers, Marc Mukasey, as well as a new spokesperson and political analyst, Logan Circle Group’s Erin Elmore, who was once a contestant on Trump’s “The Apprentice” reality TV show.Stone said Greenberg was implicating others because “desperate men often tell lies.”“I have seen no substantiation or actual proof of any of the wild accusations he has made against Congressman Gaetz,” Stone said.At the April hearing, Greenberg agreed with prosecutors that his case “should resolve by guilty plea” at a hearing set for May 15 before U.S. District Judge Gregory A. Presnell in Orlando.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/roger-stone-says-he-took-not-a-dime-from-anyone-seeking-trump-pardon-101619888466737.html
01-05-2021||World||'Reverse damage done by Trump': US Congress members write to Biden supporting India's TRIPS waiver proposal||Supporting India's proposal seeking a TRIPS waiver at the World Trade Organization for Covid-19 vaccines and therapeutics, 108 members of the House of Representatives sent a letter to President Joe Biden saying unless countries co-operate and share medical technology, there will not be a sufficient supply of vaccines, diagnostics and treatments. The letter has been signed by Pramila Jayapal, Raja Krishnamoorthi, Ro Khanna, Karen Bass, Brad Sherman and others.The demand found support among Democratic Senators too as 10 of them, including Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren, Tammy Baldwin, Sherrod Brown, Richard Blumenthal, Chris Murphy, Jeff Merkley, Ed Markey, Chris Van Hollen and Raphael Warnock, wrote to Biden urging him to support the proposal of the temporary TRIPS waiver."Our globalised economy cannot recover if only parts of the world are vaccinated. In the end, the TRIPS waiver will help us all. This temporary TRIPS waiver is key for countries to manufacture necessary supplies of COVID19 treatments and vaccines. The current flexibilities included in TRIPS are ill-suited to an urgent, global crisis. TRIPS allows countries to negotiate compulsory licenses, a flexibility that was reaffirmed in the Doha Declaration. However, compulsory licenses must be negotiated by each WTO member country and for each patent or other protection applying to each individual product," the letter said.India, South Africa to make fresh push for waiver of vaccine patents at WTOThe waiver was proposed by India and South Africa in October 2020 before vaccination against Covid-19 started. The proposal sought the lifting of certain intellectual property barriers so that countries can locally manufacture vaccines and therapeutics. The Trump administration at that time blocked the proposal."This temporary TRIPS waiver is key for countries to manufacture necessary supplies of COVID19 treatments and vaccines. The current flexibilities included in TRIPS are ill-suited to an urgent, global crisis. TRIPS allows countries to negotiate compulsory licenses, a flexibility that was reaffirmed in the Doha Declaration," the letter said.However, compulsory licenses must be negotiated by each WTO member country and for each patent or other protection applying to each individual product, the signatories said.Though there is the Covid-19 Vaccines Global Access (COVAX) initiative, which promises equitable distribution of vaccines and two billion vaccine doses t developing countries by the end of 2021, the amount would cover only 20 per cent of all participating countries, the congressmen said."As Covid-19 ravages the globe, we know that any vaccine or therapeutic pharmaceutical corporations develop with public money is 100% ineffective for those that cannot access it. We need to make public policy choices, both in the U.S. and at the WTO, that put lives first. Your Administration has an incredible opportunity to reverse the damage done by the Trump Administration to our nation's global reputation and restore America's public health leadership on the world stage," they wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/reverse-damage-done-by-trump-congressmen-write-to-biden-on-india-s-trips-waiver-proposal-101619888094611.html
01-05-2021||World||Turkey adds cryptocurrency exchanges to terror funding rules||A presidential decree published Saturday added cryptocurrency exchanges to a list of firms covered by Turkey’s terror financing and money laundering.The move came after a ban on using cryptocurrencies for making payments, which was introduced in response to claims that such transactions are too risky, took effect in Turkey on Friday.The presidential decree makes “crypto asset service providers” responsible for seeing their assets are not used illegally. The decree immediately went into force with its publication in Turkey’s Official Gazette.Turkish authorities last month launched fraud investigations into two cryptocurrency exchanges, Thodex and Vebitcoin. Six suspects linked to the Thodex probe were jailed Friday pending trial.The investigation into Thodex, which handled daily trades of hundreds of millions of dollars, initially led to the arrests of 83 people after customers complained of not being able to access their funds. Interpol issued a detention warrant for the firm’s CEO on Turkey’s behalf.Turks have been increasingly attracted by cryptocurrencies as protection against the decline of the lira and double-digit inflation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/turkey-adds-cryptocurrency-exchanges-to-terror-funding-rules-101619865537509.html
01-05-2021||World||Pakistan to seek debt restructuring of CPEC power projects||Islamabad is set to seek debt restructuring of USD 3 billion for the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) energy projects and request China to consider restructuring of the repayments for 10 to 12 years in a bid to eliminate the need for increasing power tariff in the country.This is part of the Imran Khan government's proposals to minimize tariff increase requirements under a recently approved debt management plan, The Express Tribune reported."The country is scheduled to make PKR 435 billion or nearly USD 3 billion principal repayments to 12 Chinese independent power producers in three years," Special Assistant to the PM on Power and Petroleum Tabish Gohar told The Express Tribune."The government will request China to consider restructuring of the USD 3 billion repayments for 10 to 12 years, which in return will reduce the tariff increase requirements by PRK 1.50 per unit."According to the Pakistani daily, China has set up two dozen power plants under the CPEC and the repayments of the Chinese debt are included in the electricity tariffs. "We do not want to embarrass our friend, but the fact is that half of the Independent Power Producers (IPPs') payments are related to Chinese power projects," the Special Assistant added.Sources told The Express Tribune that the Pakistan government had also earlier made an attempt to renegotiate the IPPs deals but China declined to reopen them.Amid lack of progress on several CPEC projects, subtle signs of unease have emerged between the two countries over the future direction and funding of mega projects, under increasing scrutiny of media and the public.According to a report published in Modern Diplomacy, the outcome of recent meetings between the two countries reveals significant scaling down of Pakistan's expectations regarding the inclusion of more projects under CPEC phase II.Fabien Baussart in an opinion piece for Modern Diplomacy last month had said, "While the country has for long portrayed USD 6.8 billion Main Line-I project to be the main artery of the Pakistan Railways and tried to convince China for financing the project, the Chinese side has tried to avoid any commitment for funding."Pakistan has been unable to secure any favourable consideration including the concessionary loan at an interest rate of one per cent, said Baussart while adding that China is only willing to offer a mix of commercial and concessional loans to fund the rail project backed by suitable guarantees by Pakistan.In 2015, China announced an economic project in Pakistan worth USD 46 billion. With the CPEC, Beijing aims to expand its influence in Pakistan and across Central and South Asia in order to counter the influence of the United States and India.The CPEC would link Pakistan's southern Gwadar port (626 kilometres west of Karachi) in Balochistan on the Arabian Sea to China's western Xinjiang region. It also includes plans to create road, rail, and oil pipeline links to improve connectivity between China and the Middle East.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-to-seek-debt-restructuring-of-cpec-power-projects-101619869285818.html
01-05-2021||World||Nepal reports high Covid-19 cases, govt says hospital beds shortage||The Nepali government on Saturday reported a record spike in Covid-19 cases with the second wave of coronavirus hitting the Himalayan country."A total of 5,763 Covid-19 cases were confirmed in the last 24 hours," Nepal's Ministry of Health and Population said on Saturday. The last record of highest coronavirus cases in a day was reported on October 21 last year, when the Nepali government reported 5,743 cases.Nepal, which had reported cases as low as 47 on March 6, had started to see a rise in the cases in late March. But the cases have been surging rapidly in the last two weeks. In the last week, the number of cases more than doubled from 2,619 on April 24 to over 5,700 on Saturday.Along with rising cases, hospitals are running out of beds which prompted the health ministry to issue a stern warning on Friday that the cases were rising at the scale that the health system was not able to cope with."Such a situation has arisen now that the patients cannot be provided care at the hospitals as they are running out of beds," the ministry said in a press statement on Friday.This is obviously true in the case of Kathmandu-based Sukraraj Tropical and Infectious Disease Hospital where patients exceeding the number of hospital beds have been admitted."We have a total of 60 beds in our hospital but we are providing treatment to 78 patients at the moment," Sagar Kumar Rajbhandari, director of the hospital, told Xinhua on Saturday. "We have five beds in the emergency ward but there are 18 patients there including in the adjoining corridor waiting for the occupied beds to become vacant."In order to control the surging cases, the Nepali government has enforced a lockdown in the Kathmandu valley starting from April 29 for two weeks while similar measures are being adopted in many other parts of the country.Meanwhile, the Covid-19 Crisis Management Centre headed by Nepal's Deputy Prime Minister Ishawar Pokharel on Friday recommended to the cabinet to suspend international flights amid the coronavirus crisis, according to Nepali media reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-reports-high-covid-19-cases-govt-says-hospital-beds-shortage-101619878490134.html
01-05-2021||World||Iran nuclear talks make progress and will resume Friday: Russia||Indirect talks between Iran and the United States on bringing both sides fully back into compliance with the 2015 nuclear deal are making steady progress and will resume on Friday, the head of Russia's delegation said on Saturday.The talks began last month in Vienna with the remaining parties to the deal - Iran, Russia, China, France, Britain and Germany - meeting in the basement of a luxury hotel, and the United States based in another hotel across the street. Iran has refused to hold direct meetings with U.S. officials.Washington pulled out of the deal in 2018 under President Donald Trump and reimposed sanctions against Tehran. Iran responded as of 2019 by breaching many of the deal's limits on its nuclear activities."We should not expect breakthroughs in the days to come," Russia's ambassador to the U.N. nuclear watchdog, Mikhail Ulyanov, told reporters after a meeting of the remaining parties that wrapped up the third round of talks. He was the only official to address reporters."We need simply to continue diplomatic, day-to-day work, and we have all the reasons to expect that the outcome, (the) final outcome, will be successful and it will come quite soon, in a few weeks," he said, adding that talks will reconvene on Friday.The break in talks was widely expected as diplomats said officials from several countries are also involved in the Group of Seven foreign ministers' meeting in London that begins on Monday and ends on Wednesday.Russia is generally one of the more optimistic voices at the talks. U.S. National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan said on Friday the talks were in "an unclear place", meaning it was uncertain whether they would lead to an agreement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-nuclear-talks-make-progress-and-will-resume-friday-russia-101619883094197.html
01-05-2021||World||New Jersey teacher suspended after profane Floyd comments to class||A New Jersey high school teacher has been suspended with pay after profanity-laced comments to students in his class about George Floyd, the man killed by a Minneapolis police officer.A recording aired by WNBC-TV shows Dickinson High School science teacher Howard Zlotkin talking about Floyd and Black Lives Matter during what was supposed to be a climate change discussion in a landscape and design Zoom class.Zlotkin, who is white, is heard to say people are “whining and crying about Black Lives Matter," and he then refers to Floyd with a profanity as a “criminal" who “got arrested and he got killed because he wouldn’t comply." Another profanity is heard as he continues that Floyd is being treated as a “hero."The video and one taken the next day also included a profanity directed at a student and a vulgar gesture, WNBC reported. The student said Zlotkin grew irate when she and three other students challenged his position, and the four were told to write an essay on “why Black lives should matter” — an assignment not given to other students.Superintendent Franklin Walker told NJ.com that the language used was “unacceptable.” He said the district is investigating the situation and that police have also been notified “because some of it could be at the same level as a hate crime.”“The comments that were made were very biased and he shouldn’t be having that kind of discussion with the children — that had nothing to do with the subject matter in the classroom,” Walker said. “The position that he put the children in certainly was a very uncomfortable one by doing and saying those kinds of things.”The teachers’ union declined comment until it has more information, union president Ron Greco said.Jersey City Public Schools said in a statement late Thursday that the school had been taking statements from students “before proceeding with disciplinary actions" until video from the second day's class surfaced.“The teacher will not have access to students or the school as we proceed," spokesperson Norma Fernandez said in the statement quoted on WNBC. “”We are appalled by the statements, profanity, disrespect and treatment of students.”Zlotkin, who has been at Dickinson High School for 20 years, has also been suspended with pay from his adjunct professor position at Hudson County Community College, NJ.com reported. Spokeswoman Jennifer Christopher said “offensive and derogatory language” violates the college’s anti-harassment policy and professional conduct policy.A message seeking comment was sent Saturday to Zlotkin, who declined comment to the New York Times, citing the investigation, but calling the footage a “very well-edited sound bite" and said he would “love one day to give my side of the story.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-jersey-teacher-suspended-after-profane-floyd-comments-to-class-101619884777881.html
01-05-2021||World||US clears sale of six more P-8I aircraft for India||The United States has cleared the potential sale of six additional P-8I maritime patrol aircraft for India, worth $2.42 billion. The Defense Security Cooperation Agency (DSCA), which handles these sales, notified the US congress of the clearance of the deal by the state department on Friday.India already has a fleet of P-8I patrol aircraft, with eight ordered in 2009 and four more in 2016. With six more now, “will allow the Indian Navy to expand its maritime surveillance aircraft (MSA) capability for the next 30 years”, the DSCA said, adding, “India will have no difficulty absorbing these aircraft into its armed forces.”Manufactured by Boeing, P-8I is an Indian variant of P-8s that the company says are designed for long-range anti-submarine warfare, anti-surface warfare, and intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance missions. It does multiple missions and comes equipped with “state-of-the-art sensors, proven weapons systems, and a globally recognised platform”.India’s order for the new P-8Is comes with eight Multifunctional Information Distribution System-Joint Tactical Radio Systems 5 (MIDS-JTRS 5); 42 AN/AAR-54 Missile Warning Sensors; 14 LN-251 with Embedded Global Positioning Systems/Inertial Navigations Systems and other elements.“This proposed sale will support the foreign policy and national security of the United States by helping to strengthen the US-Indian strategic relationship and to improve the security of a major defensive partner, which continues to be an important force for political stability, peace, and economic progress in the Indo-Pacific and South Asia region,” the DSCA said.Defense purchases from the United States have been increasingly an integral part of growing ties between the two countries. From near zero in 2008, India-US defence trade touched $20 billion in 2020, helped along by major policy upgrades. The US designating India a Major Defence Partner (in 2016) and then granting it same access to defence technology as NATO allies and Australia, Japan and South Korea under Strategic Trade Authorization-1 (STA) in 2018.And, India has signed all foundational agreements - also called enabling agreements - overcoming years of hesitation: Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) in 2020, Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement (COMCASA) in 2018, Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement in 2016, and General Security of Military Information Agreement (GSOMIA) in 2002.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-clears-sale-of-six-more-p-8i-aircraft-for-india-101619879874012.html
01-05-2021||World||Hungary reopens for people holding Covid-19 immunity cards||Hungary on Saturday loosened several Covid-19 restrictions for people with government-issued immunity cards, the latest in a series of reopening measures that have followed an ambitious vaccination campaign.As of Saturday, individuals with the plastic cards may enter indoor dining rooms, hotels, theaters, cinemas, spas, gyms, libraries, museums and other recreational venues. Opening hours for businesses were extended to 11 p.m. and an overnight curfew in place since November will now start later, at midnight.People who have received at least one vaccine dose and those who have recovered from Covid-19 are eligible for the Hungarian immunity cards, which must be presented at establishments before entry. Businesses can be issued heavy fines if they allow non-cardholders to enter.Hungary’s famous thermal baths, a hallmark of its tourism industry, opened their pools, saunas and steam rooms to guests Saturday after nearly six months of closure. Budapest, which operates 12 such spas, opened six of them.Ildiko Szucs, the CEO of Budapest Spas Ltd., told The Associated Press that she thinks the baths will benefit people who have suffered physically and mentally during the pandemic.“The effect of medicinal water on stress management and mental rejuvenation is very important, and we hope as many people as possible will recognize this and visit us,” Szucs said.Speaking from Budapest’s neo-Baroque Szecheyni Baths, the largest medicinal spa in Europe, Szucs said many guests arrived Saturday with proof of vaccination issued by their doctors but had not received their government-issued cards and had to be turned away.“We will try to take action on this matter and, if necessary, ask for an amendment to the legislation...since these guests have already received two vaccinations in many cases,” she said.While millions of Hungarians got the opportunity to return to some semblance of their normal lives with the issuance of immunity cards, organizational problems have meant that many who are eligible did not receive them within eight days of their first shot as planned.Maria and Gabor Gal, a retired married couple, received their first dose on March 21, and their second in early April. But six weeks after their initial shots, they haven’t received their cards.“They told us that the vaccination certificate will come when it comes. Now we’re asking when it will come, because it would be good if we could use it,” Maria Gal, 67, said. “We’re sitting here locked in for a year-and-a-half.”The Hugarian government launched a website and special email address for people waiting for their cards may submit inquiries. Earlier plans indicated a mobile application would be available to provide proof of vaccination, but the system has yet to go online.Hungary has administered 4 million first doses of coronavirus vaccines, reaching about 40% of its population. The country has the second-highest vaccination rate in the European Union and is the only one of the EU’s 27 nations to use vaccines from China and Russia in addition to Western jabs.But a devastating pandemic surge this spring also gave Hungary the world’s highest overall Covid-19 mortality rate per 1 million inhabitants, according to Johns Hopkins University. The country of about 9.7 million people has reported over 27,500 deaths in the pandemic.The whole issue of immunity cards or so-called Covid-19 passports is fraught, with critics saying they discriminate against people in poorer nations who do not have access to vaccines. Hungary is also trying to counter possible EU moves to issue such documents only to people who have received vaccines approved by the European Medicines agency, which so far do not include the vaccines made in China and Russia.Zoos also began admitting guests after nearly six months of mandatory closure. Budapest Zoo spokesperson Zoltan Hanga said the last time the zoological park in Hungary’s capital was shut for so long was during World War II.“This is a big day,” Hanga said. “The zoo is the best when it’s full of visitors, when a lot of people come to get to know the world of animals and have a good time. Finally, the time for this has arrived.”Children under 18 who are accompanied by adult cardholders may enter establishments without a card. At the zoo, lines of parents and eager children formed at cash desks ahead of the opening on Saturday morning.“Now that the restrictions are eased, we can go more places with my child and husband,” said Eva Marozsan, who brought her young son Zoltan to visit the animals. “It was very bad to be closed inside, and now that places are opening, it’s really uplifting for us.”A soccer match in Budapest on Saturday is expected to admit fans holding immunity cards. A competing club issued a statement saying masks would not be required in the stadium but urged fans to wear them anyway.Border control regulations were changed Friday to allow Hungarian citizens and legal residents to reenter the country without needing to quarantine. Hungary’s foreign affairs minister, Peter Szijjarto, announced that Serbia, Montenegro, Slovenia and Bahrein would recognize the Hungarian immunity cards in a mutual agreement, permitting travel.Negotiations for similar agreements are underway with Greece and Israel, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hungary-reopens-for-people-holding-covid-19-immunity-cards-101619871596785.html
01-05-2021||World||Mapping the Afghan war, while murky, points to Taliban gains||Trying to map the long war in Afghanistan has become an increasingly challenging task ahead of the planned withdrawal of all U.S. forces.Since the U.S.-led invasion of 2001 and subsequent overthrow of Afghanistan's Taliban government, insurgent activity shrank, then began to grow again as the conflict stretched on for two decades. Now, as the withdrawal with a summer completion date looms, even American officials acknowledge being publicly in the dark about the Taliban's strength.“By many measures, the Taliban are in a stronger military position now than at any point since 2001, though many once-public metrics related to the conduct of the war have been classified or are no longer produced,” a March report by the U.S. Congressional Research Service warned.That included data offered on the roughly 400 local districts across Afghanistan's 34 provinces. Control of those districts had been a key metric to judge overall control in the country.In its last published report to include that level of detail, the U.S. Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction said the Afghan government controlled just 54% of those districts as of October 2018, the lowest number recorded since public tracking began in November 2015. Of the remaining districts, the U.S. government described 34% as contested and 12% as being under insurgent control.In April 2019, the inspector general said the U.S.-commanded NATO Resolute Support mission no longer assessed district-level control, describing them as offering "limited decision-making value to the commander.” But that decision came amid the Trump administration's push for negotiations with the Taliban in Qatar, suggesting military officials shut down the effort to avoid showing how bad things had become, said Bill Roggio, who has been tracking the war for years.Roggio, whose Long War Journal now operates in the Washington-based hawkish think tank called the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies, has tracked the conflict for years based on press reports and data he's gathered. He believes half of the country's districts are now contested between the government and the Taliban, with over 120 fully government controlled and more than 70 fully held by the Taliban.But even he acknowledges those numbers represent his best guess. Some districts held by the government swing back and forth depending on Taliban offensives. Others see the government hole up in central headquarters or barracks — and then “the police commander is getting killed in an IED attack when he pulls out of the base,” Roggio said, using an acronym for a homemade bomb.“A lot of cases in these districts that I have contested, the government really only controls the district centers,” Roggio said. “I think that that map actually should look worse than it really is.”Fawad Aman, a deputy spokesman for the Afghan Defense Ministry, disputed Roggio's figures as “not correct and far from reality.” However, he claimed without offering evidence that the Taliban controlled just “more than 10 districts” in Afghanistan in “very remote parts of the country.”Aman's claim is roughly half the lowest estimate of Taliban district control ever offered publicly by the U.S., which came in January 2016.A recent report from the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs reported fighting across the country, with some 90,000 people internally displaced since the start of this year alone. Since 2012, some 4.8 million people have been displaced from their homes and not returned in a country of 38 million.Even Kabul, the country's heavily guarded capital, isn't safe. The U.N. Assistance Mission in Afghanistan showed the most civilian casualties in 2020 from any province came in Kabul, with 255 people killed and 562 wounded.The worst violence came from targeted killings — which are targeting activists, journalists, judges and lawyers since Washington struck its deal with the Taliban. While the Islamic State group's Afghanistan affiliate has claimed some of the slayings, most aren't acknowledged by any group — only adding to the growing sense of unease there.Aman also disputed that Kabul is insecure, citing what he described as regular security force patrols, checkpoints and raids.“The Taliban presence around the capital, Kabul, is less than any time before,” he claimed. “There is no concern for the Kabul people."The U.S. withdrawal, beginning in May, is slated to see all combat troops depart the country after America's longest war. That likely will include the personnel responsible for calling in and guiding airstrikes. Without the strikes, Roggio said the Afghan military likely will face a major offensive it now is too stretched to defend nationwide.And the map will change again.“They’re going to have to consolidate their lines. They’re going to have to abandon the south," Roggio said. "I just don’t see how they survive otherwise. They’ll just be picked apart piecemeal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mapping-the-afghan-war-while-murky-points-to-taliban-gains-101619877186068.html
01-05-2021||World||Covid-hit Russia reports 25% death increase in January-March||Russia's state statistical service says the number of deaths nationwide in the first three months of 2021 was more than 25% higher than the same period a year ago, and it reported thousands more deaths due to Covid-19 in March than tallied by the country's coronavirus task force.More than 583,000 people died in January-March of this year, compared with 460,000 for those months in 2020, the Rosstat agency said in a report issued Friday.The agency did not provide an explanation for the sharply higher death toll, but critics have suggested that Russia underplays the severity of the pandemic in the country.The national coronavirus task force counted more than 12,300 deaths from Covid-19 in March, but Rosstat gave a substantially higher number. The agency said there were 15,003 deaths that month in which the coronavirus was the leading cause, along with 2,454 cases in which Covid-19 was believed to be the leading cause and 1,401 deaths in which Covid-19 influenced the development of other diseases and accelerated death.According to the task force, throughout the pandemic 110,502 people have died in Russia of Covid-19 as of Saturday — 392 of them in the past day. The country has recorded more than 4.8 million confirmed cases.Although Russia has boasted of being the first country to authorise a coronavirus vaccine, the pace of its vaccination program is lagging well behind many other countries.Only about 8% of residents have gotten at least one shot, while 5% have been fully vaccinated. That puts Russia far behind the United States, where 43% of the population has gotten at least one shot, and the European Union with nearly 27%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covidhit-russia-reports-25-death-increase-in-januarymarch-101619876835014.html
01-05-2021||World||WHO approves Moderna Covid-19 vaccine for emergency use||The World Health Organisation has given the go-ahead for emergency use of Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine.The mRNA vaccine from the US manufacturer joins vaccines from AstraZeneca, Pfizer-BioNTech and Johnson & Johnson in receiving the WHO's emergency use listing.Similar approvals for China's Sinopharm and Sinovac vaccines are expected in the coming days and weeks, WHO has said.The greenlight for Moderna's vaccine, announced late Friday, took many months because of delays that WHO faced in getting data from the manufacturer.Many countries without their own advanced medical regulatory and assessment offices rely on the WHO listing to decide whether to use vaccines. UN children's agency UNICEF also uses the listing to deploy vaccines in an emergency like the pandemic.The announcement, however, wasn't likely to have an immediate impact on supplies of Moderna's vaccine for the developing world. The company struck supply agreements with many rich countries, which will have already received millions of doses.In a statement Friday, CEO Stephane Bancel said Moderna was “actively participating in discussions with multilateral organisations, such as COVAX, to help protect populations around the world.”He was referring to a UN-backed programme to ship Covid-19 vaccines to many low- and middle-income countries, based on need.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-approves-moderna-covid-19-vaccine-for-emergency-use-101619870059037.html
01-05-2021||World||South Asians in England at greater risk in second Covid-19 wave, new study finds||Minority ethnic groups in general and South Asians, in particular, had a higher risk of testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 and of Covid-19 related hospitalisations, intensive care (ICU) admissions and deaths during the second wave of the pandemic in the UK compared to the first, according to a new observational study of 17 million people.Led by the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine (LSHTM), the study published in the medical journal ‘Lancet’ on Friday accounted for a large number of explanatory variables such as household size, social factors and health conditions across all ethnic groups and at different stages of Covid-19, from testing to mortality.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage"South Asian groups remained at higher risk for testing positive, with relative risks for hospitalisation, ICU admission, and death greater in magnitude in the second wave compared to the first wave," the study finds.It found that compared with the first wave last year, the relative risk for testing positive, hospitalisation, ICU admission, and death were smaller in the pandemic second wave earlier this year for all minority ethnic communities compared to white people, with the exception of South Asian groups – covering Indians, Pakistanis and Bangladeshis.“Despite the improvements seen in most minority ethnic groups in the second wave compared to the first, it’s concerning to see that the disparity widened among South Asian groups,” said Dr Rohini Mathur from LSHTM and the study’s lead author.“This highlights an urgent need to find effective prevention measures that fit with the needs of the UK’s ethnically diverse population,” she said.After accounting for age and sex, social deprivation was the biggest potential explanatory factor for disparities in all minority ethnic groups except South Asian.In South Asian groups, health factors such as BMI, blood pressure, underlying health conditions played the biggest role in explaining excess risks for all outcomes. Household size was an important explanatory factor for the disparity for Covid-19 mortality in South Asian groups only.Dr Mathur said: “While multigenerational living may increase risk of exposure and transmission (from children or working age adults to older or vulnerable family members), such households and extended communities also offer valuable informal care networks and facilitate engagement with health and community services.“In light of emerging evidence that minority ethnic groups are less likely to take up the COVID-19 vaccine, co-designing culturally competent and non-stigmatising engagement strategies with these communities is increasingly important.”On behalf of NHS England, the research team used the new secure OpenSAFELY data analytics platform to analyse partially anonymised electronic health data collected by general practitioners (GPs) covering 40 per cent of England.These GP records were linked to other national coronavirus-related data sets for the first and second waves of the pandemic – including testing, hospital data and mortality records. Ethnicity was self-reported by participants in GP records and grouped into five census categories (white, South Asian, Black, other, mixed) and then a further 16 sub-groups.“Minority ethnic groups in the UK are disproportionately affected by factors that also increase the risk for poor Covid-19 outcomes, such as living in deprived areas, working in front-line jobs, and having poorer access to healthcare,” notes Dr Mathur.“Our study indicates that even after accounting for many of these factors, the risk for testing positive, hospitalisation, ICU admission and death was still higher in minority ethnic groups compared with white people in England."To improve Covid-19 outcomes, we urgently need to tackle the wider disadvantage and structural racism faced by these communities, as well as improving access to care and reducing transmission,” she said.The authors caution that there are some limitations to the study including an inability to capture all potential explanatory variables, including occupation, health-related behaviours, and experiences of racism or structural discrimination.They call for improving the completeness of ethnicity recording in health data to further support the conduct of high-quality research into addressing health inequalities for Covid-19 and beyond.The study, believed to be the largest of its type, was funded by the UK’s Medical Research Council and conducted by scientists from a group of universities including LSHTM and the University of Oxford, along with the National Institute of Health Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-asians-in-england-at-greater-risk-in-second-covid-19-wave-new-study-finds-101619868127436.html
01-05-2021||World||Covid-19: Canada to ban entry of international students to Ontario province||Canada is all set to suspend entry of international students, including from India, to Ontario, the worst-hit province which is battling the third wave of the coronavirus.According to the Canadian Bureau for International Education (CBIE), an education service provider based in Ottawa, there were 530,540 international students in Canada in 2020, of which the maximum were from India (34 per cent) followed by China (22 per cent).Ontario has the maximum number of foreign students at 242,825 or 46 per cent, it said.During a press conference on Friday, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said the government is considering halting the arrival of international students in Ontario, following a request from the province's premier Doug Ford to combat the spread of the coronavirus pandemic, the globalnews.ca reported.“Because currently Ontario is the only province to request it, we are happy to work more closely with them,” he said.Trudeau said they will be “reaching out to their officials" to formalise the request.However, there is no clarity as yet on when the change will take effect or how long it will last.International students are currently exempt from Canada's COVID-19 travel rules. All students must be able to provide a valid study permit or a letter of introduction that shows they were approved for a permit, according to CTV news.Ford also called on the federal government to ban non-essential travel after 36 cases of the B.1.617 variant, originally found in India, were identified in the province, the report said.Trudeau reiterated his intentions of working closely with the provinces to quell the spread of the coronavirus and cautioned against any kind of non-essential travel.“We’re engaging with other provinces that are hit hard by this third wave to see how we can help," he said.Canada has so far reported 1.22 million coronavirus cases, including 463,000 in Ontario. Of the total 24,219 fatalities, 8,050 were reported from Ontario. PTI SCY AKJ SCY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-canada-to-ban-entry-of-international-students-to-ontario-province-101619867517637.html
01-05-2021||World||Kabul on high alert amid 'deadline' for US troop withdrawal from Afghanistan||Kabul security was ramped up on Saturday as the city braced for reaction from the insurgent Taliban as U.S. troops still present under President Joe Biden's orders, beyond the May 1 withdrawal deadline agreed in 2020 with the Trump administration.An increased military presence and security at checkpoints were visible in the Afghan capital, and a security source said the city had been placed on "high alert". Military patrols and security were being increased in main cities around the country, the source said.Under the Trump administration's February 2020 deal with the Taliban, foreign forces were to withdraw from the country by May 1 while the Taliban held off on attacking foreign troops and bases. But President Biden announced last month after reviewing the situation that forces would stay in the country for months beyond May, withdrawing by Sept. 11.Violence against Afghans has escalated starkly in recent weeks, with more than a hundred Afghan security force personnel killed. On the eve of the previously agreed withdrawal deadline, a huge blast in eastern Logar killed dozens as they broke their fast during the holy Islamic month of Ramadan. It was not clear who was behind the attack.The Taliban responded to the Biden administration's move with fiery rhetoric and threatened consequences, boycotting a crucial conference in Turkey scheduled for last month that had been planned to help jumpstart stalling Afghan peace talks in Doha.Since then contacts have been maintained, official and Taliban sources say, in an effort to try to get the Taliban back to negotiating table and agree to the extended foreign troop presence.As of Saturday it was unclear whether concrete progress had been made and there had been no announcement on an extension.THREATS SERIOUSTaliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said on Twitter on Saturday that the passing deadline meant "this violation in principle has opened the way for (Taliban fighters) to take every counter-action it deems appropriate against the occupying forces."But he added that fighters were waiting on the decision of Taliban leadership.Earlier in the week Mujahid told Reuters conversations were continuing."Discussions between the U.S. and Taliban and ... within the Taliban's leadership are under way whether to extend that or not," he said.Washington has also warned that if foreign forces were attacked while carrying out the withdrawal they would defend themselves "with all the tools at our disposal".Experts said the Taliban threats should be taken seriously, but a number of factors meant that full-scale attacks against foreign targets could be averted, as the Taliban continued negotiations."We can't rule out attacks," said Michael Kugelman, deputy director of the Asia Programme at the Woodrow Wilson Center in Washington. "That said, the Taliban is less likely to attack foreign forces now that it knows there is a specific date when they will be leaving."NEGOTIATIONS ONGOINGIn the lead up to May, sources said there was a flurry of meetings negotiations continued with the Taliban to try to get them to agree to a deadline extension.The U.S. special envoy for Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad, had met with the Taliban's head of political office, Mullah Baradar, in Doha, a Taliban spokesman said on Friday.Also on Friday, the eve of the May 1 deadline, envoys from Russia, China, Pakistan and the United States held meetings with Taliban officials and Afghan government negotiators in the Qatari capital. The Taliban said they discussed the peace process and their request that Taliban leaders be removed from sanctions lists.Sources also said that a delegation of Taliban political leaders had been in Pakistan's capital Islamabad this week.Two Taliban sources and one official source said negotiations had revolved around the proposed deadline extension in exchange for the United States not getting involved in Afghan military operations against the Taliban; getting the Taliban to commit to re-joining the Turkey conference if they were provided with an agenda on what would be discussed there; and possibly declaring a ceasefire over the upcoming Eid holiday.Pakistan's foreign office did not immediately respond to request for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kabul-on-high-alert-amid-deadline-for-us-troop-withdrawal-from-afghanistan-101619864896080.html
01-05-2021||World||Diplomats from 5 nations resuming Iran nuclear talks||High-ranking diplomats from China, Germany, France, Russia and Britain are set to resume talks Saturday focused on bringing the United States back into their landmark nuclear deal with Iran.The US will not have a representative at the table when the diplomats meet in Vienna because former President Donald Trump unilaterally pulled the country out of the deal, known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, in 2018. Trump also restored and augmented sanctions to try to force Iran into renegotiating the pact with more concessions.U.S. President Joe Biden wants to rejoin the deal, however, and a U.S. delegation in Vienna is taking part in indirect talks with Iran, with diplomats from the other world powers acting as go-betweens.The Biden administration is considering a rollback of some of the most stringent Trump-era sanctions in a bid to get Iran to come back into compliance with the terms of the nuclear agreement, according to information from current and former U.S. officials and others familiar with the matter earlier this week.The Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, or JCPOA, promised Iran economic incentives in exchange for curbs on its nuclear program. The reimposition of U.S. sanctions has left the Islamic Republic's economy reeling. Tehran has responded by steadily increasing its violations of the restrictions of the deal, such as increasing the purity of uranium it enriches and its stockpiles, in a thus-far unsuccessful effort to pressure the other countries to provide relief.The ultimate goal of the deal is to prevent Iran from developing a nuclear bomb, something it insists it doesn’t want to do. Iran now has enough enriched uranium to make a bomb, but nowhere near the amount it had before the nuclear deal was signed.The Vienna talks began in early April and have included several rounds of high-level discussions. Expert groups also have been working on proposals on how to resolve the issues around American sanctions and Iranian compliance, as well as the “possible sequencing” of the U.S. return.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/diplomats-from-5-nations-resuming-iran-nuclear-talks-101619860998340.html
01-05-2021||World||Singapore reinstates Covid-19 distancing rules, tightens borders||Singapore will reinstate some social distancing controls and tighten borders with countries that are seeing a persistent rise in coronavirus cases to stem a virus spread in the city.The government will allow fewer people at malls and large stores, and close campsites for two weeks from May 1, according to a statement from the health ministry on Friday. It will reduce the operating capacity of attractions to 50% from 65% for a week from May 7, and urged people to limit social gatherings to two per day and stay home where possible, it said.Visitors and long-term pass holders from Bangladesh, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka will be barred from entering or transiting through Singapore from May 2. In addition, all travelers from these countries will have their quarantine extended to 21 days. People arriving from Thailand will have to complete quarantine in a dedicated facility for 14 days, it said.“We will continue to review the current suite of measures and will take further steps to tighten and significantly reduce the level of interactions in the community should transmission persist,” the statement said.The move comes as Singapore experiences a higher than usual number of new Covid-19 infections, reporting the most in more than nine months on Thursday. The cases stem from one cluster in one of the country’s biggest hospitals and another from an immigration officer in Changi Airport. On Saturday, the nation reported nine new cases in the local community.Both Singapore General Hospital and Sengkang General Hospital have reported a high number of patients in their emergency wards on separate Facebook posts since Friday, with Sengkang General Hospital adding that wards are also running at full capacity.Authorities will also close all public places visited by the cases during their likely infectious period for two days for cleaning, and to facilitate testing of staff there. These places include supermarkets, food centers, mosques and a church.For office workers, the government is asking employers to allow them to work from home if they are able to, and avoid social gatherings. This directive comes about a month after authorities relaxed workplace rules to allow more people back to offices.“We know these new restrictions will create inconvenience for everyone,” Lawrence Wong, the minister who co-chairs the virus taskforce, said at a briefing on Friday. “This is the only way we can ensure we slow down the spread of the virus in the community.”Singapore will need to tighten measures against Covid-19 where necessary promptly to avoid going into a second circuit breaker, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said at a May Day Rally on Saturday, according to The Straits Times.After months of near-zero new locally-transmitted virus cases, the island nation had been moving toward easing restrictions put in place last year, including moving ahead to revive an air travel bubble with Hong Kong. A combination of virus containment and rolling out vaccines at one of the fastest rates in Asia saw Singapore top Bloomberg’s Covid Resilience Ranking this month, dethroning New Zealand for the first time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-reinstates-covid-19-distancing-rules-tightens-borders-101619859286323.html
01-05-2021||World||More than 90 people found in Houston home in suspected smuggling case||Police responding to reports of a kidnapping said on Friday they had found more than 90 people crammed into a two-story suburban Houston home and suspected it was being used in a human smuggling operation.The 90 victims, all but about five of them men, were removed from the house and given food and water, said Daryn Edwards, assistant chief of the Houston Police Department."They basically (were) in there in their basic clothing and all, all huddled together. So that's what we saw when we got in," he said. No children were found among them.At least several of the people showed symptoms of COVID-19 infection, including fever and lack of taste or smell, Edward said. The victims told police they had not eaten recently.The victims were issued personal protective gear and put onto white busses. It was not immediately clear where they were being taken.Homeland Security and Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents were seen at the house along with local police and firefighters.Edwards said no arrests had been made in the case as of Friday afternoon and declined to offer further details, citing the ongoing investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/more-than-90-people-found-in-houston-home-in-suspected-smuggling-case-101619862850031.html
01-05-2021||World||Nepal govt decides to close 22 entry points with India amid Covid-19 surge||The Nepal government has decided to close 22 border points with India amid a sharp surge in Covid-19 cases in the neighbouring country.The decision came after the Covid Crisis Management Coordination Committee (CCMC) on Friday recommended to the Council of Ministers to shut down 22 out of a total of 35 border points between Nepal and India, according to officials.Now only 13 border points between Nepal and India will now remain operational.The decision comes in the wake of rising cases of Covid-19 infections in the southern neighbour.India's daily coronavirus tally crossed the grim milestone of four lakh, while the death toll rose to 2,11,853 with 3,523 fresh fatalities, according to the date updated by the Union Health Ministry on Saturday.The infection tally rose to 1,91,64,969 with 4,01,993 new cases, while the active cases crossed the 32-lakh mark, the data updated at 8 am showed.Nepal has reported 323,187 Covid-19 cases and 3,279 deaths so far, but cases are going up at breakneck speed.The country reported more than 5,000 new cases on Thursday and Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-govt-decides-to-close-22-entry-points-with-india-amid-covid-19-surge-101619858634206.html
01-05-2021||World||Xi vows focus on emission cuts, end energy-inefficient projects||China will make cutting emissions a focus of its ecological strategy in the next five years, President Xi Jinping said, vowing to call off projects which consume a lot of energy and can’t meet environmental standards.“The carbon neutral and emission-peaking goals are solemn promises China has made to the world,” Xi said at a study session of the Communist Party’s Politburo on Friday. “They will bring about broad and profound economic and social reforms and they will not be achieved easily,” according to a statement carried by the official Xinhua news agency, which cited him.Local governments at all levels must set out clear timetables, road maps and work plans for the efficient use of resources and development in a low-carbon way, he said. High energy-consuming and high-emission projects that fail to meet environmental standards must be stopped, he added.At a climate summit convened by U.S. President Joe Biden last week, Xi reiterated the nation’s goal of becoming carbon neutral by 2060. While China will increase coal consumption between now and 2025, it plans to reduce it in the following five-year plan from 2026.China will improve its management of binding targets for environment protection, energy saving and emission reduction, and build a stable fiscal spending mechanism, the Chinese leader said at the Politburo event.The country will provide funds and technology support for developing nations to improve their environment management capabilities, Xi said. China will stick to “the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities” to “firmly protect our development interests,” he added, referring to a notion included in the 2015 Paris climate agreement that put a greater financial burden on the countries most responsible for global warming.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/xi-vows-focus-on-emission-cuts-end-energy-inefficient-projects-101619859566498.html
01-05-2021||World||US citizens were among those killed in Israeli festival disaster||A number of US citizens are among the dozens killed or injured in a stampede at a Jewish religious festival in Israel, a US Embassy spokesperson said on Saturday.At least 45 people were crushed to death and more than 100 injured in the disaster on the slopes of Israel's Mount Meron, which occurred overnight between Thursday and Friday."We can confirm that multiple US citizens were among the casualties," the spokesperson said, and casualties included both dead and injured."The US Embassy is working with local authorities to verify whether any additional US citizens were affected, and is providing all possible consular support to affected US citizens and their loved ones. Out of respect for the families at this difficult time, we have no further comment."The Israeli Foreign Ministry said on Friday that consulate officials in New York were in contact with four families of victims and the embassy in Argentina was in contact with one family.Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said on Friday that he had learned of the death of two Canadians in the disaster.The Israeli Health Ministry said 32 of the dead had been identified by late Friday. The identification process paused for 24 hours in observance of the Jewish Sabbath and would resume on Saturday evening.More than 20 of the people injured were still hospitalized by Friday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-citizens-were-among-those-killed-in-israeli-festival-disaster-101619859354997.html
01-05-2021||World||US vaccinates more than 101 million people against Covid-19||The United States has fully vaccinated 101,407,318 people for COVID-19 as of Friday morning, accounting for 30.5% of the population, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said on Friday.The country has administered 240,159,677 doses of COVID-19 vaccines in the country and distributed 308,774,155 doses.Those figures are up from the 237,360,493 vaccine doses the CDC said had gone into arms by Thursday out of 305,478,495 doses delivered.The agency said 144,894,586 people had received at least one dose as of Friday.The CDC tally includes two-dose vaccines from Moderna and Pfizer/BioNTech , as well as Johnson & Johnson's one-shot vaccine as of 6:00am ET on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-vaccinates-more-than-101-million-people-against-covid19-101619855370477.html
01-05-2021||World||Coronavirus situation in India tragic, have committed support to them: Harris||Vice President Kamala Harris has described the coronavirus situation in India as "tragic" and said the US has made a commitment to support the country in battling the challenge.“There is no question that it is a great tragedy, in terms of the loss of life, and as I have said before, and I will say again, we as a country have made a commitment to the people of India to support them,” Harris told reporters on Friday in Cincinnati, Ohio.“We have already made a commitment in terms of a dollar amount that will go to PPE and a number of other things. But it is tragic. My prayers go to the people on the suffering, the blatant suffering that is happening,” Harris said in response to a question.Earlier the White House announced restrictions on travel from India because of "extraordinarily high Covid-19 caseloads” and multiple variants circulating there".Harris said she hasn’t spoken to her family in India since the news of the ban was made public.On the advice of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Administration will restrict travel from India starting May 4, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki had said.“The policy will be implemented in light of extraordinarily high Covid-19 caseloads and multiple variants circulating in India," Psaki said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-situation-in-india-tragic-have-committed-support-to-them-harris-101619855084011.html
01-05-2021||World||Protest march in Myanmar continues three months after coup as UN warns of 'standstill'||Protesters against military rule marched in Myanmar on Saturday three months after a coup ended a democratic transition, with several small blasts compounding a sense of crisis that a UN envoy warned could bring state administration to a halt.The military has tried to end dissent and impose its authority on a people largely opposed to the return of rule by the generals after 10 years of democratic reforms that included a government led by democracy champion Aung San Suu Kyi.Despite a relentless crackdown in which at least 759 protesters have been killed, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP) advocacy group, crowds come out day after day to reject the junta."Our cause, democracy, our cause, a federal union. Free arrested leaders," protesters chanted at one of two rallies in the main city of Yangon.Suu Kyi, 75, has been detained since the coup the along with many other members of her party. The AAPP says more than 3,400 people have been detained for opposing the military.People also rallied in the second city of Mandalay and the southern town of Dawei, media reported.There were no immediate reports of violence.Media reported several small blasts in different places including Yangon late on Friday and on Saturday. There were no immediate reports of casualties and no claims of responsibility.A spokesman for the junta did not answer calls seeking comment. The military has accused pro-democracy activists of planting bombs.The U.N. special envoy on Myanmar told the Security Council on Friday that in the absence of a collective international response to the coup, violence was worsening and the running of the state risked coming to a standstill, according to diplomats who attended the private meeting.Christine Schraner Burgener briefed the 15-member council from Thailand, where she has been meeting regional leaders. She hopes to travel to Myanmar but the military has yet to approve a visit."The general administration of the state could risk coming to a standstill as the pro-democracy movement continues in spite of the ongoing use of lethal force, arbitrary arrests and torture as part of the military's repression," Schraner Burgener said, according to diplomats.She told diplomats that reports of a continuing crackdown risked undermining momentum toward ending the crisis following a meeting of the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) on April 25 with the junta leader, Senior General Min Aung Hlaing.Schraner Burgener, expressing concern about rising violence, cited reports of bomb attacks and of civilians, mostly students from the urban areas, getting weapons training from ethnic minority insurgents.UN special rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar, Tom Andrews, said Min Aung Hlaing had used the summit as a "propaganda ploy"."Indeed, he tried to appear to be what he is not - a legitimate leader," Andrews said in a post on Twitter."The good news: Those who ARE legitimate are ready to engage: the National Unity Government."Ousted members of parliament from Suu Kyi's party, politicians representing ethnic minorities and democracy activists set up the unity government but it has yet to win the international recognition it says it is due.The U.N. Security Council reiterated its "deep concern" at the situation and its support for Myanmar's democratic transition. The council has issued several statements since the coup but diplomats say Russia and China are likely to prevent any stronger council action against Myanmar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/protest-march-in-myanmar-continues-three-months-after-coup-as-un-warns-of-standstill-101619850373427.html
01-05-2021||World||Boris Johnson’s popularity at test in a Brexit heartland||The town of Hartlepool in northeast England is the kind of place a Conservative prime minister would ordinarily struggle to find support.One of the most deprived areas of the UK, the blue-collar port saws its steel industry collapse in the 1970s and 80s and the unemployment rate remains among the highest in the country. Politically, it’s backed the Labour Party at every UK election for almost half a century. But then came Brexit.Hartlepool holds a vote on May 6 that will be a critical test for Prime Minister Boris Johnson after his landslide victory in 2019 paved the way to take Britain out of the European Union after years of wrangling.It will be a key indicator of whether Johnson’s initial popularity has survived a pandemic that left Britain with the worst death toll in Europe, and whether Brexit supporters still buy into his promise to “level up” the economy. And now there’s also the question of any damage from a recent scandal over Johnson’s conduct in office that’s engulfed his government. He has suffered a relentless barrage of negative headlines even from usually supportive newspapers.The Conservatives are the bookmakers’ favorite to win the election for the town’s next parliamentarian. Polls from Survation and Ipsos MORI have also put the party in front. That’s mainly as votes from the now defunct Brexit Party at the last election are expected to transfer to Johnson in a Labour northern heartland where a Tory win would have been unthinkable a few years ago. The town backed leaving the EU by a thumping 70%.One such voter is Geoff Carr, who runs a shoe repair business next to a closed-down pawnbroker on Hartlepool’s main shopping thoroughfare. A committed Brexit supporter, Carr says the UK’s Covid-19 inoculation program that’s covered more than half the population vindicates leaving the EU. He will now be voting Conservative.“The vaccine, you can’t fault them for that,” said Carr, 58, in between polishing shoes and serving customers behind a large Perspex screen. “That’s one of the reasons we got out of Europe, so we can make our own decisions.”Hartlepool epitomizes Britain’s post-industrial decline, a forgotten coastal town that’s often more known in Britain for a folklore tale about locals hanging a monkey suspected of being a French spy during the Napoleonic Wars. (The town elected its soccer club’s monkey mascot as mayor in 2002 and he successfully went on to win two more terms.) Many storefronts are boarded up, locals complained the town’s center has been neglected while investment went into its marina.A victory would reinforce Johnson’s position in what used to be called the “red wall” of Labour-voting districts across England’s north. At the last UK election, neighboring Brexit-backing areas such as former mining town Bishop Auckland and Redcar, where a giant steelworks lies defunct on the North Sea coast, defected to the Tories for the first time in decades.The by-election is also just one of the tests facing Johnson on May 6. There are also elections to the Scottish Parliament, where the nationalists look on course for an emphatic win to ramp up pressure for another independence referendum, the Welsh assembly and across English municipalities.“There’s always quite a lot at stake in these kinds of elections, but perhaps the stakes are higher this time around than they’ve been for a few years,” said Tim Bale, professor of politics at Queen Mary University of London. “The sheer number of contests taking place means it’s a kind of Super Thursday, almost equivalent to the U.S. mid-term elections.”Voters will be making their choice as Johnson battles on a number of fronts. First there were incendiary claims made against him by former adviser Dominic Cummings, who questioned his competence and integrity in a lengthy blog post. Then the Electoral Commission said on April 28 it would investigate whether the prime minister appropriately declared any donations that funded the refurbishment of his Downing Street residence.The Labour Party has sought to capitalize on the issue, branding the Tories as a party of “sleaze,” an echo from the 1990s when scandals helped undermine the government and propel Tony Blair into office.But on the streets of Hartlepool voters were either unaware of the controversy or unmoved by it. “There are far more important things going on than who’s got their hands in the till at 10 Downing Street,” said Peter Davison, 66, a retired businessman. “People don’t care in the slightest.”A bigger challenge may be apathy. A life-long Labour voter, Davison won’t be voting because he is disillusioned by politics and it’s not hard to find similar views toward the politics going on 230 miles (370 kilometers) south in London.The majority of people approached on a recent weekday to talk about the election said they weren’t interested in it and didn’t know anything about it. Ale Issmat, a local barber, said he would be voting for the Conservatives, but only because their campaign had brought some customers to his salon.Yet much is at stake for Hartlepool. Like for similar regions, the Brexit vote was a cry for change, to end years of perceived neglect by the government at Westminster following the collapse of manufacturing industries. Johnson’s post-Brexit mantra is to better distribute wealth and opportunity across the UK For its part, Hartlepool has been refocusing its port activity on green energy in recent years. The May 6 vote, along with those across the UK, is also the first real test of Labour leader Keir Starmer’s ability to reignite the party’s fortunes after a catastrophic result in 2019. Starmer’s standing with voters has lagged in recent weeks as Johnson has ridden a wave of good feeling following the country’s successful vaccine roll-out. If Labour isn’t making significant gains, it’s going to be hard to imagine the party will be back in power at the next UK election, said Bale, the politics professor.Labour loyalties, at least, still run deep in the north of England, and for many voters the idea of voting Conservative remains anathema.Evelynne Ray, 72, a retired nurse, blamed the Tories for cuts to local council funding, which she said led to the closure of hospital services. She also blamed Johnson for not locking the country down sooner at the start of the pandemic. If he’d acted more decisively, social restrictions could’ve been lifted months ago, she said.“I’m definitely not a fan of Boris,” Ray said, a disposable face mask tucked under her chin and sitting opposite Hartlepool’s war memorial. “I just don’t like him at all.”Yet with coronavirus restrictions being lifted and more than twice the proportion of the population vaccinated compared with the EU, Johnson has gained some political capital.Nibbling on shortbread and drinking coffee outdoors at a cafe, Barbara and Brian Tunstall expressed sympathy for the prime minister, particularly in light of claims made against him by Cummings, his former chief adviser. “It makes me think a lot worse of Cummings than Johnson,” Brian, 77, said. “I feel sorry for him,” Barbara said. “He’s had a hard old year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-johnson-s-popularity-at-test-in-a-brexit-heartland-101619849685421.html
01-05-2021||World||Canada halts distribution of J&J vaccine||Canada health authorities have halted the distribution of the single-dose Johnson & Johnson Covid-19 vaccine in the country after it emerged that an active ingredient was made at an American facility that has been flagged by the US’ Food and Drugs Administration.Canada received 300,000 doses of the vaccine manufactured by Janssen,a pharmaceutical owned by J&J, on April 28. However, in a statement released on Friday, Health Canada said these were being withheld and “will only be released for distribution” once it “is satisfied that they meet the department’s high standards for quality, safety and efficacy”.This move came after Health Canada learnt that a drug substance was produced at the Emergent BioSolutions facility in Baltimore, Maryland, which has been inspected by the FDA with the agency noting multiple areas of concerns there.Health Canada noted the substance is the “active ingredient that undergoes further processing before becoming the final product”, the vaccine. “The final Janssen vaccines were manufactured at a different site located outside of the US,” it said.It added, “We will continue to ensure that products coming from the Emergent facility, or any other facility, will only be imported and distributed in Canada if they are of high quality and safe for use.”It said the department is currently working with Janssen and the FDA to obtain all of the information it needs to complete its “assessment, prior to releasing the Janssen vaccines for distribution.”Canada has also received 1.5 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine made at the same facility and Health Canada said it is also working with them “to ensure the facility meets manufacturing standards, and that all vaccine supplies for Canada are of high quality”.However, the AZ vaccines have already been distributed in Canada and administered across the country. Health Canada asserted that it “remains confident that the 1.5 million doses of AstraZeneca vaccine imported into Canada from this facility meet quality specifications.”On April 25, Health Canada had stated that the Janssen vaccines anticipated to come into the country this week did not originate from the Emergent facility. The information about the active ingredient came to the department since that statement was issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-halts-distribution-of-j-j-vaccine-101619848551845.html
01-05-2021||World||US formally begins withdrawing troops from Afghanistan, ending its longest war||The United States formally begins withdrawing its last troops from Afghanistan on Saturday, bringing its longest war nearer to an end but also heralding an uncertain future for a country in the tightening grip of an emboldened Taliban.US officials on the ground say the withdrawal is already a work in progress -- and May 1 is just a continuation -- but Washington has made an issue of the date because it is a deadline agreed with the Taliban in 2020 to complete the pullout.The skies above Kabul and nearby Bagram airbase have been buzzing with more US helicopter activity than usual as the pullout gears up, following the start Thursday of a concurrent Nato withdrawal.The prospect of an end of 20 years of US presence comes despite fighting raging across the countryside in the absence of a peace deal.A stark reminder of what remains came late Friday with a car bomb in Pul-e-Alam, south of the capital, killing at least 21 people and wounding 100 more.US president Joe Biden is determined to end what he called "the forever war", announcing last month that the withdrawal of the remaining 2,500 American forces would be complete by the 20th anniversary of the September 11 attacks."A horrific attack 20 years ago... cannot explain why we should remain there in 2021," he said.Since the US withdrawal deal was struck the Taliban have not directly engaged foreign troops, but insurgents have mercilessly attacked government forces in the countryside and waged a terror campaign in urban areas.The exit of US forces has only exacerbated the fear felt by ordinary Afghans."Everyone is scared that we might go back to the dark days of the Taliban era," said Mena Nowrozi, who works at a private radio station in Kabul."The Taliban are still the same; they have not changed. The US should have extended their presence by at least a year or two," she told AFP.Afghan president Ashraf Ghani insists that government forces -- who for months have carried out most of the ground fighting against the Taliban -- are "fully capable" of keeping the insurgents at bay.He said the pullout also means the Taliban have no reason to fight."Who are you killing? What are you destroying? Your pretext of fighting the foreigners is now over," Ghani said in a speech this week.Worst-case analysisStill, general Mark Milley, chairman of the US joint chiefs of staff, has not ruled out total chaos."On the worst-case analysis, you have a potential collapse of the government, a potential collapse of the military," he said earlier this week."You have a civil war and all the humanitarian catastrophe that goes with it."Police officer Abdul Malik from the former insurgent bastion of Kandahar said they were prepared."We have to take care of our homeland... We will do our best to defend our soil," he told AFP.The US-led military onslaught in Afghanistan began in October 2001 in the aftermath of the September 11 attacks.Two decades later, and after the death of almost 2,400 Americans and tens of thousands of Afghans, Biden says the final withdrawal was justified as US forces had now made sure the country cannot again become a base for foreign jihadists to plot against the West.Concerns are high that the Taliban might yet strike at retreating US forces, and in the southern province of Kandahar -- where the foes used to clash regularly -- security sources say several areas are laden with explosives planted by the insurgents."If the Taliban attack retreating US or allied forces, it would be to bloody the nose of a defeated enemy and to humiliate it further," said Afghanistan specialist Nishank Motwani.Andrew Watkins, of the International Crisis Group, said the coming months would see the situation become a more purely local conflict."The United States and its Nato partners are stepping back and giving the two primary sides of this conflict... their first instance to fight with and assess their opponents without the extra factor of the United States," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-formally-begins-withdrawing-troops-from-afghanistan-ending-its-longest-war-101619846523921.html
01-05-2021||World||WHO gives emergency use authorisation to Moderna's Covid-19 jab||The World Health Organization (WHO) on Friday listed the Moderna coronavirus vaccine for emergency use, adding another shot to its arsenal in the fight against the coronavirus.According to The Hill, the shot from Moderna joins shots from Pfizer-BioNTech, AstraZeneca-SK Bio, Serum Institute of India and Janssen on WHO's list of emergency use vaccines."Today, WHO listed the Moderna Covid-19 vaccine (mRNA 1273) for emergency use, making it the fifth vaccine to receive emergency validation from WHO," it said in a statement, according to Sputnik.WHO experts recommend using the vaccine for patients over 18 years of age. The drug is mRNA-based, it has an efficacy of 94.1 per cent, according to WHO estimates.The vaccine can be stored between -25oC and -15oC, but it can also be stored for up to 30 days at temperatures between 2°C and 8°C.The addition of Moderna's shot to the WHO's emergency use listing is a prerequisite for it to be a part of COVAX, the program to disseminate shots to low-income countries. It also allows countries to expedite their own regulatory approval to import and administer the Covid-19 vaccine.The US granted emergency use authorization to the Moderna shot in December, with the European Union following shortly after in January.The authorization comes as the world works to ramp up its coronavirus vaccinations to significantly curb the pandemic over a year after it broke out in Wuhan, China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-gives-emergency-use-authorisation-to-moderna-s-covid-19-jab-101619846061929.html
01-05-2021||World||US exempts students, academics and journalists from India travel ban||University students, some academics and journalists will be exempted from US restrictions on travel from India that go into effect from May 4 because of the surge in Covid-19 cases.Antony Blinken, secretary of state, made these exemptions by extending National Interest Exceptions already in place for travel from Brazil, China, Iran and South Africa, the state department said.“In keeping with the department of state’s commitment to facilitate legitimate travel to the United States, secretary Blinken decided today to apply the same set of National Interest Exceptions to India that he had previously applied to all other regional travel restrictions currently in effect as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said the state department.The Biden administration announced restrictions on travel from India earlier on Friday attributing it to “extraordinarily high Covid-19 caseloads and multiple variants circulating in India”. American citizens and permanent legal residents (Green Card holders) are exempted from the ban.The exception announced by the state department to the restriction will apply to students planning to start their college courses in fall, certain academics, journalists, and individuals who provide critical infrastructure support in countries affected by the Covid-19 related restrictions.The number of new Indian students headed for US schools this fall could not be ascertained immediately. But, they are likely to be fewer than in previous years as enrollment of international students decreased by 43% in fall 2020 , according to the International Institute of Education, which has focused on international students since 1919 and partners the US government. The drop was attributed to Covid-19 restrictions and then president Donald Trump’s xenophobic immigration policies.The number of Indian students in the US dropped 4.4% in 2020 to 193,124, according to Open Door, a comprehensive information resource partly funded by the state department.The situation is “very, very serious”, Gayle Smith, state department coordinator of US global effort on Covid-19, said about the situation in India, adding, “India is reporting an increasing number of cases almost every day. And the crisis has not peaked yet. The way this happens in a surge is there’s a lag time between when people are infected, when they become sick, and when they may need care.”New charge de affairs at US EmbassyThe United States on Friday named Daniel Smith as charge de affairs at its embassy in New Delhi, as the top diplomat.Smith is currently serving as director of the Foreign Service Institute and recently served as acting secretary of state and acting deputy secretary of State. He carries the highest Foreign Service rank of career ambassador.“Ambassador Smith’s appointment underscores the United States’ strong commitment to our partnership with the Government of India and the Indian people., the state department said in an announcement, adding, “He will spearhead close cooperation with India to ensure that our countries continue to advance our shared priorities, including overcoming the global pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-exempts-students-academics-and-journalists-from-india-travel-ban-101619846571640.html
01-05-2021||World||US dispatches third set of coronavirus aid to India||The United States on Friday (local time) dispatched the third set of its several emergency Covid-19 relief shipments to India. Arriving in New Delhi with Covid-19 relief supplies from the Dulles International Airport in the national capital region, the carrier is en route to the Indira Gandhi International Airport.The US carrier has onboard oxygen cylinders, test kits and other supplies and is expected to land in New Delhi after a brief haul in Munich according to USAID.On Friday just before the flight's departure the White House's National Security Council coordinator for the Indo-Pacific, Kurt Campbell, Indian Ambassador to the United States Taranjit Singh Sandhu, Director for South Asia in White House's National Security Council Sumona Guha and Jeremy Konyndyk at the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) were present at the Dulles airport for a brief press interaction.President Joe Biden sought an update from Campbell on the swiftly evolving situation in India. "I was able to give a sense of what USAID is doing and what it hopes to accomplish, He (President Biden) said great, stay with it," Campbell noted.The senior White House Official also highlighted the exchange between President Biden and Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the press gaggle calling it a "warm conversation", Campbell asserted.The aircraft deployed from Dulles is the US federal government third flight providing aid to India. The second flight with similar supplies lifts off from California earlier in the day. And flights like these will continue into next week airlifting urgent supplies like oxygen support, personal protective equipment, and rapid diagnostic tests to India."The administration starting from right on top, President Biden reached out and quoted that United States will stand shoulder to shoulder with India and we appreciate that," the Indian envoy Taranjit Sandhu told reporters."I'm sure with friends and partners like the United States we will face this challenge and with God's Grace we will come out if it." Sandhu further added.Earlier on Friday two US government assistance flights arrived in India and the fourth flight with aid is also scheduled to leave for India soon.Earlier this week Biden reaffirmed that US is determined to support India in its efforts to contain the pandemic during the talks. And he quickly deployed resources, and adding oxygen equipment supplies, therapeutics, medics, ventilators and other critical material for vaccine manufacturing.US will be sending supplies worth more than $100 million to India, including 1,000 refillable oxygen cylinders, 15 million N95 masks, and 1 million rapid diagnostic tests. The Biden administration has also redirected its own order of AstraZeneca manufacturing supplies to India, which will allow it to make over 20 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine. So efforts are on till these supplies land at the Indira Gandhi airport.US Department of Defense, USAID, Department of State and the White House are working in sync to provide relief to India."So, while we are we are sending oxygen through some of these airlifts, we are also trying to support an expansion of the medical oxygen supply chain within India, so that there need not to be any sort of reliance on these sorts of foreign shipments of oxygen equipment but rather within what exists within the Indian Health System, that it will be able to meet the needs in a more sustainable way going forward. So that's where we're trying to get to in partnership with our Indian Government counterparts and with the Indian Health System," noted Jeremy Konyndyk from USAID.More than 40 countries including the US have committed to sending vital medical aid, particularly oxygen supplies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-dispatches-third-set-of-coronavirus-aid-to-india-101619846066945.html
01-05-2021||World||Myanmar's Aung San Suu Kyi marks third month under house arrest||Myanmar's deposed civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi completed a third month under military-ordered house arrest Saturday -- a period marked by scatter-gun criminal charges and apparent isolation from the chaos engulfing the country.The nation has been plunged into violence since the military deposed the Nobel laureate in a February 1 coup, ending Myanmar's brief tryst with democracy.The resumption of junta rule sparked a wave of protests and a brutal crackdown on the pro-democracy movement, in which security forces have killed more than 750 people, according to a local monitoring group.Charged on six counts including sedition and under Myanmar's official secrets law, Suu Kyi has been denied private meetings with her lawyers.Instead, she has had only a couple of video meetings that were physically monitored by security officials at both ends, her defence team told AFP."We haven't had the chance up to now to meet to get instruction from our client. Without getting instructions from the accused, how can we defend her?" lawyer Khin Maung Zaw told AFP."We are very concerned for the defendant's right to justice."Min Min Soe, another member of the defence team, said on Monday that Suu Kyi is cut off from information about the ongoing unrest at the house where she is being detained in the capital Naypyidaw."I think she is not getting access to watch news and TV. I do not think she knows the current situation," Min Min Soe said.Symbol of Democracy  Suu Kyi spent more than 15 years under house arrest during previous military rule before her 2010 release and rise to power in elections held five years later.Her international stature diminished following a wave of military violence targeting Buddhist-majority Myanmar's marginalised Muslim Rohingya community that displaced more than a million people, but the coup has returned Suu Kyi to the role of cloistered democracy icon."As somebody who has had an impact on the democracy movement in Myanmar all these years, in that sense, she is irreplaceable," said Moe Thuzar from the Singapore-based ISEAS-Yusof Ishak Institute, a politics and security research centre."Even if people did not agree with the politics of the National League for Democracy, the way they viewed Aung San Suu Kyi as someone who has led the opposition, someone who has spoken up for democracy in the past, and also, as the child of the country's independence hero, I think those things count for something."Suu Kyi's NLD party built ties with the powerful military during the years of democracy, but the relationship frayed after November's elections.The NLD won a landslide but the military called foul and then seized power when the election commission failed to investigate fraud claims to the generals' satisfaction.Since Suu Kyi's arrest 12 weeks ago, the military has deployed lethal force on the streets to try to crush demonstrations and arrested more than 4,500 people.But the army has been careful to keep her out of sight, even as it has piled up criminal charges -- and corruption allegations -- against her.Even if she is cut off from the movement, her image adorns posters and banners at virtually every protest, and demonstrators demand her release."Mother Suu is old now and she will pass away some time, so we should assume our responsibilities without her," a 33-year-old activist told AFP."As Mom Su believes in us, we also believe in her again, and we will continue fighting until the winning moment of our uprising."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmars-aung-san-suu-kyi-marks-third-month-under-house-arrest-101619836685292.html
01-05-2021||World||Warrant for Giuliani's phones, computers seeks communications with over a dozen||US investigators are seeking to review Rudy Giuliani's phones and computers for communications with more than a dozen people, including a high-ranking prosecutor in Ukraine, according to a warrant executed at his apartment this week.They also are searching for communications with any US government official or employee relating to Marie Yovanovitch, the US ambassador to Ukraine who was ousted by the Trump administration in 2019, the warrant says.Agents seized more than 10 cell phones and computers from Giuliani's Manhattan apartment and office in raids on Wednesday, according to his lawyer, Bob Costello, who read the search warrant to a Reuters reporter.According to the warrant, investigators are looking for evidence that Giuliani acted as an unregistered foreign agent, a violation of lobbying laws.Giuliani said in a statement following the raids that his "conduct as a lawyer and a citizen was absolutely legal and ethical." A spokesman for the Manhattan US Attorney's office declined to comment.The list of the people identified in the warrant includes:LEV PARNAS AND IGOR FRUMANUkrainian-born Parnas and Belarus-born Fruman are two Florida-based businessmen who helped Giuliani dig up dirt on Joe Biden and his son Hunter before the 2020 presidential election and push to remove Yovanovitch.Federal prosecutors in Manhattan have accused Parnas and Fruman of using a shell company to make an illegal $325,000 donation to a committee supporting Trump's re-election. The men have pleaded not guilty to violating campaign finance laws and other charges. A trial is scheduled for October.A lawyer for Fruman declined to comment. A lawyer for Parnas did not respond to a request for comment.PETRO POROSHENKOA confectionary magnate and one of Ukraine's richest men, Poroshenko took power in 2014 and served as the country's president until 2019. At Giuliani's direction, Parnas and Fruman met Poroshenko in February 2019, while he was still in office, and pressed him to announce investigations into Hunter Biden and purported Ukrainian interference in the 2016 presidential election in exchange for a state visit, the Wall Street Journal and Washington Post reported.Poroshenko's office told Reuters on Friday that he held two meetings with Giuliani in his capacity as President Donald Trump's "special envoy" during which they discussed Russian aggression, fighting disinformation and how to strengthen the alliance between Kyiv and Washington.GYUNDUZ MAMEDOVMamedov, who currently serves as a high-ranking prosecutor in Ukraine, was a key intermediary in Giuliani's efforts to press Ukraine to open investigations that would tarnish Biden, according to NBC News.He played a role in setting up a meeting between Giuliani and Ukrainian officials, NBC reported. A spokesperson for Mamedov had no immediate comment on investigators looking at communications with Giuliani.VIKTOR SHOKINShokin became Ukraine's general prosecutor in February 2015 and led an investigation into the energy company Burisma, the Ukrainian gas company where Biden's son Hunter was a board member from 2014 to 2019.Shokin was removed from his job in 2016 following accusations of corruption by Western diplomats.Giuliani told Reuters he met with Shokin over Skype in late 2018.Shokin could not be reached for comment on Friday, according to his lawyer.YURIY LUTSENKOLutsenko succeeded Shokin as general prosecutor. In 2019, Lutsenko told John Solomon, a US columnist, that he had evidence related to the Bidens and Burisma. Later that year Lutsenko told Reuters he found no evidence of wrongdoing on the part of Biden’s son in his relationship with the energy firm.Giuliani told Reuters in 2019 that he met with Lutsenko twice early that year."I didn't correspond with Giuliani. I didn't even have his phone (number)," Lutsenko told Reuters on Friday. "We didn't communicate in any regular way."KOSTIANTYN KULYKKulyk, a former Ukrainian prosecutor, also worked on the country's investigations into Burisma. Giuliani told Reuters he met with Kulyk in Paris in 2019. Kulyk did not immediately respond to requests for comment on Friday.GLIB ZAGORIYA Ukrainian businessman and former lawmaker, Zagoriy attended a meeting between Giuliani and Lutsenko in January 2019, according to documents released by the US State Department. Zagoriy could not immediately be reached for comment on Friday.DAVID CORREIACorreia, another Florida businessman, pleaded guilty last year to making false statements to the Federal Election Commission, and duping investors in Fraud Guarantee, a company he founded with Parnas that paid Giuliani $500,000. A lawyer for Correia did not respond to a request for comment on Friday.VICTORIA TOENSING AND JOE DIGENOVAToensing and diGenova are married Washington lawyers who helped Giuliani represent Trump in his post-election lawsuits. They represented Ukrainian oligarch Dmytro Firtash, who is fighting extradition from Vienna on US bribery and racketeering charges. FBI agents raided the couple's home earlier this week and seized a cellphone used by Toensing.Toensing and diGenova did not respond to a request for comment on Friday.JOHN SOLOMONSolomon worked for The Hill, a Washington newspaper and website covering Congress, when he wrote a series of pieces that Yovanovitch testified to Congress were part of a smear campaign against her that Giuliani appeared to be behind. The Hill later said Solomon failed to identify important details about key Ukrainian sources, including the fact that they had been indicted or were under investigation.Solomon did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/warrant-for-giuliani-s-phones-computers-seeks-communications-with-over-a-dozen-101619836068310.html
01-05-2021||World||Magnitude-6.6 earthquake strikes off coast of Japan, no tsunami warning issued||Northern Japan was jolted by an earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 6.6, the country's weather agency said on Saturday, warning about the possibility of landslides in the hilly northeast. No tsunami alert was issued.The earthquake struck close to the coast of Miyagi Prefecture north of Tokyo and not far from the destroyed Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant, where the owner, Tokyo Electric Power was making checks.Nearer to the epicentre another operator was also making checks on the status of Onagawa nuclear plant, NHK reported.NHK broadcast images of severe shaking in the city of Sendai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/magnitude66-earthquake-strikes-off-coast-of-japan-no-tsunami-warning-issued-101619834220329.html
01-05-2021||World||'Irrational': Republican lawmakers criticise Biden on travel curbs from India||Republican lawmakers on Friday criticised President Joe Biden for imposing restrictions on travel from India in view of the sudden surge in COVID-19 cases in the country.“Restricting travel to our ally India while leaving our border open to Mexico is not rational,” Congressman Tim Burchett said in a tweet, soon after the White House announced Biden’s decision.“The policy will be implemented in light of extraordinarily high COVID-19 caseloads and multiple variants circulating in India. The policy will take effect on Tuesday, May 4,” White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki had said on Friday.Another Republican lawmaker Jodey Arrington also criticised Biden for this proclamation on travel.“Biden enacting an India travel ban while keeping the border open is like locking your front door, but leaving the back door wide open. I wonder if the Left will accuse him of being xenophobic and anti-Hindu,” Arrington asked.“As Biden bans flights from India, perhaps he should be reminded of a tweet he put out last year. Also, I thought travel bans were xenophobic,” Congresswoman Lauren Boebert said in a tweet.After the then president Donald Trump had imposed travel ban from Europe, Biden then the Democratic presidential candidate, had opposed it.“A wall will not stop coronavirus. Banning all travel from Europe – or any other part of the world – will not stop it. The disease could impact every nation and any person on the planet – and we need a plan to combat it,” Biden had said in a tweet on March 12 last year.Indian-American Congressman Ro Khanna, however, supported the travel ban.“I support the Biden Administration’s travel restrictions from India, which many in the Indian American community have called for,” he said.“But what we really need to do is prioritise lives over excess profits. Pfizer and Moderna need to license their vaccine formulas,” Khanna said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/irrational-republican-lawmakers-criticise-biden-on-travel-curbs-from-india-101619833446178.html
01-05-2021||World||US sees steep drop in national security surveillance during Covid-19 pandemic||The number of targets of secretive surveillance in national security investigations fell sharply last year in large part because of the coronavirus pandemic, according to a government report released Friday.The drop in eavesdropping targets under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, which among other things empowers the FBI to monitor the communications inside the United States of people suspected of being agents of a foreign power, followed a decline the year before after several years of substantially larger numbers.US officials say the statistics are known to fluctuate from year to year because of various factors, but that in 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic "likely influenced target behavior, which in turn may have impacted some of the numbers reported for that year.”“The pandemic was the single event with the biggest impact to human behavior worldwide since the Second World War," said Ben Huebner, the civil liberties chief at the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, which oversees the nation's spy agencies. "That means it also had an impact on our appropriate foreign intelligence targets.”The report from the ODNI is the eighth annual version of a document that was first released in the aftermath of disclosures of classified programs by former contractor Edward Snowden. It is designed to lend transparency to how the government wields some of its most intrusive and powerful national security surveillance powers.Officials who briefed reporters said the restrictions enacted around the world on movement and large gatherings may have decreased the number of potential people or groups to surveil. They declined to elaborate further on how the pandemic affected intelligence gathering.While there has been renewed scrutiny of the FBI's wiretapping authorities arising from the fallout of its investigation into ties between Russia and Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign, there was no discernible change in courts' willingness to approve surveillance warrants or any directive from Trump administration officials not to use those authorities, officials said.The number of surveillance targets, under provisions allowing for surveillance with warrants of people suspected of being agents of a foreign power, dropped from 1,059 in 2019 to 451 last year, according to the report.But targets under a National Security Agency warrantless surveillance program that enables intelligence collection on non-Americans abroad fell slightly last year. The report counts 202,723 targets under the program last year compared with 204,968 the previous year.An opinion released earlier this week from the court overseeing foreign surveillance found “apparent widespread violations” by FBI agents who improperly accessed NSA-obtained material. Judge James Boasberg scolded the FBI for what the agency described as errors but said its practice of querying NSA data could continue with “ongoing monitoring and auditing.”The FBI’s use of its authority to eavesdrop on subjects in terrorism and espionage investigations came under intense scrutiny in late 2019 after the Justice Department inspector general revealed significant errors and omissions in a series of applications targeting former Trump campaign adviser Carter Page during the investigation into Russian election interference.The FBI subsequently announced dozens of corrective actions aimed at improving the accuracy and thoroughness of its applications.Another politically charged metric cited in the report is the number of times the NSA disclosed, or unmasked, the identity of an American referenced in an intelligence report in response to a specific request from another agency.Such identities are ordinarily concealed before intelligence about surveillance of foreign targets is distributed to administration officials. US officials can ask the NSA to unmask the name if they believe knowing the identity is vital to understanding the intelligence.Unmasking is fully legal and a standard practice in the national security community. But the issue nonetheless became an election-year rallying cry for Trump supporters after the release of declassified documents showing that multiple Obama administration officials had asked the NSA to disclose the name of an American whose identity was concealed in intelligence reports but who was revealed to be Michael Flynn, Trump's first national security adviser.According to the report released Friday, the number of people unmasked in 2020 in response to a request from another agency dropped to 9,354 from 10,012 the year before.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-sees-steep-drop-in-national-security-surveillance-during-covid-19-pandemic-101619832776206.html
01-05-2021||World||Cops in West Virginia's Charleston city shoot, wound Black man||The police chief of West Virginia's capital city said two officers shot and wounded a Black man wielding a knife Friday afternoon, a confrontation captured on police body camera video that was released at a news conference.Charleston Police Chief James ‘Tyke’ Hunt said Denaul Dickerson, 33, was shot about five times and taken to a hospital where he was in stable condition. Detectives and prosecutors in Kanawha County, whose seat is Charleston, will review the case, the police chief said in briefing reporters.Hunt did not announce any action taken against the officers involved or disclose their races.Police body camera footage presented at the news conference begins by showing officers having a conversation with Dickerson as they stood on a sidewalk in the capital city's West Side neighborhood.Hunt said officers arrived after receiving a 911 call that Dickerson had allegedly threatened to stab someone.Less than a minute into the video, which begins at around 12:45 p.m., Dickerson can be seen running into the street after speaking to several officers, yelling at them to get away from him. An officer tells him to drop a knife from his hand, the video shows.Hunt said Dickerson had a bench warrant over a case involving allegations he brandished a weapon at an officer last year.The video shows at least two officers begin to point their firearms at Dickerson as he faces them on the street. “I told y'all the last time to kill me,” he yells at the officers, then turns around and walks down the street, saying "I didn't do nothing wrong."More police cars drive up as he backs away. About two minutes after the start of the footage, more than half a dozen officers surround Dickerson on an empty grassy lot. Dickerson says on video that he is going home when he turns around to face officers and motions toward one of them. At that moment he was shot, gunfire ringing out.“As the officer with the Taser begins to close distance to deploy the Taser, you will see Mr. Dickerson take an aggressive stance,” Hunt said. “When he takes a lunging movement toward our police officers, two officers fire.”Footage shows Dickerson fall to ground. Officers immediately place him on his stomach and attend to the bloody wound on his upper leg as he cries in pain. Hunt said medical services arrived within two minutes.Hunt said not all officers in the department are issued Tasers. He added that the pandemic decreased the opportunity to give officers the required training to carry a Taser.Body camera footage from more than one officer was shown at the news conference, but the clips weren't released otherwise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cops-in-west-virginia-s-charleston-city-shoot-wound-black-man-101619832249523.html
01-05-2021||World||Australia bans arrivals from India, says offenders face jail, fines||Australian residents and citizens who have been in India within 14 days of the date they plan to return home will be banned from entering Australia as of Monday and those who disobey will face fines and jail, government officials said.The emergency determination, made late on Friday, is part of strict measures to stop travellers to Australia from the world's second most populous nation as it contends with a surge in Covid-19 cases and deaths.The restrictions come into effect from May 3 and breaching the ban risks civil penalties and up to five years imprisonment, Health Minister Greg Hunt said in a statement."Our hearts go out to the people of India – and our Indian-Australian community. The friends and family of those in Australia are in extreme risk. Tragically, many are contracting Covid-19 and many, sadly, are dying every day," Hunt said.The Australian government will reconsider the restrictions on May 15, he said.India's coronavirus death toll passed 200,000 this week, and cases are nearing 19 million - nearly 8 million since February - as virulent new strains have combined with "super-spreader" events such as political rallies and religious festivals.Australia, which has no community transmissions, on Tuesday introduced a temporary suspension of direct flights from India to prevent more virulent Covid-19 variants entering the country.However, some Australians, including cricketers Adam Zampa and Kane Richardson, returned via Doha."The Government does not make these decisions lightly. However, it is critical the integrity of the Australian public health and quarantine systems is protected and the number of Covid-19 cases in quarantine facilities is reduced to a manageable level," Hunt said.Australia has all but stamped out the coronavirus from its shores after closing its borders to non-citizens and permanent residents in March 2020 to prevent the spread of the new coronavirus.Travellers now have to undergo a mandatory two-week hotel quarantine at their own expense, a system that has largely helped Australia to keep its Covid-19 numbers relatively low, with just over 29,800 cases and 910 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-bans-arrivals-from-india-says-offenders-face-jail-fines-101619830153845.html
01-05-2021||World||Brazil pharma flags 'retaliation' risk over bill to drop Covid-19 vaccine patents||Brazilian pharmaceutical associations on Friday called for lawmakers to reject a bill that seeks to suspend Covid-19 vaccine patents, saying it could spark international retaliation and reduce medical supplies in Latin America's biggest country.Brazil's Senate passed the proposal on Thursday night, sending it to the lower house for consideration.The bill's backers say the emergency measure is needed due to a shortage of shots and a grave outbreak in Brazil, where over 400,000 people have died from the virus.The government of President Jair Bolsonaro has publicly opposed calls to suspend patent protections, arguing they could endanger talks with vaccine producers.In a joint statement, five of Brazil's leading pharmaceutical associations sided with his administration."The approval of a bill that allows for the weakening of intellectual property could lead to international retaliation and reduce the supply of pharmaceutical inputs," it said. "We cannot support measures that could generate more instability and scenarios that may have irreversible consequences, in the short, medium and long term for Brazil."Brazil has signed vaccine supply deals with AstraZeneca , China's Sinovac Biotech Ltd, Pfizer Inc and Johnson & Johnson. AstraZeneca and Pfizer declined to comment, while Johnson & Johnson directed Reuters to the associations' statement. Sinovac did not immediately respond.A senior pharmaceutical executive in Brazil, who was involved in Covid-19 vaccine talks, said the bill was "very poorly thought through" and "sends a poor message."The executive, who asked to speak anonymously due to ongoing relationships with the government, said the legislation could especially hurt U.S. firms, which hampering Brasilia's efforts to improve relations with Washington.In a Friday statement on the bill, Brazil's Health Ministry said the priority is to strengthen the country's infrastructure to produce more vaccines domestically.The presidential press office did not respond to a request for comment.The legislation passed by the Senate would oblige patent holders to provide authorities with all the information needed to produce Covid-19 vaccines and medicines. Then, if the government were to call a state of emergency, they could be produced locally under a government-mandated arrangement.It remains to be seen whether lower house lawmakers will pass the bill. It has not been included on the next week's voting agenda, indicating Brazil lower house speaker Arthur Lira may want to further discuss the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-pharma-flags-retaliation-risk-over-bill-to-drop-covid-19-vaccine-patents-101619828494233.html
01-05-2021||World||WHO gives emergency use listing to Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine||The World Health Organization has listed Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine for emergency use, the agency said on Friday, the fifth to be given the status meant to expedite countries' own approval of shots."The objective is to make medicines, vaccines and diagnostics available as rapidly as possible to address the emergency," the WHO said in a statement.WHO Assistant Director-General Mariangela Simao said on Friday it was important to have more vaccines available because of supply problems for other shots, including from India, a main source of vaccines for the global COVAX vaccine sharing programme. India has restricted exports because of a crisis of infections.Moderna announced this week an expansion plan for its production network to boost its capacity to up to 3 billion doses in 2022.The WHO's Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunization (SAGE) already in January had recommended Moderna's vaccine for all age groups 18 and above.Pfizer and its German partner BionTech's shot, also an mRNA vaccine like Moderna's, was the first vaccine to get a WHO emergency use listing in the final hours of 2020.Since then, the WHO has added vaccines from Astrazeneca-SK Bio, Serum Institute of India and Johnson & Johnson vaccines to the list.The Geneva-based health organization is still considering Covid-19 vaccines from Sinopharm and Sinovac following an extended review, with decisions due by the end of next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-gives-emergency-use-listing-to-moderna-s-covid-19-vaccine-101619828119340.html
01-05-2021||World||AstraZeneca says Covid-19 shots production in Latin America will be delayed||AstraZeneca has confirmed setbacks to production of its COVID-19 vaccines in Latin America, excluding Brazil, but said it will still meet a commitment to deliver 150 million doses to the region this year.The Anglo-Swedish drugmaker said in a statement shared with Reuters on Friday that lower-than-expected production, shortages of critical supplies and longer periods for regulatory approval had slowed the process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/astrazeneca-says-covid-19-shots-production-in-latin-america-will-be-delayed-101619827063204.html
01-05-2021||World||UK reducing size of NHS contact tracing workforce as Covid-19 cases fall||Britain's NHS (National Health Service) Test and Trace system is reducing the size of its contact tracing workforce after a decline in coronavirus cases in the country."Just as we increased numbers working in the trace service over the winter, we are now responding to the reduction in case numbers we've seen this spring", a spokeswoman for the Department for Health and Social Care said in an emailed statement on Friday."We are continuing to respond to changes in demand and reflect staff numbers accordingly", the statement added.The statement did not specify by how much the staff is being reduced. It said that NHS Test and Trace has contacted almost 10 million people since it began.A total of more than 34.2 million people in Britain have been given a first dose of COVID-19 vaccine, government statistics showed on Friday. A further 2,381 people had tested positive for the virus, down slightly on the day before.There were 15 new deaths recorded within 28 days of a positive test, compared to the 22 deaths recorded on Thursday.Earlier in April, Britain's health ministry said there were no plans to halt rapid coronavirus testing.Britain will buy 60 million more doses of Pfizer/BioNTech's, vaccine, health minister Matt Hancock said earlier this week, in a deal that more than doubles the country's supply of the shot ahead of a booster programme later this year.Britain has now ordered a total of 100 million doses of the Pfizer vaccine, one of three COVID-19 shots being rolled out in the country.Britain, which has a population of 67 million, has deals for 517 million doses of eight different COVID-19 vaccines, some of which remain under development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-reducing-size-of-nhs-contact-tracing-workforce-as-covid-19-cases-fall-101619826633910.html
01-05-2021||World||Industry genocide on a global scale: China on Xinjiang sanctions||Sanctions imposed by western countries over human rights violations in Xinjiang are no more than "a piece of waste paper" and their real purpose is to hamper Chinese companies internationally, the region's government said on Friday."Their real purpose is to conduct an 'industry genocide', to sabotage the participation of Xinjiang in the global value chain," Xu Guixiang, a spokesperson for the Xinjiang regional government told a press conference in Beijing on Friday.Xu acknowledged that the sanctions will have an impact on exports from companies based in Xinjiang, but he insisted that in the long term, these companies will increase their competitiveness by investing in science and technology, South China Morning Post reported.Amid rising pressure on China over the Xinjiang issue, Beijing has ramped up its efforts to justify its policies against Uyghur Muslims.Beijing has also organised media tours of Xinjiang to counter the allegations but reporters who have travelled to the region independently to investigate the allegations have reported being blocked by the authorities and followed by police, according to the SCMP.This year the United States, Canada, Britain and the EU all imposed coordinated sanctions on those accused of human rights abuses in the region.This prompted retaliatory measures from Beijing - and the growing international backlash has seen almost all products made in Xinjiang, including textiles, solar panels and even movies, coming under the spotlight.Early this year, the United States become the first country in the world to declare the Chinese actions in Xinjiang as "genocide".In February, both the Canadian and Dutch parliaments adopted motions recognising the Uyghur crisis as genocide. The latter became the first parliament in Europe to do so.In April, the United Kingdom declared China's ongoing crackdown in Xinjiang a "genocide".China has been rebuked globally for cracking down on Uyghur Muslims by sending them to mass detention camps, interfering in their religious activities and sending members of the community to undergo some form of forcible re-education or indoctrination.Beijing, on the other hand, has vehemently denied that it is engaged in human rights abuses against the Uyghurs in Xinjiang while reports from journalists, NGOs and former detainees have surfaced, highlighting the Chinese Communist Party's brutal crackdown on the ethnic community. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/industry-genocide-on-a-global-scale-china-on-xinjiang-sanctions-101619826204618.html
01-05-2021||World||US extends face-mask requirement on planes until September||If you're traveling on a plane, train or bus, don't put that face mask away yet.The Transportation Security Administration said Friday it will extend its mask requirement, which also applies in airports and train stations, through Sept. 13. The rule took effect February 1 and was set to expire May 11.The agency said that children up to 2 and people with certain disabilities will continue to be exempted from the mask rule.Violations can carry fines of up to USD1,500 for repeat offenders.Separately, a spokeswoman for the Federal Aviation Administration said Friday that the FAA will continue its zero-tolerance policy against disruptive airline passengers as long as the TSA mask rule is in effect.The FAA is seeking much larger civil penalties — some topping $30,000 — against a small number of passengers that it accuses of interfering with airline crews.TSA officials said the mask rule matches health guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.The CDC recently said that fully vaccinated people can travel safely, but it still recommends that they wear masks and maintain distance from other people. About 100 million Americans, roughly half the nation's adults, have been fully immunised against Covid-19.Airlines and their unions had pushed for an extension of the federal mask rule as a stronger alternative to airline-imposed rules.“Continuing the TSA enforcement directive for the CDC transportation mask mandate will keep passengers and aviation workers safe,” said Sara Nelson, president of the Association of Flight Attendants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-extends-face-mask-requirement-on-planes-until-september-101619826094837.html
01-05-2021||World||Boeing announces USD10 million aid for India's fight against Covid-19||Boeing on Friday announced a USD10 million emergency assistance package to support India’s Covid-19 response.The assistance from Boeing will be directed to organisations providing relief, including medical supplies and emergency health care for communities and families battling Covid-19, the company said in a statement."The Covid-19 pandemic has devastated communities across the globe and our hearts go out to our friends in India who are going through a very difficult time. Boeing is a global citizen, and in India we are directing our pandemic response to the communities most impacted by this recent surge of cases," said Dave Calhoun, president and CEO of Boeing.Boeing said it will partner with local and international relief organisations to deploy the USD10 million to the areas of greatest need in consultation with medical, government and public health experts.In a statement, the company said that its employees also have an opportunity to donate personally to charitable organisations supporting Covid-19 relief in India.As part of the Boeing Gift Match programme, the company will match monetary donations dollar for dollar, extending the reach of assistance being provided to the Indian people."Boeing not only stands in solidarity with the Indian people in their effort to confront this pandemic, we will be a part of the solution. We will continue to monitor the pandemic response in India and work to support our employees, customers, and partners through this crisis," it said.Previously Mastercard had also announced an assistance of USD10 million towards Covid-19 response efforts in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boeing-announces-usd10-million-aid-for-india-s-fight-against-covid19-101619825459824.html
01-05-2021||World||Car bomb kills 27 in Afghanistan's eastern Logar province||A huge car bomb blast killed at least 27 people and injured dozens more in Afghanistan's eastern Logar province on Friday evening, with high school students among the casualties, local officials said.The car packed with explosives detonated in Logar's capital of Pul-e Alam near the house of the former head of the provincial council, Didar Lawang, the spokesman for Logar's governor, said.The house also operated as a guesthouse and the blast had struck just as guests were breaking their fast during the Islamic holy month of Ramadan, according to the head of Logar's provincial council, Hasibullah Stanekzai, who told Reuters 27 people had been killed and dozens more wounded.He said among the casualties were high school students who had been staying at the house, having travelled to the capital to sit their university entrance exam, as well as pro-government militia members who were staying there while waiting for air transport to another distinct.It was not immediately clear who was behind the blast. A spokesman for the insurgent Taliban said in response to Reuters' questions that they were looking into the matter.Violence in Afghanistan has escalated in recent weeks after U.S. President Joe Biden announced the United States would withdraw troops by Sept. 11 to end two decades of foreign military presence.That decision angered the Taliban who had signed a deal with previous U.S. President Donald Trump that specified troops would be gone from the country by May 1 subject to certain security guarantees.Interior ministry spokesman Tariq Arian said 21 people had been killed and 91 wounded and that a rescue and recovery operation was continuing.A provincial health official said just over 60 injured people had been taken to hospital and many students were among the victims.The European Union's delegation to Afghanistan condemned the attack."In the holy month of Ramadan, horrible news on a car bomb in Pul-e-Alam, Logar province, killing and injuring innocent civilians, including students....this is a tragedy for the whole country," it said on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/car-bomb-kills-27-in-afghanistan-s-eastern-logar-province-101619822901780.html
01-05-2021||World||US restricts travel from India from May 4, cites ‘extraordinarily high’ cases||The Joe Biden administration will restrict travel from India from Tuesday in view of the spike in cases of Covid-19, the White House said in a statement Friday.”On the advice of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Administration will restrict travel from India starting immediately,” White House press secretary Jen Psaki said.“The policy will be implemented in light of extraordinarily high COVID-19 caseloads and multiple variants circulating in India.”The restrictions will not apply to American citizens and lawful residents (Green Card holders), according to details reported by some media outlets.The state department had reissued a “Do not travel” advisory for its citizens for India on Wednesday and allowed families of diplomats to leave for the United States in view of the spike in cases in India. A state department spokesperson said this a voluntary authorized departure and not mandatory.“Out of an abundance of caution, the Department of State authorized the voluntary departure, so-called authorized departure, of family members of the embassy – at the US Embassy in New Delhi and the consulates throughout the country,” the spokesperson said at a news briefing.“Authorized departure doesn’t force anyone to leave; it doesn’t require anyone to leave. It gives these family members the option to depart if they wish. Departure, again, is not required.”The United States has also extended the Level 4 “Do not travel” advisory, which Price said, was a “pro forma re-issuance” of a previously issued advisory that had “been in effect, given COVID not only in India but also globally as well”.Price refused to share details of reports of US embassy staff contracting Covid-19. CNN has reported citing sources that there has been a major outbreak at US missions in India. Two locally employed staff members have died and more than 100 tested positive.“It is fair to say that Covid has touched every – just about every element of Indian society, and of course, we do have a large diplomatic presence in India, as you might expect, given our global comprehensive partnership with India,” Price said, adding, “So while I can’t offer any specifics on U.S. embassy employees or family members or locally employed staff, clearly this is a pandemic; this is an outbreak, a surge of cases in India that has left no part of the country untouched.”Asked about the removal and blocking of social media posts critical of the Indian government over the second wave of Covid-19 epidemic, Price said, “Of course, India is a large democracy with whom we share foundational values, and freedom of information, freedom of expression is something we support around the world.”Pushed back by a reporter who asked if freedom of expression and information extended to social media posts that incited violence, the state department spokesperson said that “hate speech, incitement to violence is something that we oppose everywhere”.“But clearly,” he added, “we support freedom of expression, while still calling out and condemning when we see incitement to violence and hate speech.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-restricts-travel-from-india-from-may-4-cites-extraordinarily-high-cases-101619810749882.html
01-05-2021||World||45 dead in stampede at Israel religious festival||At least 45 people were crushed to death overnight on Friday at an overcrowded religious festival in Israel, with some asphyxiated or trampled victims going unnoticed until the PA system sounded an appeal to disperse.Tens of thousands of ultra-Orthodox Jews had thronged to the Galilee tomb of 2nd-century sage Rabbi Shimon Bar Yochai for annual Lag B’Omer commemorations that include all-night prayer, mystical songs and dance.Witnesses said many of the dead were caught in a tightly packed passageway around 3 metres wide after crowds packed the slopes of Mount Meron in northern Israel in defiance of warnings to maintain social distancing against Covid-19.Medics said there had been a stampede in the men’s section of the gender-segregated festival. Casualties included children.Many of the dead had yet to be identified and police asked family members to provide pictures and personal information of those who attended the festival and were still missing to help with the process.Videos posted on social media showed ultra-Orthodox men clambering desperately through gaps in sheets of torn corrugated iron to escape the crush. Bodies lay on stretchers in a corridor, covered in foil blankets.“There was some kind of mess, police, screaming, a big mess, and after half an hour it looked like a scene of a suicide bombing attack, numerous people coming out from there on stretchers,” said 19-year-old festival-goer Hayim Cohen.“We were going to go inside for the dancing and stuff and all of a sudden we saw paramedics from (ambulance service) MDA running by, like mid-CPR on kids,” 36-year-old pilgrim Shlomo Katz told Reuters.An injured man lying on a hospital bed described to reporters how the crush began when a line of people in the front of the surging crowd simply collapsed.“A pyramid of one on top of another was formed. People were piling up one on top of the other. I was in the second row. The people in the first row -- I saw people die in front of my eyes,” he said.People who stayed on the scene through the night questioned how the situation so quickly spiralled out of control, though there had been concern for years about safety risks at the annual event.The Justice Ministry said investigators would look into whether there had been any police misconduct connected to the tragedy.A police spokesperson said overall capacity at Mount Meron was similar to previous years but that this time bonfire areas were partitioned off as a Covid-19 precaution. That may have created unexpected choke-points on foot traffic, Israeli media said.A pilgrim who gave his name as Yitzhak told Channel 12 TV: “We thought maybe there was a (bomb) alert over a suspicious package. No one imagined that this could happen here. Rejoicing became mourning, a great light became a deep darkness.”Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, while visiting the site, called it one of the “heaviest disasters” in Israel’s history and promised a thorough investigation to ensure it did not recur. He called for a national day of mourning on Sunday.The United States and European Union offered condolences.Helicopters ferried injured people to hospitals and the military said search-and-rescue troops were scrambled. With the site cleared, rescue workers collapsed against railings, some weeping as their colleagues comforted them.As rescue workers tried to extricate the casualties, police shut down the site and ordered revellers out. The transportation ministry halted roadworks in the area to enable scores of ambulances to move unhindered. The Mount Meron tomb is considered to be one of the holiest sites in the Jewish world and is an annual pilgrimage site. The event was one of the largest gatherings in Israel since the Covid-19 pandemic began more than a year ago. Lockdown measures were eased this year amid Israel’s rapid Covid-19 vaccination programme. MORE ON P15||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dozens-of-dead-in-israel-pilgrimage-accident-rescue-services-101619743463279.html
01-05-2021||India||Kerala facing acute shortage of Covid-19 vaccine: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala is facing an acute shortage of vaccine and it is not in a position to provide shots to people in the 18-45 age group now, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Saturday, adding that repeated requests to the Union government for more doses failed to yield any result. Talking to newsmen in a virtual meeting, the CM said the state was keen to vaccinate people in the 18-45 group but it was delayed due to a paucity of doses. “We will start as and when we get enough stock. But they will have to wait,” he said, adding that the government will give priority to people who received the first shot and waiting are for the second. He said in some areas people are panicking over the non-availability of the second dose and are crowding vaccination centres. About 74 lakh doses were given in the state.The chief minister said some laboratories were not conducting RT-PCR tests after the price of the test was reduced from ₹1,700 to ₹500. The government will not tolerate this attitude and he requested all labs to adhere to the price fixed by the government. Many labs complained that it was not feasible to conduct tests as per the latest price.“We have decided after weighing all options. The kit is priced at ₹260 and the rest is the fee and other related heads. Protesting labs will have to realise that it was not time to make huge profits,” he said, adding if the protests continued the government will take action under relevant provisions of the epidemic control act. Kerala reported 35,636 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday with a high test positivity rate of 24.33 per cent. It also reported 48 deaths in the past 24 hours taking total fatalities to 5,356. At least three districts reported more than 4000 cases - Kozhikode 5,554, Ernakulam 5,002 and Thrissur 4,070. The state’s active caseload also rose to 3,23, 828, according to the data released by the state health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-facing-acute-shortage-of-covid-19-vaccine-chief-minister-pinarayi-vijayan-101619893614587.html
01-05-2021||India||Working to provide 40k o2 generators to India: china||Chinese companies are working round the clock to meet the demand of 40,000 oxygen generators from India which is facing a shortage of the live-saving gas amid the Covid-19 pandemic, ambassador Sun Weidong has said, adding that several organisations are using private channels to extend help to the neighbouring country. “As far as I know, Chinese companies have been accelerating production of at least 40,000 oxygen generators – orders placed by the Indian side, and they are working round the clock to deliver them as soon as possible. Many Chinese firms and private organisations are also using their own channels to provide various [forms of] help to India,” the Chinese ambassador to India told state-run tabloid Global Times in an interview.In April, China supplied more than 5,000 ventilators, 21,569 oxygen generators, over 21 million masks and around 3,800 tons of medicines to India, Sun said, citing the statistics of the General Administration of Customs of China.On Friday, Chinese President Xi Jinping expressed serious concerns over the pandemic situation in India and offered to help fight the outbreak, in a message to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“China is willing to strengthen anti-pandemic cooperation with India, and provide support and help to the country,” official news agency Xinhua quoted Xi as saying. “I am very concerned about the recent outbreak of new coronary pneumonia in India and would like to express sincere condolences to the Indian government and people on behalf of the Chinese government and Chinese people, and on my own behalf,” Xi added in the message.Following this, Chinese official media announced that state councilor and foreign minister Wang Yi held a telephonic conversation with external affairs minister, S Jaishankar, expressing China’s concerns over the second wave in India that pushed daily cases past the 400,000 mark on Thursday.Wang said China will continue to encourage and support Chinese enterprises to speed up production and provide anti-epidemic materials to India as per requirements. Besides this, it will also facilitate customs clearance and transportation of anti-epidemic materials purchased by the Indian side. “Third, we will organise video exchanges between health and epidemic prevention experts of the two countries to share experience and effective measures in fighting the epidemic,” Wang said.The Chinese minister reiterated the country’s support to India’s efforts and said it will ensure that all required materials “flow to Indian entities without any delay”.Chinese companies will be supported to deliver the materials, and airports, customs and airlines will be instructed to smoothly facilitate the movement of goods, he said.Appreciating Xi’s message of condolence to Modi, Jaishankar thanked the Chinese side for showing goodwill and unity, and for providing strong support to the Indian side in purchasing anti-epidemic supplies.Jaishankar said Indian entities were commercially procuring products and raw materials required for the Covid-19 response from suppliers in China. He added that “this process would be facilitated if various transport corridors and cargo flights remained open and the necessary logistics support [was] ensured expeditiously,” according to a statement from the external affairs ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/working-to-provide-40k-o2-generators-to-india-china-101619893434012.html
01-05-2021||India||France sending 8 oxygen plants to help India tide over Covid-19 crisis||The first consignment of the Russian-made Sputnik V vaccine was delivered to Hyderabad on Saturday even as France announced it would deliver 28 tonnes of medical equipment to support India’s response to a deadly second wave of Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections. A special cargo flight will reach New Delhi early on May 2 with 28 tonnes of medical equipment worth more than ₹17 crore, including eight high capacity oxygen generator plants that will be delivered to six hospitals in Delhi and one each in Haryana and Telangana, the French embassy said. This is the first phase of the solidarity mission deployed by President Emmanuel Macron to support India as part of the European Union’s coordinated response to the Covid-19 crisis. The French support is meant not only to provide immediate medical relief but also to boost India’s “strategic autonomy in healthcare”. The eight oxygen generator plants from the French company Novair produce medical oxygen from ambient air to supply a hospital’s oxygen system or fill cylinders with a rate of 20,000 litres an hour. Each plant can continuously supply a 250-bed hospital non-stop for a dozen years, providing enhanced resilience to peaks in oxygen demand and savings of up to ₹15 crore a year while eliminating safety issues related to liquid oxygen storage. The plants will be delivered to hospitals based on needs identified by Indian authorities. Besides the oxygen plants, the flight will also carry 28 ventilators and 200 electric syringe pumps to be distributed to several hospitals to enhance their ICU capacities. French ambassador Emmanuel Lenain said, “We stand by India in these difficult times, just as India has always stood by France. In spring 2020, when French hospitals were facing acute shortages, India provided lifesaving help through the export of critical medical drugs. The French people have not forgotten.” This special French cargo flight was chartered free of charge by the French shipping group CMA CGM, and many other French firms present in India stepped up to pool their resources with the French government for the solidarity mission. A second delivery of oxygen generators and medical equipment from France is underway, and French company Air Liquide will begin shipping several hundred tonnes of oxygen through a dedicated logistical bridge organised by the French and Indian governments and implemented with the Indian military. The consignment of 150,000 doses of Sputnik V from Russia was delivered to Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, the first Indian pharmaceutical firm to tie up with the Russian vaccine’s developers last year for regulatory approvals and distribution. The consignment will be rolled out after necessary clearances over the next few days, said Dr Reddy’s, which has secured emergency use authorisation from India’s drug regulator to import the shot. “This initial quantity will be used across different channels as a pilot to line up our supply chain for the larger vaccination program rollout,” the firm said. Russian ambassador Nikolay Kudashev said in a statement that Sputnik V’s efficacy is “among the highest in the world”, and the vaccine will be “effective against new strains of Covid-19”. He added local production would start soon and be gradually ramped up to 850 million doses a year. “As Russia and India continue dedicated joint efforts to combat the Covid-19, this move is especially important to support the Indian government’s endeavours to mitigate the deadly second wave and save lives,” Kudashev said. Two emergency flights from Russia delivered 20 tonnes of equipment, including oxygen concentrators, ventilators and medicines such as Coronavir on April 29. Meanwhile, a Germán Air Force Airbus A350 cargo aircraft flew in with 120 oxygen ventilators to New Delhi on Saturday night. The equipment will be immediately handed over for distribution in cooperation with the Indian Red Cross Society, the external affairs ministry and other agencies, German ambassador Walter Lindner said. Two Airbus A400 military transport aircraft will bring in a large mobile oxygen generation plant next week and 13 German technical personnel have reached India to install the plant and train Indian personnel. A consignment of antiviral drug Remdesivir is expected from Germany, and a German agency will organise a webinar on virus sequencing for an Indian technical team.“The #Covid19-pandemic strikes at the heart of India. We support India in its fight against the pandemic. Germany will send urgently needed goods to provide care to the patients,” German foreign minister Heiko Maas said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/france-sending-8-oxygen-plants-to-help-india-tide-over-covid-19-crisis-101619891454491.html
01-05-2021||India||Amid raging pandemic, counting of votes to decide leadership in Puducherry and 4 states||(PLAYBACK)HT CorrespondentNew DelhiVotes for 822 assembly seats spread across four states and the Union territory of Puducherry will be counted on Sunday, May 2, amid the raging Covid-19 wave across India.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is in direct contest with the Trinamool Congress in West Bengal and with the Congress-led alliance in Assam. Apart from Assam, the Congress is trying to stake a claim of power from the Left Front government in Kerala. In Tamil, the fight is between the two Dravidian parties, the ruling AIADMK and DMK. While the BJP is an ally of the AIADMK, the Congress is a minor player in the DMK-led alliance.The exit polls on April 29 predicted a close contest between the BJP and the TMC in West Bengal, a clear edge for the BJP in Assam, for the DMK in Tamil Nadu and the Left Front in Kerala. In Puducherry, NR Congress, contesting in alliance with BJP and the AIADMK, was a clear leader in the exit polls.Of the 294 seats in West Bengal, votes would be counted for 292 seats and election in two seats in the Murshidabad district have been countermanded because of the death of the candidates. Both TMC and BJP expressed confidence in winning with a handsome margin. The Sanjukta Morcha or joint alliance of Congress, Left parties and cleric Abbasuddin Siddiqui’s newly-launched Indian Secular Front (ISF), is also in the fray, though exit polls predicted a below-par performance for the alliance.“We will meet our expectations,” BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said on Saturday but did not repeat the “more than 200 seats” claim his party made. Saugata Roy of TMC said that the election win for his party was a foregone conclusion. “The way BJP workers are demoralised, shows they have lost the battle even before counting of votes,” he said.The Bengal elections were a manifestation of two narratives. While the BJP primarily projected Banerjee as an “appeaser” — a code for what the party alleges is the TMC government’s pro-Muslim tilt - the chief minister labelled the BJP’s national leaders from the Hindi belt as “bahiragato” (outsider) to Bengal’s culture and spirit.In Tamil Nadu, counting for 234 assembly seats will be conducted across 75 counting centres, in which the fate of 4,218 candidates will be decided. It’s the first election without stalwart leaders such as J Jayalalithaa and M Karunanidhi who passed away in 2016 and 2018 respectively. In a bipolar contest, the AIADMK and the DMK are contesting more than 170 seats each on their own. About 72.78% of voters in the state turned up on the single-phase election on April 6 to decide if Edapaddi Palaniswami gets to retain the chief minister’s chair or if DMK’s MK Stalin should be given a chance.Several other parties are in the running and chief minister aspirants include actor Kamal Haasan whose three-year-old Makkal Needhi Maiam makes its debut in the assembly election. The AMMK, which is AIADMK’s rebel faction, led by VK Sasikala’s nephew TTV Dhinakaran, is also in the fray with Tamil nationalist S Seeman’s Naam Tamizhar Katchi with a rural support base looking to make a mark.In Kerala, the fate of 957 candidates contesting for 140 assembly seats will be decided on Sunday. Most of the pre-poll and exit poll surveys have predicted a clear edge to the ruling of the Left Democratic Front by bucking the 40-year old trend of change in government after every five years. The Congress-led United Democratic Front expressed confidence that the state will stick to its tradition and elevate it to power. “We are sure about our continuation. Our track record is our strength. People are with us,” said upbeat chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. But opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said he won’t believe in surveys and predictions and people are waiting to dump the most “corrupt and inefficient government” the state has seen. Elections were held in a single phase on April 6. For the 126-member Assam assembly, the BJP-led alliance was ahead of the Congress-led opposition grand alliance in most of the exit polls even though the Congress rejected the exit polls saying they were forming the next government.“We would win close to 100 seats,” said BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma. Congress leader Gaurav Gogoi, however, said the alliance was coming back to power. “The exit polls are not telling the reality. We will win,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-raging-pandemic-counting-of-votes-to-decide-leadership-in-puducherry-and-4-states-101619886594180.html
01-05-2021||India||'This death of a young doctor...': IMA ex-chief blames 'system' as Delhi Covid doctor dies by suicide||The former chief of Indian Medical Association, Dr Ravi Wankhedkar, on Saturday said the suicide of Dr Vivek Rai, a resident doctor of a private hospital in Delhi, is nothing short of murder by the "system", which has created frustration "due to the shortage of basic healthcare facilities".According to DCP south, the doctor died on April 30 allegedly by suicide at his residence in Malviya Nagar. A suicide note was found but no reason for suicide was mentioned in the note, the DCP said."He was doing Covid duty since one month and was dealing with ICU patients every day and was providing CPR and ACLS for about seven to eight patients per day out of which not many survived," Dr Wankhedkar wrote.This brings into focus d tremendous emotional strain hcws r having while managing C19 crisis.This death of a young dr is nothing short of murder by d “system “ which has created frustrations d/t shortages of basic health care facilities.Bad Science,Bad Politics & Bad Governance"Due to this frustrating situation he was into, he took such a difficult decision of ending his own life than living with the suffering and emotions of the people who died on his watch," the former IMA chief wrote.35-year-old Dr Vivek Rai was a brilliant doctor from Gorakhpur and has helped save a hundred lives in the Covid era, Dr Wankhedkar said."This brings into focus the tremendous emotional strain healthcare workers are having while managing the Covid-19 crisis. This death of a young doctor is nothing short of murder by the system, which has created frustrations due to shortages of basic health care facilities. Bad science, bad politics and bad governance," the doctor tweeted.Dr Vivek was married in November and his wife is in two months of her pregnancy, Dr Wankhedkar added.The healthcare system has come under immense pressure in April as India is fighting its worst battle with the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The country is not only seeing the highest number of daily infections but also the highest number of daily deaths, as many are dying without getting hospital beds, oxygen. On Saturday, around 12 people died at Delhi's Batra Hospital as it ran out of oxygen for 1.5 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-death-of-a-young-doctor-ima-ex-chief-blames-system-as-delhi-covid-doctor-dies-by-suicide-101619884258693.html
01-05-2021||India||Queues for oxygen, hospital beds and outside crematorium too, thanks to Modi govt, says Rahul Gandhi on Covid situation||In a wide-ranging exclusive interview with PTI, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said the entire world is shaken by the severity of the Covid-19 pandemic in India and there are queues everywhere, whether for oxygen cylinders, for life-saving medicines, for hospital beds and even outside crematoriums.He accused the government of misreading and mishandling the situation and alleged that all early warning signs were ignored, including from scientists. Here is the transcript of the interview: Q. The second wave of coronavirus has hit India hard. We see people gasping for medical aid, medicines, oxygen. They have no access to facilities in the national capital and across the country. How do you see the situation and the response of the government? Ans. It breaks my heart every single day to wake up to the absolute devastation around us. This is not a wave; it is a tsunami that has destroyed everything in its wake. There are never-ending queues everywhere. There are queues to get an oxygen cylinder, queues to refill the cylinder, queues to get life-saving medicines, queues to get a hospital bed, and now there are queues outside crematoriums. There is a fatal shortage of every single item we need to tackle Covid-19. Our capital’s best hospitals are bursting at the seams. We are getting frantic SOS calls for oxygen from India’s top doctors. Hospitals are petitioning High Courts for oxygen. Our healthcare workers are seeing patients die in front of their eyes, they cannot save people. India is now the world’s coronavirus epicentre. The entire world is shaken by what they are seeing in India. None of this should have happened. There were multiple early warning signs. Forget the signs, scientists clearly warned the government this would happen – they ignored them. We could and should have been much better prepared. And now, where is the government in this crisis? It is completely missing in action. They are obsessed only with saving the Prime Minister’s image and blaming others. The new buzzword is that the ‘system’ has failed. Who is this ‘system’? Who runs the ‘system’? It’s just a ploy to avoid admitting responsibility. Q. Did the government falter in assessing the Covid situation? Who is at fault? Ans. Absolutely. The Prime Minister is at fault. He runs a highly centralised and personalised government machinery, is solely and substantially devoted to building his own brand, is utterly focused on imagery rather than substance. The fact is that this Government completely failed to understand or to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic -- right from the very beginning, despite repeated warnings. Since the very start of this pandemic back in 2020, I kept trying to warn the government about the disaster ahead if we did not urgently prepare but they attacked me and ridiculed me. It’s not just me – anyone who tried to sound the alarm, the state callously and thoughtlessly ignored. Modi government let this virus enter India through our airports in February and March of 2020. And then it panicked and without consultation or thought imposed the world’s harshest lockdown. Migrant workers were left to fend for themselves and an unprecedented exodus began from the cities. The poorest of the poor were forced to walk hundreds of kilometres home with no support, no aid, no assistance. In his sheer ignorance, the Prime Minister said he would defeat the virus in 21 days, akin to the battle of Mahabharata! Modi government is plainly arrogant and focuses on perception over reality- declaring victory against the virus is absolute insanity and demonstrates a complete misunderstanding of the nature of what this virus is. The only way to fight corona is with humility and by realizing that you are faced with a relentless opponent, who can adapt and is very resilient. The PM had an entire year to better prepare, protect India, and think through this crisis but what did they do? Did the PM & the Govt add sufficient oxygen capacity, ramp up testing, increase hospital beds, ventilators? Did the PM think long-term about the state of our health infrastructure and start building for the sort of subsequent Corona waves that almost every country in the world was experiencing? It was sheer luck that we emerged out of last year’s nightmare, to a point where we had less than 10,000 new cases in a day early in 2021. We were not testing enough then. We are not testing enough now. Where was the preparation for this massive second wave? Why were the jumbo facilities put up last year dismantled? Why did they raise oxygen exports over 700% - think of that number, 700% - in the months before this brutal second wave?Also read| Covid: It will get worse before it gets betterQ. What could the Government have done differently to address the second wave? Ans. The Modi Government was both grossly negligent and blindly overconfident. The BJP announced the end of the pandemic and congratulated the Prime Minister for his “success” even as the second wave was just beginning. The Prime Minister himself is on record as having said that India had successfully fought the pandemic and won. In reality, there was no coherent strategy. One, the government should have built massive capacity over the last year –– testing, oxygen, hospital beds, ventilators. Two, they should not have declared victory prematurely. Three, the Prime Minister and his government did not even acknowledge there was a problem. How can you fix something you don’t even accept exists? Four, the government did not act on scientific advice or evidence. They continuously ignored rising cases and were busy instead with election campaigns. They encouraged super-spreader events. They even bragged about them. Our Prime Minister and Home Minister were not even wearing masks in public over the past few months. What sort of a message is that sending to citizens? Five, most importantly, the only solution we have is vaccination. We are supposed to be the largest manufacturer of vaccines in the world. And yet, India is desperately short of vaccines. We are making them, why weren’t our people first in line to be vaccinated? If that is not a failure to plan and execute, what is? Q. With India seeing around 4 lakh cases a day, the highest in the world, is there a case for the national emergency considering the unprecedented crisis? Ans. We are already in the midst of a national emergency. But just declaring something is not the answer. The biggest problem of this government is it announces and then absconds. Now that the situation is completely out of control, they have dropped the ball and thrown it to the states. They have made the states and citizens truly ‘Aatmanirbhar’. Rely on yourself is the motto. No one will come to help you. Definitely, not the Prime Minister. The need of the hour is to hold hands, work together and heal our people. India must be the only country in the world facing this massive pandemic without the guidance of an expert and empowered group that is charged with fighting the virus and protecting the people, with planning ahead, anticipating needs and taking the decisions that will result in swift action to save lives. Q. GoI has said it repeatedly warned states about the second wave and asked them to map the need for essential supplies like oxygen, ICU beds, and continue with containment efforts. Would you say the current situation is a collective failure of the Centre and states? Ans. The entire country has already been under the Epidemic Act for more than a year. The Centre has absolute power over states under the Act. This is a government that wants to control everything. When cases went down, they declared victory, and the Prime Minister took all the credit as he always does. Now that the situation is terrible, why are you blaming the states? Out of 162 oxygen plants sanctioned in October by the Centre, only 33 are functional. This was set up with the PM-CARES funds. The Modi Government took tens of thousands of crores of donations in his name, without any transparency, without any accountability. The states have rejected the sub-standard ventilators supplied by the Centre through these funds. States do not even get their GST dues on time. States are dependent on the Modi Government for quotas of oxygen, Remdesivir and Tocilizumab injections. The Modi Government has chained the hands of the states behind their backs, so they are completely powerless, and then asks them to sort out their own affairs. Obviously, the system will collapse. Also read| 'Everything falls on my shoulders': Adar Poonawalla on vaccine pressure in IndiaQ. Adult vaccinations are starting on May 1 along the lines you demanded, but states say they cannot start as they do not have the vaccines. What is your view? Did you seek the expansion of vaccinations too early? The UK will start adult vaccines from June? Ans. First, the government set a target of vaccinating 300 million by August. This is the above 45 age category. They managed to fully vaccinate not even 2 percent of the total population. With the mounting pressure of the government not vaccinating enough, they added another 600 million to the list, by starting vaccinations for the 18+ group from May 1. But where are the vaccines? Why did the Modi Government abandon the people between age groups of 18 to 44 years by refusing to take responsibility for their vaccination? Why is there a discriminatory policy on the pricing of vaccines? Why should there be five different prices for the same vaccine? What is the strategy beyond two companies? How can that suffice for almost 1 billion people? We need 2 billion doses. Now, they are scrambling for vaccines. The numbers just don’t add up.Q. You have said the liberalised Vaccine policy is discriminatory. Vaccine makers have reduced prices for states. Your comments? Ans. This is the story of ‘discount sale’, where you mark up the price, and then make a show of reducing it. It is a complete eyewash. Why should states pay more than the Centre to buy vaccines? Why should the states be left to fend for themselves? Why should there be a difference in price for vaccines for the Centre, the States and the private hospitals? Why should the price of the vaccine even for the two companies be different? Why the discrepancy? After all, even when States pay for the vaccination of those between the age groups of 18 to 44 years, it is taxpayer’s money. Q. The government has not invoked compulsory licensing for vaccines despite repeated calls by Congress? Ans. Dr Manmohan Singh asked for compulsory licensing in his letter to the Prime Minister. The Congress President has repeated it several times now. Other countries have done this. The USA ramped up its vaccine production using their Defense Production Act. We have to do whatever it takes, within our laws, to ramp up the domestic production of vaccines here. We have a domestic manufacturing base. We can manufacture for both India and the world. All the industry needs are licenses and raw materials. It should have been done months ago. Q. The Congress party has said it is willing to work together with the Centre in the fight against Coronavirus. How will you make it accountable then? Ans. Congress Party has said from day one that it is willing to work with the government in the fight against Coronavirus and for a year now, even in just the last few days, the Congress President has repeated this position very clearly. We have been consistently giving suggestions on all possible forums. Forget taking them seriously, the government has not even meaningfully acknowledged these suggestions. I see no contradiction in working together with the government in times of unprecedented crisis while at the same time holding it accountable for its decisions. The problem arises when the government doesn’t believe in consultation, in carrying everyone along, in tapping expertise it lacks. This government seems to think that acknowledging help is needed is a sign of weakness. The hubris and pettiness of this government are unbelievable. Q. The Madras High Court has held the Election Commission responsible for the Covid situation. Your views? Ans. The Court was echoing a widely held view. In the past 7 years, like so many other institutions, the Election Commission of India has also crumbled. The Court has said what it believes, I don’t want to make any further comment. Let your readers judge for themselves. Our Institutions are a warning system- they give us feedback and information on how to respond to crisis but our institutions have been completely destroyed and taken over. The press, judiciary, election commission, bureaucracy - none of them have played their role of guardian/watchdog. This means India today is like a ship in a storm, sailing without any information. Corona is just part of the problem - the real problem is that India now doesn’t have the capacity to respond to any major crisis because of what has been done to its systems over the last 6 years. Also read| Assembly elections 2021: 200% increase in halls for counting amid Covid-19Q. There have been demands within for internal elections and a new Congress president? Are you ready to lead again in such times, especially when there are demands from various quarters within for you to lead? Ans.I have always favoured internal organisational elections within the Congress and these will be conducted in time. It is for the party workers to decide as to who should lead the party. I will do whatever the party wants me to do. But right now the focus is on controlling the pandemic, saving lives, and alleviating India’s widespread suffering and pain. There will be time for everything else in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/queues-for-oxygen-hospital-beds-and-outside-crematorium-too-thanks-to-modi-govt-says-rahul-gandhi-on-covid-19-situation-101619881938284.html
01-05-2021||India||Pollution control body asks 30 industries to modify nitrogen plants for medical oxygen||The Central Pollution Control Board has identified 30 industries to modify their nitrogen plants for the production of medical oxygen. Some of these plants can be shifted to nearby hospitals for supplying oxygen and some plants, where it is not feasible to shift the plants, can produce oxygen on-site, the CPCB said. The Centre had asked the CPCB to identify industries with spare nitrogen plants and explore the feasibility of converting nitrogen plants to produce oxygen. The CPCB has a database of all industrial units in the country.A senior Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) official said that they have not issued any such directions in the national capital.“There are no such major plants that can be converted, but if any specific directions are issued from CPCB we will look at options,” the officials said. M/s UPL Ltd converted one 50 Nm3/hr capacity nitrogen plant to produce oxygen using Zeolite Molecular Sieve and installed it at LG Rotary Hospital, Vapi in Gujarat. This plant is producing 0.5 ton/day of oxygen and is operational since April 27. UPL Ltd. is also under the process of conversion of three more plants. On conversion to oxygen plants, these plants will be installed at hospitals in Surat and Ankleshwar.According to the CPCB, at the existing nitrogen plants, oxygen for medical use can be produced by replacing Carbon Molecular Sieve (CMS) with Zeolite Molecular Sieve (ZMS) and making few other changes, such as installation of oxygen analyzer, change in control panel system, flow valves, among others.With the availability of ZMS, such modified plants can be set up in 4-5 days while installation of a new oxygen plant may take a minimum of 3-4weeks. Oxygen produced in on-site plants has to be compressed and filled in cylinders using high-pressure compressors for transporting to hospitals, the CPCB said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pollution-control-body-asks-30-industries-to-modify-nitrogen-plants-for-medical-oxygen-101619883653976.html
01-05-2021||India||Tripurari Sharan named new Bihar chief secretary||Senior IAS officer Tripurari Sharan was on Saturday named as the new Chief Secretary of Bihar, but his tenure will be for a brief period of two months only, according to a government notification. Sharan succeeded Arun Kumar Singh who died of Covid the previous day. A 1985 batch IAS officer, Sharan will retire from service on June 30 this year. He was currently holding the responsibility of Chairman of Revenue Council. According to the notification issued by the General Administration department, Sanjeev Kumar Sinha (1986 batch) will replace Sharan in Revenue Council. The 1985 batch IAS officer Arun Kumar Singh had died of Covid in a private hospital here Friday. He had tested positive mid-April and after a long battle with the disease breathed his last the previous day. Singh was scheduled to retire in August-end but his sudden demise forced a reshuffle. A large number of senior bureaucrats have come under attack of Covid in its deadly ongoing second wave in Bihar. Before Singh, Additional Health Secretary Ravi Shankar Choudhary and Director in Panchayati Raj department Vijay Ranjan had succumbed to Covid infection. The notification also gave details of the transfer of some other senior IAS officers. Sudhir Kumar will take over the charge of Chief Investigation Commissioner in the General Administration department from Sinha. The 1989 batch IAS officer Vandana Kinney will be Additional Chief Secretary in the department of Labour Resources department. She will also have additional responsibility of Arts, Culture and Youth affairs department. Mihir Kumar Singh has been made Commissioner of Tirhut division at Muzaffarpur. Prem Singh Meena has been named as new Bhagalpur Commissioner. He will also hold additional charge of Munger division. Manish Kumar (2005 batch) became new Darbhanga Commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripurari-sharan-named-new-bihar-chief-secretary-101619881452886.html
01-05-2021||India||Maharashtra reports 63,282 new Covid-19 infections; 802 died in 24 hours||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 63,282 new cases and 802 deaths while Mumbai reported 3,897 new cases and 90 deaths in the last 24 hours. With Saturday's rise, the number of active Covid-19 cases in the country reached 6,63,758. The 24-hour infection tally is a slight rise from the previous day as Maharashtra, on Friday, reported 62,919 fresh Covid-19 cases. Against 63,282 new Covid-19 cases, the state recorded 61,326 recoveries in the last 24 hours. The narrowing gap between daily infections and daily recoveries is an indication that the Covid-19 situation in the state is stabilising as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Friday. There is no need for stricter lockdown in the state, the chief minister said. A total of 2,89,006 people were tested in the state in 24 hours.Maharashtra Covid-19 situation better due to restraint shown by all, no need for stricter lockdown: CM Uddhav ThackerayAs India officially began the third phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive where people between the age group of 18 and 44 years are being vaccinated, Maharashtra inoculated as many as 11,4892 people in that age group, the state public health department said. Inoculation drive for the new category was carried out in 26 districts of the state and it will begin in all 36 districts from Sunday, said an official release.The second wave of the pandemic which is at its peak now in the country started in February and Maharashtra was the first state to be hit hard by it. As the state seems to be gradually on the way to recovery from the peak, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope has predicted that the third wave may hit the state in July-August. It has been said the state could reach the plateau level of Covid-19 cases by the end of May. If it is hit by a third wave in July or August, it would increase the challenges before the state administration, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-reports-63-282-new-covid-19-infections-802-died-in-24-hours-101619880891952.html
01-05-2021||India||India receives over a lakh Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine doses from Russia||One hundred and fifty-thousand doses of the Russian Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, Sputnik V, arrived in India on Saturday, the licensed distributors of the vaccine in India announced.Dr Reddy’s Labs that has the license to distribute the vaccine said in a statement that the doses arrived in Hyderabad from Russia, and the company was in the process of working out necessary formalities for its rollout.“We are pleased to announce that the first consignment of 150,000 doses of the Sputnik V vaccine has landed in Hyderabad from Russia. The rollout of the consignment will be subject to the necessary clearances, which will be processed over the next few days. This initial quantity will be used across different channels as a pilot to line up our supply chain for the larger vaccination programme rollout,” Dr Reddy’s statement read.More doses are expected to arrive soon. “Subsequent consignments will arrive in the next few weeks. This is a reaffirmation of Dr Reddy’s commitment towards combating Covid-19 in India through our portfolio of therapeutics and vaccines,” said Deepak Sapra, chief executive officer, API and services, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, in a statement.The ministry of external affairs spokesperson, Arindam Bagchi, also confirmed the news through a tweet.“Sputnik-V vaccine arrives in Hyderabad from Russia! Will add to India’s arsenal to fight the pandemic. This third option will augment our vaccine capacity & accelerate our vaccination drive,” he tweeted soon after the arrival of the vaccine.“This is the 1st consignment of 1.5 lakh doses of Sputnik-V vaccine with millions of doses to follow. Plans to ‘Make in India’ for use in India, Russia & 3rd countries. Deeply value support from long-standing friend Russia. Over a decade of India Russia special & privileged strategic partnership,” he said in another tweet.On April 13, Dr Reddy’s Labs received India’s drugs controller’s approval for import of the vaccine under restricted use in an emergency situation, making it the third vaccine allowed for use in India against Covid-19. The vaccine’s efficacy is pegged at 91.6% based on the final assessment of clinical trials in Russia, where roughly 20,000 people were part of the phase-3 clinical trials. In India, the vaccine is being tested by Dr Reddy’s in 1,600 people in a phase 2/3 trial meant as a “bridging study” that all foreign-made pharmaceutical products need to undergo.The production locally, through various tie-ups, could start by end of June or early July, according to Kirill Dmitriev, CEO, Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), Russia’s sovereign wealth fund that is marketing the vaccine globally.Besides a partnership with Dr Reddy’s Labs, which is also conducting Sputnik V clinical trials locally, the RDIF has entered a manufacturing partnership with five other local companies for production. The companies are Stelis Biopharma, Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec and Virchow Biotech. Among these companies, Hetero Biopharma last week received the Drugs Controller General of India’s (DCGI) clearance to conduct phase 3 clinical trials of the vaccine in India.India will be producing at least 50 million doses per month of Sputnik V, over the next couple of months.“We are looking at producing 50 million doses or more a month of Sputnik V by this summer, or end of summer, in India. India has a significant production capacity; we have already announced tie-ups with five local companies for mass production of Sputnik V, and we intend to have several more tie-ups that will announce soon; likely in the next 2 weeks,” Dmitriev earlier said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-receives-over-a-lakh-sputnik-v-covid-19-vaccine-doses-from-russia-101619880114256.html
01-05-2021||India||CJI Ramana advances SC's summer break to May 10 due to surge in Covid cases||Taking note of a surge in COVID-19 cases, Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana advanced Supreme Court's summer vacation on Saturday to May 10, instead of May 14, after the full bench of the court concurred with the proposal.On April 26, the CJI had taken note of the representations made by bar bodies such as the SCBA and the SCAORA seeking advancement of the summer vacation in view of the sudden surge in COVID-19 cases and decided to put them before the full bench for consideration."It is hereby circulated for information...upon consideration of the suggestions from the bar due to the surge in COVID-19 infections, the Chief Justice of India has been pleased to direct that the summer vacation of the Supreme Court calendar 2021 be rescheduled to commence on Monday, May 10. Court shall reopen after the summer vacation on June 27," a circular issued by the apex court said.The Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA), led by its president and senior advocate Vikas Singh, and the Supreme Court Advocates on Record Association (SCAORA) had met the CJI seeking advancement of the summer vacation in the wake of the rampaging second wave of the coronavirus pandemic.The CJI held preliminary discussions with the bar leaders of the SCBA, the Bar Council of India (BCI) and the SCAORA, and "decided to place the issue before the full court".The full bench agreed to the proposal, a source, privy to the development told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cji-ramana-advances-sc-s-summer-break-to-may-10-due-to-surge-in-covid-cases-101619877501374.html
01-05-2021||India||Getting demand for Oxygen Express from every area of the country: Railways||After the dry run of the first Oxygen Express on April 19 between Mumbai and Vizag, 25 Oxygen Express have completed the journey moving 56 full tankers and 813 tonne of liquid medical oxygen, the railways said on Saturday. The railways has also delivered 25 oxygen tankers to Uttar Pradesh, 10 to Maharashtra, 12 to Madhya Pradesh, five to Haryana and four to Delhi.Briefing about the steps the Indian Railways took in the wake of the coronavirus crisis, Railway Board chairman Suneet Sharma said the railways will ensure that oxygen reaches wherever necessary in the minimum possible time. "We are now receiving demand from every corner of the country and I want to reiterate the railways' commitment to service -- be it Oxygen express or covid coaches," the CEO said.Providing state-wise break-up, the railways said, Haryana received its first and second Oxygen Express on Saturday carrying five tankers. The third Oxygen Express carrying 30.6 MT liquid medical oxygen (LMO) in two tankers has already started from Angul and currently on its way to Haryana. Madhya Pradesh received its 2nd Oxygen Express carrying 70.77 metric tonne of oxygen to Jabalpur and Sagar from Bokaro yesterday. The 3rd Oxygen Express to Jabalpur carrying 22.19 metric tonne oxygen is on its way from Rourkela and is expected to reach Jabalpur by tonight. Second 'Oxygen Express' to carry liquid oxygen from Bengal's Durgapur to DelhiUttar Pradesh will be receiving its 8th Oxygen Express en route from Bokaro carrying 44.88 metric tonne oxygen in three tankers. Uttar Pradesh has already received approximately 355 metric tonne of oxygen so far and more is on its way to Lucknow. Delhi will receive its 120 MT of LMO in 6 tankers from Durgapur in the next 24 hrs. Telangana will also receive its first Oxygen Express currently on the way from Angul carrying 124.26 MT oxygen.The railways has also deployed about 4,000 isolation coaches with 64,000 beds. These Isolation Coaches can be easily moved and positioned at places of demand on the Indian Railways network, it said.The railways is running 1,390 special trains and 5,387 suburban services per day. A total of 26 special trains are being operated as clones of highly patronised trains. About 794 passenger services are also being operated. Overall, approximately 70 per cent of the train services have been restored.To clear extra rush, the railways ran 370 additional train services as there was a high demand for trains in Gorakhpur, Patna, Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, Bhagalpur, Varanasi, Guwahati, Manduadih, Barauni, Prayagraj, Bokaro, Ranchi, Lucknow and Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/getting-demand-for-oxygen-express-from-every-area-of-the-country-railways-101619877306140.html
01-05-2021||India||Kerala logs 35,636 fresh Covid-19 cases, 48 deaths||Kerala recorded 35,636 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, including 81 health workers, pushing the total caseload to15.69 lakh as the toll climbed to 5,356 with 48 deaths. As many as 15,493 people were discharged. Cumulatively 15,69,620 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 5,356 deaths and 12,77,294 discharges. There are 3,23,828 active cases at present, with 52,836 undergoing treatment in Ernakulam, 46,427 in Kozhikode and 36,650in Malappuram, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told reporters. Kozhikode reported the highest number of 5,554 cases on Friday, Ernakulam had 5,002 and Thrissur 4070,while Malappuram and Thiruvananthapuram reported over 3,000 cases each. In the last 24 hours, 1,46,474 samples were tested and the Test Positivity Rate (TPR) stood at 24.33 per cent. The toll has mounted to 5,356 with 48 deaths. Of the positive cases, 81 are health workers, 223 had come from outside the state and 33,196 were infected through contact. A person who returned from South Africa tested positive in the last 24 hours, a government press release said. At least 108 returnees from UK, eight from South Africa and one from Brazil have so far tested positive for the virus. The samples of 114 of them returned negative and 11 were found infected with the mutant strains so far, it said. At least 6,87,843 people are under observation in various districts, including 25,326 in hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-logs-35-636-fresh-covid-19-cases-48-deaths-101619875111954.html
01-05-2021||India||'Everything falls on my shoulders': Adar Poonawalla on vaccine pressure in India||Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonwalla on Saturday spoke out about the pressures he was under over the production of COVID-19 vaccines to meet the ever-increasing demand in India as the country battles through a devastating second wave of the coronavirus pandemic.In his first comments since he was provided with ‘Y’ category security by the Indian government earlier this week, Poonawalla told ‘The Times’ in an interview about receiving aggressive calls from some of the most powerful people in India, demanding supplies of Covishield -- the Oxford/AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine that the Serum Institute is producing in India.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThat pressure is largely behind his decision to fly into London to be with his wife and children, the 40-year-old entrepreneur said.“I’m staying here (London) for an extended time because I don't want to go back to that situation. Everything falls on my shoulders but I can't do it alone...I don’t want to be in a situation where you are just trying to do your job, and just because you can’t supply the needs of X, Y or Z you really don’t want to guess what they are going to do,” Poonawalla told the newspaper.Watch | ‘Getting aggressive calls…’: Adar Poonawalla on Covid vaccine pressure in India﻿﻿“The level of expectation and aggression is really unprecedented. It’s overwhelming. Everyone feels they should get the vaccine. They can’t understand why anyone else should get it before them,” he said.The businessman indicated in the interview that his move to London is also linked to business plans to expand vaccine manufacturing to countries outside India, which may include the likes of the UK.“There’s going to be an announcement in the next few days,” he said, when asked about Britain as one of the production bases outside India.Also Read: Short of doses, Delhi to keep expanded jabs drive on holdAccording to the newspaper, by the time the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine was approved in January this year, the Serum Institute of India had increased its annual production capacity from 1.5 to 2.5 billion doses at a cost of USD 800 million, and stockpiled 50 million doses of Covishield.The company began exporting to 68 countries, including Britain, as India seemed to have been over the worse, until the situation worsened in recent weeks.“We’re really gasping for all the help we can get,” Poonawalla said in the ‘Times’ interview.“I don’t think even God could have forecast it was going to get this bad,” he said.On the charge of profiteering as the cost of Covishield was recently hiked, he termed it as “totally incorrect” and added that Covishield will still be “the most affordable vaccine on the planet” even at a higher price.“We have done the best we can without cutting corners or doing anything wrong or profiteering. I’ll wait for history to judge,” he said.“I’ve always had this sense of responsibility to India and the world because of the vaccines we were making, but never have we made a vaccine so needed in terms of saving lives,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/everything-falls-on-my-shoulders-adar-poonawalla-on-vaccine-pressure-in-india-101619873739116.html
01-05-2021||India||'My close doctor friend is not taking calls': Bihar BJP MP on Covid crisis||In a long Facebook post, Bihar BJP chief, MP, Dr Sanjay Jaiswal wrote the Covid-19 situation has become so grim that his doctor friend is not taking his calls. "Because he can't do anything," the BJP leader wrote.The BJP leader who tested positive for coronavirus in July last year said people are not yet understanding the grimness of the situation, that there is no prevention of the virus apart from social distancing. "So far, we have arranged bed and oxygen in Champaran but now we are running out of those. It is concerning that the positivity rate in West Champaran has reached 30 per cent but people are still organising wedding, funerals."पिछले कुछ दिनों में कुछ अपनों को और बहुत सारे अपनों के अपनों को खो चुका हूं । खासकर दिल्ली में चाह कर भी बिहार के लोगों..."There is no treatment for Covid-19 in the world. The medicines which are available are not for Covid-19, but to treat the complications arising out of Covid," he wrote.The Facebook post, written on April 29, comes at a time when the country is fighting its hardest battle with the virus with the number of daily cases, deaths skyrocketing, amid an acute crisis of oxygen, hospital beds.On Friday, Bihar chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh died of Covid-19 at a private hospital in Patna. On Saturday, BJP MLC Hari Narayan Choudhary died of Covid-19 while undergoing treatment at a hospital in Patna.Bihar is one of the 10 states reporting 74 per cent of new cases in the alst 24 hours. On Friday, Bihar recorded 15m853 new infections, which took its active tally to over 1.5 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/my-close-doctor-friends-are-not-taking-calls-bihar-bjp-mp-on-covid-crisis-101619873478786.html
01-05-2021||India||Covid-19 lockdown extended by a week in Delhi, tweets CM Kejriwal||Amid rise in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the capital city, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the existing lockdown in Delhi, which was supposed to end on May 3, will be extended by one week. Lockdown in Delhi was first imposed on April 19 for one week to curb the spread of the infection which has been on the rise in the city for the past one month. The April 19 lockdown was put in place till April 26, but was further extended till May 3.Lockdown in Delhi is being extended by one weekDelhi on Friday recorded 27,047 new Covid-19 cases and 375 deaths, according to the health bulletin. The total number of active cases in Delhi stood at 99,361, and the overall Covid-19 caseload reached 1,149,333. As 25,288 patients recovered from the viral disease on Friday, cumulative recoveries stood at 1,033,825. The positivity rate in the national capital stood at 32.69 per cent while the case fatality rate stood at 1.40 per cent.The rules under the existing lockdown, will therefore be extended till May 10, owing to which only essential facilities in Delhi such as groceries, dairies, shops selling fruits and vegetables, bakeries, and confectionaries shall remain open.Read more: Senior doctor among 12 dead after Delhi hospital runs out of oxygenOther than these, banks, insurance offices, ATMs, print and electronic media, telecommunication internet, broadcasting, IT and cable-related services and e-commerce delivery services are also allowed to function during the period of the lockdown. Petrol pumps, LPG, CNG, petroleum and gas retail and storage outlets shall also remain open.Movement of essential services providers with a valid ID card will be allowed. These include medical personnel, banks employees, insurance officers, stock-related officers, telecommunications, internet services, broadcasting and people involved in the delivery of essential goods like food, pharmaceuticals. Additionally, central government officials, judicial officers, officials working in the offices of diplomats of other countries as well as persons holding any constitutional post are also exempted.Read more: Vaccination for people between 18-44 yrs in Delhi to start on Monday: KejriwalEmergency medical and healthcare-related facilities, such as private hospitals, nursing homes, diagnostic centres, medicinal clinics, testing laboratories, pharmacies, medical oxygen suppliers and other associated services shall also remain functional during this period. Moreover, patients seeking medical services are allowed to travel for the same upon the production of valid identity cards, doctor's prescription, or medical papers.Moreover, public transport facilities, such as Delhi Metro and public buses will be allowed with 50% seating capacity during the lockdown period while autos, e-rickshaws, taxis, and app-based cabs can carry can up to a maximum of 2 passengers.Intra-state and inter-state movement of essential goods is not prohibited under the lockdown in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-lockdown-extended-by-a-week-tweets-cm-kejriwal-101619871832848.html
01-05-2021||India||Jailed Samajwadi Party leader Azam Khan tests positive for Covid-19||Senior Samajwadi Party leader Mohammad Azam Khan tested positive for Covid along with 13 other prisoners in Sitapur jail, officials said on Saturday.The 72-year-old Rampur MP and the other prisoners tested positive for the infection in both rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests, said RS Yadav, jailer, Sitapur Jail.He said the Covid-19 tests were conducted after complaints of fever and cough. Initially, the rapid antigen was done and later the samples were sent for the RT-PCR test, the reports of which came positive late Friday night, he said.Meanwhile, the Samajwadi Party (SP) demanded that Khan be shifted to a high-level hospital considering his age.“News of MP Azam Khan getting Covid-19 infected is extremely saddening. Considering the age of Azam Khan, he should be immediately shifted out of the jail hospital, and admitted to a high-level hospital by the government," the party said in a tweet in Hindi.Yadav said the treatment of the SP leader is going on as per Covid-19 protocol and he has been isolated."Azam Khan is under the observation of doctors and his condition is stable," the jailer said, adding that the other Covid-19 positive prisoners have also been isolated and are under treatment.Khan, along with his son and wife, has been in jail since February last year in connection with various cases of land grabbing, encroachment and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jailed-samajwadi-party-leader-azam-khan-tests-positive-for-covid19-101619871787424.html
01-05-2021||India||India, Russia together against Covid-19, says Russian envoy as Sputnik V arrives||The first consignment of 150,000 doses of Russia made Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V arrived in Hyderabad on Saturday, the same day on which India began its third phase of Covid-19 vaccination to inoculate everyone above the age of 18 years."First batch of #SputnikV vaccine arrives in Hyderabad, India! That's the same day the country starts mass Covid vaccination drive covering its entire adult population. Let's jointly defeat this pandemic. Together we are stronger," Sputnik V, which claims to be the world's first Covid-19 vaccine with an efficacy of 91.6 per cent, developed by Gamaleya Institute tweeted.First batch of #SputnikV vaccine arrives in Hyderabad, India! That's the same day the country starts mass COVID vaccination drive covering its entire adult population. Let's jointly defeat this pandemic. Together we are stronger.✌️ pic.twitter.com/312Kvtax1LThe Drug Controller General (DCGI) last month granted permission to Dr Reddy's Laboratories for importing the Russian shot to India for emergency use.The Russian vaccine will be the third shot available in India besides the Serum Institute of India-manufactured Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine and the country's indigenous vaccine Covaxin manufactured by Bharat Biotech.Also read: PM Modi speaks to Putin, says 'cooperation on Sputnik-V will assist humanity'Nikolay Kudashev, the Russian envoy to India also shared the news about the delivery of the first batch of the vaccine to India. Recognising the joint efforts of the two countries to combat Covid-19, he said the move is especially important to support the Indian government against the deadly second wave of coronavirus disease."Happy to share that the first batch of the #SputnikV vaccine delivered in Hyderabad! As #RussiaIndia continue dedicated joint efforts to combat the #Covid-19, this move is especially important to support the Indian Government’s endeavours to mitigate deadly second wave and save lives," Kudashev said after the consignment reached India.Happy to share that the first batch of the #SputnikV vaccine delivered in Hyderabad! As #RussiaIndia continue dedicated joint efforts to combat the #COVID19, this move is especially important to support the Indian Government’s endeavors to mitigate deadly 2nd wave & save lives. pic.twitter.com/0zY0bTTOKlIndian ambassador to Russia Bala Venkatesh Varma had earlier said that around 150,000 to 200,000 vaccines are expected to be available in the country by the initial part of May.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The first vaccine from abroad arrived in India the same day as the country recorded a grim milestone of more than 400,000 fresh Covid-19 cases in a single day.Apart from Russia, the US, Britain, Canada, Japan, Iran, Pakistan, Taiwan also extended support to battle this destructive wave of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-russia-together-against-covid-19-says-russian-envoy-as-sputnik-v-arrives-101619867996196.html
01-05-2021||India||Indian scientists flag coronavirus mutations that could 'evade immune response'||A forum of scientific advisers set up by the Indian government has told authorities about minor mutations in some samples of the coronavirus that could "possibly evade immune response" and require more study, a leader of the forum has told Reuters.However the advisers said while they were flagging the mutations, there was no reason currently to believe they were expanding or could be dangerous.Scientists are studying what led to the current surge in cases in India and particularly whether a variant first detected in the country, called B.1.617, is to blame. The World Health Organization has not declared the Indian variant a "variant of concern," as it has done for variants first detected in Britain, Brazil and South Africa. But the WHO said on April 27 that its early modelling, based on genome sequencing, suggested that B.1.617 had a higher growth rate than other variants circulating in India.The forum of advisers, known as the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genetics Consortium, or INSACOG, has now found more mutations in the coronavirus that it thinks need to be tracked closely."We are seeing some mutation coming up in some samples that could possibly evade immune responses," said Shahid Jameel, chair of the scientific advisory group of INSACOG and a top Indian virologist. He did not say if the mutations have been seen in the Indian variant or any other strain."Unless you culture those viruses and test them in the lab, you can't say for sure. At this point, there is no reason to believe that they are expanding or if they can be dangerous, but we flagged it so that we keep our eye on the ball," he said.INSACOG brings together 10 national research laboratories.India reported more than 400,000 new Covid-19 cases for the first time on Saturday. The rampaging infections have collapsed its health system in places including capital New Delhi, with shortages of medical oxygen and hospital beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-scientists-flag-coronavirus-mutations-that-could-evade-immune-response-101619869932182.html
01-05-2021||India||As India fights Covid-19 second wave, here's all you need to know about oxygen concentrators||As India battles the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), oxygen concentrators have seen a renewed surge in demand, with disease-stricken patients and their relatives scrambling to get hold of one when faced with alarming drops in oxygen levels. Oxygen therapy has also emerged as a leading treatment in severe Covid-19 cases and as a helpful alternative to depleting stocks of liquid oxygen, as evident by the central government announcing on April 28 that it will procure such concentrators in states gravely burdened with coronavirus cases.However, using an oxygen concentrator correctly is no easy task, and although it is at the forefront of treating Covid-19 patients isolated at home, proper guidance is necessary. Here's a primer on how oxygen concentrators work and when they would be required, if at all:What is oxygen therapy?To understand how oxygen concentrators work, one first needs to understand how oxygen is used in the medical treatment of Covid-19.The coronavirus brings about a respiratory disease, meaning it affects our lungs and subsequently alters the otherwise normal, steady flow of oxygen from the lungs to the various cells within our body. When one contracts the coronavirus disease, it can cause the oxygen to drop to alarming levels, thereby requiring oxygen therapy. This treatment uses an external supply of medical oxygen to artificially enhance our oxygen levels to clinically acceptable levels.Oxygen level is measured by oxygen saturation, known briefly as SpO2. This is a measure of the amount of oxygen-carrying haemoglobin in the blood. A healthy individual with normal lungs will have an arterial oxygen saturation of 95% – 100%.The World Health Organization (WHO) mandates that if the oxygen saturation level is 94% or lower, the patient needs to be treated quickly. SpO2 of less than 90% is a clinical emergency. Now, as per the Covid-19-related guidelines issued by the Union health ministry, the patient needs to be admitted to a hospital if the oxygen concentration goes down to 93% or lower, while that below 90% is classified as a severe disease, requiring admission in ICU.How do oxygen concentrators work?We know that atmospheric air contains around 78% nitrogen and 21% oxygen. Oxygen concentrators are simple devices that do precisely what their names suggest -- they take in ambient air and increase its oxygen concentration by filtering away the nitrogen.In a way, these oxygen concentrators function in a similar manner as oxygen tanks or cylinders do, supplying oxygen to the body with the use of a cannula, oxygen masks, or nasal tubes. The only difference is -- while cylinders and canisters need to be refilled, oxygen concentrators can work 24x7.There is also a difference in quantity. While oxygen concentrators can provide around 5-10 litres per minute and are thus suitable for patients down with a moderate case of Covid-19, critical patients often require up to 40-50 litres of oxygen per minute which these concentrators would not be able to provide. In such cases, one would need liquid medical oxygen (LMO), which is stored in cryogenic tankers, to replenish the body's supply to acceptable clinical levels.When to use oxygen concentrators?Does this mean anyone who finds their oxygen level falling below acceptable levels can use a concentrator and help oneself? Absolutely not, says the central government.Speaking to the Press Information Bureau (PIB) on the appropriate use of concentrators, Professor Sanyogita Naik, the head of the department of anaesthesia at the BJ Medical College in Pune, said: “Oxygen concentrators can be used only in moderate cases of Covid-19 when the patient experiences a drop in oxygen levels, where the oxygen requirement is a maximum of 5 litres per minute.” The professor added that oxygen concentrators are also very useful for patients experiencing post-Covid complications which necessitate oxygen therapy.Can one use oxygen concentrators on their own?The answer is a strict no.What do Doctors say about #Oxygen Concentrators?Till you get a bed, #OxygenConcentrator can be beneficial, but not without guidance from chest physician/internal medicine specialist; depends on patients' pre-existing lung conditions- Dr. Chaitanya👉https://t.co/LLG2u8mvuA pic.twitter.com/bGWp4h2q67Speaking at a webinar organised by the Union health ministry on April 30, Dr Chaitanya H. Balakrishnan, Covid co-ordinator at St. John’s Medical College Hospital in Bangalore, made it abundantly clear that using oxygen concentrators without medical guidance can be very harmful. “Patients with moderate pneumonia induced by Covid-19 -- with oxygen saturations less than 94 -- can benefit from supplemental oxygen given through an oxygen concentrator, but only till they get hospital admission. However, patients using it themselves without suitable medical advice can end up causing more harm.”According to the doctor, using an oxygen concentrator can prove to be beneficial until a patient finds a bed, but not without guidance from a chest physician or internal medicine specialist. It also depends on a patients' pre-existing lung conditions, he said.How much do oxygen concentrators cost in India?Oxygen concentrators can cost upwards of ₹30,000, depending upon the capacity. India has recently seen a big spurt in the manufacture and sale of such O2 concentrators. Besides multi-national brands, several Indian start-ups, funded under the Centre for Augmenting War with Covid 19 Health Crisis (CAWACH) programme of the department of science and technology, have developed efficient and cost-effective oxygen concentrators.However, both the purchase and the usage of oxygen concentrators have to be done only based on a prescription by a medical doctor. The central government has announced that one lakh oxygen concentrators are being procured through the PM-CARES fund, given how useful these devices have proved in battling the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-you-need-to-know-about-oxygen-concentrators-101619865295750.html
01-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Senior doctor among 8 dead after Delhi’s Batra hospital runs out of oxygen, and all latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Won’t stop at 8, says Batra hospital after patients die due to oxygen disruptionEight patients with coronavirus disease (Covid-19), including a senior doctor, have died at Batra hospital in Tughlakabad Industrial Area due to a shortage of liquid medical oxygen. The hospital had raised an alarm at 7 am after it did not receive supplies from the allocated vendor. Read moreReliance rallies Covid-19 efforts, becomes largest producer of medical-grade liquid oxygen from a single locationReliance Industries Limited (RIL), one of the most profitable private firms in India, has rallied its resources "on a war footing" to combat the incessant oxygen crisis in the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-battered country, the company said in a statement on Saturday. Read moreCentre extends tax-related compliance dates in view of Covid-19. Check detailsTimelines for certain compliances in view of the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation have been extended after receiving requests from taxpayers, tax consultants and other stakeholders across India, a government statement informed on Saturday. Read more‘Time to fulfil your duties’: Sonia Gandhi to Centre, states on Covid crisisCongress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday asked state governments and the Centre to wake up from their slumber and respond to the crisis brought forth by the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In a video message, she said that it is time for governments to fulfil their duties. Read moreIPL 2021: Kane Williamson replaces David Warner as Sunrisers Hyderabad captainKane Williamson has replaced David Warner as captain of the Sunrisers Hyderabad and the New Zealand skipper will lead the side in the remainder of IPL 2021, the franchise announced on Twitter. Read moreSalman Khan says he looks 'the same age' as Disha Patani in Radhe, accepts kissing her through tapeAfter receiving some online flak for getting yet another, much younger female actor to star opposite him, Salman Khan has cracked a joke about the issue. Read moreHappy Birthday Anushka Sharma: Moringa to haldi, health mantras she swears byZero actor Anushka Sharma is celebrating her 33rd birthday today. And the actor, model, producer, entrepreneur and new mother has always sworn by a healthy lifestyle and holistic living. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-senior-doctor-among-8-dead-after-delhi-s-batra-hospital-runs-out-of-oxygen-and-all-the-latest-news-101619865609354.html
01-05-2021||India||‘Time to wake up’: Sonia Gandhi’s video message to govts on Covid crisis||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday asked the central government to evolve a political consensus on a nationwide action plan to tackle the coronavirus crisis, which she said, has shattered humanity due to shortage of beds, oxygen and life-saving medicines.“This is the time for central and state governments to wake up and fulfil their duties,” she said in a five-minute video message that stressed the need for compassion and empathy.Flagging the shortage of crucial resources, which have made the battle against the pandemic a lot more difficult, she said: “Lakhs of people are getting affected amid the pandemic everyday, lakhs have died so far. These are testing times and we have to support each other. Most states continue to grapple with shortage of medical oxygen, hospital beds and medicines.”She also reiterated the nine demands of the Congress including free vaccination for all, transferring ₹6,000 to the accounts of migrant workers and nudging the government to opt for compulsory licensing of Covid vaccines that would enable other manufacturers to start producing the vaccines too.“I urge the central government to evolve a national policy to deal with the Covid crisis in the country and bring about a political consensus over it,” the Congress president said.“Our country is facing the pandemic and lakhs of our citizens have been affected by coronavirus everyday. This crisis is the testing time for all of us and we have to hold each other’s hands, support each other and be their strength.She also sought an increase in testing and keeping the black marketing of essential life-saving drugs like Remdesivir in check and putting a stop to it. The Congress leader batted for uniform prices of Covid vaccines across all states and immediate conversion of industrial oxygen to medical oxygen to fight the acute shortage of oxygen in various states.Gandhi also promised that the Congress will help and support the central government in whatever way it can in its fight against this crisis.The Congress president’s video message came on the day the country reported 4,01, 993 new Covid cases, a new global record. 3,523 deaths were reported. The third phase of the world’s largest vaccination drive has started on Saturday even as 20 states flag vaccine shortage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/time-to-wake-up-sonia-gandhi-s-video-message-to-govts-on-covid-crisis-101619867692956.html
01-05-2021||India||Govt allows import of oxygen concentrators for personal use amid Covid-19 surge||The government has revised the Foreign Trade Policy, 2015-2020 and permitted the import of oxygen concentrators for personal use amid a massive surge in Covid-19 cases in the country.An official press release from the ministry of commerce and industry stated that oxygen concentrators have been added to the list of exempted categories, where customs clearance is sought as ''gifts".These oxygen concentrators can be procured through post, courier or e-commerce portals.The exemption for oxygen concentrators is allowed till July 31, 2021, for personal use, according to a notification of the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) issued on Friday."Import of goods, including those purchased from e-commerce portals, through post or courier, where customs clearance is sought as gifts, is prohibited except for life-saving drugs/medicines/ oxygen concentrators and rakhi (but not gifts related to rakhi)," the notification said.India's health care system is overwhelmed with the current surge in Covid-19 cases and there is a shortage of oxygen, beds and medicines.The country recorded more than four lakh new cases in the past 24 hours. 4,01,993 cases were reported in the country taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,91,64,969.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-allows-import-of-oxygen-concentrators-for-personal-use-amid-covid-19-surge-101619863160557.html
01-05-2021||India||Telangana CM takes away health minister's portfolio over allegations of grab||Chief minister of Telangana K Chandrashekhar Rao on Saturday took away the portfolio of state health minister Etala Rajendar after allegations of land grab came into light against the latter. The portfolio of the Telangana Medical, Health and Family Welfare minister will be transferred to the CM with immediate effect, secretary to the Governor said.On Friday, KCR had instructed chief secretary Somesh Kumar to order an inquiry into the allegations leveled by 20 farmers accusing the minister of grabbing around 20 acres of the lands on the outskirts of Achampet in Masaipet Mandal in Medak district, news agency ANI reported.Also Read: Aviation ministry permits Telangana govt to use drones for Covid-19 vaccines deliveryDirector General of Police (vigilance) Purnachandra Rao was also instructed to conduct a primary inquiry into the matter.Responding to the allegation, Rajendar said his 'self-respect' is more valuable to him than his position and demanded that hearing be conducted in the matter. Further, he dismissed the allegations as a 'pre-planned sketch to defame him in the public."Back in 2016, for the establishment of a hatchery, I had taken a loan of ₹100 crores from Canara Bank. The land about which allegations are being made to have been grabbed by me is still being used by the beneficiaries and is not under my properties," Rajender said.Meanwhile, the Opposition accused KCR of making Rajendar a scapegoat in an attempt to divert attention from his failure to curb the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infection in his state."It is unfortunate that the backward caste Minister E Rajender is being made a scapegoat by the CM to cover up his utter failures in curtailing the pandemic in Telangana. KCR is believed to have cornered the minister with wide allegations of land grabbing only to defame his character among the people," All India Congress Committee (AICC) spokesperson Sravan Dasoju said.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-cm-takes-away-health-minister-s-portfolio-over-allegations-of-grab-101619864035706.html
01-05-2021||India||Second 'Oxygen Express' to carry liquid oxygen from Bengal's Durgapur to Delhi||The second Oxygen Express for Delhi will carry the life-saving gas from West Bengal's Durgapur, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal said on Saturday.The first such train arrived in Delhi from Chhattisgarh carrying 70 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen."Oxygen tanks are being loaded from Durgapur, West Bengal, on Oxygen Express to provide Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) for patients in Delhi," Goyal said in a tweet.This will be the first Oxygen Express which will carry the oxygen in containers provided by Singapore which were received at the container corporation terminal near Durgapur.The containers were directly loaded on flat wagons of the Oxygen Express and departed at around 12:45 pm for Delhi, officials said, adding that it will take the train around 18 hours to reach the national capital.The second train will carry 120 tonnes of medical oxygen for the oxygen-starved national capital.Meanwhile, the railway ministry also said that Haryana will receive its first and second Oxygen Express soon.Two trains, one from Rourkela to Haryana carrying 47.11 tonnes LMO in three tankers, and another one from Angul to Haryana carrying approximately 32 tonnes in two tankers, are on their way to their destination. The trains are scheduled to reach by Saturday afternoon, it said.The Haryana government had earlier sent empty tankers on a cargo flight from Hindon to Bhubaneshwar, and loaded tankers from Angul were dispatched to Faridabad by rail.Till Friday, the railways has delivered more than 664 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen to Maharashtra (174 tonnes), Uttar Pradesh (356.47 tonnes), Madhya Pradesh (47.37 tonnes), and Delhi (70 tonnes).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-oxygen-express-to-carry-liquid-oxygen-from-bengal-s-durgapur-to-delhi-101619862461369.html
01-05-2021||India||‘Time to fulfil your duties’: Sonia Gandhi to Centre, states on Covid crisis||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday asked state governments and the Centre to wake up from their slumber and respond to the crisis brought forth by the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In a video message, she said that it is time for governments to fulfil their duties.Gandhi also said that it is time for the central government to build a political consensus and develop a national policy to tackle the pandemic. She also urged the Centre to vaccinate every citizen for free and asked the government to ramp up vaccine production to speed up the vaccination drive. Assuring co-operation of the Congress, Sonia Gandhi urged for strict action against black marketing of essential life-saving drugs, while highlighting the importance of testing.She also urged the central government to provide financial assistance of ₹6,000 to every poor family in order to help them survive the second wave.The Congress has set up control rooms to help people in distress and the move was approved by Sonia Gandhi last week to ensure better coordination between the party's state units about relief activities. She also asked Rae Bareli district magistrate last week to use the remaining amount of her MPLADS funds for helping out people suffering due to the pandemic.India recorded a grim milestone on Saturday as it reported 401,993 fresh cases which took the cumulative caseload above 19,164,969. The death toll also inched towards 212,000 as 3,523 fresh fatalities took the toll to 211,853.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/time-to-fulfil-your-duties-sonia-gandhi-to-centre-states-on-covid-crisis-101619861751425.html
01-05-2021||India||Delhi HC seeks info of patients admitted, discharged at hospitals since April 1 to review 'malpractice' allegations||The Delhi high court on Saturday sought information on a number of patients admitted, discharged, undergoing treatment at Delhi hospitals since April 1 to review allegations related to 'malpractices' and accusations of beds not being vacated. The sought information should be sent to court by Tuesday, the court said. It will be considered by the court on May 6. The court also asked the Delhi government to submit data of patients who remained hospitalised for 10 days or more and the kind of bed they occupied over the days of their hospitalisation.The high court was hearing multiple pleas filed by several hospitals regarding the oxygen crisis and other Covid-19- related issues that the national Capital is grappling with. A division bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli was hearing the pleas in a special hearing on a holiday due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation in DelhiThe court also directed the Delhi government to update its portal with the numbers of patients discharged and admitted on daily basis.The Delhi High Court also directed the Centre to ensure that Delhireceives its allocated 490 MT oxygen supply today by "whatever means." The court warned of 'Contempt action' in case the centre fails to follow the orders."Water has gone above the head. Now we mean business. You (Centre) will arrange everything now," the court said. "Enough is enough and you will make an arrangement," it also said.Multiple hospitals told the High Court that their supplier Linde Air is not providing the oxygen after which it asked central government counsel Amit Mahajan to forthwith take up the matter with the officers of the central government on supply of oxygen from Linde and others.Noting that the allocation to Delhi has been in force from April 20, the court said that not for a single day Delhi has received the allocated supply. In response, additional solicitor general Chetan Sharma said that everybody is stretched."You (Centre) made an allocation. You fulfill it. You comply it," the Court said.During the hearing, the court questioned the Centre as to why four cryogenic tankers, which were meant for Delhi to treat Covid-19 patients and held up by the Rajasthan government, have not been released yet despite the court's earlier orders.A bench ordered to let necessary steps be taken to fulfil the assurance given by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta on April 26 that these tankers will be released.It asked the Centre to place compliance of its order on May 3.Delhi is reeling under the devastating impact of the fourth wave of Covid-19 which has pushed the already burdened healthcare system to its knees. Many people in the city are running from pillar to post to get basic things like beds, oxygen and ventilators.As of Friday evening, the national capital has a caseload of 1,149,333 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-high-court-asks-to-set-up-oxygen-plants-as-8-die-in-batra-hospital-101619860987171.html
01-05-2021||India||Provided over 16 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses to states free of charge: Centre||The Centre has so far provided over 16.37 crore Covid vaccine doses to States and Union Territories free of cost and another 17 lakh doses will be received by them in the next 3 days, the Union health ministry said on Saturday.As the younger population of the nation becomes eligible for vaccination against coronavirus today with the start of the third phase of inoculation drive, the ministry said that more than 79 lakh vaccine doses are still available with the states and union territories to be administered to their population.As many as 16,37,62,300 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and union territories (UTs) free of cost as per data available till 8am on Saturday, the ministry said.Out of 16,37,62,300 Covid-19 vaccines, the total consumption including wastages is 15,58,48,782 doses, the ministry stated.Maharashtra has received the maximum number of vaccines followed by Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan.Lakshadweep has reported the highest percentage of vaccine wastage with 9.76% followed by Tamil Nadu at 8.83%, Assam at 7.70%, Manipur at 7.44%, and Haryana at 5.72%.The highest balance availability of doses is with Uttar Pradesh amounting to 12,10,220 doses."As was prescribed in the liberalised and accelerated Phase-3 strategy of Covid-19 vaccination, all the states and UTs have been intimated by the Union ministry of health and family welfare regarding the total number of vaccine doses that they would receive as part of the "Government of India channel", of the vaccine doses totally free of cost for the vaccination of 45 years and above beneficiaries," read the release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/provided-over-16-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-to-states-free-of-charge-centre-101619859686234.html
01-05-2021||India||Heartbreaking to see Covid crisis overwhelm India's health systems: US lawmakers||Top US lawmakers have expressed serious concern over the sudden spike in coronavirus cases in India, saying it is "heartbreaking" to see the "crisis utterly overwhelm the health systems" in the country."India's latest surge of Covid-19 infections is a humanitarian crisis that requires our assistance," Congressman Brad Sherman, Democratic Co-Chair of India Caucus in the House of Representatives, said on Friday."As long as Covid-19 persists in India, there is the potential for additional variants that could pose a serious threat to a vaccinated America. We must do our part to quell the virus anywhere and everywhere it persists," Sherman said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageA variant strain of the virus, known as B.1.617, is circulating in India, along with other variant strains, including B.1.1.7, first detected in the United Kingdom, and B.1.351, first detected in South Africa.A day earlier, Sherman and his other colleagues Republican Co-Chair Steve Chabot, Democratic Vice Chair Ro Khanna, and Republican Vice Chair Michael Waltz held a detailed meeting with Indian Ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu, and on Friday they wrote a letter to President Joe Biden seeking increased aid to India.“I thank my India Caucus colleagues for working together to help get India the oxygen, therapeutics, and personal protective equipment it so desperately needs,” Sherman said."It is heartbreaking to watch the Covid-19 crisis utterly overwhelm the health systems in India,” Chabot said.“As co-chair of the House Caucus on India and Indian Americans and the Ranking Member of the Asia and Pacific Subcommittee, I appreciate the aid the administration is sending to our friends in India during their time of need," he said."But the administration must do more, which is why I am joining with the other Members of India Caucus leadership to push for additional assistance, particularly with respect to oxygen and oxygen production equipment that is so urgently needed. America must help India chart a path out of this horrific pandemic," Chabot said."We are watching a catastrophe unfold in India. Someone is dying of Covid-19 every four minutes in New Delhi. The least we can do is give the world the tools to prevent more deaths," Khanna said."We must do our part to quell the virus anywhere and everywhere it persists. It is not enough to vaccinate every American. We need to ensure the world beats this thing. That's why the India Caucus is asking President Biden to send more oxygen and other medical supplies to help India in the manufacturing of additional vaccines. There's simply too much at stake," he said.Waltz said the United States' cooperation to curb the recent Covid-19 wave in India is imperative for America's national interest."India is the world's largest democracy and an essential ally with the third largest military in the world and a border with China. India's strength is important to stability in Asia and the United States," Waltz said.India is struggling with a second wave of the pandemic with more than 300,000 daily new coronavirus cases being reported in the past few days and hospitals are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heartbreaking-to-see-covid-crisis-overwhelm-india-s-health-systems-us-lawmakers-101619858575901.html
01-05-2021||India||India added to Ireland's mandatory quarantine list from May 4||India is among the five countries that will be added to Ireland's mandatory hotel quarantine list from Tuesday, the Irish government has announced.Besides India, the other countries that have been added to the list for mandatory quarantine from May 4 are Georgia, Iran, Mongolia and Costa Rica."Travel to Ireland from specific designated states is now subject to mandatory hotel quarantine. This must be pre-booked in advance of travel," according to an official statement on Friday.The passengers are required to pre-pay for their stay during the quarantine period.According to the Department of Health, it is an offence to travel to Ireland without making the booking in advance, without reasonable excuse.The arrangements will apply to any passenger who has been in any of these countries in the previous 14 days, even if only transiting through one of these countries and even if remaining airside.These arrangements also apply to any passenger who is travelling on to Northern Ireland, the statement said."It is important to note that the list of designated states will be subject to change at short notice and passengers are required to check the list before travelling to Ireland, to be sure of their obligations," it said.Coronavirus cases in India hit a record daily high with over 4 lakh new infections being reported in the last 24 hours, while the active cases crossed the 32-lakh mark, according to date updated by the Union Health Ministry on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-added-to-ireland-s-mandatory-quarantine-list-from-may-4-101619858473164.html
01-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: ‘Lockdown for few weeks,' says Anthony Fauci on India's Covid-19 crisis and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Lockdown for a few weeks': US' Anthony Fauci on India's Covid-19 crisisAnthony Fauci, the US' top epidemiologist and one of the leading global voices on the coronavirus pandemic, suggested India must impose a complete lockdown for a few weeks as an immediate step to contain the surging infections which have brought the country's healthcare system to its knees. Read More150,000 doses of Russian Sputnik V vaccine on way to HyderabadA consignment of Russian-made Sputnik V vaccine is on its way to Hyderabad from Moscow with the first batch of 150,000 doses set to arrive later on Saturday with another three million doses scheduled to land this month. Read MoreSupreme Court allows UP panchayat polls counting, no victory rallies permittedThe Supreme Court on Saturday allowed the Uttar Pradesh government and State Election Commission to go ahead with the counting of votes polled during the rural body elections in the state earlier in April, starting Sunday. Read MoreBrad Hogg says RCB cannot expect Maxwell and de Villiers 'to pick up the pieces all the time', highlights slow run-rateRoyal Challengers Bangalore put in a disappointing performance on Friday as they lost their second match in the Indian Premier League 2021. Read MoreActor Bikramjeet Kanwarpal of Special Ops and Rocket Singh, dies of Covid-19 complications at 52Actor Bikramjeet Kanwarpal has died of Covid-19 complications. He was 52. He was a retired army veteran who made his acting debut in 2003. Read MoreShawn Mendes, Kunal Nayyar, Richard Madden and more international stars ask fans to help India amid Covid-19 pandemicSinger Shawn Mendes took to his social media accounts on Friday to make an urgent appeal to his fans and followers. He asked them to make donations so as to help India fight the deadly second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-lockdown-for-a-few-weeks-says-us-anthony-fauci-on-india-s-covid-19-crisis-and-all-the-latest-news-101619854868618.html
01-05-2021||India||150,000 doses of Russian Sputnik V vaccine on way to Hyderabad||A consignment of Russian-made Sputnik V vaccine is on its way to Hyderabad from Moscow with the first batch of 150,000 doses set to arrive later on Saturday with another three million doses scheduled to land this month.According to diplomats based in Moscow and New Delhi, the flight carrying 150,000 doses of the preventive vaccine left Russian shores this morning and will be handed over to Dr Reddy’s Laboratories. Before the doses are handed over for vaccination, the Indian partner of the Russian vaccine will seek mandatory approval from the Central Drugs Laboratory, Kasauli.Also read | Gap between Sputnik-V doses can be increased, say makersSputnik V is based on human adenoviral vectors, is one of three vaccines (other two are Pfizer and Moderna) that have an efficacy of over 90 per cent against the coronavirus disease, which is caused by SARS-CoV-2. It was given regulatory approval or restricted use authorisation in India on April 12. The two-dose vaccine, which has to be administered 21 days apart, has been developed by the Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology and is supported by the Russian sovereign wealth fund, Russian Direct Investment Fund or RDIF.According to officials, some five million “filled and finished” bottles of Sputnik V will arrive in a container from Russia in June and some 10 million-plus vaccines in July. New Delhi has asked Moscow for the ramped-up supply of the vaccine as it wants to vaccinate as many Indians as possible in the shortest time.The Sputnik V vaccine delivery started after Prime Minister Narendra Modi had a long conversation with Russian President Vladimir Putin on April 28. The diplomats based in Moscow say that the conversation was “very warm” between the two leaders with Russia standing with India in this hour of national crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/150000-doses-of-russian-sputnik-v-vaccine-on-way-to-hyderabad-101619851846945.html
01-05-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination for people in 18-44 age group begins at some private hospitals||Some private hospital chains commenced the Covid-19 immunisation drive for the 18-44 age group at limited centres in the country on Saturday, officials said.Apollo Hospitals sources said the drive commenced at its centres in Hyderabad and Kolkata, but not in Delhi. They said that they are waiting for the vaccines to arrive and that the immunisation in Delhi is likely to begin either by Monday or Tuesday.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here Max Healthcare announced the drive will begin at "select hospitals in the network in the NCR of Delhi".The drive is yet to begin at Fortis Healthcare since it is waiting for the vaccine doses to arrive, sources said, adding it will start later in the day.Fortis Healthcare, in a statement, had said people in the 18-44 age group will be administered Covaxin for ₹1,250, which will include the cost of vaccine and administration charges, at its "centres across north India from Saturday".Also Read: Mumbai rolls out vaccine for 18+, mayor says ‘don’t go unless you get message’Max Healthcare had said all the hospitals in the network would be used to vaccinate the citizens as supplies of vaccine doses smoothen up."Presently, vaccines will be available at Max Healthcare facilities at Panchsheel Park, Patparganj, Shalimar Bagh, Rajinder Place (BLK-Max Hospital), Noida and Vaishali in the NCR," its statement read.Three big private hospital chains -- Apollo, Fortis and Max -- on Friday had announced the launch of Covid-19 immunisation drive for the 18-44 age group at limited centres in the country from May 1, while the Delhi government said it will start the vaccination exercise once it receives doses from the manufacturers.Meanwhile, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said required vaccine doses have not been received yet for the drive, indicating that the national capital will not join the national-level roll-out of Covid-19 vaccination for people aged 18-44 on May 1.He appealed to the people in the targeted age group not to line up at vaccination centres in the city on Saturday.The third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive to inoculate people aged 18 years and above will roll out in the country on May 1. However, some states have said they would be unable to start the drive on day one due to the shortage of vaccines.Kejriwal said his government has placed orders for 67 lakh doses each of Covishield and Covaxin from manufacturers which would be supplied in three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-for-people-in-18-44-age-group-begins-at-some-private-hospitals-101619851443477.html
01-05-2021||India||Joe Biden asked his administration to provide Covid-19 assistance to India: Officials||President Joe Biden has asked his administration to provide all assistance to India, which is battling one of the worst outbreaks of Covid-19, and has assured that the US would stand shoulder-to-shoulder with the country, top officials from the two nations have said.Biden sent two of his top officials to the Dulles Airport here on Friday evening from where another flight with USAID assistance materials including oxygen cylinders, N95 masks and filters to be used in the production of vaccines were dispatched to News Delhi. The first two flights arrived in New Delhi a day earlier.“He (Biden) said great. Stay with it. Stay with it!,” veteran diplomat Kurt Campbell, who is leading Biden’s Asia Policy at the White House told reporters at the airport on Friday evening.Campbell travelled with Biden on Air Force One during his trip to Georgia. On his way back, Campbell briefed the president of the administration’s COVID-19 relief efforts for India.“I was able to give a sense of what USAID (United States Agency for International Development) is doing, what it hopes to accomplish,” he said in response to a question.India’s Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu told reporters at the Dulles Airport: “The administration, starting right from the top, President Biden reached out and in fact, to quote him, the United States will stand shoulder-to-shoulder with India. We very much appreciate that.”Sandhu also applauded the bipartisan support that India has received from American congressmen and senators.The US businesses have come forward in an unprecedented way.“Finally, the people of the United States, their solidarity with the people of India is very much recognised and appreciated. And also the Indian American community. I'm sure, with the support of friends and partners like the United States, we will face this challenge and with God's grace, we will come out of it,” Sandhu said.Campbell said he and his National Security Council colleague Sumona Guha, who is senior director for South Asia there, were sent by the president to the airport before the Covid-19 relief material left for India.“The President asked us to come out today to well wish this supply going to India,” Campbell said, as he applauded the tireless efforts of Ambassador Sandhu for helping in every way he can.Campbell said during his call with Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week, Biden made clear that India was one of the first countries that came to the rescue of the US in May last year when Americans were suffering from the pandemic.“They stepped up for us. This time, we in the United States, our people in the government, but also in the private sector… I've never seen such an outpouring of support from our corporate friends, and partners, as we've seen over the last several days,” he said.“What we are coordinating is the most significant outpouring of support for people that I've never seen from the corporate community. We're trying to be there for India, now as they were with us before. We know that this is going to be a long haul,” he said.“This is only the first couple of days. We have to be determined. We have to work in partnership.....we have to do this together. And we're committed to doing that,” he said.Guha told reporters that the Biden administration was working to provide India with supplies that they've asked for: oxygen, testing equipment, and PPE kits.Jeremy Konyndyk, senior advisor coordinating agency-wide COVID efforts at USAID told reporters that the plane headed for India from Dulles airport sent oxygen cylinders, N95 respirators and others.“These are materials that will help to sustain people sick with COVID-19 in India. Oxygen treatment is one of the most effective ways to treat Severe COVID-19," he said."Everything behind us here, everything on this flight will be saving lives in India in the coming days in partnership and support of our partners in the Indian government and in support of the Indian people,” he added.Responding to a question, Konyndyk said the purpose of these aid packages is to help support the Indian people in the Indian hospital system in particular to save as many lives as possible in the immediate term. There will be additional flights leaving for India in days and weeks ahead.“As part of this package of assistance that the US is providing, we are at the request of the Indian government, rerouting filters that are a critical component of vaccine production, from the US production of AstraZeneca to the Indian company Serum Institute of India, to enable them to scale up their vaccine production of AstraZeneca further,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/joe-biden-asked-his-administration-to-provide-covid-19-assistance-to-india-officials-101619849362373.html
01-05-2021||India||Centre releases ₹8873 crore for SDRF, lets states use 50% for Covid-19 relief||The Centre on Saturday released the first instalment of the central share of the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) of ₹8873.6 crore for the year 2021-22 ahead of the normal schedule. The government said that the states can use up to 50% of the amount for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) containment measures, according to a statement released by the Union ministry of finance.“In relaxation of normal procedure, not only has the release of SDRF been advanced, the amount has also been released without waiting for the utilization certificate of the amount provided to the States in the last financial year. Up to 50% of the amount released i.e. Rs.4436.8 crore can be used by the states for Covid-19 containment measures,” the statement said.The decision to release the funds was made based on the recommendations made by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA). The government said that the funds can be utilised to meet the cost of oxygen generation and storage plants in hospitals, procurement of ventilators, strengthening ambulance services as well as Covid-19 hospitals and Covid-19 care centres.The Centre also advised the states to use the funds for purchasing consumables, thermal scanners, personal protective equipment, testing laboratories, and testing kits.Several states requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to release SDRF funds so that they could take measures to address the challenges posed by the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in his letter to PM Modi urged him to consider the pandemic as a natural calamity and asked the Centre’s permission to use SDRF for helping pandemic-hit people.Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik also requested the Centre to allow 50% of the annual allocation of SDRF earmarked for the state earlier this month. Punjab chief minister during the online meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with all chief ministers of states and Union territories hard-hit by Covid-19 sought permission for the use of the SDRF funds for vaccine procurement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-releases-rs-8873-6-crore-to-states-as-part-of-sdrf-funds-101619846330590.html
01-05-2021||India||US administration names Daniel Smith as charge d’affaires in New Delhi||The Biden administration on Saturday named former deputy secretary of state Daniel Smith as the new chargé d’affaires in New Delhi against the backdrop of close cooperation with India to counter the Covid-19 situation. The post of US ambassador to India has been vacant since Kenneth Juster, a political appointee of the former Trump administration, stepped down earlier this year following President Joe Biden’s victory in the election last year. “Ambassador Daniel Smith, the Director of the Foreign Service Institute who recently served as acting Secretary of State and Acting Deputy Secretary of State, will be departing for New Delhi to serve as Chargé d’Affaires, ad interim,” state department spokesperson Ned Price said. “He will spearhead close cooperation with India to ensure that our countries continue to advance our shared priorities, including overcoming the global pandemic,” Price said. Smith’s appointment underscores the United States’ “strong commitment to our partnership with the government of India and the Indian people”, he said. The US stands in solidarity with India, and Smith is committed to working together with India in partnership, Price added. Smith carries the highest US foreign service rank of career ambassador. His appointment was announced a day after the US began rushing equipment and materials, including oxygen-related gear and raw materials for Covid-19 vaccines, to support India’s response to a deadly second wave of Coronavirus infections. Smith was appointed director of the Foreign Service Institute in October 2018 and his term ended in January. A member of the Senior Foreign Service, Smith served most recently as assistant secretary of state for intelligence and research during 2013-2018 and as ambassador to Greece during 2010-2013. He also served as executive secretary of the state department and principal deputy assistant secretary for consular affairs. Smith has served in Bern, Istanbul, Ottawa and Stockholm, and also taught political science at the US Air Force Academy.He is a recipient of the Arnold L Raphel Memorial Award, the Secretary’s Distinguished Service Award, a Presidential Distinguished Service Award, and the National Intelligence Distinguished Service Medal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-administration-names-daniel-smith-as-charge-d-affaires-in-new-delhi-101619846933321.html
01-05-2021||India||LPG cylinder rates, Axis Bank ATM withdrawal charges: Changes from May 1||Many major changes, including those related to bank rules and LPG cylinder rates, are going to take place in the month of May. The third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive for all adults above 18 years of age will also begin from May 1.Here are the changes that are going to take place from May 1:. More people will be covered under the ongoing nationwide Covid-19 vaccination programme, which started on January 16. From May 1, everyone above the age of 18 will become eligible for Covid-19 vaccines.. On the first day of every month, the state oil companies change the price of LPG gas cylinders. Gas prices may change on May 1 as well. Currently, the price of a 14.2 kg subsidised gas cylinder in Delhi is ₹809.. Axis Bank has decided to change the fee on various services for savings account holders from May 1. These include increasing the charge in the case of withdrawing cash from ATMs after the completion of the free transaction limit. The bank has also decided to increase the minimum balance requirement limit for various types of savings accounts. In case of cash withdrawal done after the free limit is over, the bank will charge ₹10 per ₹1,000.. From May 1, Axis Bank customers need to maintain a monthly balance of ₹15,000. Earlier, the limit was set at ₹10,000. For the prime and liberty branded savings account, the average monthly balance is fixed at ₹25,000, up from ₹15,000.. Axis Bank said that for salary accounts that are more than six months old and do not receive any credit in a month, a penalty of ₹100 per month will be levied from next month. Savings accounts that have been dormant for a period of 17 months will attract a one-time fee of ₹100 in the 18th month, the bank notified.. Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDAI) has directed to double the cover amount of the Arogya Sanjeevani policy. The insurance companies have been told that they have to offer a policy with a cover amount of ₹10 lakh by May 1. In the current situation, the coverage limit commissioned from April 1 was ₹5 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lpg-cylinder-rates-axis-bank-atm-withdrawal-charges-changes-from-may-1-101619839615753.html
01-05-2021||India||PM wishes Maharashtra, Gujarat success in fight against Covid on statehood day||On the statehood day of Gujarat and Maharashtra on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi wished the two states success in their fight against the Covid-19 pandemic and good health for their people.While Maharashtra has been hit hardest by the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, Gujarat has also been seriously affected by it like many other states of the country. PM Modi tweeted, "Today, Gujarat and Maharashtra mark their Statehood Days. Both states are home to outstanding people, who have made landmark contributions to national growth. May these states fight Covid-19 successfully and may the people of these states be blessed with good health."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-wishes-maharashtra-gujarat-success-in-fight-against-covid-on-statehood-day-101619845245987.html
01-05-2021||India||Govt’s top scientific advisor responds to online petition for Covid datasets||The office of the Principal Scientific Advisor (PSA) has asked research collaboratives to create a mechanism to widely share available and new datasets and asked the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia (INSACOG) to reach out to more partners, including independently supported ones, to expand genomic sequencing in India, according to a note from the government’s top scientific advisor.“Issues such as vaccine hesitancy, nature of variants, re-infection, extent, and nature of post-vaccination protection, etc. can all be addressed better by collaborative research. While this is being done by some groups now, our broader research community needs to be much more facilitated by our research agencies to be involved in addition to ‘bottom-up’ efforts,” read a note from the office of Principal Scientific Advisor Prof K VijayRaghavan.The note also sought “wider involvement of teams in data analysis, bioinformatics, and decision-making” by INSACOG.The communication comes in response to an online petition by scientists to seek open sharing of granular epidemiological and genomic surveillance data. The petition, signed by scientists from various fields across the country, demanded that the government collect and release key epidemiological data to help scientists in developing “data-driven mitigation strategies.”“Our inability to adequately manage the spread of infections has, to a large extent, resulted from epidemiological data not being systematically collected and released in a timely manner to the scientific community,” the online petition said. It has been signed by top scientists including the country’s top vaccinologist Dr Gagandeep Kang, biologist Dr Mukund Thattai, and epidemiologist Dr Jacob John.They also asked that restrictions on imports under “Atmanirbhar Bharat” policy be removed as they hampered scientific study for the want of imported scientific equipment and reagents. The note from the PSA office responded to this concern. “Delegation for clearances for imports have already been given, some months ago, to Secretaries ofDepartments/Ministries and decisions can be taken at the level of Deans and Institution directors. This will be examined, and specific steps taken to remove bottlenecks”.The scientists have made four major demands: large-scale genomic surveillance of new variants (the INSACOG sequences only 1% of the positive cases), release of granular data on testing and clinical outcome of Covid-19 cases, release of anonymised data on the clinical outcomes of hospitalised patients, and data on the immune response to vaccination in Indian population.“The ICMR database is inaccessible to anyone outside of the government and perhaps also to many within the government. Most scientists – including several identified by DST and NITI Aayog to develop new prediction models for India – do not have access to this data. Public health measures in India should necessarily vary from one local area to another, because there is a great geographical variability in patterns of spread of the infection due to local conditions,” the petition read.Data that is available to researchers are often scattered and available in different formats, thus preventing them from drawing meaningful conclusions. “As a computational biologist, the data I have been working with mainly involve the new case numbers and outcomes (recovery/death) over the course of the first and second wave. At the moment, the datasets are fragmented across different states and local authorities,” said Dr Thattai. He cites the example of Bengaluru where he depends on data from the government of Karnataka and Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). The data that they put out are in different formats and are presented as an aggregate.“They will give the total number of positive cases in a given day, or the total number of tests that are positive, or the fraction of cases that are under-60s, and so on. But these aggregate statistics, while useful for seeing trends, do not permit further detailed analysis. Suppose I want to know whether the fatality rate for over-60s is lower in the second wave than the first (as we might expect, if the vaccination campaign has been effective). We cannot obtain these data from the aggregate statistics. We will need to wait for the MoHFW itself to test this question,” he said. He said, the granular data – anonymised age, gender, district, date of positive test, date of hospitalisation, date of recovery or death, vaccination status, previous infection status if any – should be made available to all scientists. “From these granular raw data we can extract meaningful information. The ICMR which has been tasked with collecting this data nationwide, should have the most comprehensive dataset. We are asking for this dataset to be made available for other researchers to also use,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govts-top-scientific-advisor-responds-to-online-petition-for-covid-datasets-101619845491697.html
01-05-2021||India||Pained by loss of lives in Bharuch hospital fire incident: PM Modi||New Delhi [India], May 1 (ANI): After 16 people lost their lives in a tragic fire incident at the Patel Welfare COVID Hospital in Gujarat's Bharuch, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday condoled the deaths.The Prime Minister in a tweet said, "Pained by the loss of lives due to a fire at a hospital in Bharuch. Condolences to the bereaved families."14 patients and two staff nurses lost their lives in the fire that broke out at the Bharuch hospital on the intervening night of Friday-Saturday.Zuber Patel, the trustee of the hospital, told ANI: "It's an unfortunate incident not only for us but for entire Bharuch. With police and administration's help, we could shift patients to other hospitals. 14 patients and two staff nurses lost their lives in the incident."Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani has announced to provide financial assistance of ₹4 lakh to the families of each of the deceased."I express my condolences to the patients, doctors and hospital staff who lost their lives in the fire accident at Bharuch Hospital. The state government will provide assistance of ₹4 lakh to the families of each of the victims of the accident," tweeted Rupani.The Chief Minister has also directed two senior IAS officers of the state, Additional Chief Secretary for Labour and Employment Vipul Mitra and Commissioner Municipalities Rajkumar Beniwal, to immediately reach Bharuch and investigate the incident. He has also said that the state government is also taking action to hand over a judicial inquiry into the tragedy.According to Rajendrasinh Chudasama, Superintendent of Police, Bharuch, fire broke out in the ICU due to short circuit. After the fire incident, patients were shifted to another hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pained-by-loss-of-lives-in-bharuch-hospital-fire-incident-pm-modi-101619845263953.html
01-05-2021||India||Unicef sends 3,000 oxygen concentrators to India to combat second Covid-19 wave||The United Nations (UN) children’s agency has sent critical life-saving supplies, including 3,000 oxygen concentrators, diagnostic tests, and other equipment to help India combat a “devastating new wave” of Covid-19.Unicef also said it is continuing to support the Indian government in the acceleration of its national vaccine rollout to equitably reach all population groups.During the daily press briefing on Friday, Farhan Haq, deputy spokesman for the UN chief, referred to the tweet by secretary-general Antonio Guterres that he and the UN family stand in solidarity with the people of the country as they face a horrific Covid-19 outbreak and the UN stands ready to step up its support to the country.Haq said UN resident coordinator in India Renata Lok-Dessallien shares the secretary-general’s sentiments.Unicef is helping to procure and install 25 oxygen plants for hospitals in northeast India and Maharashtra, as well as the installation of thermal scanners at ports of entry countrywide.“Unicef and partners are continuing to support the Government of India in the acceleration of its national vaccine rollout to equitably reach all population groups,” a press release from the UN agency said.“Vials of the Covid-19 vaccine have to be carefully packed at cold temperatures to ensure they remain effective when administered, part of the so-called cold chain – a series of precisely coordinated events in temperature-controlled environments to store, manage and transport these life-saving products," it said."Unicef and partners have procured special refrigerators as part of cold chain strengthening and Covid-19 vaccine introduction in India,” it added.The UN agency has sent critical life-saving supplies, including 3,000 oxygen concentrators, diagnostic tests, medical kits, and other equipment to help India in its battle with a deadly wave of Covid-19.Along with the oxygen concentrators, Unicef has supplied more than 500 high-flow nasal cannulas and 85 RT-PCR (Covid testing) machines. “Covid-19 is severely overstraining the health system in India,” said Dr Yasmin Haque, Unicef representative in India.“Urgent action is needed to avert further tragic loss of life. Unicef has provided oxygen supplies and other critically needed emergency equipment for an immediate response while supporting resilience building against recurrent shocks and stresses. Indeed, much more is needed as the outbreak continues to spread rapidly.”Unicef said in the press release that it is continuing to work with partners to increase access to life-saving oxygen by procuring and installing oxygen generation plants in hospitals to treat severe and critical Covid-19 cases.It is helping to provide rapid, accurate testing machines in some of the most affected districts and support communities and essential workers to weather this storm and prevent further disruption to outreach programmes and services for children."The scenes we are seeing in India are simply devastating," said George Laryea-Adjei, Unicef regional director for South Asia."The most vulnerable families are paying a steep price for this deadly new surge. The Unicef calls on all partners who are able to support in responding to this new wave to do so immediately."Unicef has also been helping the Indian government to ensure that ensuring critical services for the most vulnerable children can continue functioning, as well as to help more than 12 million children in 17 states continue learning from home, Haq said.Unicef added that since the start of the pandemic, it has been working with partners in India to help stop the spread of Covid-19, sharing information with more than 660 million people on how to stay safe from the coronavirus.“Unicef has consistently worked to counter misinformation and promote Covid-19 appropriate behaviours, including wearing masks, physical distancing, and handwashing.”Unicef said it needs $21 million for the urgent delivery of additional testing equipment, supplies and oxygen products in India and more than $50 million for lifesaving Covid-19 interventions across sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unicef-sends-3-000-oxygen-concentrators-to-india-to-combat-second-covid-19-wave-101619844116826.html
01-05-2021||India||PM visits Sis Ganj Gurudwara on 400th Prakash Purab, Rahul Gandhi greets Sikhs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday offered prayers at Gurudwara Sis Ganj Sahib in Delhi on 400th Prakash Purab of Guru Teg Bahadur. An official of the PM’s office said no special security arrangements were made either on his route or at the Gurudwara.“Prayed at Gurudwara Sis Ganj Sahib today. We can never forget the life, ideals and supreme sacrifice of Sri Teg Bahadur Ji,” PM tweeted, and shared photographs of him praying at the Gurudwara.The visit comes at a time when the gurudwaras were holding oxygen ‘langars’ to help deal with the shortage of the life-saving gas for Covid patients in hospitals across the country.Earlier in the morning, PM offered his tributes to the ninth Guru of Sikhism and said, “On the special occasion of his 400th Parkash Purab, I bow to Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji. He is widely respected globally for his courage and his efforts to serve the downtrodden. He refused to bow to tyranny and injustice. His supreme sacrifice gives strength and motivation to many.”Meanwhile, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi also paid tributes to the ninth Sikh Guru and extended his wishes to the community on the festival.“Best wishes to all of you on the light festival of Guru Teg Bahadur Sahib. In this difficult time, we have to support each other with the strength of faith and brotherhood,” Rahul wrote on his telegram channel while adding that people should follow Covid appropriate behaviour.On April 8, PM Modi chaired a high-level virtual meeting to discuss the year long calendar of celebrations to mark this occasion. He then said it was important for the new generation to know and understand the stages of his (Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur) life.“From Guru Nanak Dev to Guru Tegh Bahadur and Guru Gobind Singh - our Sikh Guru tradition is a philosophy of life in itself,” PM had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-visits-sis-ganj-gurudwara-on-400th-prakash-purab-rahul-gandhi-greets-sikhs-101619844591942.html
01-05-2021||India||Oxygen, vaccine and Remdesivir is MEA mantra in national crisis||External affairs minister S Jaishankar is expected to call up his Singapore and Thailand counterparts on Saturday to personally thank them for supporting India’s fight against raging coronavirus pandemic even as he has instructed all Indian ambassadors to focus on procuring medical supplies for the national crisis.According to people familiar with the development, Jaishankar will have a virtual meeting with Singapore foreign minister Vivian Balakrishnan to appreciate the help extended by the city state by acting as a logistics hub for medical supplies to India. The Modi government has also noted with appreciation the role played by Thailand as supplier of oxygen tankers to India in times of crisis.Even before having virtual meetings with US secretary of state Antony Blinken and Chinese state councillor and foreign minister Wang Yi, Jaishankar on Thursday told all the heads of missions of India that their aim is to get oxygen, vaccine and Remdesivir for India. While the EAM made it clear that as India’s Vaccine Maitri has generated enormous goodwill for the country, it is time that all hands were on the deck to get medical support. Also read | India stresses on boosting oxygen supplies in talks with USJaishankar’s virtual meeting with Blinken was very fruitful as the US secretary of state said that the United States was committed to fully support India in its fight against the resurgent epidemic. During his conversation with Wang Yi, Jaishankar requested China, which is the world’s biggest manufacturer, to lift non market barriers and allow goods flow to India as well as give clearance to evacuate equipment through special flights to China. The Chinese response is still awaited in writing.Also read | Jaishankar emphasises importance of China’s transport corridors in India’s Covid-19 responseWhile many have interpreted the Chinese overture, including President Xi Jinping writing to PM Narendra Modi, as thaw in the ties, fact is that Beijing is worried about the spread of the UK strain, double mutant and South Africa strain of coronavirus crossing over to Chinese mainland through land borders. For a genuine thaw, China will have to match its statements with action on ground all along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxygen-vaccine-and-remdesivir-is-mea-mantra-in-national-crisis-101619843942463.html
01-05-2021||India||May Day 2021: Know history and significance of Labour Day||May 1 is the International Day of Workers or International Labour Day dedicated to workers and labourers across the world. This day celebrates labourers and encourages them to be aware of their rights. The day has its origins in the labour union movement, specifically the eight-hour day movement. Popularly known as May Day, the day is observed in countries such as India, Cuba and China among other countries.On this day, people across the world observe the day by conducting protest and march for the rights of workers and save them from exploitation. International Labour Day is a public holiday in many countries.Know about the history and significance of May Day:Labour Day has its origins in the labour union movement in the United States in the 19th Century. In 1889, the Marxist International Socialist Congress adopted a resolution for a great international demonstration in which they demanded that the workers should not be made to work for more than 8 hours a day. After this, it became an annual event and May 1 was celebrated as Labour Day.May Day was first celebrated on May 1, 1890, after it was declared by the first International Congress of Socialist Parties in Europe on July 14, 1889. It was declared for the workers in Paris to dedicate every year on May 1 as the 'Workers Day of International Unity and Solidarity'. May 1 in Europe has historically been linked with rural traditional farmers' festivals but later May Day became associated with the modern labour movement.In India, Labour’s Day is a national holiday. The first Labour’s Day was celebrated in 1923 in Chennai. This day was observed by the Labour Kisan Party of Hindustan. On this day, communist leader Malayapuram Singaravelu Chettiar asked the government that May 1 should be considered as a national holiday to symbolise the efforts and work of the workers. This day is also known as Kamgar Divas, Kamgar Din and Antrarashtriya Shramik Divas in India.In the US and Canada, Labour Day is celebrated on the first Monday of September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/may-day-2021-know-history-and-significance-of-labour-day-101619837183763.html
01-05-2021||India||US to remain in communication with India on its Covid-19 needs: White House||The US will continue to maintain communication with India about its needs to address the Covid-19 crisis, the White House has said, as critical American aid supplies started arriving in the country.Two American military aircraft on Friday brought to India large amounts of emergency medical supplies as part of the Biden administration's support to the country's fight against a devastating wave of the coronavirus pandemic.The first consignment of the supplies was brought to Delhi in a C-5M Super Galaxy, one of the largest strategic airlift aircraft of the US Air Force, while the second shipment was delivered by a C-17 Globemaster.“We will continue to communicate with India about their needs,” White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki told reporters on Friday.The first military assistance flight that departed from Travis Air Force Base had cargo including 200 small oxygen cylinders, 223 large oxygen cylinders, regulators and pulse oximeters, she said.It also included approximately 184,000 rapid diagnostic tests and 84,000 N-95s masks.Psaki said that the Secretary of State Antony Blinken called his Indian counterpart External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar to review ongoing US government efforts in support of the Indian government's response.“He also noted the outpouring of support from US industries, our ongoing discussions, non-governmental institutions, and private citizens,” Psaki said.In all, the United States expects to deliver more than USD 100 million in medical supplies to India.The Pentagon said in the coming week, more oxygen cylinders will be sent, as will oxygen concentrators, oxygen generation units, additional personnel protective equipment, rapid diagnostic tests and therapeutics.“The US is also providing vaccine manufacturing supplies. In fact, the US has redirected its order of AstraZeneca manufacturing supplies to India, which will enable the country to make more than 20 million doses of the COVID-19 vaccine,” said the Department of Defence.Meanwhile, top American Senator Elizabeth Warren in a letter to President Joe Biden urged him to leverage all tools and resources available to the United States to provide relief to India.“In light of this growing humanitarian crisis, I urge you to leverage all tools and resources available to the United States to provide relief to India,” Warren said in a letter to Biden.“While I am pleased by your commitment to providing transportation and logistics assistance as well as doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine to India, there is a critical need for more to be done,” the top Democrat said.She also encouraged Biden to divert any excess supply of ventilators, PPE, oxygen, diagnostic equipment, as well as vaccines to India to help treat those in need and mitigate the spread of the virus.“India is in the midst of a humanitarian crisis that threatens its 1.4 billion citizens, and billions more around the world. I urge you to leverage all resources and explore all tools available to the United States to alleviate this crisis,” Warren said.India is struggling with a second wave of the pandemic with more than 3,00,000 daily new coronavirus cases being reported in the past few days, and hospitals are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-to-remain-in-communication-with-india-on-its-covid-19-needs-white-house-101619842293669.html
01-05-2021||India||Odisha to begin ‘token’ Covid vaccination of 18-44 years age group from May 1||The third phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive will begin in Odisha on Saturday with a few in the age bracket of 18-45 years receiving their first shot in Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation area after the state received 1.5 lakh doses of indigenously developed Covaxin.Additional chief secretary of health, PK Mohapatra, said on May1, a few token beneficiaries will receive the vaccine in a symbolic expansion of the drive amid a weekend lockdown in the state’s urban areas in view of the surging Covid cases.“The vaccine will be used in Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation limits for which slots will be opened on COWIN for sessions to be held from Monday,” he said.Mohapatra said Odisha has placed orders with Bharat Biotech to deliver at least 5 lakh doses of Covaxin by May 31 and the rest 5.3 lakh doses by June 15. “We have also asked the Serum Institute to give us 40 lakh doses in May followed by 60 lakh each in June, July and August. We will start the Covishield vaccination as and when we receive the doses,” said Mohapatra. Odisha is administering Covishield jabs all across the state except Bhubaneswar.Odisha health minister Naba Das wrote to Union health minister Dr Harsha Vardhan on Friday requesting the Centre to allot 25 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine in a single go to enable continuity in vaccination of people aged 45 years & above. On Friday, the state administered 81,161 doses to the age group of 45 years and above and was left with just 46,220 doses of Covishield and 3.21 lakh doses of Covaxin.“Between April 20 and 29, Odisha has received only 2.9 lakh doses of Covishield in three allocations, which is insufficient for unhindered continuation of the vaccination drive. The vaccination sessions could not be conducted in more than 1,100 session sites daily in the recent past and our daily dosage delivery has drastically declined from 2.71 lakh on April 3 to 27,000 on April 29,” Das wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-begin-token-covid-vaccination-of-18-44-years-age-group-from-may-1-101619842731515.html
01-05-2021||India||Assam extends night curfew and other restrictions till May||The Assam government on Friday extended night curfew and most other existing guidelines/restrictions to control the spread of Covid-19 till May 7. The new set of guidelines was issued by the Assam State Disaster Management Authority and will come into effect immediately.Last Tuesday, night curfew was ordered across the state from 8:00 pm to 5:00 am after shops and businesses were told earlier to down shutters at 6:00 pm. These restrictions will continue till May 7.Officers of government departments and those involved in emergency services, public transport, disaster management etc. have been exempted from the curfew provided they are able to show their valid identity documents on request.Judicial officials, medical personnel, journalists, pregnant women and patients, diplomats of foreign countries, persons holding constitutional posts will also be exempted from the purview of the curfew.Movement of personnel related to food products, animal fodder, medicines, medical equipment, banks, insurance offices, telecommunications, internet, IT services, petrol pumps, LPG units, electricity generation and supply, cold storage and warehousing, private security agencies, manufacturing units of essential commodities and units that require continuous production are also exempted.The curfew will also not be applicable for those stepping out for Covid-19 vaccination.The new measures also empower the district magistrate to declare an area/city or district a containment zone in case Covid-19 positivity rate crosses 10% in one week and bed occupancy of either oxygen supported or intensive care unit (ICU) beds cross 60%.Assam has been recording around 3,000 new Covid-19 cases daily for the past few days. On Thursday, the state recorded 26 deaths and 3,079 new cases. The state has over 23,000 active cases at present.As per the new guidelines, functions held in the open, marriage halls, commercial centres etc. will be allowed to operate at 50% occupancy with strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols. Number of guests in private functions at private venues (including marriage) should be restricted to 100, not more than 20 persons allowed for last rites and only 20 to 50 persons allowed per hour at religious places depending on the size of the place.In offices, except officers, only 50% of employees are allowed in government and private offices.The guidelines won’t be applicable for those involved with emergency/essential services, law enforcement and election work. Pregnant women and women with children below 5 years of age shall work from home.Educational institutions, both government and private, have been asked to provide online teaching and only 50% students will be allowed to attend classes in person on any day.Buses should operate with only 50% passenger strength and no passenger will be allowed to travel standing. Barber shops, salons and beauty parlours have been allowed to operate while observing Covid-19 safety measures. Industrial units and tea gardens can also function by following protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-extends-night-curfew-and-other-restrictions-till-may-101619841591893.html
01-05-2021||India||India reports over 400,000 fresh Covid-19 cases for the first time, total infection tally breaches 19 million-mark||India on Saturday reported more than 400,000 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, for the first time since the pandemic began, as the infection tally crossed the 19 million mark, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. With 401,993 fresh cases, India’s Covid-19 tally has risen to 19,164,969.The active caseload, which crossed the three-million-mark on Thursday, also surged by 98,482 and currently stands at 3,268,710. This accounts for 17.06% of the total confirmed cases in the country.According to the health ministry, 3,523 patients succumbed to the viral disease in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 211,853. As many as 299,988 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours and so far 15,684,406 people have recovered from the viral disease, the health ministry’s dashboard showed at 8am. With this, the country’s recovery rate stands at 81.84%, the data also showed.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Saturday said that 28,83,37,385 samples were tested up to April 30 for Covid-19. Of these, 19,45,299 samples were tested on Friday.The Union health ministry has red-flagged 10 states for contributing the highest number of infections to the national tally of active Covid-19 cases. The states include Maharashtra, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal.Maharashtra continues to remain the worst affected state in terms of the total confirmed cases and active caseload. Maharashtra on Friday reported 62,919 fresh Covid-19 cases and 828 deaths, said the state health department.The Centre on Friday expressed concern that many states are not only recording a higher peak of coronavirus disease cases than in September last year but also seeing a high growth trajectory. Joint secretary in the health ministry Lav Agarwal said the country witnessed its first peak in September and is witnessing another peak in April. Some countries have also witnessed the third wave of Covid-19, he said.India has been recording over 300,000 cases every day for over a week now. More than 200,000 cases a day are being recorded since April 15. The shortage of hospital beds, medical oxygen and crucial anti-viral drugs has added to the crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-over-400-000-fresh-covid-19-cases-for-the-first-time-total-infection-tally-breaches-19-millionmark-101619840443630.html
01-05-2021||India||Nirav Modi files appeal in UK high court against his extradition to India||Fugitive businessman Nirav Modi filed his initial grounds for appeal against his extradition to India in the UK high court of justice on Wednesday, people familiar with the development said on Saturday. Nirav Modi’s appeal is both against the Westminster magistrate court’s order on February 25 directing his extradition to India and April 15 approval by UK home secretary Priti Patel. Patel approved Modi’s extradition almost two months after a court found him guilty of fraud and money laundering in the Punjab National Bank scam case.According to his legal team, the perfected grounds of appeal are being prepared and will be filed soon and there are initial grounds of appeal.Nirav Modi’s original defence is that he won’t get a fair trial in India and he is being targeted due to political reasons. He has also cited the poor conditions of jails in India and said that the evidence against him is weak.Also read | Mallya, Nirav Modi & Mehul Choksi all coming back to face law: FMWestminster district judge Sam Goozee, while ordering his extradition on February 25, said Modi has a case to answer in India as he, along with his brother Nehal Modi and others, had defrauded the public sector bank, laundered the money taken from it and conspired to destroy evidence and intimidate witnesses. Goozee observed that the circulation of pearls, diamonds and gold between Nirav Modi’s firms and Dubai- and Hong Kong-based dummy companies was not genuine business and the companies were being used for transferring funds generated in the guise of sale-purchase/export-import of goods colloquially referred to as round-tripping transactions.Nirav Modi’s contention that he won’t get a fair trial in India and that he was being targeted due to political reasons was junked by the court.Also read | Nirav Modi’s extradition: CBI, ED submitted over 40,000 docs to prove conspiracyNirav Modi has been lodged in Wandsworth prison on the outskirts of London since March 19, 2019, when he was arrested on the basis of India’s extradition request.After former liquor baron Vijay Mallya, whose extradition has been cleared by a trial court in the United Kingdom, Nirav Modi is the second high-profile economic offender. Mallya lost his appeal against extradition in April 2020 as well as any opportunity to approach the UK Supreme Court the next month but the British government has claimed that his extradition is held up due to a “confidential legal issue”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirav-modi-files-appeal-in-uk-high-court-against-his-extradition-to-india-101619840268093.html
01-05-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Sputnik-V shipments expected to arrive in India today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sputnik-V shipments expected to arrive today as India plans a comebackIndia is set to receive its first doses of Sputnik-V, the Russian-made vaccine against the coronavirus disease, on Saturday as Covid-19 cases and deaths have surged in the country and more than 300,000 new infections have been reported daily for nine days in a row. Read moreGovt explores possibility of producing Covaxin abroadCentre is exploring the possibility of offering the locally developed coronavirus vaccine, Covaxin that has been jointly developed by Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), for production abroad through a technology transfer between commercial entities amid supply crunch, according to government officials aware of the development. Read moreHappy birthday Anushka Sharma: When she thought Virat Kohli was 'arrogant' but ended up inviting him to her homeAnushka Sharma may be an actor herself but her meet-cute with husband Virat Kohli is a story fit for a Bollywood rom-com. On her 33rd birthday on Saturday, we are bringing you the story of how she met her cricketer husband and fell for his 'easygoing' vibe. Read moreThe Disciple movie review: A demanding drama from master-in-the-making Chaitanya TamhaneThe music in The Disciple brings to mind that scene from La La Land, in which Ryan Gosling’s Seb, a lifelong devotee, explains jazz to Emma Stone’s Mia, who thinks of it as elevator music. “It’s not relaxing,” Seb says, on the verge of losing it. Read more'When KKR are playing, it will get boring for me, so I have to watch it while fast-forwarding it': Virender SehwagKolkata Knight Riders once again got off to a slow start against Delhi Capitals in the Indian Premier League 2021 match on Thursday. Read moreWatch: Navy deploys warship to import oxygen from Singapore, Bahrain, ThailandIndian Navy deployed warships to bring oxygen from other countries. Special operation was launched to bring oxygen filled cryogenic containers. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-sputnik-v-shipments-expected-to-arrive-in-india-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101619835865930.html
01-05-2021||India||Gujarat CM announces ₹4 lakh ex gratia to Bharuch fire victims’ kins||Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani on Saturday announced financial assistance of  ₹4 lakh for the families of 18 people, who were killed in a fire at a Covid-19 designated hospital in the state’s Bharuch. Rupani also extended his condolences to the patients, doctors and the hospital staff who lost their lives in the fire.“I express my condolences towards the patients, doctors and hospital staff who have lost their lives in the fire accident at Bharuch Hospital. The state government will provide assistance of  ₹4 lakh to the families of each of the victims of the accident,” Rupani said, according to news agency ANI.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also expressed his condolences to the families of the victims of the accident in Bharuch. "Pained by the loss of lives due to a fire at a hospital in Bharuch. Condolences to the bereaved families," Prime Minister Modi tweeted.The fire broke out at the four-storied Welfare Hospital in Bharuch early on Saturday. Fifty other patients were rescued by local residents and firefighters from the Covid-19 ward.The intensity of the fire was such that the hospital's ICU ward almost burnt to the ground. The equipment that was stored inside, which included beds, ventilators and fridge for storing medicines, turned to ashes, according to a report by news agency PTI. Patients were charred beyond recognition and their relatives found it difficult to identify their bodies."As per information received at 6.30am, the death toll due to the tragedy stood at 18. We had confirmation of 12 deaths immediately after the fire," a police official was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-cm-rupani-announces-rs-4-lakh-assistance-for-bharuch-victims-101619838914325.html
01-05-2021||India||PM Modi visits Gurdwara Sis Ganj Sahib in Delhi on 400th Prakash Parab of Guru Teg Bahadur||Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited the 17th-century Gurdwara Sis Ganj Sahib to offer prayers on the occasion of 400th Prakash Parab or the birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur on Saturday. Modi visited the gurdwara without a security route and special security arrangements, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said.PM Modi also extended his greetings to the citizens on Twitter. “On the special occasion of his 400th Parkash Purab, I bow to Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji. He is widely respected globally for his courage and his efforts to serve the downtrodden. He refused to bow to tyranny and injustice. His supreme sacrifice gives strength and motivation to many,” he wrote on the microblogging site.Gurdwara Sis Ganj Sahib was built by Sikhs at the site where the ninth guru was beheaded by the Mughals in 1675.Prayed at Gurudwara Sis Ganj Sahib today. We can never forget the life, ideals and supreme sacrifice of Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji. pic.twitter.com/62teTxLJspEarlier this month, the Prime Minister held a high-level meeting to commemorate the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur, where he suggested that it is important for the new generation of the nation to know and understand the stages of the Sikh guru’s life.He pledged that India would pay a fitting tribute to Guru Tegh Bahadur on his 400th Parkash Purab, however, as the nation battles with the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic most celebrations have been called off. The meeting was attended Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, former prime minister Manmohan Singh and Union home minister Amit Shah.As most events stand cancelled, the Punjab government has decided to engage students in productive activities as schools are closed due to Covid-19 surge. Punjab’s education department will hold online educational competitions from May 1 to commemorate the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur. Students will participate in competitions including essay writing, poem recitation, slogan writing, and debates. They will make videos of the activity and share them on the class WhatsApp groups. Similar activities were organised online last year in which over 40,000 students participated. The topics of the competitions will be based on the life, teachings, and achievements of the guru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-visits-gurdwara-sis-ganj-sahib-in-delhi-on-400th-prakash-parab-of-guru-teg-bahadur-101619837925141.html
01-05-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine makers say won’t be able to supply doses till June: Bengal doctor||A doctor at a hospital in West Bengal has claimed manufacturers of Covid-19 vaccine have said they won’t be able to supply the shots till June as the state government and private hospitals look to kick off the third phase of the vaccination drive scheduled to begin from Saturday across the country, news agency ANI reported.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here“This time vaccine supply will not be (given) by the government but we have been asked to write to manufacturers directly and we have written to Bharat Biotech and SII for vaccines,” Dr Rupali Basu, the managing director and chief executive officer of Kolkata’s Woodlands Hospital, told news agency ANI on Friday. She added, “They (vaccine manufacturers) have written to us that they won’t be able to supply us vaccines till June, so we still don’t have the vaccines with us. We’re ready with vaccination centres but the moment the vaccines come to us we’ll able to vaccinate.”The doctor’s statement came a day ahead of the nationwide launch of Phase 3 Covid-19 vaccination. However, West Bengal is not the only state that is not launching the campaign yet, several states and Union territories including Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, and Delhi, have said they will start vaccinating citizens above the age of 18 years at a later date as they don’t have enough stock and are waiting for vaccine manufacturers to provide them with a substantial number of vials to inoculate the citizens in the large age group of 18 to 44 years.Basu said May 1 is a holiday in West Bengal and the following day is the result day for assembly elections held earlier in March and April while May 3 and 4 are also not vaccination days. “... Our vaccination starts on May 5, so I have four more days. I hope that I will be starting vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group May 5 onwards," she told ANI on Friday.The vaccination drive in Bengal comes at a crucial time as the state is registering grim records almost every day for the past few days. The eastern state registered the highest single-day Covid-19 deaths with 96 people succumbing to the disease, the health department said in a bulletin on Friday, as its infection tally mounted to 828,366 with a record one-day spike of 17,411 new cases.Experts have attributed the tremendous spike in Covid-19 cases to mass gatherings that took place in the state as political parties held election campaign rallies and roadshows despite the emergence of the second wave of the pandemic that has taken the country’s death toll beyond 208,000 amid stretched health infrastructure.The central government’s decision to vaccinate all adults also came as the second wave wrecked havoc across states. At present, India has been reporting over 300,000 cases daily for over a week.Registration for the people aged above 18 years began from 4pm on Wednesday. Potential beneficiaries can either register directly on CoWIN portal (cowin.gov.in) or through the Aarogya Setu app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-makers-say-won-t-be-able-to-supply-doses-till-june-bengal-doctor-101619837012091.html
01-05-2021||India||These states won’t start Phase 3 Covid-19 vaccination drive from today||Several state governments have said they won't be able to start the Phase 3 vaccination drive from Saturday because they do not have sufficient vaccine doses. This phase of vaccination drive is for people between the age group of 18-45 years.The Union health ministry on Thursday said more than 10 million vaccine doses are still available with states and they will receive 2 million more doses in the next few days. The ministry further said that the Centre has so far provided nearly 161.6 million vaccine doses to states and UTs free of cost.States like Maharashtra and Gujarat have announced to begin the vaccination drive from Saturday. Gujarat will have undertake the drive in 10 districts.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has said that the state has 0.3 million doses but will begin the vaccination for 18+ from Saturday. "Today we have received 0.3 million vaccine doses. From tomorrow, we will start vaccination for adults above the age of 18 years with whatever vaccine supply that is made available to us," he added.Here's a list of states that are not going for Phase 3 Covid-19 vaccination drive from Saturday:Delhi: Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday asked the people between the age group of 18 and 44 not to queue up outside Covid-19 vaccination centres from May 1, adding the national capital hasn’t yet received doses. He said around 0.3 million doses of Covishield are expected by May 3.Kejriwal said his government has placed orders for 6.7 million doses each of Covishield and Covaxin which will be delivered over three months. “We aim to vaccinate everyone in the next three months if a sufficient quantity of vaccines is supplied by the companies,” he added.Karnataka: Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar has said the state has no vaccine stock to start the drive on Saturday. "Karnataka has placed an order for more than 10 million doses. But they are not prepared to start delivery from tomorrow as scheduled. We are requesting people in the age group of 18-45 years to refrain from going to hospitals thinking they will be vaccinated," he said.Goa: Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant has said the state will start inoculation of those in the age group of 18-45 years against Covid-19 "as and when" vaccine doses are available. He said the Goa government has placed an order of 0.5 milli doses with the Serum Institute of India for the Covishield vaccine. "Vaccination for the 18-45 age group will progress as and when we receive the doses," Sawant added.Madhya Pradesh: Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said that the vaccination drive for people in the age group of 18-45 years will not start on May 1 as the vaccine manufacturers aren't in a position to supply enough vaccine doses to the state."On contacting the manufacturers of Covishield and Covaxin, we learnt they are unable to give us doses for those above 18 years of age on May 1. The drive covering the young people won't start on May 1," Chouhan said.West Bengal: The West Bengal government has said that the vaccination drive for those between 18 to 45 years of age will begin as and when the state receives the vaccine doses. "Vaccination of those above 45 years will continue," the state government said in an order.Punjab: Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu has said the vaccination drive for the 18 plus category in the state may get delayed as there are not enough doses of Covid-19 vaccine. "We are not getting adequate doses of vaccines. That is why we are facing problems. We have staff and required infrastructure for vaccination,” Sidhu said.Andhra Pradesh: Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that those between the ages of 18 and 45 will have to wait until September to get a shot. “It will take four months to complete the vaccination for people aged 18 to 45, which means they will be vaccinated not before January end next year,” Jagan said in a statement.Jharkhand: Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta has said that the state will not begin inoculating people between the age group of 18-45 years on May 1, owing to the delay in getting doses from manufacturers.“Both the companies told us that the Centre has placed advanced orders for 120 million doses already. Due to the sheer volume of the Centre’s orders, they will not be able to supply us the doses before May 15,” he said.Uttar Pradesh: Uttar Pradesh’s health minister Jai Prata Singh has said the state does not have any stocks of vaccine doses available. He said, “Global tender has been issued for the vaccine but there is no response yet. Orders of 5 million doses have been made to each of the two vaccine manufacturers, but we have not received anything yet. The current stock of vaccines is only available for the 45+ group, which is for the second dose," he added.Jammu and Kashmir: The Jammu and Kashmir administration has said the third phase of the inoculation drive will not begin from May 1 in the Union Territory. “While the registration for vaccination of eligible persons in the age group 18-45 has been opened on CoWIN platform, the actual vaccination will not begin from May 1. It will begin from a date to be announced later once the vaccine supply is established," the Department of Information and Public Relations said on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-states-won-t-start-phase-3-covid-19-vaccination-drive-from-todayseveral-st-101619831661831.html
01-05-2021||India||PM Modi extends greetings on 400th Parkash Purab||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday extended greetings to the nation on the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur, saying his sacrifice gives "strength and motivation" to many."On the special occasion of his 400th Parkash Purab, I bow to Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji. He is widely respected globally for his courage and his efforts to serve the downtrodden. He refused to bow to tyranny and injustice. His supreme sacrifice gives strength and motivation to many," the Prime Minister tweeted.Guru Tegh Bahadur was the ninth Guru (April 1, 1621-November 11, 1675) of the Sikh religion.Prime Minister Modi had on April 8 said that the occasion of the 400th Prakash Purab of Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji is a spiritual privilege as well as a national duty.He had made this statement during a high-level meeting with former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh and Leader of Opposition, Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-extends-greetings-on-400th-parkash-purab-101619835274903.html
01-05-2021||India||Sputnik-V shipments expected to arrive today as India plans a comeback||India is set to receive its first doses of Sputnik-V, the Russian-made vaccine against the coronavirus disease, on Saturday as Covid-19 cases and deaths have surged in the country and more than 300,000 new infections have been reported daily for nine days in a row. Kirill Dmitriev, the head of the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) which is marketing Sputnik V globally, said earlier this week that the first doses of the vaccine will arrive on Saturday.“The first doses will be delivered on May 1,” Dmitriev was quoted as saying by news agency Reuters. However, he did not say how many vaccines would be in the first batch or where they would be made. He hoped that the Russian-made vaccine would help India mitigate the crisis spurred by the second wave of Covid-19.The consignment of the Sputnik-V, which was approved by an expert panel earlier this month, will bolster India’s response to the pandemic as several states have raised the issue of vaccine shortage which has forced them to make alterations to their vaccination plans. Sputnik-V will soon join India’s vaccination program and it is expected that this will help the country make a comeback in its fight against the pandemic. India on Saturday began vaccinating people aged above 18 years in phase III of its vaccination drive.The RDIF has signed agreements with five leading domestic manufacturers for over 850 million doses earlier this year. It has also set the target of producing more than 50 million doses a month by the summer in India. Earlier this week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Russian president Vladimir Putin and discussed how Sputnik-V was an effective tool in fighting Covid-19.Turkey, Chile and Albania were the latest to join 60 other countries who have approved Sputnik-V. Several experts say that the Sputnik-V vaccine, which was met with scepticism following its launch, is a ‘scientific and political win’ for Putin and Russia. The Gamaleya Research Centre, makers of Sputnik-V, have often claimed that the vaccine is the world’s best Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sputnikv-shipments-expected-to-arrive-today-as-india-plans-a-comeback-101619834147540.html
01-05-2021||India||Phase 3 Covid-19 vaccination for all adults from today? Several states delay drive||The third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive for all adults in the country begins Saturday as announced by the Centre earlier this month. Several states, however, have told their citizens to not line up outside vaccination centres as yet as they have not received enough stock of the vaccines from manufacturers to kick off this phase of the immunisation drive.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereLav Agarwal, the joint secretary in the Union ministry of health and family welfare, on Friday assured people that the Covid-19 immunisation campaign will soon be operational across all regions of the country. “Vaccination will be launched tomorrow in some states, which have already coordinated with manufacturers. Any new exercises or process takes time to pick up the pace and gradually more centres will be increased. The programme will stabilise in some time," Agarwal said, according to news agency PTI.The official’s statement is in line with the decisions of several states and Union territories, including Delhi, Odisha, Uttarakhand, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, and Punjab, which have said they do not have adequate doses of vaccine to start vaccinating individuals in the 18-44 age group and will launch the drive at a later date this month.Some states have announced Phase 3 of the Covid-19 inoculation drive in selected districts, while some announced vaccination for different age groups also such as those above 35 years.On Friday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal told people that his government is in touch with the vaccine manufacturers and assured them that the doses will arrive in the city in a day or two following which the campaign will be launched. Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani also made a statement earlier in the week and asserted that the vaccination in the third phase will begin across the state latest by May 15.Maharashtra government earlier said that it won’t begin the campaign until it receives a substantial number of Covid-19 vaccine vials to inoculate a large number of people eligible in this phase. However, on Friday night, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) announced five centres in the state’s Mumbai city where vaccination for the age group 18-44 years will begin on Saturday.People will have to pay for the vaccine doses in this phase but they will be available free of cost at central government hospitals. Manufacturers have been allowed to sell 50% of their doses to the Centre, which will be administered to people for free, and the state governments and private hospitals can procure the remaining at the pre-determined price. Serum Institute of India has priced its vaccine Covishield at ₹300 per dose for state governments and ₹600 for private hospitals and the other manufacturer Bharat Biotech will sell its shot Covaxin to state governments for ₹400 per dose, ₹1,200 per dose for private hospitals, and for the international market, the vaccine will be sold for $15-20 per dose.Registrations for Phase 3 of the Covid-19 vaccination began on Wednesday evening and the immediate rush at 4pm, when the registrations opened, led the CoWin portal server to be down for a while.From May 1, the types of anti-coronavirus disease vaccines and their prices will be displayed on the CoWIN portal for the citizens to make an informed choice at the time of booking an appointment at a private vaccination centre, according to the Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy document cited by PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/phase-3-covid-19-vaccination-for-all-adults-from-today-several-states-delay-drive-101619832404089.html
01-05-2021||NA||LIVE: France reports 5,581 Covid-19 patients in ICUs, number falls for 5th day||Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continues to affect India as infections and deaths rise increasing stress on the nation’s already burdened healthcare infrastructure. Covid-19 curfews are imposed in all the adversely-affected states as state governments try to break the chain of transmission. Administrations are also increasing lockdown like curfews to restrain unnecessary and curb the spread of the pandemic.The nation on Sunday recorded another grim milestone as more than 400,000 fresh Covid-19 infections were reported in the last 24 hours. India death toll reached 211,853 with 3,523 fatalities.India also began its phase III vaccination to strengthen its response to the pandemic. The phase III vaccination will include everyone above the age of 18. India is using Covaxin and Covishield to vaccinate its citizens and will soon start using Russian-made Sputnik V.The UK which registered a decline in the number of cases and saw a huge surge in vaccination numbers has reduced its test and track workforce. Brazil recorded 68,333 new cases which took its tally to 14,659,011. The Latin American nation was the second-most worst affected in the world but after India recorded more than 386,000 cases on Friday its tally went up to 18,767,962. A team of scientists advising the government over the Covid-19 situation said that the cases may peak in India in the first week of May.Follow all the updates here:France reports 5,581 people in intensive care unitsThe number of people in intensive care units in France with Covid-19 fell for the fifth straight day, decreasing by 94, to 5,581, health ministry data showed on Saturday. The ministry also reported 195 new coronavirus deaths in hospitals on Saturday, compared with 270 on Friday.Rajasthan logs 17,652 Covid-19 cases, 160 deaths in a dayRajasthan logged a record 17,652 Covid-19 cases and 160 fatalities in a day pushing the infection tally to 6,15,653 and death toll to 4,399 on Saturday.With this, the number of active cases reached 182,301 in the state. UK reports 1,907 fresh Covid-19 infections, 7 related deathsBritain reported seven new coronavirus deaths and a further 1,907 infections on Saturday, taking the total number of deaths recorded within 28 days of a positive Covid-19 test to 127,524, according to daily government figures.The number of people who have received at least one dose of a Covid vaccine rose to 34.346 million from 34.216 million reported the day before.Tamil Nadu reports 147 deaths; 19,588 new Covid-19 casesTamil Nadu on Saturday recorded an all-time high in daily Covid-19 related fatalities at 147 and 19,588 new cases, pushing the death toll to 14,193 and the caseload to 11,86,344 so far. Recoveries remained significant with 17,164 people getting discharged totalling 10,54,746 till date, the Health Department said.Manipur reports 319 new Covid-19 cases, 5 deathsManipur reported 319 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike this year, pushing the coronavirus tally to 31,905. Five new Covid-19 fatalities in the last 24-hours pushed the death toll to 410, the official said. The deaths were reported from Imphal East (2), Imphal West (1), Kakching (1) and Churachandpur (1).Sikkim logs 259 Covid-19 cases in past 24 hours, 1 related fatalitySikkim, which was last year among the states least affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, recorded its highest single-day spike of 259 fresh cases on Saturday, pushing the caseload to 8,211, the health department said in its bulletin. One more fatality raised the Covid-19 death toll in the Himalayan state to 148, the bulletin said.Nagpur logs 6,576 fresh Covid-19 cases, 99 deathsNagpur reported 6,576 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday as well as 99 deaths. As many as 7,575 people recovered from the viral disease in the same period while 23,259 tests were conducted. Kerala logs over 35,000 Covid-19 casesKerala recorded 35,636 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, including 81 health workers, pushing the total caseload to15.69 lakh as the toll climbed to 5,356 with 48 deaths. As many as 15,493 people were discharged.Portugal extends air travel curbs until mid-MayPortugal said on Saturday it was extending until May 16 flight restrictions that stop non-essential travel from countries with high coronavirus incidence rates, including Brazil and India -- a new addition to the list. Travellers from countries where 500 or more cases per 100,000 people have been reported over a 14-day period -- which also include South Africa, France and the Netherlands, among others -- can only enter Portugal if they have a valid reason, such as for work or healthcare, the government said. They must then quarantine for 14 days.Lockdown in Delhi extended by another weekLockdown in Delhi is being extended by one weekFirst batch of Sputnik-V vaccine arrives in IndiaSputnik-V vaccine will add to India's arsenal to fight the pandemic, says ministry of external affairs as the first batch for the Russian vaccine arrives in India. "This third option will augment our vaccine capacity and accelerate our vaccination drive. This is the 1st consignment of 1.5 lakh doses of Sputnik-V vaccine with millions of doses to follow," it said in the statement. Need info of patients in hospitals since April 1: Delhi HC reviews 'malpractice'The Delhi high court also sought information on number of patients admitted, discharged, undergoing treatment at Delhi hospitals since April 1 to review allegations related to 'malpractices' and accusations of beds not being vacated. Read MoreSingapore PM says govt doing everything to prevent second wavePrime Minister Lee Hsien Loong appealed to citizens of Singapore to steer clear of complacency and said emergence of new clusters continues to be a reason for worry. Lee said govt will do everything in its power to prevent a second wave, news agency PTI reported. Reliance to ramp up oxygen productionMukesh Ambani's Reliance Industries Ltd will now produce 1,000 tonnes medical oxygen per day, news agency PTI reported. RIL along with many other industry heavyweights have ramped up oxygen production to help India tide over the crisis. Nepal govt closes 22 entry points with IndiaNepal govt has decided to close 22 border points with India as cases continue to surge in India. Army says will do everything it can to help the nation: Deputy chief IDSI have gathered that they have reassured that the armed forces will help out in times of need. We are part of the nation. Direction has come down to us to get out & work as much as we can: Dy Chief of Integrated Defence Staff (Medical) on meetings of CDS & Army Chief with PM Modi pic.twitter.com/9ZfP7RYRunMadhuri Kanitkar, Deputy Chief of Integrated Defence Staff (Medical) says trained personnel and defence personnel are racing against time to help the country in this crisis. Sonia Gandhi says state and central governments need to wake upIt is time for central and state governments to wake up and discharge their duties: Sonia Gandhi in video messageCongress president Sonia Gandhi said that central and state governments should wake up and discharge their duties. More than 100 million vaccinated in USUS reached another vaccination milestone as it inoculated more than 100 million people against Covid-19, news agency AP reported. Telangana Covid-19 tally surpasses 4.35 lakhsTelangana recorded 7,754 fresh cases taking the tally of the infected above 4.35 lakh. Walmart extends support to India amid Covid-19 crisisWalmart will donate 20 oxygen cylinders and cryogenic containers to India and also provide $2 million to NGOs to fight the pandemicCentre releases 1st installment of SDRF to states for tackling Covid-19Based on the recommendation of MHA, the finance ministry released in advance of the normal schedule the 1st instalment of the central share of the state disaster response fund (SDRF) for the year 2021-22 to all the states. India reports over 400,000 fresh Covid-19 cases for the first timeIndia's total case tally reached 19 million with more than 400,000 fresh Covid-19 cases. Ex-RJD MP Shahabuddin passes awayFormer RJD MP Mohammad Shahabuddin passes away at a hospital in Delhi where he was under treatment for #COVID19. (File photo) pic.twitter.com/bE0b8pd6geThe former RJD MP was being treated for Covid-19 in Delhi.Brazil achieves daily immunization record but faces shortage of Covid-19 vaccinesThe South American nation reached a self-imposed daily Covid-19 vaccination goal of vaccinating 1 million on Friday but shortage of shots could hinder the process of vaccinating all, news agency Bloomberg reported.Mexico records 460 Covid-19 deathsMexico's death toll inched towards 217,000 as 460 more deaths on Friday pushed the total number of fatalities to 216,907.Aus to fine, jail travel ban offendersAustralia, which placed a travel ban on India, said that breaching the ban could lead to penalties and up to five years imprisonment, according to a Reuters report.Kolkata hospital to directly procure vaccines from SII, Bharat BiotechThis time vaccine supply will not be (given) by govt but we’ve been asked to write to manufacturers directly and we’ve written to Bharat Biotech and SII for vaccines: Dr Rupali Basu, MD & CEO, Woodlands Hospital, Kolkata on 3rd phase of vaccination drive. (30/04) pic.twitter.com/8wABQIeS7uWoodlands Hospital, Kolkata will procure its own vaccines instead of buying from Bengal government. Its MD told ANI that the hospital will begin vaccination drive from May 5 due to Labour Day and election counting.12 dead in fire at Gujarat hospital“According to primary information, probably 12 people have been killed in the incident of fire at Patel Welfare Hospital’s dedicated COVID-19 care centre at 12:30 pm in Bharuch,” says police pic.twitter.com/4Y5IUg0XYB12 patient died due to a fire at Patel Welfare Hospital in Gujarat's Bharuch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-may-1-2021-101619828538460.html
01-05-2021||India||Serum Institute CEO plans to start Covid-19 vaccine production abroad: Report||The Serum Institute of India, which manufactures the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine, is planning to start vaccine production in other countries as it struggles to meet supply commitments, its chief executive officer told The Times."There's going to be an announcement in the next few days," Adar Poonawalla was quoted as saying by the newspaper in an interview published on Friday.Poonawalla said last week that the Serum Institute would be able to raise its monthly output to 100 million doses by July, later than a previous timeline of end-May. Several states in India have run out of vaccines against COVID-19.He hoped to increase the Serum Institute's production capacity from 2.5 billion to 3 billion doses a year within six months, the Times reported, adding that he flew to London before Britain banned travellers from India eight days ago.Coronavirus cases and deaths have surged in India as the world's second-most populous country has reported more than 300,000 new infections daily for nine consecutive days, hitting another global record of 386,452 on Friday.The surge has led to a public health crisis and forced the government to seek oxygen, medicines and other essentials from abroad.The nation's coronavirus cases may peak between May 3-5, according to scientists advising the government.Some health experts said India became complacent when new cases were running at about 10,000 a day and the novel coronavirus seemed to be under control. Authorities lifted restrictions, allowing the resumption of large festivals and political rallies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-ceo-plans-to-start-covid-19-vaccine-production-abroad-report-101619827712296.html
01-05-2021||India||At least 18 Covid-19 patients die in hospital fire in Gujarat’s Bharuch: Report||At least 18 coronavirus patients died after a fire broke out at a hospital in Gujarat's Bharuch in the early hours on Saturday.Gut-wrenching visuals of the tragedy showed remains of some patients roasted alive on stretchers and beds.There were around 50 other patients at the four- storeyed Welfare Hospital when the fire broke out in the Covid-19 ward at 1 am. They were rescued by locals and firefighters, an official said."As per information at 6.30 am, the death toll in the tragedy stood at 18. Immediately after the fire, we had confirmation of 12 deaths," a police official told PTI.The 12 patients in the Covid-19 ward died due to the fire and resultant smoke, Bharuch SP Rajendrasinh Chudasama said.It is not clear if the remaining six also died in the Welfare hospital or while being shifted to other hospitals.The Covid-19 designated hospital is situated on the Bharuch-Jambusar highway, around 190 km from the state capital Ahmedabad and is being run by a trust.The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, the official said.The fire was controlled within an hour and around 50 patients were rescued by locals as well as firefighters, a fire official said. They were shifted to nearby hospitals, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-at-least-12-covid-19-patients-killed-in-fire-at-bharuch-hospital-101619825472835.html
01-05-2021||India||‘We also hear cries’: Supreme Court asks govt to overhaul Covid plan||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the central government for a “substantial rethink of its policy decisions” on handling of the public heath emergency set off by the second Covid-19 wave, as it emphasised on the augmentation of medical oxygen, an overhaul of the vaccination programme to ensure equitable distribution, and deregulating exclusive intellectual property rights to boost the production of essential drugs.Among the urgent suggestions the court made was that the Centre must consider increasing Delhi’s medical oxygen quota by 210 metric tonne (MT), raising it from the current 490MT, which has been a repeated demand of the Delhi government, and ensure that supply reaches the Capital.“The intervention of the Supreme Court must make a difference in people’s lives. It must save some lives,” remarked the bench, headed by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, as it listed out the areas of concern where, it said, the government must “do some serious thinking on their policy decisions and revisit them”.Reading out from a note prepared by him, justice Chandrachud highlighted that the focus areas of the court, in its first comprehensive intervention into the current Covid crisis, included the management and augmentation of medical oxygen with a real-time central dashboard for demand and supply; a plan to make vaccines available to everyone in the country at the same price with an endeavour to make them free for the poor and the maginalised; compulsory licences to more manufacturing units after a temporary waiver of the patents in order to ramp up production of essential medicines such as remdesivir and favipiravir; and ensuring hospitalisation to all those who require urgent medical aid.“We also hear people crying. People who have crossed our paths crying for a cylinder of oxygen. Today the ground situation in the national capital is that there is no oxygen...or for that matter, in Gujarat or in other states. We can’t revive who have left us but we can certainly do something to save life of several others. We want you to tell us within a foreseeable future, what is going to be the difference? How will things change on the ground?” the bench, which included justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who represented the Centre.While fixing the next date of hearing as May 10 to enable the Centre to respond to the necessity of modifying its policies, the bench said it will issue some interim directions to take care of the present situation, and the order will be uploaded on the Supreme Court website on Saturday morning.One of the immediate directions, the court said, will be on ensuring that no patient is turned away by a Covid care facility in any state for want of a residential proof or any particular identity card.The S-G responded that the Centre was talking to all states since it was aware that there could be a second surge of infection which could be more serious than the first wave. He said that the Union government may issue directions for a uniform policy for admission of patients in the hospitals while other priorities such as augmentation of medical oxygen and ramping up of vaccine manufacturing were being looked into diligently.When Mehta said that the Delhi government has not been able to lift the allotted quantity of oxygen for want of tankers, the bench responded that the Centre had a “very valuable responsibility” where citizens of Delhi were concerned.“Delhi represents the nation and there is hardly any one ethnically Delhiite. Delhi represents people from all over the country. You have a special responsibility as the Centre,” it observed and added that the Centre must also help Delhi in arranging tankers for transportation of oxygen.In the suo motu (on its own) proceedings of the top court, Mehta was assisted by Sumita Dawra, an additional secretary in the ministry of commerce and industry, who heads the oxygen procurement and supply coordination team at the Centre. Dawra contended through a presentation that there was enough quantity of medical oxygen available in the country, and the issues relating to tankers and transportation were being ironed out.The court had several pointed queries on the vaccination policy, apart from ramping up the production of essential medicines by way of deregulating the patent. Justices Chandrachud and Bhat repeatedly underscored that there was a looming national emergency, requiring the Union government to suspend the patent rights of the manufacturers of essential drugs so that more units could be put to task to meet the pressing demand.The bench reminded the S-G of the pertinent provisions of the Patent Act, asking why the Supreme Court should not issue authorisation for using the patent for government purposes whereby the government could give compulsory licences for generics to manufacture remdesivir, favipiravir and tocilizumab after temporarily suspending the intellectual property rights.“You can declare a national emergency and then use your powers under the Patents Act so that anybody can manufacture these drugs on your licences. This is a case where we should go for compulsory licensing. Look at statistics. Germany, Canada and many other countries have done the same thing. This is a public health emergency. You have no less than 10 PSUs that can take over and start manufacturing,” the bench told the S-G, asking for a response to this on the next date.“Doha Declaration of TRIPS shows that member states can take such steps to protect right of public health. Why should the court not issue directions under Section 100 and Section 92 to enable generics to manufacture these drugs without the fear of legal action? Is the logistical concern more important than right to health?” asked the judges.The bench added that under the existing legal regime, India could bypass the patent rules for remdesivir by importing the drug from Bangladesh, and could also take a licence from the neighbouring manufacturer to produce the drug in India.About the vaccination programme, the bench questioned the difference in vaccine pricing for the Centre and states, and asked why citizens of the same country should be made to pay more based on when or where they were inoculated.The court urged the Centre to follow the model of the national immunisation programme, where the Centre negotiated with the vaccine manufacturers and bought vaccines for the entire country while the states took care of the transportation.“Why isn’t the government buying 100% of doses? What is the rationale of Centre and state pricing? Ultimately it is for the citizens of the same country. You have created this duopoly of manufacturers and only Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech are producing these vaccines. But we cannot allow cooperative federalism when it comes to pricing of drugs. This is a national emergency. You place the order and let states lift it. You have been able to get at ₹150 for 20 crore people. The same manufacturers are now charging states between ₹400 and 600,” the court told Mehta.It further noted that the vaccine companies were selling the vaccines at lower prices to foreign nations. “Why should we, as a nation, purchase it at a higher rate? There is no point of different prices,” the bench told Mehta. “We are talking about the pricing of the vaccines because we believe that the most marginalised of the people should get the vaccine free even if they are below 45,” added the court.It also wanted to know from the government the investments it has made and advances given to the two companies -- Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech -- for research and innovation, as well as for increasing production of vaccines.The bench asked Mehta how the government expected illiterate people and marginalised sections to register themselves on the centralised CoWin portal for inoculation when they neither had the knowledge nor the access.Some of the other issues that the Centre needs to address by May 10 include the availability of beds, proactive testing, number of Covid care centres, adequacy of health care professionals, their protection and treatment, and helplines in every district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-also-hear-cries-supreme-court-asks-govt-to-overhaul-covid-plan-101619821975610.html
01-05-2021||India||Don’t queue up for a shot just yet: Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal urged adults younger than the age of 45 not to head to Covid-19 vaccine centres just yet, saying the government does not have the doses to launch the programme for the public on Saturday, but documents and comments by officials separately suggest the launch could start on May 3.Kejriwal’s comments come at a time when there is confusion about how the 18-44 age group will get doses since several states have not been able to procure the stocks that need to be sourced separately from those meant for the 45-plus age group. At least three private hospital chains -- Max, Apollo and Fortis -- announced they will begin administering doses to this group at some facilities in the National Capital Region on Saturday.“The vaccines have not reached us till now. We are in touch with the manufacturers and the first batch of 300,000 doses of Covishield vaccine is likely to arrive in a day or two,” Kejriwal said during a press briefing streamed online.He added: “I appeal to all citizens to not queue up at vaccination centres before our announcement as this might lead to violation of social distancing, and create a law and order situation.”According to senior officials and documents seen by HT, the CM is likely to do a symbolic launch from a Delhi government dispensary in north-west Delhi’s Saraswati Vihar on Saturday, and the public launch may take place on Monday, May 3.A government official, who asked not to be named, said the vaccination of 18-44 will begin from 100 schools, and not government hospitals, with each institute hosting five session sites. Each site will be given 150 doses, suggesting there could be total capacity of 75,000 doses.“It was decided to shift the centres from hospitals to non-healthcare facilities such as schools because all these hospitals are now packed with Covid-19 patients and are already crowded. We recently received approval from the central government to open vaccination centres in schools and other such spaces. Had the drive continued in hospitals, there would have been an increased risk of people getting infected by Covid-19,” said this person, asking not to be named.By May 7, the government will increase the number of schools to 274 -- one in each ward of Delhi, according to a document that lays out the blueprint of the drive.Kejriwal said the Delhi government will procure 13.4 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines over the next three months. He added that 6.7 million doses will be procured from Serum Institute of India, which manufactures Covishield, the mainstay of India’s vaccination programme, and the remaining from Bharat Biotech, the manufacturer of Covaxin.“We are trying our best that within the next three months, the entire population of Delhi gets vaccinated. We have formulated a plan and even the infrastructure needed for this is in place. Now it will depend on the two companies as to how swiftly they provide us with the vaccine,” he said.Kejriwal added that, for its part, the government has laid out a road map in terms of increasing the number of centres and the support staff required.“However, a lot also depends on whether the manufacturers are able to send us the doses in a timely manner without any delay. These 13.4 million doses will come over a period of three months and we have asked both the manufacturers for their schedules on supply of the demanded doses,” he said.Several states have now said that they are looking at only mid-to-late May for deliveries, with some even claiming that they were yet to hear back from vaccine makers.Experts and officials expect a rush for vaccines when the under-45 age group becomes eligible for doses on May 1. A sign of this was apparent on April 28, when over 10 million people registered on the Co-WIN platform in six hours after the option opened for the 18-44 age group.Till now, only people 45 years of age and above, or health care and frontline workers such as police and firefighters, were eligible for doses.The rush is likely to be fuelled by the current spike in cases, which has forced the Capital into a lockdown since April 17.According to a second official, who asked not to be named, private hospitals have been asked to return all remaining doses provided by the government for the current vaccination drive meant for people above 45 after Friday’s vaccination and purchase their own shots.Some private hospitals in Delhi said both vaccine manufacturers have told them they will have to wait to procure doses independently. The manufacturers have said they would first meet the orders placed by state governments and then those by private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-queue-up-for-a-shot-just-yet-kejriwal-101619821796238.html
01-05-2021||India||Xi expresses concern, offers help for India in message to PM Modi||Chinese President Xi Jinping on Friday expressed serious concern on the coronavirus pandemic in India, and offered to help fight the outbreak in a message to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“China is willing to strengthen anti-pandemic cooperation with India, and provide support and help to the country,” official news agency Xinhua quoted Xi as saying. “I am very concerned about the recent outbreak of new coronary pneumonia in India and would like to express sincere condolences to the Indian government and people on behalf of the Chinese government and Chinese people, and on my own behalf,” Xi added in the message.The Chinese President also said that human beings are a community of destiny, and only through solidarity and cooperation can the nations of the world finally overcome the epidemic.“China is ready to strengthen anti-epidemic cooperation with India and provide support and assistance to India. I am confident that under the leadership of the Indian Government, the people of India will be able to overcome the epidemic,” Xi said.Earlier in the day, the Chinese foreign ministry said local companies have exported more than 3,800 tonnes of medical supplies and ventilators to India in April to help fight the surging Covid-19 pandemic in the country.The Chinese customs department is also providing clearance to transport liquid oxygen storage tanks and oxygen generators to India from many cities, foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said, adding that Chinese provincial governments, NGOs and companies are raising anti-epidemic material that India needs urgently.The medical and equipment supplies from China to India, however, are mostly being done between companies as New Delhi and Beijing are yet to open a government-to-government route.India is yet to officially acknowledge China’s offer of help, which was first made by the Chinese foreign ministry through the media last week.Xi’s remarks come at a time the armies of the two countries are engaged in high-level talks to disengage troops from the Line of Actual Control (LAC) amid a months-long border standoff in eastern Ladakh.Friday’s update from the foreign ministry came a day after state councillor and foreign minister Wang Yi promised external affairs minister S Jaishankar to do the utmost in supporting India’s fight against current outbreak in India at a faster pace.In a letter to Jaishankar, Wang said that the Chinese side “shares empathy for the challenges facing India and expresses sincere sympathy”.Following up on minister Wang’s promise, foreign ministry spokesperson Wang said China has always been paying close attention to the development of the pandemic situation in India.Wang said many sections of Chinese society have taken action to collect material to send to India and to “deliver them to the Indian people as soon as possible”. He added that many donations in this context are being made through unofficial channels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/xi-expresses-concern-offers-help-for-india-in-message-to-pmmodi-101619821578453.html
01-05-2021||India||Centre has a ‘special duty’ towards people of Delhi, says Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Centre to urgently consider Delhi’s enhanced medical oxygen requirement in light of the fourth wave of Covid-19 in the city, observing that it has a “special duty” to the people of the national capital.“Delhi represents the nation. There is hardly anyone ethnically Delhiite. Forget that somebody (Delhi government) wasn’t able to lift oxygen, but you have to push through because you have to protect lives. You have a special responsibility towards Delhi as the Centre,” a bench, presided over by Justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta.The remarks came after Mehta, representing the Union government, pointed out that all the states were required to gather their resources to lift oxygen from the points of procurement, but the Delhi government failed to do so because it did not have enough tankers to carry the oxygen.The law officer made this statement as the bench, which also included justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, heard a public interest litigation registered suo motu (on its own) by the top court to manage various issues arising out of the second Covid-19 wave in the country and iron out issues between states and Centre at the national level.The court also asked Centre to consider increasing Delhi’s medical oxygen quota from the current 490MT, which has been a repeated demand of the Delhi government, and ensure that supply reaches the Capital.The allotted 490MT, the bench said, has not reached the Capital even once because of logistical constraints.“Please give them 200MT straightaway and make sure it arrives there. The Centre has a very valuable responsibility when the citizens of Delhi are concerned. Otherwise between today and Monday, we will have 500 deaths on our hands if we don’t do anything. I’m shaken. Please, do something. You have to do it,” justice Chandrachud told Mehta.While the S-G retorted that the death of 500 people could not be attributed to the oxygen shortages, the bench said the Centre’s role was not confined to allocation of oxygen, and that it also has a “very important role” in arranging for tankers for their transportation.“We will place your submission at the highest [pedestal], and we will accept Delhi’s inability, but we are not here on recrimination. We are not criticising you at all. But you should also know Delhi represents people from the entire country. The Centre has a peculiar role. You are the national government, and it is the national capital,” the bench told Mehta.“According to you, Delhi has not been able to lift [oxygen], but we cannot tell people that your parents or children or spouse cannot be helped because of this situation. This is a commitment we owe to the citizens and people who live here and not to different levels of government. You have to give us the solution,” it told the S-G, who assured the bench that the Centre will look into all the issues and will try to resolve the matter. The matter will now be heard on May 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-has-a-special-duty-towards-people-of-delhi-says-supreme-court-101619821005434.html
01-05-2021||India||The pain of being in a Covid ICU||These days, everybody wants to be a doctor’s best friend.So say hello to Muhammed Huzaifa, 24, a junior resident doctor in surgery at Delhi’s premier All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). A Bangalore native, at the time of writing this piece he is on duty in the Covid ICU, where he, along with a team of fellow doctors, cares for some of the most critical cases of Covid patients.Dr Huzaifa doesn’t have a fixed routine, for his 6-hour-long shift rotates daily. Today is his weekly off and he is chatting from the quietude of his room—the hostel is inside the AIIMS campus. “Pigeons are the only birds that visit my balcony... they sit upon my AC,” he says on WhatsApp video.Dr Huzaifa agrees to give a first person account of what it is like for a medical professional working in the heart of this deadly pandemic.“It was another day of Ramadan fast. I offered my afternoon namaz at my room in Kashyap Hostel in AIIMS, made supplication to God to relieve people’s suffering, and headed to my duty at the Covid ICU in the AIIMS Trauma Centre. The place was in chaos. A colleague was standing near an intubated patient (on ventilator), looking at the monitor. ‘Three patients got intubated,’ he said. I took a deep breath, nodded my head in agony, and followed my team leader, the senior resident doctor, who was taking over from the previous team regarding the progress of each patient.As I moved from bed to bed with a heavy heart, I noticed a patient on nasal prong. He was on HFNC (high flow nasal cannula) in my previous shift, but now looked comfortable and was busy over a spirometer, a lung expanding exercise. “This patient can be shifted out”—hearing these words from the team leader gave us all a sense of relief. It was an appreciation for all the hard work we resident doctors do despite being physically fatigued, mentally drained and emotionally exhausted.As things in the ICU settled down and clock ticked 6.30pm, I thought of doffing my PPE (personal protective equipment) to break my fast. Just then we got an emergency—to drain air from a patient’s lung. I forgot all about my fast-induced hunger. The next time I looked at the time, it was 8.15pm. My team leader let me go. I finally doffed my PPE, took a sip of water and thanked God for each breath.After I returned to my hostel room and checked my phone, there were numerous messages and calls from friends and relatives with requests for ICU beds, oxygen, and medications. Conveying my helplessness to them only made me hopeless. Just another day in the life of a junior doc like me.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-pain-of-being-in-a-covid-icu-101619818427587.html
01-05-2021||India||Hazaribagh man out during lockdown dies after being ‘beaten’ by police, probe on||A 50-year-old man, who was out while lockdown was in place along with his wife and younger brother, died allegedly after police thrashed him on Thursday evening. The wife of the deceased lodged a complaint in this regard with Chouparan police station on Friday.The deceased was identified as Chakkan Bhuinyan, a resident of Machla village in Hazaribag district. According to his wife Babita Devi, she, along with his husband and brother in-law Shankar Bhuiyan, was going to attend a wedding on Thursday around 5.30pm when the incident took place.“On our way at Karma village (around 1km from Machla village), a patrolling police vehicle came and stopped in front of our bike. On enquiry, we told them that we were going to attend a wedding ceremony, but they started beating my husband with sticks. He died on the spot,” Devi alleged.Corroborating Devi’s claim, mukhiya of Karma village, Rajdev Yadav, said, “The incident took place near my residence. Babita and Shankar protested, but the police beat them also. After the brutal thrashing, police left Bhuiyan on the street. We took him to a nearby hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead.”Meanwhile, Barhi deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Nazir Akhtar, who was leading the police investigation in this connection, visited Karma village on Friday and talked to locals. He said, “The body of the deceased was sent to Hazaribagh on Friday for postmortem examination. We are investigating the matter. We will be able to say anything after investigation is completed. Action will be taken if anyone is found guilty in the incident.”Police patrolling vehicles were roaming to ensure no shops are open after the given time limit in a bid to ensure implementation of the ongoing Swasthya Suraksha Saptah, the DSP said, adding, “In light of the lockdown, shops are not allowed to open after 2pm.”Yadav, who is also president of Mukhiya Sangh of Chouparan block, said, “Irate villagers put up a road blockade on Thursday night, demanding action against the police personnel involved in the incident. We have also demanded compensation and job to Bhuiyan’s wife. Bhuiyan, a daily wage worker, was the sole bread earner of the family.”The state government recently on Wednesday extended the previous weeklong lockdown till May 6 with few more restrictions in a bid to break the chain of rapidly spreading coronavirus in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hazaribagh-man-out-during-lockdown-dies-after-being-beaten-by-police-probe-on-101619817198960.html
01-05-2021||India||MP govt orders all district collectors to trace, quarantine Kumbh returnees||Madhya Pradesh on Friday ordered all districts to trace people who visited the Mahakumbh in Haridwar, test them for Covid and quarantine them, after a similar exercise in Vidisha district showed that 60 out of 61 devotees contracted the infection.Vidisha’s chief medical and health officer BS Ahirwar said the administration traced 61 people who returned from the Kumbh in Gyaraspur and found 60 of them were infected. At least 9.1 million people visited the Kumbh this year, which was criticised for violating Covid norms.“It is surprising that 99% people returned from Kumbh in Gyaraspur area have been tested positive. More than two dozen people who have returned from Kumbh are yet to be traced. It is a matter of concern as they could be super spreader of the infection,” said Ahirwar.In the district, 71 Kumbh returnees have tested positive in total and 313 other devotees have been quarantined. In all, the district has posted 3241 cases in the past two weeks.Madhya Pradesh posted 12,400 cases and 97 deaths on Friday, taking its tally to 466915 and 5616, respectively.The state home department asked district collectors to speed up the tracing of Kumbh returnees and their contacts and quarantine them for 14 days. They will be given entry in the village and urban locality only after an RT-PCR test, said an officer of a home department, who didn’t wish to be named.“Most of the districts are yet to trace people and share data especially in urban area. After this Vidisha incident, the collectors have been asked to create awareness and hold a campaign to request people to share information of Kumbh returnees and to quarantine them compulsorily,” said additional chief secretary (home), Rajesh Rajora.But some people opposed the move.“We are absolutely fine and came back 10 days ago but now the administration are forcing us to undergo quarantine. This is an illogical step. Why only us, they should do the same with all those who travelled in the past few days.” said Rajesh Jat, resident of Sirohi village of the district.The state transport department has also suspended bus services between Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh.A second officer in the home department said it was not easy to trace people and quarantine them. “Many people are not willing to tell that they came from Kumbh. Only after testing positive, they say so. They are afraid of quarantine outside the village,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-govt-orders-all-district-collectors-to-trace-quarantine-kumbh-returnees-101619816953849.html
01-05-2021||India||Forces granted emergency financial powers amid Covid-19 crisis||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday granted emergency financial powers to the military to strengthen and accelerate its efforts to deal with the crisis posed by the coronavirus disease pandemic even as the Indian Navy dispatched its warships to foreign shores to bring back liquid oxygen filled cryogenic containers.“These (financial) powers will help formation commanders to establish and operate quarantine facilities/hospitals and undertake procurement/repair of equipment/items/material/stores, besides provisioning of various services and works required to support the ongoing effort against the pandemic,” the defence ministry said in a statement.While vice chiefs of armed forces including Chief of Integrated Defence Staff to the Chairman Chiefs of Staff Committee (CISC) and army commanders (and their equivalent ranks in the navy and air force) have been given “full powers”, corps commanders and area commanders have been delegated powers to spend up to ₹50 lakh each.While the statement did not elaborate on financial powers given to the vice chiefs and others, ministry officials said “full powers” implied that finances should not come in the way of mounting a robust response to the pandemic. Division commanders/sub area commanders and their equivalent ranks in the navy and air force have been delegated powers to spend up to ₹20 lakh per case. Such powers were sanctioned last year too when the pandemic first broke out.“These powers have been devolved initially for a period of three months, from May 1 to July 31, 2021,” the statement said. These powers are in addition to the emergency powers granted to the military’s medical officers last week.On April 23, Singh granted emergency buying powers to senior military doctors as part of the ministry’s overall plan to fight the outbreak. While the heads of the medical wings of the three services were given powers to make purchases worth ₹5 crore, doctors holding the ranks of major general and brigadier were allowed to make procurements worth ₹3 crore and ₹2 crore, respectively.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has reviewed the military’s preparations for Covid relief thrice this week in one-on-one meetings with the chief of defence staff, the Indian Air force chief and the army chief.As part of the steps being taken by the armed forces to fight the outbreak, the navy on Friday launched Operation Samudra Setu-II and dispatched warships to Bahrain, Thailand and Singapore for shipment of oxygen filled cryogenic containers to India.“Two warships, INS Kolkata and INS Talwar. have entered port of Manama, Bahrain, for transporting 40MT of liquid oxygen to Mumbai. INS Jalashwa is enroute to Bangkok and INS Airavat to Singapore for similar missions,” navy spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhwal said.IAF is also making a significant contribution in the fight against Covid by transporting much-needed empty oxygen containers to filling stations across the country. It has been involved in ferrying empty cryogenic oxygen containers to filling centres in India from different domestic locations and even abroad to help hospitals tide over the oxygen crisis.IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria told PM Narendra Modi on April 28 that he has ordered 24x7 readiness of the IAF’s entire heavy-lift fleet and substantial numbers of its medium-lift fleet to operate in a hub and spoke model to swiftly meet all Covid-related tasking across the country and overseas.“As of April 29, IAF has carried out 23 sorties from abroad, airlifting 39 oxygen containers with a capacity of 670 MT. Within the country, it carried out 124 sorties, airlifting 87 containers with a capacity of 1,798 MT. On Friday, IAF carried out 10 domestic sorties to help meet oxygen requirements,” said an IAF official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forces-granted-emergency-financial-powers-amid-covid-19-crisis-101619813227347.html
01-05-2021||India||700 govt school staff died on poll duty: UP teachers’ body writes to CM, EC||At least 700 state government school employees on panchayat poll duty succumbed to Covid in Uttar Pradesh this month, the state teachers’ union said on Friday, underlining the risk of flouting Covid norms during a devastating surge in infections.In letters to chief minister Yogi Adityanath and the state election commission (SEC), the Uttar Pradeshiya Prathmik Shikshak Sangh has listed the names of all deceased and said they were infected during training and poll duty. While the SEC did not comment on the association’s demand to defer counting, the state election commissioner Manoj Kumar on Friday asked district magistrates to ensure setting up of medical health desks at the counting centres with availability of medicines and deployment of doctors.The four-phase panchayat polls for around 850,000 local body seats were held between April 15 and 29. The state government has denied the allegations and said it has no proof that the teachers died during poll duty.The issue reached the Supreme Court on Friday when the apex court issued notices to the state government and SEC on a plea related to enforcement of Covid norms during counting of votes on Sunday. “What measures will the state election commission take for counting?” the court asked, and said it will hear the matter on Saturday.Earlier this week, the Allahabad high court also criticized the administration and SEC over violation of Covid protocol during the polls, and asked the poll body to answer why action shouldn’t be taken against election officials.In the letters, the Uttar Pradeshiya Prathmik Shikshak Sangh demanded that the counting of votes on Sunday be deferred. Association president Dinesh Chandra Sharma said that in the last three weeks, he sent several letters to the chief minister and SEC to defer elections as several lives were lost.The union chief said a maximum of 33 teachers died in Azamgarh district, 31 in Gorakhpur, 25 in Prayagraj and 20 each in Lucknow and Lakhimpur Kheri districts. “Many of these lives could have been saved had the SEC taken note of our April 12 letter in which I pointed out that Covid protocol was not being followed during training,” he said.The government denied the allegations.State minister of state (independent charge) for basic education, Satish Chandra Dwivedi, said it was wrong to say that the teachers on poll duty died of Covid.“There’s no specific audit done by basic education department about the number of teachers’ death…How do we know that teachers were not infected when they came for election duty? And how do we know that teachers did not get infected after returning from election duty ?” he said.“Government teachers alone were not doing election duty. There were people from other departments too. We don’t have any data of how teachers got infected and I don’t know how teachers’ association leader has prepared that list of 700 teachers and staff who succumbed to Covid,” the minister added.He further said if Sharma wrote to Adityanath and SEC, it was up to them to take a call on the demands.The Opposition criticized the government on the issue. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav demanded compensation of ₹50 lakh each for those who lost their lives .On April 22, primary and secondary government teachers jointly carried out an online campaign to air their grievances, alleging that many of their fellow teachers contracted Covid during training and poll duty.Among the teachers who died on poll duty was 28-year-old Ramesh Kumar Yadav. A primary school teacher, Yadav died of Covid on April 23 in Sultanpur.He was among the 69,000 assistant teachers who were appointed in phases. While 31,277 of them were appointed in October last year, another 36,950 were appointed in December.Some of them contracted the infection during poll training in April. Yadav’s condition worsened after election duty on April 19, said his eldest brother Suresh Kumar. “My brother passed away without getting his first salary,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/700-govt-school-staff-died-on-poll-duty-up-teachers-body-writes-to-cm-ec-101619812988669.html
01-05-2021||India||Experts urge govt to release data to help develop Covid mitigation plan||An online petition signed by scientists from various fields across the country has demanded that the government collect and release key epidemiological data on the ongoing pandemic to help scientists develop “data-driven mitigation strategies”. The scientists have also demanded that the restrictions put in place under “Atmanirbhar Bharat” (self-reliant India) policy be removed, claiming these hamper scientific study for the want of imported scientific equipment and reagents.“Our inability to adequately manage the spread of infections has, to a large extent, resulted from epidemiological data not being systematically collected and released in a timely manner to the scientific community,” the online petition reads. It has been signed by scientists including the country’s top vaccinologist Dr Gagandeep Kang, biologist Dr Mukund Thattai, and epidemiologist Dr Jacob John.The scientists have made four major demands: large-scale genomic surveillance of new variants (the INSACOG sequences only 1% of the positive cases), release of granular data on testing and clinical outcome of Covid-19 cases, release of anonymised data on the clinical outcomes of hospitalised patients, and data on the immune response to vaccination in Indian population.“The ICMR database is inaccessible to anyone outside of the government and perhaps also to many within the government. Most scientists – including several identified by DST and NITI Aayog to develop new prediction models for India – do not have access to this data. Public health measures in India should necessarily vary from one local area to another, because there is a great geographical variability in patterns of spread of the infection due to local conditions,” the petition read.Data that is available to researchers are often scattered and available in different formats, thus preventing them from drawing meaningful conclusions. “As a computational biologist, the data I have been working with mainly involve the new case numbers and outcomes (recovery/death) over the course of the first and second wave. At the moment, the datasets are fragmented across different states and local authorities,” said Dr Thattai.He added that granular data – anonymised age, gender, district, date of positive test, date of hospitalisation, date of recovery or death, vaccination status, previous infection status if any – should be made available to all scientists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-urge-govt-to-release-data-to-help-develop-covid-mitigation-plan-101619812846109.html
01-05-2021||India||Madras HC declines EC plea to bar media from reporting observations||The Madras high court on Friday declined to entertain a plea by the Election Commission of India’s (ECI) to restrain the media from reporting oral observations made by judges during court proceedings.The poll body was aggrieved by wide coverage of observations made by a bench of chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy on Monday while hearing the suo motu (on its own) case on the preparedness for Covid-19 second wave in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry.The judges had remarked that ECI was singularly responsible for the second wave because it didn’t take action against political rallies that violated Covid-19 norms and added that its officials should probably be booked for murder.Reporting of these comments had caused great damage and tarnished ECI’s image, its counsel Rakesh Dwivedi contended, adding that people filed police complaints and FIRs against ECI based on the statement.”The courts concerned would take care of such frivolous complaints being filed against the ECI... lets not play a blame game,” the chief justice said, refusing to restrain the media.Dwivedi also apprised the court of measures taken to ensure that Covid-19 protocols are followed on May 2, when results of assembly elections to four states and a Union Territory will be announced.He raised the issue of the coverage of the court’s oral remarks, complaining that the press highlighted only the observations and not the written order that did not contain any such statement against the poll body.Dwivedi asked the court to direct media houses to confine their reports to observations recorded in orders or judgments and to refrain from reporting on oral observations made during court proceedings.The bench, however, did not issue any such order even though it wrapped up the proceedings in the case filed by Tamil Nadu transport minister M R Vijayabhaskar for a safe and fair counting on May 2 since his constituency Karur has 77 candidates.“Two aspects cannot be missed. First, is the Union’s endeavour to indicate that surge in numbers may be unexpected ...second aspect is the Election commission’s concern about sensationalism. The post-mortem on either count may have to wait particularly in light of immediate measures that may be put in place,” the court said in its order.The HC will continue hearing the case relating to preparedness to deal with surge in Covid-19 cases. It has suggested that the state conduct extensive drives for vaccinations, put up information on the internet and other mediums so that people don’t panic. Political parties, media were directed to follow pandemic norms and not burst crackers as part of victory celebrations.The matter has been adjourned to May 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-declines-ec-plea-to-bar-media-from-reporting-observations-101619812442264.html
01-05-2021||India||Must fight to defeat Covid crisis, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday chaired a meeting with his council of ministers and other key officials, urging them to tackle the pandemic at a time when India is adding record cases of Covid-19 through personal involvement in their local regions, and ensuring that governments and citizens fight the “once in a century crisis” collectively.“The Council of Ministers meeting noted that the present pandemic crisis is ‘once in a century crisis’ and has thrown a big challenge for the world,” said a statement released by the government after the meeting.At the meeting, PM Modi noted that “all arms of the government are working unitedly & rapidly to deal with the situation”. He also urged the ministers to stay in touch with people of their respective regions, identify and address issues at the local level, according to the statement.”A lot is being done by the Prime Minister,’’ a Cabinet minister said on condition of anonymity, adding: “We are trying to minimise the impact as best as we can.”Friday’s meeting -- the first for the Council of Ministers since the second wave of infections began in February -- comes at a time the country is firmly in the grip of its worst ever Covid-19 outbreak that has broken all global records in daily cases.India recorded 408,331 new cases and added 3,523 deaths on Friday, taking its cumulative tally to 19,162,943 and toll to 211,855.The ministers were also briefed about the measures taken to address oxygen scarcity in several parts of the country, especially the national capital, in the past week, according to the statement. Other issues of discussion included shortage of essential medicines and efforts to scale up health infrastructure.Several areas, specifically the Delhi-National Capital Region, have in recent days seen an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases that have burdened the health infrastructure and led to a shortage in supply of medical oxygen. The crisis deepened last week, with hospitals across Delhi-NCR resorting to distress calls on social media as they ran low on oxygen stocks. While the situation has improved since, there is still a scarcity of supply as cases continue to mount.The Council of Ministers also stressed the importance of Covid appropriate behaviour, and reiterated that the participation of society is a key aspect to accomplish the “gigantic task ahead”, the statement said.Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal “Nishank” -- who tested positive for Covid-19 earlier this month -- could not attend Friday’s meeting as he is undergoing treatment at a Delhi hospital. Other Union ministers who are recovering from the viral illness include labour minister Santosh Gangwar, sports minister Kiren Rijiju and minister of personnel Jitendra Singh.Along with ministers, the virtual meeting was attended by principal secretary to the Prime Minister, PK Mishra, cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba and Dr VK Paul, Niti Aayog member who also heads the government task force on vaccination.The Prime Minister has held several high-level meetings to discuss the pandemic situation in the country in recent days.Earlier in the day, Congress MP Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “The second wave is in its fourth week and already claimed 2 lakh lives and counting. Yet there is no accountability from the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/must-fight-to-defeat-covid-crisis-says-pm-modi-101619812318420.html
01-05-2021||India||Will treat action against pleas on social media as contempt: Supreme Court||A clampdown on messages for help on social media is the “worst way” to deal with the Covid-19 crisis, said the Supreme Court on Friday, warning all state governments against taking action against people using online platforms to make desperate appeals for oxygen, essential medicines, and other help.Any such action by governments or state police would be treated as a contempt of court, the top court added.“It is a matter of grave concerns to us. If citizens communicate their grievances either on the Internet or on social media, there cannot be a clampdown. We don’t want a clampdown of information. That’s the worst way of dealing with a crisis,” observed a bench headed by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud.The bench, which included justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, gave examples of various social media posts, asking for help when somebody needed an oxygen cylinder, or a bed in a hospital, or the drug remdesivir.“To act against someone who is seeking help for oxygen or a medicine is against the basis precept,” said the bench, adding it wanted to caution all the state governments and their director generals of police (DGPs) against any action against those seeking help.“Let this message go very clearly to all states and their DGPs, we will treat this as a contempt of this court of they want a clampdown on communication. Let everyone understand that we are not projecting anyone in a bad light but looking out for help,” remarked the court.The bench concluded its discussion on the issue by making it unequivocal: “Let information flow freely. Let us hear the voices of our citizens and not a clampdown on them.”Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Central government in the matter, agreed with the court, saying there could not be any action people who were already in distress, asking for help.The court’s observations assume significance in the wake of a recent case lodged in Uttar Pradesh’s Amethi district against a 26-year-old man for allegedly spreading “false information” on social media over the supply of oxygen. Shashank Yadav made an appeal on Twitter for an oxygen cylinder for his critically ill grandfather, which the police later claimed was false. Earlier this week, Yadav was booked under the charges of the Epidemic Act and the Indian Penal Code for spreading false information with an intent to create panic in society. Yadav was taken to a police station for questioning, but was later let off.In the backdrop of this case, activist Saket Gokhale this week moved the Allahabad high court seeking to restrain the UP government from taking coercive action against such persons who appealed for oxygen supply and other medical assistance on social media.“Filing criminal cases against families of critical patients issuing SOS calls for oxygen on social media is a gross misuse of the powers of the state and is illegal coercive action that is being taken to maintain the image of the government and to clamp down on any criticism of their handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and to present a fake picture that everything is hunky dory in the state,” stated Gokhale’s petition, which is yet to come up for a hearing before the high court.“There is no clampdown or restriction on information, grievances communication on social media in the state. In fact, the state government’s various departments such as the police and others are tracking social media and also extending help, rescue, assistance. However, the state government will act on such people who will spread misinformation, ill-intent panic triggering or rumour-mongering,” said a senior UP government officer requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-treat-action-against-pleas-on-social-media-as-contempt-supreme-court-101619812167965.html
01-05-2021||India||TV journalist Rohit Sardana dies of Covid-19, cremated in Kurukshetra||Television journalist Rohit Sardana, who tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), passed away in Delhi on Friday at the age of 40.Sardana, who was an executive editor and TV news anchor with Aaj Tak of the India Today Group, is survived by his wife, two daughters and parents.“We are all shocked by the death of our colleague and friend, Rohit Sardana. This incomparable loss cannot be expressed in words. We express our condolences to his family in this hour of grief,” Aaj Tak tweeted in Hindi.Several political leaders took to social media to express grief over the journalist’s death. Taking to Twitter, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, “Rohit Sardana left us too soon. Full of energy, passionate about India’s progress, and a kind-hearted soul, Rohit will be missed by many people. His untimely demise has left a huge void in the media world. Condolences to his family, friends, and admirers. Om Shanti.”Union home minister Amit Shah and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also posted condolence messages on social media.Sardana’s mortal remains were cremated at his hometown in Kurukshetra on Friday.On April 24, he had tweeted saying that he has developed Covid symptoms and later a CT scan confirmed the infection. Haryana home minister Anil Vij, sports minister Sandeep Singh and Kurukshetra MP Nayab Saini attended the cremation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tv-journalist-rohit-sardana-dies-of-covid-19-cremated-in-kurukshetra-101619811956855.html
01-05-2021||India||Partial lockdown in Bengal as Covid-19 cases surge||A day after assembly elections ended in West Bengal, the state government partially locked down the state and clamped restrictions on markets, cinemas and gatherings to arrest the surging second wave of coronavirus cases.The government ordered shutting of shopping malls, cinema halls, restaurants and bars, sports complexes, gyms, spas, swimming and beauty parlours. It also prohibited all kinds of social, cultural, academic, and entertainment related gatherings. Weddings are banned, while home deliveries and online services are allowed.Market timings were restricted. Bazaars and hats will open from 7 am to 10 am and 3 pm to 5 pm. Essential services such as medical shops and groceries have been exempted.West Bengal registered 17,411 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, up from 216 cases reported on February 26, when the Election Commission of India announced the eight-phase poll schedule. Health experts have linked the surge in cases to mask-less political rallies that violated Covid protocol.The state has 113,624 active cases now, and many hospitals in state capital Kolkata and district towns are nearly full. 11,344 people have died of Covid in Bengal.The state education department also decided to promote all students of class XI to class XII this year. Examinees for Class 12 will appear for the test at their own institution (home venue). The timing of the exam has also been rescheduled.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had last week ruled out the possibility of a full-fledged lockdown in the state.The state government had earlier made it mandatory for flight passengers arriving from nine states - Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Maharashtra, Telangana, and Karnataka - to carry Covid-19 negative reports. Wearing masks is also mandatory.Weekend lockdown in 9 Haryana districtsThe Haryana government has imposed a weekend lockdown from Friday 10pm till Monday 5am in Panchkula, Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat, Rohtak, Karnal, Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad districts amid a rise in Covid-19 cases.According to chief secretary Vijai Vardhan, the weekend lockdown has been imposed as the Covid-19 pandemic is again posing threat to public health.Any person violating curbs will attract proceedings as per the law and under the Disaster Management Act, 2005.Gehlot favours extension of Covid restrictionsRajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has asked the officials to continue with the restrictions imposed under the lockdown and to make them more stringent in order to contain the spread of the coronavirus.Chairing a Covid-19 review meeting through video conference, Gehlot said stricter guidelines are required in view of the rapidly spreading infection in the state.The restrictions under the lockdown called ‘Public Discipline Fortnight’ came into force on April 19 and are effective till May 3. Now, the chief minister has asked the officials that the restrictions should remain in force even after May 3.He said the guidelines should be prepared while considering the concerns of the livelihood of the needy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/partial-lockdown-in-bengal-as-covid-19-cases-surge-101619811730499.html
01-05-2021||India||Govt explores possibility of producing Covaxin abroad||Centre is exploring the possibility of offering the locally developed coronavirus vaccine, Covaxin that has been jointly developed by Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), for production abroad through a technology transfer between commercial entities amid supply crunch, according to government officials aware of the development.“There is a need to meet the demand for Covid-19 vaccines in view of the new mutation of the virus to more infectious nature. We have decided to offer Covaxin to any interested foreign countries. The production would be done through technology transfer between commercial entities. Terms and conditions for the same would have to be finalised by the licence holder, Bharat Biotech,” one of the officials said on condition of anonymity.This will also be done with any future Indian vaccines, this person added. “It has also been communicated to missions abroad to seek interested countries for production abroad.”The move, which is expected to increase availability of and access to vaccines, especially in the global South comes at a time when India is looking to boost domestic production of the vaccines. The government last week decided to offer an advance (or supplier’s credit) of over ₹4,500 crore to Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech. Bharat Biotech on April 20 announced it will scale up of manufacturing capacity to produce 700 million doses of Covaxin annually.India’s indigenous vaccine, Covaxin is developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) - National Institute of Virology (NIV). The indigenous, inactivated vaccine is developed and manufactured in Bharat Biotech’s BSL-3 (Bio-Safety Level 3) high containment facility.It is, however, not clear whether ICMR shares Intellectual Property rights with Bharat Biotech on Covaxin. Nor was it immediately clear how and why the government is involved in what should seesntially be a technology transfer arrangement between two companies.Bharat Biotech, ICMR and the ministry of health did not respond to queries seeking comment.Covaxin recently came in for praise from the US’ top pandemic expert Dr Anthony Fauci, who said it “neutralises” 617 variants, according to PTI.In a statement issued on April 20, Bharat Biotech said it was exploring manufacturing partnerships with partners in other countries, who have prior expertise with commercial scale manufacture of inactivated viral vaccines under biosafety containment.“Manufacturing scale up has been carried out in a stepwise manner across multiple facilities at Hyderabad, and Bangalore. Inactivated vaccines, while highly safe, are extremely complex and expensive to manufacture, resulting in lower yields when compared to live virus vaccines,” it added in the statement.The company also said Covaxin has received Emergency Use Authorisation in several countries across the globe with another 60 in process. It has been granted EUAs in Mexico, Philippines, Iran, Paraguay, Guatemala, Nicaragua, Guyana, Venezuela, Botswana, Zimbabwe, among several other countries. It is in the process of getting EUAs in the US and Europe, according to Bharat Biotech.“I think, in principle this is great. Expanding manufacturing capacity outside is important not only to increase doses but increase capacity in other parts of the world, “ said Gagandeep Kang, professor at Christian Medical College and board member of Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-explores-possibility-of-producing-covaxin-abroad-101619811550268.html
01-05-2021||India||Supreme Court seeks govt reply on plea against sedition||The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to examine the constitutional validity of the penal law on sedition, which, a plea filed in the matter claimed, is often used to stifle dissent and valid criticism against government functionaries.A bench, headed by justice Uday U Lalit, sought a response from Centre on a plea challenging the constitutional validity of sedition law while also calling for assistance of attorney general KK Venugopal considering the significance of the matter.The bench, which included justices Indira Banerjee and K M Joseph, issued notices while hearing the petition filed by two journalists and argued by senior counsel Colin Gonsalves, who challenged the validity of Section 124-A of the Indian Penal Code, 1860, which penalises the crime of sedition punishable with either imprisonment ranging from three years to a lifetime, a fine, or both.The petition, filed by Kishorechandra Wangkhemcha and Kanhaiya Lal Shukla - working in Manipur and Chhattisgarh, respectively, said Section 124-A infringed on the fundamental right to freedom of speech and expression which is guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution.The journalists said that they were charged with sedition for their comments, on the social networking website Facebook, in which they sought to question certain policies and actions of the governments in the states and at the Centre.“There is frequent phenomenon of misuse, misapplication and abuse of Section 124-A since 1962...The sections of sedition have been repealed in comparative post-colonial democratic jurisdictions around the world. While India calls itself a ‘democracy’, throughout the democratic world the offence of sedition has been condemned as undemocratic, undesirable and unnecessary,” the plea stated.Citing the Supreme Court’s decision to uphold the validity of the law in 1962 in the case of Kedar Nath Singh Vs State of Bihar, the petitioners said that the court may have been correct in its finding nearly six decades ago, but the law no longer passed constitutional muster.India’s sedition law was introduced by the British in 1870 but the Constituent Assembly decided to drop it from the Constitution in 1948. The word “sedition” disappeared from the Constitution when it was adopted on November 26, 1949 and Article 19(1)(a) gave absolute freedom of speech and expression. Section 124A, however, stayed in the Indian Penal Code.In 1951, Jawaharlal Nehru brought in the first amendment of the Constitution to limit the freedom under Article 19(1)(a) and enacted Article 19(2) to empower the State to put curbs in the form of “reasonable restrictions” on the right to free speech.Through the 1962 judgment in Kedar Nath case, however, a constitution bench upheld the validity of the sedition law under the IPC and also defined the scope of sedition. The constitution bench held that Section 124A only penalised words that reveal an intent or tendency to disturb law and order or that seem to incite violence. This definition has been taken as precedent for all matters pertaining to Section 124A ever since.According to the data from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), cases of sedition and under the stringent UAPA for terror cases showed a rise in 2019, but only 3% of the sedition cases resulted in convictions.The year 2019 saw a 25% increase in the number of sedition cases and a 41% increase in arrests over the previous year. A total of 93 cases of sedition were reported in 2019, with 96 arrests and charge sheets filed in 76 cases, as against 70 cases, 56 arrests and 27 chargesheets the previous year.The ministry of home affairs (MHA), in a written reply in February, informed the Rajya Sabha that out of the 96 people arrested for sedition in 2019, only two were convicted for the crime, while 29 were acquitted. Investigations and trials are ongoing in the rest of the cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-seeks-govt-reply-on-plea-against-sedition-101619811382028.html
01-05-2021||India||Ties with India intensified in first 100 days of Biden govt: US||The relationship between India and the United States has intensified in the first 100 days of the Biden administration, a State Department official said here. The engagement between the two countries during this period reflects a global comprehensive partnership, State Department spokesperson Ned Price said, asserting that there has been a concerted focus on India over these 100 days.“There’s been a concerted focus on India over the past 100 days. President Biden, of course, did make mention of India in his (State of the Union) address last night, and I think you can look at that deep partnership and commitment to partnership through any number of lenses,” Price said at his daily news conference.Biden himself had an opportunity to speak to Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently. Secretary of State Tony Blinken has engaged with his counterpart, Foreign Minister S Jaishankar, several times as well, he said.There have been several high-level delegations. Special Envoy on Climate Change John Kerry was in India not all that long ago. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin was in India to discuss elements of India-US security cooperation, Price said. “We have engaged with India in a multilateral context as well through the Quad, both at the ministerial level and, for the first time ever, at the leader level,” he said. “I have mentioned our climate cooperation, but also our health cooperation, and this was something that predates the pandemic but has intensified with the onset of the pandemic,” Price said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ties-with-india-intensified-in-first-100-days-of-biden-govt-us-101619811078397.html
01-05-2021||India||India stresses on boosting oxygen supplies in talks with US||As US support for India’s response to a devastating second wave of Covid-19 infections began flowing in on Friday, external affairs minister S Jaishankar emphasised the need to strengthen oxygen supplies and expand vaccine production.These issues figured in a phone conversation between Jaishankar and his American counterpart Antony Blinken. The two discussed India’s requirements to address the Covid-19 situation and reviewed the supply of equipment and materials by the US.They spoke hours after the first of three special US flights carrying supplies, including hundreds of oxygen cylinders, landed in New Delhi on Friday morning. Two more emergency flights are expected by May 3 in line with US President Joe Biden’s pledge to help India counter a brutal second wave of infections.“Our discussions focussed on Indian requirements to address the Covid challenge more effectively,” Jaishakar said in a tweet.“Reviewed the flow of equipment and material from the US. Highlighted the importance of strengthening oxygen supply, expanding vaccine production and increasing Remdesivir supply. Appreciated the forthcoming response of the US in this regard,” he added.The Indian government is focused on efforts to ramp up the production and delivery of oxygen to healthcare facilities across the country. A severe shortage of oxygen has been blamed for many deaths during the second wave.Blinken reaffirmed the strength of the US-India partnership in the face of the pandemic and expressed his “appreciation for Indian assistance in America’s time of need”, state department spokesperson Ned Price said. Blinken also noted the outpouring of support from US industries, non-governmental institutions and private citizens for Covid-19 relief efforts in India.“The secretary offered condolences and noted our concern for those who have lost friends and loved ones during this difficult period,” Price said.The first tranche of US relief materials was ferried in a C-5M Super Galaxy, one of the largest strategic airlift aircraft, and the supplies sent from Travis Air Force Base included 423 oxygen cylinders and regulators donated by the state of California, and 960,000 rapid diagnostic tests and 100,000 N95 masks provided by USAID.“A strategic partnership of global significance! Our healthcare partnership can help effectively tackle the global pandemic. Deeply appreciate gift of 423 oxygen cylinders with regulators and other medical supplies from the U.S.A.,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi tweeted.The US military’s transportation command played a key role in arranging the flight. The second emergency relief shipment, being sent in a C-17 Globemaster aircraft, will include oxygen-related equipment, diagnostic kits, masks and pulse oximeters.The initial emergency assistance from the US will include a total of 1,100 oxygen cylinders, 1,700 oxygen concentrators, multiple large-scale oxygen generation units to support up to 20 patients each and additional mobile units to target specific shortages. A team of US experts will support oxygen generation units by working on the ground alongside Indian personnel.The support will also include raw materials for the Covishield vaccine that the US has re-directed from its own order of manufacturing supplies. These materials will allow India to make more than 20 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine, the White House said.Biden had pledged the support of the US during a phone conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday.The US relief supplies began flowing in shortly after support packages from Russia and member states of the European Union (EU), part of a global effort to help India cope with record-breaking infections that have surged past the 350,000-mark over the past several days.Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla has said support is expected from more than 40 countries, mostly oxygen-related equipment and critical medicines, to strengthen India’s response to an “unprecedented second wave” of infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-stresses-on-boosting-oxygen-supplies-in-talks-with-us-101619810313122.html
01-05-2021||India||Environment ministry eases norms for industry expansion||The environment ministry has allowed companies operating in several industries, including some polluting ones, to expand capacities on the basis of a self-certification that this will not “increase the pollution load”, creating the room for potential misdeclaration (and misuse), especially in light of a traditionally poor monitoring regime.Earlier this week, the ministry released a user manual for online submission of an undertaking on no increase in pollution load due to expansion, on its Parivesh website.This follows a notification issued by the ministry on March 2 which states that the Centre deems it necessary to permit increase in production capacity of processing, production and manufacturing sector with or without any change in raw material-mix or product-mix or any change in configuration of the plant without the requirement of prior environmental clearance provided that there is no increase in pollution load.The March 2 notification is applicable to industries such as coal washing, mineral processing, pesticides, fertilizers, synthetic chemicals such as paint, cement , petrochemicals, and sugar, some of which do have a significant environmental footprint.The motivation behind the notification isn’t clear. However, the notification itself claimed the environment ministry has received several requests from processing, production and the manufacturing sector for permitting increase in production capacity without having to go through the entire environmental clearance process again. Independent experts said this could mean benefitting most polluting industries who may already have a very large pollution footprint.The Centre amended the EIA (environmental impact assessment) notification 2006 on November 23, 2016 and January 16, 2020 providing flexibility. The 2016 and 2020 amendments introduced the principles of “no increase in pollution load” and exemption from seeking environment clearance if resultant increase of production capacity was less than 50%. This applied to a change in product mix, change in quantities within products, or number of products within the same category of industry. The March 2021 notification takes this further and allows any amount of expansion.The manual on the Parivesh website provides a questionnaire and provisions for uploading documents on expansion and an undertaking that the expansion will not lead to increase in pollution load. Industries will also have to upload a “no increase in pollution load certificate” from an environmental auditor or institutions empanelled by the State Pollution Control Board or Central Pollution Control Board or Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change.If on verification, the CPCB or SPCB , after giving the project proponent the opportunity of being heard, holds that such expansion or modernisation results in increase in pollution load, the exemption claimed under the clause shall become invalid. Also, such an exemption will be applicable if the industry installs Online Continuous Monitoring System (OCMS) with at least 95% uptime, connected to the servers of the CPCB or SPCBs.“The ease of “no increase in pollution load” was introduced to the environment clearance process from 2016, to gradually exempt project expansions from the purview of carrying out impact assessments or public hearings. Until now, this exemption was applicable up to 50% expansion. The new amendment has ensured that expansion of some of the most polluting industrial operations, i.e.chemical fertilizers, coal washing, mineral processing, petroleum refining, asbestos and cement production, can be carried provided a “no increase in pollution load certificate” can be produced by the project authorities,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.“Prior to these exemptions, the environmental performance and legal compliance with environmental safeguards had direct consequences for whether expansions could be allowed. These units would also require a public hearing. All these would allow affected people to weigh in legitimacy of the expansion and allow the environment ministry to assess the such legacy impacts, existing illegalities and conduct of project proponents. None of this will be required for all the projects operations granted exemptions through this amendment irrespective of its capacity,” she added.“The notification will cover certain industries covered in the schedule to the EIA notification 2006. The process is very clear. The industries can self-certify through their consultants but if they are found erring by the pollution control boards their environmental clearance will be invalid,” a senior environment ministry official said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/environment-ministry-eases-norms-for-industry-expansion-101619809093806.html
01-05-2021||India||Panel formed to supervise oxygen production at Sterlite plant||Chennai: The Tamil Nadu government on Friday formed a monitoring committee to supervise Vedanta-owned Sterlite copper smelting plant in oxygen production as directed by the Supreme Court earlier this week. It is after three years that the plant, which was shut down in the wake of the 2018 anti-Sterlite protests and in which 13 people were killed in police firing, will reopen for oxygen production for three months. As per the top court’s order, Vedanta will not be allowed to access the copper and power plants in the precinct.The committee will be headed by Thoothukudi district collector Senthil Raj as chairperson. Raj has been directed to send a report every fortnight to the state government. Other members of the committee will comprise district superintendent of police S Jeyakumar, sub-collector, district environmental engineer of Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB), Joseph Pellarimine Anton Soris, deputy chief chemist of Thoothukudi Thermal Power Station and two environmental experts who are yet be nominated.The oxygen plant will be run and managed by Vedanta Industries Limited as per the directions of the monitoring committee in compliance with environment and safety norms, a government order signed by additional chief secretary, Sandeep Saxena, read. The committee will be empowered to oversee the functioning of the oxygen plant as directed by the Supreme Court. It will decide on the number of persons to be permitted inside the premises to operate and manage the plant. The panel will also conduct a safety audit before the start of operations, and issue appropriate safety directions. Most importantly, the committee can engage with residents to ‘redress any legitimate concern in regard to the nature modalities for operating the oxygen plant on a stand-alone basis’.The state government had shut the company in May 2018 in the wake of large scale protests against pollution and health problems caused by the operations in the plant. On the 100th day of the protests, 13 civilians were killed in a police firing, an incident that is currently under probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation, and one-memberretired justice Aruna Jagadeesan committee. Despite the court’s latest order, local residents continue to protest over fears that the company may reopen the facility for copper smelting. The court order is applicable till July 31. Vedanta’s plea to resume full-fledged operations is pendingin the top court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panel-formed-to-supervise-oxygen-production-at-sterlite-plant-101619809248777.html
01-05-2021||India||Kerala mulls full lockdown in worst-affected districts||Thiruvananthapuram: As coronavirus cases rise exponentially in Kerala, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday said complete lockdown might be imposed in some of the worst-affected districts from next Tuesday, if the situation continued like this. “The government is considering a lockdown in districts with high number of cases and TPR. We are closely monitoring the situation. It seems more curbs are needed,” Vijayan said. He added that during weekends, only essential services will be allowed throughout the state. Kerala reported 37,199 new Covid-19 cases on Friday with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 24.88%, taking the active caseload in the state to 303,733. Addressing a virtual press meet from Kannur, his native district, the CM said Kerala was not in a position to start vaccination for the 18 to 44 age group from May 1. “The state has limitations in this. We are facing an acute shortage. Since we are finding difficult to give second shot, it is better to postpone it (vaccination) till we get enough stocks,” he said. Though Kerala has decided to buy 10 million doses (7 million Covishield and 3 million Covaxin) from manufacturers, experts said it will take at least three months for the state to get vaccines. In three districts, more than 4,000 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported on Friday. They include Kozhikode 4,915, Ernakulam 4,642 and Thrissur 4,281 cases. The TRP was above 15% in 12 districts of the state, according to state health department. The government has also decided to set up oxygen war rooms in every district and directed district collectors to monitor the stock and report to the state control room. The CM said the state has enough stock, but logistics of distribution will have to be monitored closely. Meanwhile, the Kerala High Court on Friday observed that situation in the state was “really worrying” and directed the government to impose restrictions strictly on counting day on May 2 and cut down the cost of treatment in private hospitals. The court gave the direction while hearing a plea requesting affordable universal rate for Covid-19 treatment. The court also observed that some private hospitals were charging exorbitantly and asked the government to discuss it with private hospital managements and make the same affordable. The court cited the experience of a Covid-19 patient, who was treated at a private hospital and forced to pay through his nose. The court said the patient commented that he could defeat Covid-19, not the hospital bill. With cases soaring exorbitantly, RT-PCR tests were affected in many private laboratories. Last week, the government slashed price of tests from ₹1,700 to ₹500. The government took the decision after the price reduction of ICMR-approved test kits. But many labs said they will incur heavy loss if they won’t get bulk tests. Testing in many small towns was affected because to this. The state has been reporting over 30,000 cases in the last four days. It also reported 49 deaths in last 24 hours, taking total fatalities to 5,308. Despite mounting cases, the only solace for the state was the low death rate, which was below 0.4, lowest in the country, health ministry statistics show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-mulls-full-lockdown-in-worst-affected-districts-101619809188790.html
01-05-2021||India||CM: Drones to help deliver medicines, sanitise B’luru||Bengaluru: Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday inaugurated an initiative to use drones to sanitise containment zones as well as deliver medicine and essential goods to people affected by Covid-19. Talking to reporters, the CM said, “During these difficult times, it is very important to supply timely delivery of emergency medicines and Covid vaccines. I’m happy for the first time in the country, drones are ready supplying medicines, and also for sanitising public places (in Bengaluru).”The drones with a capacity to ferry 35-40 kg of materials can be used for delivering medicines and essential goods besides sanitising the areas. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) recently granted the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) a conditional exemption for testing the feasibility of drones in delivering vaccines. A task force led by member of Parliament from Bengaluru Central PC Mohan has tied up with a start-up Garuda Aerospace for the purpose. “For the first time in India, drone delivery of vaccines will undergo feasibility analysis and field trials in Karnataka. If successful, this could be a breakthrough in ensuring Covid-19 vaccines reach remote villages in Karnataka and geographically isolated locations across India,” Mohan said. BBMP special commissioner Rajendran Cholan said that automated robots have the ability to eliminate human contact in the entire distribution process. “Front line workers who transport Vaccines from one location to another could themselves be carriers of the virus,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-drones-to-help-deliver-medicines-sanitise-bluru-101619809069377.html
01-05-2021||India||Cong makes gains in local body elections||BengaluruThe Congress on Friday made significant gains in the Urban Local Body (ULB) elections held across several districts in Karnataka that has bolstered the party’s confidence ahead of the results of three bypolls on Sunday.According to the state election commission, of the 265 wards in 10 ULBs that went to polls, the Congress won 121, claiming six ULBs. The Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) got control of two ULBs after winning 66 wards in total. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) managed to win 57 wards in total and control of only one ULB. The results in Bidar appeared to be heading towards a hung verdict.The results come as an embarrassment to the ruling party in the state, BJP, which has spent the better portion of the last two years in office trying to douse one crisis after another, including dissent within its own ranks, sex-scandal involving a former cabinet minister, shortage of funds and alleged mishandling of the Covid-19 pandemic, which continues to tighten its grip on the state and its capital, Bengaluru.“The people of the state have started to put their confidence in us,” DK Shivakumar, president of Karnataka Congress, said on Friday.“Congress has won 7 out of the 10 Urban Local Bodies that went to polls. BJP has won only 1. I thank the people of Karnataka for placing their confidence in the Congress Party & punishing the BJP for its misrule. Overall, Congress won 119 seats, while BJP won just 56 & JD(S) 67,” Shivakumar said in a twitter post on Friday.Senior Congress leader and former chief minister Siddaramaiah said the results showed that the BJP has lost the confidence of the people and the government “continues to toy with lives even during the pandemic”. He added that the people have taught the BJP a lesson through these elections.The poor result in these polls adds to the challenges of the BJP under the leadership of BS Yediyurappa, and is likely to add to his troubles, including calls for his ouster. The BJP could win just one ULB in Madikeri of Kodagu district, while it has to face embarrassment even in two ULBs in Yediyurappa’s home district of Shivamogga. The party lost both Thirthahalli and Bhadravati ULBs in Shivamogga district. In Thirthahalli, the Congress won nine out of 15 wards while the BJP could win only six. Likewise, in Bhadravathi, the Congress won 18 out of the 34 wards while the BJP managed just four and the JD(S) won 11.Meanwhile, the BJP tried to downplay the loss in the ULB.“We lost some crucial seats in Ballari, Bhadravathi, Beluru and Bidar…,” Ravi Kumar, member of the Karnataka Legislative Council and State General Secretary of the BJP said. He added that the party’s attention to these ULBs might have come down. Kumar, however, added that results of ULB polls will have no impact on the outcome of the three bypolls on Sunday. The results of Belagavi parliamentary seat, Basvakalyan and Maski assembly seats will be announced on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-makes-gains-in-local-body-elections-101619809068801.html
01-05-2021||India||Vaccine shortage stalls K’taka drive||BengaluruVaccination for people above 18 years of age will not take place from Saturday in Karnataka as the state was yet to receive jabs, health minister K Sudhakar said on Friday.“The official news is that they (Serum Institute of India) are still not prepared to give it (Covishield) to us from tomorrow as it was scheduled. That is why we are requesting the people of Karnataka, those who are above 18 years and up to 44 years, to refrain from going to hospitals thinking that you will be vaccinated tomorrow,” the minister told reporters on Friday.Chief minister BS Yediyurappa also said that the vaccination drive will be delayed. “Our Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar has said clearly that the vaccine has not been supplied yet. We will vaccinate people once it arrives,” Yediyurappa told reporters in Bengaluru on Friday.The statement came a day before the scheduled commencement of vaccination for 18-44 age group, as announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Karnataka was quick to order 10 million doses of Covishield from Pune-based Serum Institute of India, valued at ₹400 crore.Karnataka reported its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 48,296 new infections reported on Friday, which takes the state’s active case count to 382,690. Positivity rate also touched a new high with 25.44%, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department. Bengaluru, the worst hit district in the state, accounted for 26,756 new cases, taking its active case count to 259,058. Bengaluru also accounted for 93 out of the 217 fatalities reported in a day.Karnataka, like other states in the country, is depended on vaccination to reduce the severity of the Covid-19 infection, which would mean that though the infection was likely to spread, the number of persons requiring hospitalisation would be reduced.While Karnataka continues to be among the top five states in terms of absolute number of vaccinations, data shows that most of it comprises of only those who have been administered the first dose. In Bengaluru, little over 10% of its population, of around 12 million, has been vaccinated so far. Bengaluru has so far administered around 1,767,490 doses (first and second combined).According to government data, out of the 9,363,124 vaccinations so far, the first dose accounts for 8,050,816 while the second dose accounts for just 1,530,866.The BS Yediyurappa-led state government relapsed into announcing lockdown-like restrictions across the state and its capital, Bengaluru, as a measure to contain the surge of Covid-19 cases and ease the pressure on its already overflowing hospitals and crematoriums. The 14-day restrictions that came into force from Tuesday night, has barely had any impact on the surge, data shows.Experts said the reason for the surge despite the lockdown-like restrictions is because people were already infected and now are forced to stay home and isolate themselves, increasing the risk of spreading it to others in the family or close circles. “The reason a lockdown was necessary was because you have to reduce the quantum of cases to a level which the health systems can manage. Currently, there is severe strain on the health system that has to be reduced,” Giridhara R Babu, epidemiologist and professor at the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI) had told Hindustan Times. Most of Bengaluru’s hospitals are overflowing with patients and hundreds waiting outside in the hope of admissions. The lines outside crematoriums have also increased exponentially as the government scrambles to allot open spaces to cremate bodies. The waiting times at crematoriums have gone up to over 16 hours or more and families continue to expose themselves to the risk of contracting the virus while bidding farewell to their loved ones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-shortage-stalls-k-taka-drive-101619809008819.html
01-05-2021||India||SC seeks govt reply on plea against sedition||The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to examine the constitutional validity of the penal law on sedition, which, a plea filed in the matter claimed, is often used to stifle dissent and valid criticism against government functionaries. A bench, headed by justice Uday U Lalit, sought a response from Centre on a plea challenging the constitutional validity of sedition law while also calling for assistance of attorney general KK Venugopal considering the significance of the matter. The bench, which included justices Indira Banerjee and K M Joseph, issued notices while hearing the petition filed by two journalists and argued by senior counsel Colin Gonsalves, who challenged the validity of Section 124-A of the Indian Penal Code, 1860, which penalises the crime of sedition punishable with either imprisonment ranging from three years to a lifetime, a fine, or both. The petition, filed by Kishorechandra Wangkhemcha and Kanhaiya Lal Shukla - working in Manipur and Chhattisgarh, respectively, said Section 124-A infringed on the fundamental right to freedom of speech and expression which is guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. The journalists said that they were charged with sedition for their comments, on the social networking website Facebook, in which they sought to question certain policies and actions of the governments in the states and at the Centre. “There is frequent phenomenon of misuse, misapplication and abuse of Section 124-A since 1962...The sections of sedition have been repealed in comparative post-colonial democratic jurisdictions around the world. While India calls itself a ‘democracy’, throughout the democratic world the offence of sedition has been condemned as undemocratic, undesirable and unnecessary,” the plea stated. Citing the Supreme Court’s decision to uphold the validity of the law in 1962 in the case of Kedar Nath Singh Vs State of Bihar, the petitioners said that the court may have been correct in its finding nearly six decades ago, but the law no longer passed constitutional muster. India’s sedition law was introduced by the British in 1870 but the Constituent Assembly decided to drop it from the Constitution in 1948. The word “sedition” disappeared from the Constitution when it was adopted on November 26, 1949 and Article 19(1)(a) gave absolute freedom of speech and expression. Section 124A, however, stayed in the Indian Penal Code. In 1951, Jawaharlal Nehru brought in the first amendment of the Constitution to limit the freedom under Article 19(1)(a) and enacted Article 19(2) to empower the State to put curbs in the form of “reasonable restrictions” on the right to free speech. Through the 1962 judgment in Kedar Nath case, however, a constitution bench upheld the validity of the sedition law under the IPC and also defined the scope of sedition. The constitution bench held that Section 124A only penalised words that reveal an intent or tendency to disturb law and order or that seem to incite violence. This definition has been taken as precedent for all matters pertaining to Section 124A ever since. According to the data from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), cases of sedition and under the stringent UAPA for terror cases showed a rise in 2019, but only 3% of the sedition cases resulted in convictions. The year 2019 saw a 25% increase in the number of sedition cases and a 41% increase in arrests over the previous year. A total of 93 cases of sedition were reported in 2019, with 96 arrests and charge sheets filed in 76 cases, as against 70 cases, 56 arrests and 27 chargesheets the previous year. The ministry of home affairs (MHA), in a written reply in February, informed the Rajya Sabha that out of the 96 people arrested for sedition in 2019, only two were convicted for the crime, while 29 were acquitted. Investigations and trials are ongoing in the rest of the cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-govt-reply-on-plea-against-sedition-101619808648847.html
01-05-2021||India||India stresses on boosting O2 supplies in talks with US||New Delhi : As US support for India’s response to a devastating second wave of Covid-19 infections began flowing in on Friday, external affairs minister S Jaishankar emphasised the need to strengthen oxygen supplies and expand vaccine production. These issues figured in a phone conversation between Jaishankar and his American counterpart Antony Blinken. The two discussed India’s requirements to address the Covid-19 situation and reviewed the supply of equipment and materials by the US. They spoke hours after the first of three special US flights carrying supplies, including hundreds of oxygen cylinders, landed in New Delhi on Friday morning. Two more emergency flights are expected by May 3 in line with US President Joe Biden’s pledge to help India counter a brutal second wave of infections. “Our discussions focussed on Indian requirements to address the Covid challenge more effectively,” Jaishakar said in a tweet. “Reviewed the flow of equipment and material from the US. Highlighted the importance of strengthening oxygen supply, expanding vaccine production and increasing Remdesivir supply. Appreciated the forthcoming response of the US in this regard,” he added. The Indian government is focused on efforts to ramp up the production and delivery of oxygen to healthcare facilities across the country. A severe shortage of oxygen has been blamed for many deaths during the second wave. Blinken reaffirmed the strength of the US-India partnership in the face of the pandemic and expressed his “appreciation for Indian assistance in America’s time of need”, state department spokesperson Ned Price said. Blinken also noted the outpouring of support from US industries, non-governmental institutions and private citizens for Covid-19 relief efforts in India. “The secretary offered condolences and noted our concern for those who have lost friends and loved ones during this difficult period,” Price said. The first tranche of US relief materials was ferried in a C-5M Super Galaxy, one of the largest strategic airlift aircraft, and the supplies sent from Travis Air Force Base included 423 oxygen cylinders and regulators donated by the state of California, and 960,000 rapid diagnostic tests and 100,000 N95 masks provided by USAID. “A strategic partnership of global significance! Our healthcare partnership can help effectively tackle the global pandemic. Deeply appreciate gift of 423 oxygen cylinders with regulators and other medical supplies from the U.S.A.,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi tweeted. The US military’s transportation command played a key role in arranging the flight. The second emergency relief shipment, being sent in a C-17 Globemaster aircraft, will include oxygen-related equipment, diagnostic kits, masks and pulse oximeters. The initial emergency assistance from the US will include a total of 1,100 oxygen cylinders, 1,700 oxygen concentrators, multiple large-scale oxygen generation units to support up to 20 patients each and additional mobile units to target specific shortages. A team of US experts will support oxygen generation units by working on the ground alongside Indian personnel. The support will also include raw materials for the Covishield vaccine that the US has re-directed from its own order of manufacturing supplies. These materials will allow India to make more than 20 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine, the White House said. Biden had pledged the support of the US during a phone conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday. The US relief supplies began flowing in shortly after support packages from Russia and member states of the European Union (EU), part of a global effort to help India cope with record-breaking infections that have surged past the 350,000-mark over the past several days. Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla has said support is expected from more than 40 countries, mostly oxygen-related equipment and critical medicines, to strengthen India’s response to an “unprecedented second wave” of infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-stresses-on-boosting-o2-supplies-in-talks-with-us-101619808588846.html
01-05-2021||India||US to restrict travel from India over Covid-19 starting Tuesday||The US will restrict travel from India starting on May 4, the White House said Friday, citing a devastating rise in Covid-19 cases in the country and the emergence of potentially dangerous variants of the coronavirus.White House press secretary Jen Psaki said President Joe Biden's administration made the determination on the advice of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.“The policy will be implemented in light of extraordinarily high Covid-19 caseloads and multiple variants circulating in the India,” she said.With 386,452 new cases, India now has reported more than 18.7 million since the pandemic began, second only to the United States. The Health Ministry on Friday also reported 3,498 deaths in the last 24 hours, bringing the total to 208,330. Experts believe both figures are an undercount, but it’s unclear by how much.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-to-restrict-travel-from-india-over-covid-19-starting-tuesday-101619808236683.html
01-05-2021||India||Forces granted emergency financial powers amid Covid crisis||NEW DELHI: Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday granted emergency financial powers to the military to strengthen and accelerate its efforts to deal with the crisis posed by the coronavirus disease pandemic even as the Indian Navy dispatched its warships to foreign shores to bring back liquid oxygen filled cryogenic containers. “These (financial) powers will help formation commanders to establish and operate quarantine facilities/hospitals and undertake procurement/repair of equipment/items/material/stores, besides provisioning of various services and works required to support the ongoing effort against the pandemic,” the defence ministry said in a statement. While vice chiefs of armed forces including Chief of Integrated Defence Staff to the Chairman Chiefs of Staff Committee (CISC) and army commanders (and their equivalent ranks in the navy and air force) have been given “full powers”, corps commanders and area commanders have been delegated powers to spend up to ₹50 lakh each. While the statement did not elaborate on financial powers given to the vice chiefs and others, ministry officials said “full powers” implied that finances should not come in the way of mounting a robust response to the pandemic. Division commanders/sub area commanders and their equivalent ranks in the navy and air force have been delegated powers to spend up to ₹20 lakh per case. Such powers were sanctioned last year too when the pandemic first broke out. “These powers have been devolved initially for a period of three months, from May 1 to July 31, 2021,” the statement said. These powers are in addition to the emergency powers granted to the military’s medical officers last week. On April 23, Singh granted emergency buying powers to senior military doctors as part of the ministry’s overall plan to fight the outbreak. While the heads of the medical wings of the three services were given powers to make purchases worth ₹5 crore, doctors holding the ranks of major general and brigadier were allowed to make procurements worth ₹3 crore and ₹2 crore, respectively. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has reviewed the military’s preparations for Covid relief thrice this week in one-on-one meetings with the chief of defence staff, the Indian Air force chief and the army chief. As part of the steps being taken by the armed forces to fight the outbreak, the navy on Friday launched Operation Samudra Setu-II and dispatched warships to Bahrain, Thailand and Singapore for shipment of oxygen filled cryogenic containers to India. “Two warships, INS Kolkata and INS Talwar. have entered port of Manama, Bahrain, for transporting 40MT of liquid oxygen to Mumbai. INS Jalashwa is enroute to Bangkok and INS Airavat to Singapore for similar missions,” navy spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhwal said.  IAF is also making a significant contribution in the fight against Covid by transporting much-needed empty oxygen containers to filling stations across the country. It has been involved in ferrying empty cryogenic oxygen containers to filling centres in India from different domestic locations and even abroad to help hospitals tide over the oxygen crisis. IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria told PM Narendra Modi on April 28 that he has ordered 24x7 readiness of the IAF’s entire heavy-lift fleet and substantial numbers of its medium-lift fleet to operate in a hub and spoke model to swiftly meet all Covid-related tasking across the country and overseas. “As of April 29, IAF has carried out 23 sorties from abroad, airlifting 39 oxygen containers with a capacity of 670 MT. Within the country, it carried out 124 sorties, airlifting 87 containers with a capacity of 1,798 MT. On Friday, IAF carried out 10 domestic sorties to help meet oxygen requirements,” said an IAF official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forces-granted-emergency-financial-powers-amid-covid-crisis-101619808289932.html
01-05-2021||India||MP govt orders all district collectors to trace, quarantine Kumbh returnees amid case spike||Bhopal: Madhya Pradesh on Friday ordered all districts to trace people who visited the Mahakumbh in Haridwar, test them for Covid and quarantine them, after a similar exercise in Vidisha district showed that 60 out of 61 devotees contracted the infection. Vidisha’s chief medical and health officer BS Ahirwar said the administration traced 61 people who returned from the Kumbh in Gyaraspur and found 60 of them were infected. At least 9.1 million people visited the Kumbh this year, which was criticised for violating Covid norms. “It is surprising that 99% people returned from Kumbh in Gyaraspur area have been tested positive. More than two dozen people who have returned from Kumbh are yet to be traced. It is a matter of concern as they could be super spreader of the infection,” said Ahirwar. In the district, 71 Kumbh returnees have tested positive in total and 313 other devotees have been quarantined. In all, the district has posted 3241 cases in the past two weeks. Madhya Pradesh posted 12,400 cases and 97 deaths on Friday, taking its tally to 466915 and 5616, respectively. The state home department asked district collectors to speed up the tracing of Kumbh returnees and their contacts and quarantine them for 14 days. They will be given entry in the village and urban locality only after an RT-PCR test, said an officer of a home department, who didn’t wish to be named. “Most of the districts are yet to trace people and share data especially in urban area. After this Vidisha incident, the collectors have been asked to create awareness and hold a campaign to request people to share information of Kumbh returnees and to quarantine them compulsorily,” said additional chief secretary (home), Rajesh Rajora. But some people opposed the move. “We are absolutely fine and came back 10 days ago but now the administration are forcing us to undergo quarantine. This is an illogical step. Why only us, they should do the same with all those who travelled in the past few days.” said Rajesh Jat, resident of Sirohi village of the district.The state transport department has also suspended bus services between Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh. A second officer in the home department said it was not easy to trace people and quarantine them. “Many people are not willing to tell that they came from Kumbh. Only after testing positive, they say so. They are afraid of quarantine outside the village,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-govt-orders-all-district-collectors-to-trace-quarantine-kumbh-returnees-amid-case-spike-101619808288762.html
01-05-2021||India||Will treat action against pleas on social media as contempt: SC||New Delhi: A clampdown on messages for help on social media is the “worst way” to deal with the Covid-19 crisis, said the Supreme Court on Friday, warning all state governments against taking action against people using online platforms to make desperate appeals for oxygen, essential medicines, and other help. Any such action by governments or state police would be treated as a contempt of court, the top court added.“It is a matter of grave concerns to us. If citizens communicate their grievances either on the Internet or on social media, there cannot be a clampdown. We don’t want a clampdown of information. That’s the worst way of dealing with a crisis,” observed a bench headed by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud.The bench, which included justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, gave examples of various social media posts, asking for help when somebody needed an oxygen cylinder, or a bed in a hospital, or the drug remdesivir.“To act against someone who is seeking help for oxygen or a medicine is against the basis precept,” said the bench, adding it wanted to caution all the state governments and their director generals of police (DGPs) against any action against those seeking help. “Let this message go very clearly to all states and their DGPs, we will treat this as a contempt of this court of they want a clampdown on communication. Let everyone understand that we are not projecting anyone in a bad light but looking out for help,” remarked the court. The bench concluded its discussion on the issue by making it unequivocal: “Let information flow freely. Let us hear the voices of our citizens and not a clampdown on them.” Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Central government in the matter, agreed with the court, saying there could not be any action people who were already in distress, asking for help. The court’s observations assume significance in the wake of a recent case lodged in Uttar Pradesh’s Amethi district against a 26-year-old man for allegedly spreading “false information” on social media over the supply of oxygen. Shashank Yadav made an appeal on Twitter for an oxygen cylinder for his critically ill grandfather, which the police later claimed was false. Earlier this week, Yadav was booked under the charges of the Epidemic Act and the Indian Penal Code for spreading false information with an intent to create panic in society. Yadav was taken to a police station for questioning, but was later let off. In the backdrop of this case, activist Saket Gokhale this week moved the Allahabad high court seeking to restrain the UP government from taking coercive action against such persons who appealed for oxygen supply and other medical assistance on social media. “Filing criminal cases against families of critical patients issuing SOS calls for oxygen on social media is a gross misuse of the powers of the state and is illegal coercive action that is being taken to maintain the image of the government and to clamp down on any criticism of their handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and to present a fake picture that everything is hunky dory in the state,” stated Gokhale’s petition, which is yet to come up for a hearing before the high court. “There is no clampdown or restriction on information, grievances communication on social media in the state. In fact, the state government’s various departments such as the police and others are tracking social media and also extending help, rescue, assistance. However, the state government will act on such people who will spread misinformation, ill-intent panic triggering or rumour-mongering,” said a senior UP government officer requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-treat-action-against-pleas-on-social-media-as-contempt-sc-101619808169250.html
01-05-2021||India||Amid soaring Covid-19 cases, Kerala mulls lockdown in worst-hit districts||As Covid-19 virus cases rise in Kerala, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said lockdown will be imposed in some of the worst-affected districts from next Tuesday if the situation persists. The chief minister’s comments came during a virtual press meet. “The government is considering a lockdown in districts with high number of cases and TPR. We are closely monitoring the situation. It seems more curbs are needed,” he said, adding in the weekend also only essential services will be allowed throughout the state. On Friday, the state reported another high with 37,199 fresh cases and a test positivity rate (TPR) of 24.88 per cent. Active caseload also crossed three lakh (3,03,733). Vijayan said the state is not in a position to start the vaccination drive for the 18-45 age group from May 1. “The state has limitations. We are facing an acute shortage. Since we are finding it difficult to give the second shot, it is better to postpone it till we get enough stocks,” he said.Though the state has decided to buy 10 million doses from manufacturers (7mn Covishield and 3 mn Covaxin), experts said it will take at least three months for the state to get this.The daily caseload crossed the 4000-mark in three districts - Kozhikode 4915, Ernakulam 4642 and Thrissur 4281 cases. Except for two, in 12 districts the TPR remained above 15 per cent. The state government has also decided to set up oxygen war rooms in every district and directed district collectors to monitor the vaccine stock and report to the state control room. The CM said the state has enough stock but logistics of distribution will have to be monitored closely.Meanwhile, the Kerala High Court said the situation in the state was worrying and directed the government to impose strict restrictions on the counting of votes on May 2 and cut down the cost of treatment in private hospitals. The court gave this direction while hearing a plea requesting an affordable universal rate for Covid-19 treatment. The court observed that some private hospitals were charging exorbitantly and asked the government to discuss it with private hospital managements and make it affordable. The court also cited the experience of a Covid-19 patient who was treated at a private hospital and was forced to pay through his nose. The court said the patient commented that he could defeat Covid-19, not the hospital bill. With cases soaring, in many private laboratories, RT-PCR tests were affected. Last week, the government had slashed the price of tests from ₹1,700 to ₹500. The government took this decision after the price reduction of ICMR-approved test kits. But many labs said they will incur heavy losses if they won’t get bulk tests. Testing in many small towns was affected due to this. The state has been reporting over 30,000 cases in the last four days. It also reported 49 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking total fatalities to 5,308. Despite mounting cases, the only solace for the state is its low death rate of the state which is below 0.4, the lowest in the country, health ministry statistics show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-soaring-covid-19-cases-kerala-mulls-lockdown-in-worst-hit-districts-101619807749879.html
01-05-2021||India||Adieu Soli Sorabjee, jurist, legal luminary, and jazz aficionado||Soli Sorabjee, 91, former attorney general of India, a staunch proponent of freedom of speech, and an eminent lawyer associated with a series of landmark judgments, died on Friday at a hospital in New Delhi.Sorabjee famously joined jurist Nani Palkhivala and veteran lawyer Fali S Nariman to fight the 1973 Keshavanand Bharti case in the Supreme Court that eventually led to the legal doctrine of “basic structure” of the Constitution. It was the only time a bench of 13 judges, the full strength of the apex court at that time, sat to decide a case. It was the longest heard case before the court -- 69 days from October 31, 1972, to March 23, 1973. The Bharati judgement, by a majority of 7:6, said amendments should not alter the “basic structure” of the Constitution, and has become the bedrock of Indian constitutional law.Sorabjee was the petitioner’s lawyer in the landmark SR Bommai case, which resulted in the Supreme Court’s 1994 verdict that held the power of the President to dismiss a state government is not absolute and subject to judicial review. He was also involved in the Prakash Singh case in which the top court directed the Centre to appoint the National Police Commission and paved the way for significant police reforms.In the 1984 anti-Sikh riots cases, Sorabjee worked with Citizen’s Justice Committee and took up cases pro bono for the victims. He also led the fight in the Maneka Gandhi case in which the Supreme Court expanded the meaning of personal liberty to mean life with dignity, and ruled against any arbitrary action not only of the executive but also through any legislative act.In 1997, Sorabjee was appointed as a special rapporteur on human rights in Nigeria. He later became a member of the United Nations Sub Commission on the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights, and went on chair the commission from 1998 to 2004. Since 1998, he was a member of the United Nations Sub Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities. Sorabjee also served from 2000 to 2006 as a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration at the Hague.He was decorated with India’s second highest civilian honour, the Padma Vibhushan, in 2002.Jazz, his first loveKnown for his association with human rights cases, Sorabjee began his practice in 1953 at the Bombay high court. In 1971, the high court designated him as a senior counsel. He served as the solicitor general of India from 1977 to 1980 to became the country’s attorney general first from 1989 to 1990, and then from 1998 to 2004.But jazz, as Sorabjee would often say, was his first love.He developed an interest in jazz by a happy accident, Naresh Fernandes writes in his book on the history of jazz in Mumbai, Taj Mahal Foxtrot: The story of Bombay’s jazz age. The salesman at Rhythm House – a famous music shop that was set up in the late 1940s and shut shop a few years ago – gave Sorabjee a recording of Benny Goodman Trio’s “Tiger Rag” instead of Brahm’s “Hungarian Dance No. 5”, as asked for. “The first playing of the record had an electric effect, especially the sound of Benny’s clarinet and the feeling of spontaneity throughout the performance,” the book quotes Sorabjee.Sorabjee also began to take clarinet lessons from famous jazz musician Hal Green, and performed at amateur concerts. During the war years, he and a group of boys from his school, St Xavier’s High School at Dhobi Talao, would tune into Radio SEAC that would host jazz music shows. This group started what was the country’s first jazz magazine, Blue Rhythm, in 1952 (the magazine lasted a year).“We would listen to the greats, who made up what was called contemporary jazz in the 1960s like Miles Davis, John Coltrane, Dizzy Gillespie, and Duke Ellington. Not many know but Soli’s love for jazz started during his school days,” said former advertising executive Stanley Pinto, who was also a jazz pianist and hosted jazz concerts in then Calcutta in the 1970s and 80s.Though he stopped playing the clarinet because of breathing problems, Sorabjee believed jazz deeply influenced the way he practised law. He would say it helped him improvise as the situation demanded in court.Tributes pour inTributes started pouring in as the news of Sorabjee’s death broke. Prime Minister Narendra Modi called him an outstanding lawyer and intellectual.President Ram Nath Kovind said India has lost an “icon of its legal system”.Chief Justice of India NV Ramana said, “In his (Sorabjee) nearly 68-year long association with judicial world, he made immeasurable contribution in enriching the global jurisprudence of human rights and fundamental rights.”Attorney general KK Venug opal told HT, “He was one of the best constitutional lawyers. He was a strong defender of the fundamental rights. His parting is a great loss to the entire legal community and a big personal loss to me.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jurist-soli-sorabjee-succumbs-to-covid19-101619756987135.html
01-05-2021||Today's||A quest to balance State, society, market||On April 24, one more life came to a premature end. Civil society lost yet another leader. Prem Kumar Varma died in Delhi at the age of 65. He was the founder and secretary of Samta, a non-governmental organisation (NGO) in Bihar’s Khagaria district. Everyone knew him simply as Premji.Premji could have had two more decades to thrive and work on his crusades against man-made flooding, and the injustices that continue towards the Musahar community. It was not to be.Like many others, Premji began his civic engagement as a socialist student leader influenced by the teachings of Ram Manohar Lohia. Later, in the 1970s, he became a follower of the Gandhian socialist Jayaprakash Narayan, with others such as Bihar’s chief minister Nitish Kumar. Their goal was social transformation through “Sampoorna Kranti” or Total Revolution, but many landed in jail for their pains.Those were difficult but heady days for India’s civil society, as the clouds of authoritarianism were gathering before the Emergency in 1975. Many groups were able to band together to defend democracy, constitutional rule and justice. It was hard and dangerous work. But it has served as the foundation for much of the expansion of civil society movements in the country, headed by a host of idealistic leaders with an inclusive vision and a mission of equity and justice.Premji went on to establish Samta with the goal of a more egalitarian society. He focused on the most socially and economically marginalised Musahar community of Bihar, working on issues of human rights, flood relief and rehabilitation, safe drinking water, sanitation and livelihoods. Samta joined the water security collaborative, Megh Pyne Abhiyan, that my foundation, Arghyam, was privileged to support. For half-a-century, no matter the setbacks, he persevered in the mission for social change and justice.On a memorable visit in 2007, when we travelled together in Bihar on a field visit, Premji explained to me his theory about why things were so lopsided in the world. “Earlier”, he said, and I am paraphrasing here, “even when there were kings and emperors, people’s lives revolved around their communities – the samaaj. But ironically, post monarchy, the sarkaar began to get very powerful around the world and claimed a mandate for people’s welfare and began to act on behalf of the samaaj. And then later, the corporations of the bazaar began to go global and acquire even more power than the State. So samaaj, which used to be the apex formation, was slowly replaced by the power of the State and then the power of the market. Now, samaaj is at the bottom and we are struggling to make the State and the market responsive to us as citizens.”His words had a profound impact on me, and I began to chew on the idea and read more of history to develop the theory further. I became convinced that the work of this century is to restore the balance between samaaj, bazaar, and sarkaar. I dedicated my philanthropy to keep active citizens and society at the centre, so that markets and the State are more accountable to the larger public interest.A heartfelt thank you, Premji, for starting me on this journey.There are many Premjis in this country, who are totally immersed in the struggle to consolidate constitutional values in society. Sometimes, they risk life and limb in the pursuit of societal transformation.The passing on of such leaders may not be understood for the social tragedy it is, for some time to come. As various factors, including the constrictive policies of the State, force many small organisations to fold up, samaaj will feel the impact over time. Even the smallest NGOs go where the State and market often cannot or will not. They give voice to people. They shine a light on issues which can be tackled to prevent a future cascade. They make a good society more possible.In the memory of such social sector professionals and volunteers, we have to rededicate ourselves to the work of supporting and sustaining a resilient samaaj. What better time than this current moment?Rohini Nilekani is chairperson, ArghyamThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/a-quest-to-balance-state-society-market-101619882454185.html
01-05-2021||Today's||In Covid times, caring for pregnant women||As the second wave of Covid-19 rages across the country, many vulnerable groups will fall through the cracks as a beleaguered health system tries to cope with the volume of cases.Among these are pregnant women who may or may not be Covid positive. The silver lining is that, so far, there is no conclusive evidence that pregnant women are at any higher risk of complications from Covid infection than anyone else. But there are several issues that pregnant women have to contend with in these trying times.The pandemic has impacted reproductive health not just through infection but as a result of changing health priorities. Covid-related studies conducted in both India and China suggest that pregnant women and new mothers are more likely to suffer from mental stress and trauma than others.This is due to various factors. One, at a time when they need mental and physical support, the constraints imposed by the pandemic lead them to be isolated for fear of infection. There is also the trauma of deaths and infections in their families, which adds to their anxieties about their yet-to-be-born children or, in the case of new mothers, about their infants.Many pregnant women in India cannot go for check-ups as there is no transport to take them to health centres, especially in remote areas. Many opt not to go for check-ups due to fear of getting infected in clinics.The grassroots health workers who would, in normal times, keep a check on pregnant women and their progress have now been largely pressed into service for Covid-related activities. Many public health centres are shut down and, with them, the availability of supplements for pregnant women has shrunk. In the case of mothers with newborn babies, immunisation in infancy, vital against so many communicable diseases, has been compromised.Given this dire situation, state governments have to give the care of pregnant women greater attention.The first step must be enhancing antenatal care through telemedicine wherever possible. There have been reports of pregnant women not being able to access proper care at medical facilities to give birth, forcing them to opt for home births, supervised by untrained persons putting both mother and baby at great risk. This can lead to a rise in maternal and infant mortality.Pregnancy is a particularly vulnerable time for a woman, both emotionally and physically. What India needs to do is to factor in the special needs of pregnant women within the existing system. Take an example. In the United Kingdom, women in some areas were taught to monitor their own blood pressure at home, something vital in pregnancy. While it may not be possible to supply pregnant women with blood pressure measuring machines in India, it would be useful if grassroots health care workers were to do this and keep a record which can be sent on to clinics for study by a doctor. This can prevent so many complications which arise during pregnancy, which if treated in time, are completely manageable. Nutrition for the pregnant and lactating mother is another issue of concern as in patriarchal societies like India, women’s needs are not always a priority within the family structure. Supplements such as iron and folic acid must be made available regularly for distribution to homes through the primary health care system. None of these are likely to be a significant drain on resources but if incorporated systematically into the health care system, it will be hugely beneficial to pregnant women during the pandemic and in the future.lalita.panicker@hindustantimes.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-covid-times-caring-for-pregnant-women-101619882273916.html
01-05-2021||Today's||The second wave will change us, forever||The first wave of the virus taught me to live with myself. I used to find being alone unsettling. I would joke that I don’t like my own company but the truth is it was comforting to have others around. Last year changed that. The prospect of long quiet evenings on my own no longer unnerve me. I have found comfort in books, solace in music, distraction in films and, yes, I am not afraid of my thoughts. I can let my mind wander and I am happy to follow where it leads me.The second wave is teaching a very different lesson. This time I am not the only pupil. All of us are. It’s teaching us to live with fear. No, that’s too strong a term. With foreboding. With the fact that things could go terribly wrong, horribly quickly, and we don’t know when that might happen.That thought lurks at the back of my mind. I don’t focus on it. I’m an optimist. But I know it’s there. And that’s an awareness I did not have earlier. Now I’m finding ways of adjusting my life around it.Most of the time, I do so humorously. Actually, tongue-in-cheek. When someone admonishes me for not keeping in touch, my prompt response is tinged with black humour. “Yes, you can never tell if this is the last call!” Most of the time, it prompts an embarrassed laugh. But there’s a grim truth behind the joke. You’ll only know if it’s an accurate prediction when it turns out to have been one. The past tense is telling.Last year, I caught the virus but it didn’t worry me. This year feels very different. First, there are a lot more people I know and care for who are afflicted. Some are not having an easy time. A few may not make it. I don’t want to think that far but I can’t stop myself. So, this year, the virus is an intimation of mortality. It feels far more real and, perhaps, a lot closer than the heart attacks and strokes 60-year-olds are only passingly aware of.I guess what I’m really saying — and it’s taken me a while to realise it — is that we’re learning to live with the possibility of dying. Not just me. I’m pretty sure that’s true of many of us. So far it’s been a distant, if not just a theoretical, prospect. One that we all know we must eventually face. But, suddenly, that day seems uncomfortably closer. Who knows how far off it actually is? Who really knows?And yet, and yet, and yet — we’ve all found a way to continue despite this dreadful foreboding. We’re not just living, we’re finding new ways of enjoying life. The spectre that haunts us has created a new determination, a fresh sense of resolve, a single-minded focus. Consequently, each of us has found his or her own way to get through this. We’ve adapted our lives to survive, found alternative types of entertainment and learnt to cherish the little joys we once, thoughtlessly, took for granted. But we’ve also done one other thing, possibly without realising it. We’ve adjusted our ambitions. We’ve learnt to be happy with less.Of two things, I am now very confident. We will emerge at the other end. We will overcome. Sadly, not everyone. Some we love deeply will fall. That’s a sad reality we cannot deny. But when we join hands again, hug and kiss, laugh and argue, we will be different people. The experience we’re going through and the fear we’re living with will have changed us. That’s another outcome we have to accept.In the last century, when the Spanish Flu ended, the relief and joy the world felt found expression in the roaring 20s. My hunch is history won’t repeat itself. Television and social media have effectively ensured that. We’ll celebrate, no doubt, but it will be hard to forget what happened.Karan Thapar is the author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold StoryThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-second-wave-will-change-us-forever-101619881673932.html
01-05-2021||Today's||Covid: It will get worse before it gets better||There are four factors why the second wave has hit India with such intensity. First, the variants. The B.1.1.7, the one from the United Kingdom (UK), is present in parts of northern India. B.1.617, sometimes known as the “double mutant”, is pervasive in many places across India. We don’t know how much more contagious B.1.617 is, but we do know that B.1.1.7 is very, very contagious. India should have seen this coming because variants were causing massive spikes in cases between December 2020 and February 2021 in the UK, Israel and Europe. It stood to reason that this global problem was going to come to India. The second is the fact that in late-February and early March, infection numbers were rising quickly. And certainly by mid- to late-March, the rise was extremely obvious to anyone paying attention. And yet, through all of March, there was little to no action by the government. This was a collective and shocking policy failure.Three, there was no adhering to basic public health guidelines — there were massive rallies and the Kumbh mela (one of the most disastrous super-spreading events), with no mask-wearing. Family and friends in India told me that India had beaten Covid-19. But how could India have beaten it, when no one in the world had beaten it? There was a broader mindset that, somehow, India was special and different from the rest of humanity. This was, of course, not possible.And fourth, there is some evidence (though I don’t know how substantial it is) that the virus spreads more efficiently when humidity levels get lower. February-March months tend to be lower humidity months in some parts of India. This may have contributed, but is unlikely to have been a major factor.India must now urgently and effectively do four sets of things. First, we have to stop the spread of the infections. What we are seeing now are deaths from infections that happened two to three weeks ago. And if you see how much that infection number has increased, the number of people who are going to get very sick and need hospital and oxygen support will grow in the coming weeks. Stopping the spread requires three strategies. One, stop the indoor gathering of people who are not part of the same household. That is not the same as a full lockdown. But what we need are significant public health restrictions — closing all indoor restaurants, shopping malls, offices. I would do this nationwide. There must, of course, be no crowds, no large events, no large gatherings.Two, we have very good data now that shows wearing masks is critical. And the quality of the mask matters. We should be doing a much better job at getting high-quality masks out to the population. This does not require N95 masks, but even high-quality surgical masks can be very helpful. India must have a national mask policy that says that the moment you leave your home, you must wear a mask.Three, scale up testing. You need to test people very early in the disease course when people have the mildest of symptoms, ideally before they even develop symptoms. This is because most of the spread of the virus happens early. Aggressive testing needs to take place in communities that have had outbreaks, so that infected people can be identified and isolated. India requires three to five times more testing than present levels. If this is not possible, then, at least, double it. Second, the government needs to do a better job of taking care of the ill. That means setting up field hospitals, increasing oxygen supply and medicines. In the next four to six weeks, we will see a flood of patients arriving at hospitals. If it’s bad now, it’s going to get worse. A lot of effort has to go into taking care of those people and saving as many lives as possible. Here it is critical to follow scientific guidelines and not use baseless treatments such as Ivermectin. International protocols developed with top Indian doctors must be followed for how to care for sick people.Third, focus on vaccination, which is going to take us out of this, although the benefit of the vaccinations will take some time. In terms of supplies, the Serum Institute of India (SII) is making around 75 million does a month. This is not enough. India has a legacy of vaccine-delivery programmes, but we need more supply. The problem is raw materials, which are in short supply everywhere in the world. This is not a problem of the United States (US) stopping exports. There is a global shortage of supplies because everyone in the world is trying to make vaccines. So, the Indian government needs to work with SII to make more raw materials available. That’s going to take weeks and a lot of work. We should not invest too much hope in vaccines in the short-run; but they are critically important in the medium- to long-run.In terms of priority, older people and health care workers must be given precedence and until those groups are widely vaccinated, I would not necessarily open it to everybody. I also worry about issues around costs, which may put the poor at the back of the line. Look at what Europe, the US or Israel has done — the central government procures vaccines (it is not the states or the private sector) and has a national programme that is free for everyone, and prioritises high-risk groups. This has worked. I find what is happening now in India very confusing. Indian vaccines must be centrally purchased, given to states for free, and given out equitably so that every state gets its fair share.Fourth, genome sequencing is critically important — we have to track what is happening with these variants, where they are spreading, and where the disease is going next. If you do not do genomic sequencing, you are basically fighting a war without intelligence. The UK is the gold standard for genomic sequencing; it does about five to 10% of all infections; in the US, it’s about 2%. India does far less than 1%. India needs to increase genomic surveillance as much as tenfold. There are US and UK companies ready to ship genomic sequencing supplies to India today. But the Indian government must want it and be ready to use them.The Joe Biden administration has stepped up. In my conversations with the administration, I have said that the $100 million aid is good but it needs to do more. Of course, India must want more help. I believe that the Biden administration will do more if India asks. India and the US are friends and allies and at a time of need, one friend can come to the help of the other.May is going to be horrible in India. June is going to be hard. If we take the steps outlined here, we are going to see real progress in June, and, by July, things may be meaningfully better. But if we do these things in a half-hearted manner now, the nightmare that India is living through now will last longer.India needs a 21st-century health care system. Currently, it has a 19th-century one with small pockets of excellence. As we get out of this crisis, I hope India will prioritise its public health and health care system. Fighting an enemy such as Covid with poor policymaking and an outdated health system is costing too many lives.Ashish K Jha is the dean of the Brown University School of Public HealthThe views expressed are personal(As told to Kumkum Dasgupta)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/covidit-will-get-worse-before-it-gets-better-101619880773941.html
01-05-2021||Today's||Soli was a champion of free speech and wore many hats||My mind goes back to our golden days at the Government Law College, Mumbai some 70 years ago. Soli was one year junior to me. I remember, in the moot Parliament organised in our college, I was the Defence Minister and Soli was the Leader of the Opposition. Anil Divan was the Prime Minister, Fali Nariman the Speaker, and Ashok Desai a member. Our moot Parliament held two sessions and passed the Anti-Black Marketing Bill, which shows the vision and rectitude of the students of our college. And what a great coincidence! We found ourselves on opposite side in Court many a times, but would always end the day with a drink at the bar together.There is a strange coincidence in our lives: five of us – Soli, Anil, Fali, Ashok, and I – moved to Delhi more or less at the same time and we stayed here for nearly half a century. We all remained the best of friends. Our friendship survived more than 71 years and we share the common cause of justice.Soli was a champion of free speech and I remember his powerful and convincing argument in the Public Interest Litigation filed by my granddaughter Shreya in the Supreme Court, challenging the validity of Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, 2000, which punished a person for posting on the internet. He argued the case before the bench of justices J. Chelameswar and Rohinton Nariman. Shreya won the landmark case for free speech and expression. This case was one of the many leading cases Soli argued on freedom of expression guaranteed under Article 19(1) (a) of our Constitution.During his illustrious career, Soli served as the Solicitor General for India and Attorney General for India. In the United Nations, he served as Special Rapporteur to the UN Human Rights Commission and as a member of the UN Sub Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities. I have also served the United Nations in different capacities.In 2002, the country’s second highest civilian honour, Padma Vibhushan, was conferred on Soli for his contribution to the continued service of justice including his vociferous defence of the freedom of expression and protection of human rights.As the President of the India International Centre (IIC), he guided the institution in its activities for a long time, particularly in the areas of culture and education, introduction of cuisines from different parts of the country and world. Under him, IIC opened its doors to younger members. I remember Soli would go to IIC everyday for lunch after the morning session, and return to Supreme Court for the afternoon matters.Soli was a man of many passions. He was a great lover of music, particularly jazz music. He introduced the jazz festival in Delhi. Soli could always be spotted at the Jazz festival singing and dancing with the musicians.Soli reached great heights in his life and career but above all he was a very affectionate and generous human being. Whenever I pass by the beautiful Lotus Temple in Delhi, I am reminded of his wife, Zena, who’s dedication to Soli is inspirational. A champion of human rights, non-violence in her own right, having been instrumental in the setting of the Baha’i faith in India.Soli leaves behind his daughter, Zia, a well-known corporate lawyer, founder and partner at AZB & Partners, one of the leading law firms in India. Jehangir is a reputed doctor. Hormazd is the editor of India’s leading automobile magazine, Autocar India. And his many grandchildren.I last met Soli at his 91st birthday celebrations at his beloved IIC on 9th March, 2021 when he also released his memoirs “Down Memory Lane”. After Soli spoke, he invited me to speak. He was surrounded with love and joy of his friends and family. It would have been the last time for many of us to have met Soli.It came as a shock to learn of his passing due to Covid yesterday. To me, Soli will always be 91 not out.Soli will be remembered in our memories, through Zena, Zia, Jehangir, Hormazd, his grandchildren, and in the many battles he fought and won for us.(Murlidhar C Bhandare is a senior advocate, former governor and Member of Parliament)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/soli-was-a-champion-of-free-speech-and-wore-many-hats-101619810636790.html
