03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab needs more tankers to transport oxygen: Capt to Centre||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday appealed to the Centre for more Oxygen tankers to be made available to the state. He said the state urgently needs more tankers, as it currently had only 15 at its disposal. These, he said, were not enough to handle the requirement for transporting the oxygen supplies from other states. Punjab has a 195 metric tonne (MT) allocation from plants in other states, but the actual supply received over the past seven days has been around 110-120 MT daily. The number of patients on oxygen support has also gone up from 4,000 to 9,000. “The situation remains fluid and a matter of concern,” he said. The current consumption of oxygen in the state is more than 225 MT daily. Chief secretary Vini Mahajan said a tanker takes 4-5 days to bring the 90MT allocation from Bokaro plant and unless the state gets more tankers, the situation could aggravate. In addition to 90 MT from Bokaro, the state’s current allocation is 60MT from a plant in Baddi, 20MT from Panipat, 15MT from Roorkee and 10MT from Dehradun. Another 80MT is generated daily from air separation units (ASUs) and pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants in the state. Medical education minister OP Soni said more oxygen cylinders were also needed at government hospitals to meet the growing requirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-needs-more-tankers-to-transport-oxygen-capt-to-centre-101620065714002.html
03-05-2021||Other||Faridkot NGOs face probe for role in O2 cylinder black marketing||Three days after the arrest of two men in West Delhi’s Paschim Vihar for selling oxygen cylinders, procured from the district, at exorbitant rates on Friday, deputy commissioner Vimal Kumar Setia has sought record of NGOs that offer ambulance service in the district. Sources said seven NGOs are running ambulances in the district, and most are without permits from the transport department.Delhi Police have said that Vinay Kumar of Bihar and Kewal Singh of Faridkot used to procure oxygen cylinders from Faridkot and sell these at higher rates in the National Capital Region (NCR). Kewal Singh is a driver of an ambulance run by a Faridkot-based NGO.According to a police officials, both the accused were arrested and six oxygen cylinders were seized. “The duo used to charge between ₹28,000 and ₹35,000 for one oxygen cylinder,” the officer added.Police sources said during interrogation, Kewal has disclosed names of three more ambulance drivers who were also black-marketing oxygen cylinders in Delhi. “We have received information on this. I have asked for the record of all the NGOs working in the area. I will call a meeting to discuss details,” DC Setia added. Superintendent of police Kuldeep Singh Sohi said that the matter is under investigation of the Delhi Police. “We have not received any official communication so far,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/faridkot-ngos-face-probe-for-role-in-o2-cylinder-black-marketing-101620065470301.html
03-05-2021||Gurugram||25 docs come forward to help in Covid care after Gurugram admin’s appeal||A week after the Gurugram administration appealed to private medical staff for help, some 25 doctors and other healthcare staff have come forward to help in Covid-19 management, according to officials on Monday.Prashant Panwar, additional deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said, “We have received inputs from 25 health professionals, who want to help in managing the ongoing Covid-19 crisis. We are screening their profiles, to decide where they can be deployed — tele-consultation, online consultation, or in the additional bed facilities that are being added.”Panwar, the nodal officer in the project, said that all 25 healthcare professionals will provide services, depending on their time and availability. “As the number of health professionals are still low, they will be judiciously deployed for different services so that everyone is helped. We hope that more doctors will come forward in the future.” he added.Last week, the district administration had appealed to private doctors, retired medical professionals, and students to come forward and help in managing Covid-19 cases. The district administration, through social media, had put out an appeal, stating, “The Gurugram administration requests for volunteer doctors, nurses and MBBS students who are fit and willing to provide their services in public health facilities. We appeal to such professionals to come forward at this hour of need… We would be immensely grateful for your support, to help us treat our residents.”Meanwhile, doctors from the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Gurugram chapter, said that they are ready to help the government with additional doctors, but are unable to help due to lack of oxygen supply.Dr Sarika Verma, secretary, IMA, Haryana chapter, said, “All private doctors are ready to come forward and help the health department in managing the rising Covid-19 cases, but our hands are tied. Most patients in hospitals need oxygen, which is not always available. Even if there are additional beds and private doctors, we would not be able to do much unless there is enough oxygen available... Gurugram has approximately 4,000 private doctors at various hospitals, and it can be doubled, but first, the existing beds should have sufficient oxygen supply.”At present, Gurugram has an allocation of 35 metric tonnes (MT) of medical oxygen.Commenting on the concerns, Panwar said, “We are continuously working to increase the oxygen quota of the district. We have an additional capacity of 5 MT of oxygen (over already allotted 35 MT), and more will be supplied by the oxygen express. The situation should improve in the next two to three days, but meanwhile, I appeal to the doctors to come forward and help…”Meanwhile, Gurugram reported 3,037 fresh Covid-19 cases and 14 deaths on Monday. The active cases in the district now stands at over 37,000. The recovery rate is at 71.69%, while the fatality rate is 0.38%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/25-docs-come-forward-to-help-in-covid-care-after-gurugram-admin-s-appeal-101620065357659.html
03-05-2021||Gurugram||Remdesivir records in hospitals to be checked to prevent black marketing||A day after three people, including two staff members of private hospitals, were arrested for black marketing remdesivir injections, the district drug controller said they will start verifying stocks of the antiviral drug in all city hospitals from Tuesday. Amandeep Chauhan, the district drug controller, said they will count the empty vials and cross-check them with the batch numbers. “The nursing staff of many hospitals have been found involved in illegal activities and black marketing antiviral drugs. Hospitals need to keep a close watch on them and ensure the injections issued for patients are used in the presence of duty doctors,” he said. At least 43 hospitals are treating Covid-19 patients in the district. With a massive surge in the number of Covid-19 patients and deaths, the healthcare system is under stress. Medicines, oxygen and hospitals beds are in short supply, taking advantage of which many are engaging in illegal sale to make a quick buck. At least six people have been arrested in five cases of black marketing Covid-19 drugs so far, said police. The police said that in many instances, it was noticed that suspects were replacing new stocks of remdesivir with empty vials. Any hospital found involved in any illegal activity related to Covid vaccination and antiviral drugs will face strict action, including termination of licences, said officials.Concerning the arrest of a staffer of Narayana Hospital in DLF Phase-3, Chauhan said, “Nitin Jose, who worked as a nursing staff supervisor at Narayana Hospital in DLF Phase 3, was involved in selling injection for ₹55,000. After he sold the first injection we activated the teams and verified the injection was original and checked its batch numbers so that we could track where was it supplied,” he said. Commander (retd) Navneet Bali, regional director, northern region of Narayana Health, said, “We would like to confirm that the remdesivir injections of the batch numbers mentioned in the notice shared by police department were not supplied to or received by Narayana Superspeciality Hospital. The hospital is maintaining the internal records about remdesivir stocks and will extend full cooperation with the authorities on this matter,” he said. The police said they arrested Jose when he was supplying remdesivir to a decoy customer they sent. Inderjeet Yadav, deputy superintendent of police, crime investigation department (CID), said that three of the suspects they arrested so far worked as a gang and shared their numbers with the families of patients. “Chetan Kapoor, a resident of Punjab, working as a senior security assistant at Max Hospital, Gurugram, was the agent who used to deal with families and used to send his wife for the deliveries,” he said.An official spokesperson for Max Hospital said, “We are following all government orders and ensuring our stocks are checked daily and audited regularly.”Another official from the investigating team probing the case said that many gangs are selling fake remdesivir vials in the city. “We are looking into details on who has bought them through them and how many deaths were reported from them. We are suspecting more staff members of these hospitals are involved and were helping them but the probe is underway,” said Yadav. The suspects were produced before the district court on Monday and taken on two-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/remdesivir-records-in-hospitals-to-be-checked-to-prevent-black-marketing-101620065356951.html
03-05-2021||Gurugram||Veggies, fruit prices go through the roof and out of stock in Gurugram||Gurugram residents complained that vegetable and fruit prices shot up on Monday as Haryana went into a seven-day lockdown in an effort to curb Covid-19. Haryana State Agricultural Market Board (HSAMB) officials said they suspected that the prices were being artificially inflated. But vegetable vendors said that the price rise was due to the increased demand as people scrambled to stock up for the week.Gurugram was locked down since Friday night when the state government announced a weekend curfew in nine districts. On Sunday, the government announced a lockdown till May 10 in the entire state. Even as the residents alleged prices were higher in the retail market, HSAMB officials did not share the information on prices.“I purchased onions at ₹60 per kilogram from my local vegetable seller, more than double the market price. The vendor informed me that the his stock was fast running out and hence, he was selling all the vegetables at inflated prices. I am now exploring ways to procure frozen vegetables, packaged potatoes, and dehydrated onions via online shopping until the lockdown is over as they will be much cheaper,” said Tanuja Kumar, a resident of sector 53.Mihir Kohli, a resident of DLF 5, said that a wholesale vegetable seller near his house ran out of stock by noon, while stocks of fruits and vegetables were also over around the same time on several e-commerce apps.“The wholesale seller delivers to homes and is an ideal option for hundreds of residents during the lockdown. However, such was the demand that his stock finished by noon. I then tried to purchase them through e-commerce website but their stock too was over. I finally asked the vegetable seller inside the condominium for a few vegetables and purchased it at three times the price,” said Kohli.Anaita Kaul, a resident of DLF Phase 4, said that she had been relying on e-commerce stores for her fruits and vegetables till now but they were now running out early in the day.“The app I used had a midnight deadline for items. A week ago, they moved it up by an hour citing high demand. While the deadline remains the same, fruits and vegetables since Saturday have been running out of stock by around 1 PM. On the app, the company has put a notice stating that they have run out of capacity and cannot take any more orders,” said Kaul.Low wholesale, high retailMandi sellers said that without their daily customers, and only catering to vendors, have forced them to sell their goods at 10-15% lower than market price.“We have too much stock and hardly any buyers. Only small time vendors are visiting the mandi to purchase items. Without any daily customers, we are selling our goods at lower prices to ensure vendors pick up more of our stock which would otherwise go to waste,” said Rajesh Yadav, a vegetable vendor in Sadar Bazar mandi. Local vegetable vendors said that in the last two days, they have ran out of stock by afternoon, and they increased prices due to demand.“Earlier, my one-time purchase from the mandi (market) would last me for a minimum of two days. However, such is the demand now that the stock is over in less than half a day. Realising the demand, I have increased my prices to increase my profits and I am also in the process of procuring more stock from wholesale markets and local mandis due to the surging demand,” said Ashok Yadav, a vegetable vendor in sector 50.Will act: agriculture boardVinay Yadav, secretary, HSAMB, said that the board has taken cognisance of the issues and will curb it.“The board has received complaints from many residents about the inflated prices of fruits and vegetables throughout the city. We will take two main steps to keep a check on this. On Tuesday, we will be releasing both the retail and wholesale market prices of vegetables and fruits via a public notice as well as circulating the same on various RWA groups to ensure people are informed about the correct prices and can report instances of inflated prices back to us so that our teams can penalise such violators,” said Yadav.Yadav also said that the HSAMB will be constituting teams on Wednesday who will be visiting various retail markets, roadside vendors, and residential shops at random to check for inflated pricing and penalise offenders while they will also pay a visit to other such establishment based on a tip-off from residents or RWAs.HSAMB officials, as well as vegetable vendors, shopkeepers, and sellers at markets maintained that there is no issue in regards to supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/veggies-fruit-prices-go-through-the-roof-and-out-of-stock-in-gurugram-101620065349653.html
03-05-2021||Gurugram||RWAs say they can’t set up Covid centres without admin’s help with essentials||Two days after Gurugram deputy commissioner Yash Garg empowered resident welfare associations (RWAs) to set up their own Covid-19 care facilities (CCFs), RWAs said that the plan might fail without help from the administration to procure medicines, machines, oxygen cylinders.Garg’s plan was to reduce the burden on existing facilities, including big and small hospitals, that are reeling under the heavy case load in April. The city had suffered over 59,000 cases in that month alone.Garg’s order issued on Saturday stated that RWAs can set up the facility at community centres, clubhouses, or empty flats using their own resources. It said that the facilities were approved following requests from the RWAs.“The deputy commissioner’s order does not mention any financial assistance or supply of resources from the administration,” said Dhruv Bansal, official spokesperson, Gurgaon Citizens Council (GCC) an umbrella body of RWAs in the city. “RWAs simply do not have the capital or the resources to themselves set up a fully functional CCF. We will be reaching out to the DC for more assistance in the matter.”On Monday, the district administration also issued a set of guidelines for setting up these facilities.The CCF, it said, will not be for critical patients, senior citizens, children below 10 years of age, pregnant or lactating women, people with comorbidities, or those whose immunity was compromised. They, the guidelines said, should be admitted to proper hospitals. Those admitted in a CCF must be attended by a doctor residing in the complex who should undergo training organised by the chief medical officer.This point has come in for criticism.Nilesh Tandon, president of Fresco Apartments RWA, a condominium in Nirvana Country, said, “The order is impractical and not feasible. The whole idea of setting up a CCF was to ensure patients that cannot find hospital beds can use this facility instead. Asymptomatic and mild Covid-19 patients are anyway isolating at home, we wanted to set up a facility where severe patients can get admission along with the correct line of treatment.”Tandon said that the aim of setting up a CCF was to use the assistance of the administration and the health department to treat patients rather than the other way as it is now. “Also doctors are likely to be overburdened at this point where the cases of Covid-19 are surging day-by-day,” he said.Garg could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rwas-say-they-can-t-set-up-covid-centres-without-admin-s-help-with-essentials-101620065290864.html
03-05-2021||Gurugram||Death toll crosses 500, over 35% of state’s active cases in Gurugram||The Covid-19 death toll on Monday reached 511, with 14 deaths confirmed by private hospitals and the district health department. The steep rise in Covid-19 cases in the last one month and escalated death count, especially in Gurugram and Faridabad, have put Haryana among the 10 most affected states having a high fatality rate. “Since Haryana is among the affected states showing a rapid surge in cases, it is likely that fatality will also rise. It can reach up to 2%,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram. Currently, the fatality rate in the state is 0.88%, which is lower than the national fatality rate of 1.1%. In the last seven days, the district recorded 65 Covid-19 deaths, according to the district health bulletin. The situation, however, on the ground, has been different as many Covid-19 deaths at the cremation ground are going unreported. According to the union ministry of health and family welfare data issued on Monday, due to a powerful resurgence in coronavirus cases, the state on Sunday recorded 145 new deaths and 13, 322 new infections. Over 104,722 cases are currently active in the state, out of which Gurugram has 35.5% of the infection load. On Monday, at least 3,037 new cases were confirmed in the district, which took the active case count to 37,244. The average number of coronavirus cases reported every day is now at the highest since the outbreak of the epidemic. According to officials and experts, poor respiratory hygiene, lax social distancing and influence of the new variant have led to a spike in new cases. On average, the district reported about 3,834 new cases per day in the past seven days. It has increased from 3,329 cases confirmed in the previous week, with the number of active cases soaring from 10,691 on April 17 to more than 37,000 at present, in just a fortnight.Currently, the test positivity rate, the proportion of positives out of total samples tested, has also increased to 33%, compared to the 10% reported in the second week of April, when the daily case count began escalating. The positivity rate of the state has also increased to 7%. “Testing has been increased in at least 170 large outbreak regions (LORs). On Monday, about 16,000 tests were done in affected areas. The health department has recommended the district administration to extend LORs to roughly about 200,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district Covid-19 surveillance officer. The health department along with private labs has been conducting 12,000 tests per day, on average.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/death-toll-crosses-500-over-35-of-state-s-active-cases-in-gurugram-101620065290171.html
03-05-2021||Gurugram||Oxygen supply increased on CM’s intervention||The district received 43 metric tonnes of oxygen on Monday from plants in Bhiwadi in Rajasthan and neighbouring Panipat, besides a share from the oxygen express from Rourkela, on its way to Faridabad. Officials said that the supply was eight metric tonnes (MT) more than the supply on Sunday and also three more than the allotted quota of 40 MT. Officials said that the increased supply of oxygen over the past two days has helped in reducing the number of distress calls from hospitals and they are working towards streamlining the distribution of oxygen.Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said that the district has over 37,000 active Covid-19 cases and needs resources on a large scale to manage the situation. “We have started receiving more oxygen within a day after the chief minister took over monitoring and the quota has also increased. We got 35 MT on Sunday and on Monday, 43 MT was given. This has reduced the number of distress calls coming from hospitals and things will improve further. The CM will be assessing and monitoring the situation daily, which will help in faster decision making,” said Garg. Senior administration officials, however, said that the distribution of oxygen to private individuals and small nursing homes was still a cause for concern. In another important development, the health department said it has allocated 500 remdesivir injections to 42 hospitals that are registered with the government for treating Covid-19 patients. Also, the health department has allocated 10 doses of tocilizumab injections to patients after a requirement was raised by hospital authorities concerned. Officials privy to the matter said that an increase in allocation of oxygen quota for Gurugram district, and the decision to distribute remdesivir and tocilizumab was done on the intervention of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who, on Saturday, took direct charge of managing and coordinating the Covid-19 measures in the city. The decision came after an unabated increase in the number of Covid-19 cases and deaths in Gurugram over the past one and half months.Garg said that the prices of ambulances were also capped on Monday after the matter was discussed in the review meeting chaired by Khattar. “The distribution of life-saving drugs like remdesivir and tocilizumab has also started,” said Garg.An official privy to the matter said that the issue of oxygen supply from Bhiwadi in Rajasthan to large hospitals in Gurugram, which had been initially stopped by the Rajasthan government, was also resolved on Khattar’s intervention. “The situation is serious in the city and his presence will also push government officials to work with more alacrity,” he said.Intervention by the chief minister, said officials, also helped them work out the modalities of airlifting oxygen trucks with the help of the Indian Airforce to Rourkela, as currently oxygen is being ferried through the rail network. Dhaarna Yadav, secretary, regional transport authority, Gurugram, said “We have airlifted four empty oxygen tankers to Angul in Odisha, which will carry nearly 70 metric tonnes of oxygen. Five tankers have been sent to Rourkela in Odisha, from where an additional 50 metric tonnes of oxygen will be procured.”Yadav said the tankers were sent to Rourkela by train from the Faridabad railway station and will return late Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/oxygen-supply-increased-on-cm-s-intervention-101620065289545.html
03-05-2021||Gurugram||Limited jabs affect Covid vaccination drive||Amid the limited availability of Covid-19 vaccines, many private hospitals in Gurugram did not conduct a vaccination drive as they failed to procure vials from the manufacturers. Only 1,898 people above 18 years took their first jab on Monday, at 20 government sites and only two private hospitals.“There is no clarity on the vaccination drive now. Our hospital has to close its vaccination centre as there is no stock . We have also approached the Serum Institute of India (SII) for procurement of Covishield, but the private hospitals have to wait for at least three to four months,” said Dr Devlina Chakravarty, managing director, Artemis Hospital, adding that the limited availability of vaccines has impacted the second dose inoculation too. “Since there is no vaccine available, people who require a second dose will have to go to government facilities,” Chakravarty added.Anil Khatana, head of operations, W Pratiksha Hospital, confirmed that the vaccination centre was shut. “The hospital has approached Bharat Biotech for the procurement of Covaxin. But we didn’t yet get a response from the vaccine manufacturer. Many corporates have been approaching us to set up vaccination booths, but there is no clarity when the hospitals are likely to get the vaccines.” Earlier this week, the state government had directed private hospitals to directly procure vials from the vaccine manufacturers. Currently, only two private hospitals, Fortis Memorial Research Institute (FMRI) and Max Super Speciality Hospital (MSSH), have been giving the jab to those above 18 years. These facilities vaccinated only 514 people above 18 years on Monday, while at least 1,384 took the jab at government sites.Arpita Mukherjee, vice president operations and head, MSSH, Gurugram, said, “The hospital administered the jab to 500 people from across the district and nearby areas by 6 pm on Monday.”“The health department no longer provides vaccines to private hospitals. They have to directly coordinate with the manufacturers,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO). Yadav, however, said that the department has roughly about 18,000 doses for the population above 18 years. “It is expected that the state government will allocate more vaccines,” he added.Data shows that at least 1,502 took the second shot on Monday, of which private hospitals covered only 52 people above 45 years of age.Even the Gurugram health department has limited the number of doses. “At present, the department has 2,000 doses for second shots. Over 13,000 additional doses were to come on Monday night. Vaccination for 18+ people will be now held at 20 vaccination centres. For people aged 45, who require the second dose, vaccination will take place at 37 sites,” said Dr Amandeep, urban nodal officer, refusing to comment on the vaccine stock for inoculation of the 18+ population.Amandeep also said that the health department will continue giving jabs at the 20 vaccination centres for the time being. These centres will be reflected on the CoWin portal during the self-registration process, which is mandatory for people in the age group of 18-44 years, to receive the shot. The list includes Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHCs) Tigra, Nathupur, Mullahera, Rajiv Nagar, Firoj Gandhi, Fazilpur, Gandhi Nagar and Patel Nagar. In rural areas, the listed centres are Community Health Centres (CHCs) Farrukhnagar, Pataudi, Ghanghola, and health centres at Daulatabad, Bhondsi, Bhangrola, Garhi, Mandpura and Bhora Kalan, among others. The other sites are government polyclinic in Sector 31, Civil Hospital in Sector 10, and sub-divisional hospital in Sohna.In the previous vaccination drive, the Gurugram health department and private hospitals in the district had jointly covered more than 30,000 people a day. Now, the health department is likely to utilise the limited doses gradually, due to the constrained supply of vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/limited-jabs-affect-covid-vaccination-drive-101620065229569.html
03-05-2021||Gurugram||Ambulance rates for Covid patients fixed, violation will lead to loss of licence: RTA||The regional transport authority (RTA) on Monday imposed a limit on the charge private ambulances could levy to ferry a Covid-19 patient.An advance life support ambulances (ALS) can be hired at a maximum of ₹15 per kilometre, while a basic life support ambulance at ₹7 per kilometre. The patient need to show a Covid-19 positive certificate or prescription for admission from a doctor.The surge in cases in Gurugram and the subsequent rise in demand for private ambulances has left relatives of many Covid patients fuming at exorbitant fares.On Monday, HT had reported on how private ambulances demanded ₹20,000 to ₹30,000 to transport patients to a private hospital within a 5 km radius. For outstation transport, the rates went up to ₹1.5 lakh. At present, there are not rate cards for any type of ambulance service.National health mission director (Panchkula) on Monday fixed the rates and directed all transport commissioners to impose it.RTA secretary (Gurugram) Dhaarna Yadav said, “We were not dealing with ambulances earlier and were involved only with the requisition, but now onwards we will ensure no one is fleeced by the ambulance drivers and providers.”Yadav said anyone facing issues with ambulances could send a complaint to rta.grg@hry.nic.in.“The complaints should include the registration number of ambulances, name of the driver and location from where they booked to destination. If they can collect any evidence or recording that will help us in investigation and making a strong case against the driver and service provider,” she said.Yadav said if any driver is found overcharging their driving license will be cancelled. “Also the registration certificate of the ambulance will be cancelled, vehicle will be impounded and a fine of ₹50,000 will be imposed in case of noncompliance,” she said.The officials also instructed the drivers to keep masks, gloves and PPE kits for attendants in case of emergency.Jalandhar administration has fixed price of ₹1,200 for the first 15 km and an additional ₹12 per km for additional distance in BLS ambulance up to 2,000 cc with basic life support. As per the Maharashtra government’s order, private ambulances are not allowed to charge more than ₹1,190 for 0-25 kms or for two hours. And beyond 25 kms, the rate can’t be more than ₹25/km.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/ambulance-rates-for-covid-patients-fixed-violation-will-lead-to-loss-of-licencerta-101620065230254.html
03-05-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram lockdown off to a rocky start||On the first day of the week-long lockdown, markets, shops and shopping malls remained shut but moderate traffic was witnessed during the rush hour as office-goers and industry workers flocked to their workplaces. Residents said that the main issue was a lack of clarity regarding the movement of domestic workers, including drivers and helpers, as a detailed order was issued late Sunday. While the administration clarified that domestic helps will not be stopped, the police said that they will ensure strict enforcement of lockdown, particularly in the large outbreak regions, where entry and exit are banned unless for emergency reasons.A spokesperson for the district administration said, “The movement of domestic workers is allowed.”Gurugram police commissioner KK Rao said that their focus is to prevent non-essential movement, particularly in large outbreak regions. “Police presence at borders to Delhi, Sohna, Nuh and Pataudi has been increased. We have set up 40 police pickets, adding to the 35 which were set up outside containment zones where a total of 1,600 personnel are deployed,” said Rao, adding that non-essential entry of people from other states is also not being allowed. The movement of people in residential areas is also being curtailed if they are moving around for non-essential reasons, he said. Many colonies in the city also closed their gates to ensure that the non-essential movement of people is controlled. Gates of both sides in sectors 4 and 5 were closed on Monday afternoon and vehicles were not allowed to enter. In Palam Vihar, entry and exit were regulated through a single gate by security guards. Unlike last year, when the lockdown had to be enforced by the police and many violations were noticed, the markets and shops across the city on Monday afternoon were found to be closed. Barring shops selling essential goods, major markets in sectors 4, 7, 14, 22, 23 and 31, Palam Vihar, Old Railway Road, Sadar Bazar, New Railway Road and MG Road wore deserted looks. Shops in irregular colonies such as Ashok Vihar, Sheetla Colony, New Palam Vihar and adjoining areas also remained shut. However, residents alleged that the lockdown was flouted in areas along the Dwarka Expressway, Southern Peripheral Road and Golf Course road. “At present, the people are staying indoors themselves but there are large-scale violations. There is no screening or checking of people entering or exiting the large outbreak regions. If the enforcement is strict, cases will go down in a week. Else, it would take longer,” said Pravin Malik, a resident of Sare Homes in Sector 92. Malik also said that there was confusion about whether domestic workers are allowed. “There should be clarity on this matter as several families are unwell due to Covid-19 and need help,” he said. Manish Wazirabad, a resident of Ardee City, said, “In Sector 56 market and Wazirabad, several shops were open. The police must enforce lockdown strictly.”The district administration, however, said that adequate police personnel were deployed to enforce the lockdown. “The lockdown is being enforced, but we also appeal to the people to follow guidelines strictly,” said the spokesperson for the district administration cited above. Residents and members of trade associations said that rapid surge in infections, lack of hospital beds, shortage of oxygen and rising number of deaths has forced residents into adhering to norms. “A large number of people are infected and several deaths have been reported. With health infrastructure already creaking, no one wants to visit a hospital. We can earn later, but it is necessary to break the chain of infection,” said Vinod Sharma, a resident of Rajendra Park. After the extension of the lockdown, the police also changed the locations of police posts and pickets across the city. The Gurugram police has a total of 6,500 personnel and around 2,500 home guards and special officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-lockdown-off-to-a-rocky-start-101620065169541.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||No takeaways from restaurants, only home deliveries allowed: Capt||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday banned all takeaway deliveries from restaurants, which, he said, was being used by youngsters as a pretext to move out of their homes. Chairing a virtual meeting to review the Covid situation, Amarinder directed the officials that only home deliveries of food should be allowed. He also gave permission for shops selling fertilisers to be open, modifying the additional restrictions imposed by the state home department a day ago. Reiterating that he was not in favour of a complete and harsh lockdown, the CM warned people against laxity in adherence to the curbs imposed in the state. If the the situation did not improve, we would be forced to consider a total lockdown, he said, adding that he had so far refrained from ordering a sweeping lockdown because it would hurt the poor the most and would lead to exodus of migrant labourers, plunging industries into chaos again. ‘Bed capacity to be increased by 20% in 10 days’ Underlining the need to step up preparedness amid projections of a peak in the coming days, Amarinder ordered 20% increase in bed capacity in the next 10 days. He directed the health and medical education departments to get stadiums, gymnasiums and other such places ready to house patients. Tented camps should be set up, and gyms/halls should be converted into L2 and L3 facilities to be prepared for the worst, he added. Health minister Balbir Sidhu said the situation was grim with only 300 beds now available at L3 level in the state. Health secretary Hussan Lal pointed out that the state’s positivity rate had on Sunday stood at 12%, with the Malwa region showing increase cases in the last 7-10 days. The state’s overall CFR is close to 2%, and even higher in rural areas at 2.7%. The worrying factor was that 17% of all deaths had no co-morbid conditions, he said. Journalists among frontline workers The CM also announced the inclusion of all accredited and yellow card journalists in the state in the list of frontline warriors. All power corporation employees in the state have also been brought into the ambit of frontline workers. These employees, along with the journalists, will now be eligible for all benefits, including priority vaccination, that frontline workers are entitled to from the state government, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-takeaways-from-restaurants-only-home-deliveries-allowed-capt-101620065050214.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||May 3: 157 deaths, 6,798 fresh infections in Punjab||Punjab on Monday recorded 157 deaths for the second consecutive day with Ludhiana district registering a maximum 21 fatalities followed by 13 each in Amritsar and Bathinda districts. According to the government’s media bulletin, the state logged 6,798 fresh infections on Monday and maximum infections (1,198) came from Ludhiana district, followed by Jalandhar (697), Bathinda (623), SAS Nagar (534), Patiala (491), Amrtisar (421), Pathankot (336), Fazilka (307), Mansa (296), Muktsar (254), Gurdaspur (258), Sangrur (240), Hoshiarpur (223). The positivity rate on Monday was the highest in Pathankot (19.36%) and SAS Nagar at 18.99% was not far behind, the bulletin said. Bathinda district recorded 18.04% positivity rate, Fazilka (17%,) while 14 other districts too reported more than 10% positivity rate. The bulletin said 6,016 patients were discharged on Monday, while 7,845 Covid patients were on oxygen support and 213 on ventilator support. Only 30,757 inoculated on MondayDue to shortage of vaccine, only 30,757 doses of Covid vaccine were administered on Monday as most of the vaccination centres remained closed. Of this number, 20,870 got the first dose and 9,887 people got the second jab. -----||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/may-3-157-deaths-6-798-fresh-infections-in-punjab-101620064810242.html
03-05-2021||Gurugram||Oxygen Express train with 85MT of medical oxygen to arrive in Gurugram on May 4||An 'Oxygen Express' train carrying 85.23 tons of liquid medical oxygen left from Hapa near Jamnagar in Gujarat for Gurugram in Haryana on Monday, said Western Railway officials.The LMO is to be supplied to hospitals in Delhi and adjoining areas, all battling a severe surge in coronavirus cases and a resultant spike in demand for the vital gas."A Ro-Ro (roll on roll off) service carrying four tankers loaded with liquid medical oxygen left from Hapa in Gujarat at 6:37am on May 3 and will reach Gurugram in Haryana in the morning of May 4. The Oxygen Express, carrying 85.23 tonnes of LMO in four tankers, will traverse 1,088 kilometres to reach its destination," a WR release informed."These oxygen tankers will be used in COVID hospitals in Delhi and adjoining areas. This is the second Oxygen Express train of WR. The LMO has been supplied by Reliance Industries in Jamnagar," the release added.On April 25, a WR service left from Hapa to Kalamboli in Maharashtra with 44 tons of LMO.The release said, till May 2, Railways had delivered over 1,094 metric tonnes (MT) LMO to Maharashtra (174 MT), Uttar Pradesh (430.51 MT), Madhya Pradesh (156.96 MT), Delhi (190 MT), Haryana (79 MT) and Telangana (63.6 MT).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/oxygen-express-train-with-85mt-of-medical-oxygen-to-arrive-in-gurugram-on-may-4-101620063920318.html
03-05-2021||Pune||Mahabaleshwar authorities close down golf course where Anil Ambani seen on walks||Civic authorities from Maharashtra’s popular hill station Mahabaleshwar have asked a local club to shut down its golf course, after a video of industrialist Anil Ambani taking a walk on it went viral on social media. Mahabaleshwar Municipal Council (MMC) chief executive officer issued a notice to ‘The Club’ management which manages the sprawling golf course ground, where industrialist Anil Ambani and wife Tina were taking regular walks during lockdown, the purported video showed. The notice issued by the Mahabaleshwar council chief officer Pallavi Patil warned of action under the disaster management act, Indian Penal Code (IPC), and epidemic diseases act if the establishment does not bar people from coming there for morning or evening walks during the ongoing restrictions. The Ambani family did not issue a statement while an email sent to Anil Ambani did not receive any response till the time of going to pressThe ground was also being frequented by other walkers despite restrictions imposed by local authorities. The CEO issued the order after he received “confirmed” and “verified” reports that Ambanis were taking a walk during the lockdown at Golf course grounds. The notice stated that penal action will be initiated against the club for Covid-19 violations. Following the notice, the club authorities locked up the ground. The hill town of Mahabaleshwar is quite popular and the 11-hole golf course from the British era, is set amidst a forest and is a serene spot amid the hustle and bustle of the iconic hill station, a resident said. In her notice, CEO Pallavi Patil stated: “It is brought to your notice that lockdown and curfew has been imposed as per the orders of the state government. The ground is frequented by evening walkers, and you are hereby directed to close it for public. In case of failure of compliance, action will be taken under section 51 to 60 of Disaster Management Act 2005 and section 188 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 2897 and certain sections of the Indian Penal Code 1860.” Ambani was a regular at the Golf grounds in Mahabaleshwar and the news spread like wildfire in the town.According to Patil, walkers from elsewhere had also started visiting the ground where some prominent people took a walk. “We verified and issued a notice to the club that it was in violation of Covid-19 restrictions. Now, the club has locked the ground and all activities have been stopped,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mahabaleshwar-authorities-close-down-golf-course-where-anil-ambani-seen-on-walks-101620064150643.html
03-05-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM seeks centre's help in oxygen supply to avoid any 'untoward situation' in state||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot Monday appealed to the Centre to help the state with oxygen supplies to avoid any "untoward" situation, as he expressed condolences over the death of 24 patients at a Karnataka hospital due to alleged oxygen shortage.His request to the Centre came amid an unprecedented rise in Covid-19 cases in his state, and after 24 patients, 23 of them Covid-infected, died in Karnataka's Chamarajanagar due to alleged oxygen shortage in the district hospital.Gehlot said the news of lack of oxygen and medicines coming from different parts of the country is quite disturbing."It is very sad to know of the death of 24 Covid patients due to lack of #oxygen at Chamarajanagar District Hospital in #Karnataka. My deepest condolences to the bereaved families. May God give them strength at this difficult time. Prayers that they remain strong," Gehlot said in a tweet.Also, in a statement in Jaipur, he said, "I am also constantly urging the Centre regarding Rajasthan that there is a shortage of oxygen in proportion to the number of coronavirus infected patients. We again request the Center to help Rajasthan so that no untoward situation arises as every person's life is precious to us," he said.The chief minister said the state government is making every effort to ensure availability of oxygen and medicines to the people in this hour of crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-chief-minister-ashok-gehlot-seeks-centre-s-help-in-oxygen-supply-to-avoid-any-untoward-situation-in-state-101620058214312.html
03-05-2021||Other||UP govt to set up panel of health experts on Covid management||LUCKNOW The state government will set up a panel of health experts drawn from premier medical institutes to advise Team-9 on Covid control in Uttar Pradesh. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath made the announcement at a Covid review meeting with Team-9 here.This will be the first time the state will have such a Covid-focused panel of health experts, said the state government on Monday. There was no such panel to assist Team-11 that was engaged in Covid management in the state during the first wave. The decision was taken on a day on which the state reported 29,192 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking its total case count to 13,42,413 while the death toll reached 13,447 with 288 more fatalities, according to official data.Reputed medical experts from SGPGIMS (Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences), KGMU (King George’s Medical University), Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical University and RML Institute (Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences) will join the advisory panel, said a state government statement.Team-9, formed to deal with the second wave of Covid pandemic, is a restructured form of Team-11. It consists of the health minister, the medical education minister and several top bureaucrats in the state.At the meeting, Adityanath stressed the need for such an advisory panel for effective control and necessary strategy on Covid-19.He said the current strain of the coronavirus had constantly been mutating and was 30 to 50 times more infectious than it was in the first wave.“In some cases, it has been observed that Covid’s TrueNat, antigen or RT-PCR test rule out Covid even though CT scans (of the chest) show that a patient’s lungs are infected. Such a problem has also been observed in people without symptoms,” he added.He once again asked for setting up of teams like Team-9 at each of the 75 districts and these teams would report daily to the chief minister’s office.Yogi said that in last 24 hours a total of 38,687 had recovered. So far, 10.43 lakh people recovered from Covid since the first case last year.Regarding oxygen supply, Yogi said that rail, road, and air routes were being used to transport oxygen. Within two days, 40 tonnes of oxygen from Jamnagar (Gujarat) would come on an Oxygen Express train while a 10-tanker Oxygen Express from Jamshedpur had left for UP.Rural testing drive deferred by a dayThe chief minister asked Team-9 to launch an extensive Covid testing and tracing drive in the villages from May 5. Earlier, the chief minister had announced May 4 as the launch date for the drive. Owing to a delay in the conclusion of the vote count for the panchayat polls, the launch has been deferred by a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-govt-to-set-up-panel-of-health-experts-on-covid-management-101620063189274.html
03-05-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan records 154 Covid-19 deaths, 17,296 cases||Jaipur, May 3 (PTI) Rajasthan on Monday recorded 154 coronavirus deaths and 17,296 cases, taking the total number of deaths and positive cases to 4,712 and 6,51,247 respectively, according to official data.The number of active cases also increased to 1,94,371, the data showed.The fresh deaths were reported from Jaipur (40), Jodhpur (37), Udaipur (11), Sikar (9), Ajmer (7), Barmer and Kota (6 each), Alwar and Pali (5 each), and other districts.A total of 4,52,164 Covid-19 patients have recovered in the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-records-154-covid-19-deaths-17-296-cases-101620061816441.html
03-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi records maximum temperature of 39.7 degrees Celsius||The national capital on Monday recorded a maximum temperature of 39.7 degrees Celsius, one notch above the season's normal, according to the India Meteorological Department.The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded a minimum temperature at 24.3 degrees Celsius.Partly cloudy sky with possibility of thunder and lightning is expected in the city on Tuesday, the IMD said.The air quality in the national capital was recorded in the "poor" category. The air quality index (AQI) was 247 at 9.05 pm, real-time data of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-maximum-temperature-of-39-7-degrees-celsius-101620060977383.html
03-05-2021||Noida||Covid-19 death toll in Noida, Ghaziabad crosses 500||Gautam Buddh Nagar recorded 13 more fatalities linked to COVID-19, while neighbouring Ghaziabad added five as the cumulative death toll in the two districts in western Uttar Pradesh crossed the 500-mark on Monday, official data showed.Gautam Buddh Nagar now has a death toll of 250, while Ghaziabad 251 -- with a majority of these fatalities coming during the second wave of the pandemic, according to the data released by the UP Health Department for a 24-hour period.The two districts during the period had 2,044 new cases of infection, while 2,864 patients got discharged after treatment, the data showed.Of these, 1,446 infections and 1,712 recoveries were in Gautam Buddh Nagar and 598 infections and 1,152 recoveries in Ghaziabad, it showed.According to the official figures, the number of active cases in the two districts stood at 14,540, of which 7,982 were in Gautam Buddh Nagar and 6,558 in Ghaziabad.The overall tally of positive cases in Gautam Buddh Nagar reached 45,792, while it was 42,643 in Ghaziabad, the official data showed.Gautam Buddh Nagar's mortality rate stands at 0.54 per cent and recovery rate at 82.02 per cent, while the figures for Ghazibad were recorded at 0.58 per cent and 84.03 per cent, respectively, according to the statistics.Meanwhile, the number of active COVID-19 cases in UP reached 2,85,832 from 2,95,752 on Sunday as the overall recoveries climbed to 10,43,134 and the death toll surged to 13,447 on Monday, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid19-death-toll-in-noida-ghaziabad-crosses-500-101620061535506.html
03-05-2021||Pune||Private hospitals in Pune approach pharmas for vaccine supply||Given the shortage of vaccines in the city, prominent hospitals have begun to approach manufacturers directly to procure adequate supply. The hospitals have sought clear guidelines from the government about the buying process from manufacturers, who they are in touch with. “We already have contacted the Serum Institute to get vaccines for our hospitals, as we only were the ones who did trials of Covishield at our hospital. We also directly contacted Bharat Biotech, but they told use it will be first given to the government. After two months the vaccines will be available for the private sector. We are ready to buy the vaccines… as much as we can,” said Dr Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical director, Bharati Vidyapeeth medical college, hospital and research centre. Oswal’s remarks came at a time when many industries and big corporates based in Pune have asked hospitals to arrange mass vaccination for their employees. Dr Dhananjay Kelkar, medical director, Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital, said, “We approached vaccine manufacturers within the country to get the vaccines, but it is not available now for private players and we are going to wait. Whenever it is going to be available in the open market, we have plans to purchase it.” Dr H K Sale, executive director of Noble Hospital, demanded clearer guidelines regarding vaccine purchase. He said, “There is a need of crystal-clear guidelines about vaccine purchasing by the private sector. Currently, there is a shortage of vaccines and so we have closed our vaccination centre, but there is a need to have guidelines through which the process will be carried out smoothly.” Dr Avdhut Bodamwad, medical superintendent at Ruby Hall Clinic said, “We have not yet approached any vaccine manufacturers, but are ready to buy the vaccines when they will be available in the open market. There is still a need for clear guidelines regarding getting the vaccines from manufacturers.” Earlier this month, Deepak Sapra, CEO, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories (API and Services ) CEO, said that the Sputnik V Covid vaccine will be available in a few weeks after it undergoes statutory clearances. A total of 1,50,000 doses of the Russian vaccine Sputnik V arrived at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport in Hyderabad on May 1. Last month, the Drug Controller General (DCGI) had issued permissions for Dr Reddy’s Laboratories to import the Russian vaccine to India for emergency use.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/private-hospitals-in-pune-approach-pharmas-for-vaccine-supply-101620061808928.html
03-05-2021||Pune||Pune dist sees 7,718 fresh cases, 10 Covid deaths||Pune district, on Monday, reported 7,718 fresh Covid-19 cases and 10 Covid-related deaths, both over a 24- hour period, as per the state health department. Of the 10 deaths reported in the district, three deaths were in Pune rural and seven in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). No deaths were reported in the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in the last 24 hours. In the Pune district there are a total of 8,72,617 Covid cases, of which 7,53,928 patients have recovered. The death toll in the district stands at,774 deaths. Presently, there are 1,08,915 active cases in Pune district. PMC has so far reported 4,42,111 Covid cases and 5,670 deaths as of Monday. Whereas PCMC has reported 2,12,177 cases so far and a total of 1,566 deaths due to Covid. Pune rural has reported 2,18,329 total cases so far and 2,521 deaths due to Covid. As per the state gealth department, 59,500 patients were discharged on Monday in Maharashtra taking the total to 40,41,158. The recovery rate in the state is 84.7%. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.49%. Currently, 39,08,491 people are in home quarantine and 28,593 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-dist-sees-7-718-fresh-cases-10-covid-deaths-101620061568800.html
03-05-2021||Other||Rewari, Hisar deaths: Probe panels yet to submit reports||A week after nine Covid patients - four in Rewari and five in Hisar - succumbed after the oxygen supply at two private hospitals where they were undergoing treatment allegedly ran out, the magisterial-level inquiry committees set up to look into these deaths are yet to submits reports despite the 48-hour deadline to do so.On April 25, four people, including three residents of Rewari and a 48-year-old Delhi resident, had allegedly died because of low pressure of oxygen at Virat Hospital, Rewari.The next day, five Covid patients, including a 26-year-old man, two men over the age of 40 and two over 60 years of age succumbed after the oxygen supply at a private hospital, Soni Burns Hospital in Hisar allegedly ran out. Three of them hailed from Hisar, and one each from Delhi and Punjab.Mahendergarh deputy commissioner Ajay Kumar, who has additional charge of Rewari DC, had set up a committee under the supervision of Rewari ADC Rahul Hooda to investigate the case in which four people died at Virat Hospital and submit a report within 48 hours.Hisar DC Priyanka Soni had formed a medical negligence board to analyse the reasons behind five deaths that occurred at Soni Burns Hospital.The authorities of both hospitals blamed Rewari and Hisar district administrations for the incidents saying that they had intimidated the officials about shortage of oxygen supply but they failed to provide oxygen.Rewari DC Yashendra Singh, who has just returned after completing his training, said the inquiry report has been delayed because ADC Rahul Hooda, who was supervising the committee had tested positive for Covid and is in home isolation.“Inquiry will be initiated once Rahul joins work. Statements of hospital managements and doctors who were on duty at the time of the incident and district health officials will be recorded. The report is likely to be delayed by a week more,” the Rewari DC said.The Hisar DC said district health officials appeared before the medical negligence board and their statements have been recorded.“We have sought information from Dr Rajat Soni, head of the private hospital, to submit his reply on five deaths. He provided some information and we have sought more details from him. As he tested positive for Covid, we have asked him to appear before the board through an online medium. we are hoping that the board will submit its report within next two to three days after recording Soni’s statement ,” the DC added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rewari-hisar-deaths-probe-panels-yet-to-submit-reports-101620061389457.html
03-05-2021||Other||Haryana Police struggle to enforce fresh Covid lockdown||The first day of the week-long lockdown in Haryana received a mixed response in the state, where police struggled to keep people off the roads and markets while routine traffic continued on highways and link roads.The Haryana government had announced the lockdown to curb an alarming rise in Covid cases during the second wave of the virus in state.Despite closure of shops and other establishments, movement of private vehicles continued on Monday.Moreover, there was no major impact on movement of traffic on highways and city and link roads were also busy in Kurukshetra, Panipat, Rohtak, Hisar, Jhajjar, Ambala, Yamunanagar and Kaithal.State health and home minister Anil Vij appealed to residents to adhere to the curbs. “I never wanted to impose a lockdown, but people are not following Covid-appropriate behaviour,” Vij said.“People are not following the guidelines and coming out without any valid reason,” a cop deputed on NH-44 said.Another senior police officer said since the restrictions are limited to only a few places and people coming out in large numbers, police cannot stop every commuter.“We have deputed senior cops to monitor the situation and violators are being challaned for coming out without permission,” said Karnal superintendent of police (SP) Ganga Ram Punia.He said that police checkposts are erected to enforce the lockdown and violators were being booked. Total 230 people were challaned and four FIRs were registered against the violators in Karnal by 5pm on Monday.Panipat SP Shashank Kumar Sawan said police are monitoring the situation closely and all educational institutions, malls, religious places, eateries and cinema halls were closed.Following reports that people are not following the lockdown guidelines, Kaithal SP Lokender Singh said police have been alerted for strict action against violators.Ambala DC Ashok Kumar Sharma, in an order, listed out exempted services and appointed duty magistrates for different areas. In Yamunanagar, migrant labourers were seen walking with luggage towards their hometowns.Though there were fewer vehicles on roads as prohibitory orders were imposed, police were seen taking rounds in Rohtak, asking shopkeepers except chemists to close their shops People were seen waiting around vegetable and fruit stalls near Jat Bhawan in Rohtak, flouting social distancing norms. But after 11am, police got cracking and the streets wore a deserted look.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-police-struggle-to-enforce-fresh-covid-lockdown-101620061149697.html
03-05-2021||Dehradun||U'khand CM Rawat requests his Gujarat counterpart to provide oxygen cylinders||With the number of Covid-19 cases on the rise in Uttarakhand, chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat requested his Gujarat counterpart Vijay Rupani on Monday to provide oxygen cylinders to the state.Rawat spoke to Rupani on the phone, an official release issued here said.The Gujarat chief minister assured Rawat of all possible help to deal with the situation, it added.Meanwhile, state health secretary Amit Negi told reporters that the ongoing curfew has been extended by three more days in districts with a high number of cases, including Dehradun, to break the transmission chain of the coronavirus.The state government's strategy to deal with the pandemic is based on testing, tracing, isolation, treatment and vaccination of people.The number of people being discharged from hospitals after treatment is also rising, Negi said, adding that 90 per cent of the patients are recovering in home isolation.Two lakh doses of anti-Covid vaccines are likely to arrive soon for inoculating people above 45 years of age, after which 1.20 lakh more doses will come, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/ukhand-cm-rawat-requests-his-gujarat-counterpart-to-provide-oxygen-cylinders-101620060187278.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Remdesivir black-marketing: ‘Kingpin’ held in Panipat||The Haryana Police have arrested a resident of Panipat who was allegedly involved in black-marketing of remdesivir injection, which is in high demand for treatment of Covid-19 patients.“Accused Pardeep, of Sector 13/17 in Panipat, used to buy injections from an Uttarakhand resident,” police said.As per preliminary probe, the accused has illegally sold 650 injections of 750 vials brought so far.“During investigation, it has come to light that the wrapper of the seized vials is quite different from the company’s injection and it seems that they are not original,” police said, requesting public to be wary of such gangs involved in black-marketing and immediately inform the police.Police said the accused gave 100 injections to his nephew Sumit, 150 to one Saksham and 40 injections to one Keshav for black-marketing.Police on April 27 had nabbed the three youths from Panipat on charges of black-marketing of remdesivir injection and recovered 19 vials from their possession.During police remand, these accused had revealed that they had purchased the seized vials from Pardeep, who runs a medical store at a hospital on Sanoli road. Based on this information, police nabbed Pardeep.While accused Sumit, Saksham and Keshav were sent to judicial custody after completion of police remand, Pradeep has been remanded to four-day police custody.Man held with 4 remdesivir injections
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Vij warns Haryana hospitals against overcharging from Covid patients||Haryana health and home minister Anil Vij said that strict action will be taken against hospitals that are overcharging for facilities and other medical assistance from Covid patients in state.Currently, 42 private hospitals in state are treating Covid patients and the government has fixed rates of isolation beds, and ICU beds with and without ventilators.“Strict action will be taken if any hospital is found charging more than the fixed rates from Covid patients,” he said.Vij added that a three-member committee has been constituted for distribution of tocilizumab injection as per requirement of patients admitted at government and private hospitals.Covid state nodal officer Dr Dhruv Chaudhary has been appointed as chairman of the committee mandated to set criteria regarding delivery of injections and other related things.These injections will be made available to local hospitals through local civil surgeons at purchase price and these injections will be given free of cost to government hospitals and medical colleges.Vij said around 70% patients admitted in Haryana hospitals are from Delhi and other adjoining states, who are also being treated in the same way.“To meet the shortage of doctors and paramedical staff in state, around 1,400 students of PG and MBBS final year of medical colleges in state have been ordered to serve in hospitals of Haryana in midst of the pandemic,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vij-warns-haryana-hospitals-against-overcharging-from-covid-patients-101620060910756.html
03-05-2021||Other||Lockdown necessary to break Covid chain: Khattar||The medical oxygen quota of Nalhar Medical College in Nuh will be increased in order to increase the number of beds to treat Covid-19 patients, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said.Khattar, who was on a whirlwind visit of the state to review Covid preparedness on Monday, said lockdown had become imperative.“We know that people have a problem with the decision of imposing a lockdown, but to break the infection chain it had become necessary to impose it,” he said.Urging people not to step out of their houses unless necessary, he said people should wear mask and follow Covid protocol. “At this hour of crisis, staying at home is the best way to safeguard ourselves from this deadly virus,” Khattar said.He presided over a meeting with officers of the health department and district administration at Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College, Nalhar, Nuh.He said the government is constantly taking steps to ensure availability of oxygen at the medical college. For this, containers will be arranged so that oxygen can be stored.STATE RECORDS 12,885 COVID CASES, 140 FATALITIESAbout 54% of total 12,885 fresh Covid-19 cases in Haryana on Monday were detected in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Jhajjar, Rewari, Palwal and Nuh districts adjoining to Delhi.On the other hand, the caseload of fresh cases in Panchkula, Ambala, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Kaithal, Panipat and Jind was about 23% of the total cases, according to the health bulletin.The state recorded 140 fatalities with the highest of 17 people succumbing to the virus in Hisar, 16 in Rohtak, 15 in Fatehabad, 11 each in Mahendergarh and Karnal, 10 each in Ambala and Gurugram, and nine each in Panipat and Kaithal.As many as 13,293 people recovered and the number of active patients rose to 1,04,722.Gurugram logged 3,037 fresh cases, Faridabad 1,805, Sonepat 1,185, Hisar 1,156, Ambala 379, Karnal 449, Panipat 652, Rohtak 411, Rewari 292, Panchkula 250, Kurukshetra 317, Yamunanagar 215, Sirsa 361, Mahendergarh 238, Bhiwani 467, Jhajjar 290, Palwal 127, Fatehabad 356, Kaithal 261, Jind 411, Nuh 193 and Charkhi Dadri 33.WILL HOME DELIVER MEDICAL OXYGEN: KARNAL DCAfter the oxygen on wheel initiative for emergency supply of oxygen to hospitals, Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said that the administration will also start home delivery of medical oxygen, if required.He said there is no shortage of oxygen in district. “Non-critical patients need not be admitted at hospital. We are ready for home delivery of oxygen to them so they should avoid coming out amid lockdown,” he added.He said block-level Covid hospitals will also be set up to help patients. There are 448 beds with oxygen support in district and 419 of them are occupied whereas all 219 ICU beds in district are occupied.STATE EDU MINISTER HOLDS REVIEW MEETINGState education minister Kanwar Pal and Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia held a meeting with officials of the district administration to review arrangements made for Covid patients.He said the storage capacity of oxygen plant at KCGMCH, Karnal is being reduced to 20,000kg. Moreover, an organisation has offered to set up a 15 tonne oxygen generation plant in Karnal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lockdown-necessary-to-break-covid-chain-khattar-101620060793006.html
03-05-2021||Other||Medical officer posts increased from 200 to 250 in Punjab; recruitment test on May 7||The Punjab government has increased the number of posts of medical officers (general), under the department of health and family welfare from 200 to 250 to help battle the second wave of the covid-19 infection. Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, will conduct the recruitment through a written test on May 7. BFUHS vice-chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur said to fight the emerging situation arising out of the pandemic’s spread, the step was much needed. “The additional number will strengthen the health care system to tackle covid surge,” he said, adding that 21 centres will be set up at Faridkot, Amritsar, Jalandhar and Mohali to conduct the test. Around 2,000 aspirants have applied online for the recruitment exam.“We are going to set up examination centres in all the zones of Punjab. We are making centres at Faridkot, Jalandhar, Amritsar and Mohali, so aspirants don’t face any problem reaching their centres. Following covid-19 guidelines, a maximum of 100 students will be allowed at one centre,” said the V-C. The BFUHS has also announced that those appearing for the written test have to bring a rapid antigen covid-19 negative test report.“Those reporting at the examination centre without a negative rapid antigen covid report will not be allowed to appear for the test,” said Dr Ruhee Dugg, BFUHS, registrar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/medical-officer-posts-increased-from-200-to-250-in-punjab-recruitment-test-on-may-7-101620059828994.html
03-05-2021||Bhopal||Covid in MP: Vaccination for 18-44 age group to begin on May 5, says CM Chouhan||Vaccination for the people in the age group of 18 to 44 years will begin in Madhya Pradesh on May 5, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Monday, adding 5.29 crore doses will be needed for this purpose.Chouhan said the state government has already placed orders to purchase 4.25 crore doses of Covishield and about 52.25 lakh doses of Covaxin."We are constantly making efforts to get the supply of vaccines from both the manufacturers as soon as possible," he told reporters.The CM said both the manufacturers are not in a position to specify the exact quantum of vaccines they will be providing to Madhya Pradesh."The state government has planned to administer 1.5 lakh jabs every day. We will start vaccination (for the 18-44 age group) from May 5. The vaccines will be administered free of cost to all the citizens," he added.The vaccination drive for the 18-44 category, which was scheduled to take off on May 1, was deferred due to the unavailability of vaccines in Madhya Pradesh.Vaccination of eligible beneficiaries from other categories is already going on in the state.Madhya Pradesh's Covid-19 tally stood at 6,00,430 on Monday while the death toll reached 5,905, as per the state health department.Meanwhile, Madhya Pradesh Congress president Kamal Nath doubted the feasibility of the vaccination programme announced by Chouhan."The vaccination programme, which should ideally be held round-the-clock at a very fast pace, will now be held in sessions on different dates in the state and that too in limited numbers. It will take months to vaccinate the citizens of the state," Nath said.He alleged Covid-19 patients and their families are still struggling to get a bed in a hospital, medical oxygen and life-saving drugs."....Who is responsible for this situation?" he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/covid-in-mp-vaccination-for-18-44-age-group-to-begin-on-may-5-says-cm-chouhan-101620058579965.html
03-05-2021||Other||Bank manager, employee held for forging deceased customer’s signature, accessing funds||PUNE The manager of a bank is among two people remanded to the custody of Pune police on Monday, for forging a customer’s signature to gain access to his investment fund after his death.The arrested man has been identified as Juben Gandhi (35) a manager at the bank. The other accused is Ankita Ranjan (30), a relationship officer at the bank who was handling the affairs for the now-deceased man in his final days, according to police. The two are in police custody till May 6.“While he was alive, the woman was his relationship manager and had a good idea about his finances. She had gotten her number attached with his bank account while he was alive in order to keep track of his account activity. However, that information was later misused,” said senior inspector Gajanan Pawar of Vimantal police station.A complaint in the matter has been lodged by Chandrashekhar Rajagopalan (53), a resident of Vimannagar, whose father is the victim. Rajagopalan’s father passed away on March 10 after which he came in possession of his mobile phone.On March 22, an SMS arrived on the old man’s phone that claimed that a transaction request related to a mutual fund investment was declined due to a signature mismatch.The complainant went to his bank to check on his father’s bank account and found that a forged signature was used on March 24 to close a fixed deposit and funds worth ₹2,37,000 had gone missing. Moreover, money from his father’s bank account had also been moved, according to the complaint.A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 468 (forgery for cheating), and 471 (using forged document of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Vimantal police station||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bank-manager-employee-held-for-forging-deceased-customer-s-signature-accessing-funds-101620058508062.html
03-05-2021||Ranchi||Ramgarh hospital shifts patients for want of Covid drug||Amid the rapid rise in positive cases across Jharkhand, both hospitals and individuals were facing shortage of basic drugs prescribed for treatment of Covid-19. Facing this problem, a private hospital in Ramgarh was recently forced to shift all its Covid-19 patients to other hospitals, officials said on Monday.Proprietor of Niramaya Das Health Care Centre in Ramgarh, Dr Bhanu Das said, “I shifted all my our Covid-19 patients to other hospitals where beds were available two to three days back, as we were facing acute shortage of Covid-19 related medicines. I have no right to keep patients in the dark if I can’t treat them in absence of the drugs.”However, many patients at the hospital did not want to be shifted initially, Dr Das said. “I told them that I was ready to treat them provided they could arrange certain Covid-19 drugs. I gave them the prescription but they failed to find the medicines. Finally, they agreed to shift. We provided them hospital ambulance service for the same.”There were 24 beds, including three oxygen supported ones and a ventilator, at the hospital. Dr Das said demand of medicines used treating Covid-19 increased manifold with the rise in number of cases in the district. “I have heard that some big hospitals were stocking the medicines to avoid shortage during treatment. Besides, common people are also panic purchasing the drugs and stocking them for emergency purposes,” he said, adding that more than half of the total staff at the institution were also suffering from the disease.Director of state drugs control directorate Ritu Sahay could not be contacted for her comment over the issue despite repeated efforts. However, officials of Ramgarh administration said they received complaints anout medicine shortage a couple of days back. “But now, there is no such shortage. Frequent inspection of medical stores is also being done,” they said.Besides hospitals, Covid-19 patients, who are getting treatment while under home isolation, were also facing the same problem. A resident of Tenughat in Bokaro district, Siddhartha Shankar, who was recently detected with infection, said, “Almost all essential medicines for the disease are out of stock here. Most of the medicines prescribed by doctors such as Doxycycline, Ivermectine, L Montus, Zincobit or Zinc tablet are not available at medicine stores here. In such situation, how do we treat ourselves in home isolation?”Ramgarh registered 197 new cases and five deaths on Sunday, according to the state’s Covid-19 bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/ramgarh-hospital-shifts-patients-for-want-of-covid-drug-101620058148100.html
03-05-2021||Ranchi||Light rains, winds bring respite, likely to continue till May 9||Light rains coupled with moderate winds on Monday afternoon brought respite from the prevailing warm weather condition in the state, that will most likely be experiencing similar weather conditions till May 9, according to weather officials.Deputy director at Ranchi centre of India Meteorological Department (IMD), Abhishek Anand, said, “Due to interaction of westerly and easterly winds, Jharkhand’s weather took a turn on Monday. The weather pattern is likely to remain the same till May 8-9.”Ranchi on Monday recorded the maximum temperature at 35.2 degrees, around two degrees below the normal temperature. Even though the rainfall was scanty at 1.4mm, it was enough to cool the city’s weather, officials said. Ranchi also recorded significant fall in night temperature at 20.7 degree Celsius on Sunday night, 2.1 degrees below the normal.Anand said, “There is hardly any chance of heavy rains in the state due to lack of moisture. There is a system forming in Rajasthan, but winds coming from there carry limited amount of moisture. So, only light rain and winds are expected. Jharkhand can expect respite from the hot weather for at least a week.”Most parts of the state experienced relief from warm weather. Jamshedpur recorded 5mm rainfall, that brought down the day mercury at 37.5 degree Celsius. Similarly, Daltonganj recorded the day temperature at 38 degree Celsius. However, the district registered a mere 0.2mm of rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/light-rains-winds-bring-respite-likely-to-continue-till-may-9-101620057968011.html
03-05-2021||Pune||COEP launches month-long wellness programme for students||The College of Engineering Pune (COEP) has started a one month ‘mental health challenge’ for students this month with small activities to keep students stress free and regain happiness through studies. Several colleges are already running counselling sessions and mental wellbeing programmes for their students throughout the year. “From the last one and half years since the pandemic started, we are continuously working on our students for their mental wellbeing, as everyone of us are affected due to Covid and need mental support. Initially, we organised various online programmes and sessions for students, but as they were already overloaded with several online lectures and education series, we stopped that and focused more on group activity building, one to one counselling and mentoring sessions by senior students to new students. In the last one year, more than 1,000 students at COEP have benefited from this wellness programme,” said Kshipra Moghe, centre head of COEP wellness centre. COEP is one of the foremost engineering colleges in the country that has introduced a dedicated helpline for their students. Besides, the ‘COEP Mitra (friend)’ and ‘ICareWeCare’ initiatives have made a mentorship programme for this year’s new first year students. Around 600 newly admitted students are divided into batch of 20 students each, while each batch has a final year one student as their mentor along with a faculty teacher. “The new initiative which we have launched is mental health awareness month, which is celebrated in USA, and we are also doing it here for our students. Daily we give small activities or things to do to students which will give joy and a bit of relaxation to them. We all know that situation is worse outside, we are talking about it for a year but now we need to live with this new normal and get going forward. So, our focus was on the mental wellbeing as well as to be productive now in our studies and daily life. We have created a 30-day calendar for students, declared it on social media platforms and told students to share their daily activities,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/coep-launches-month-long-wellness-programme-for-students-101620057907967.html
03-05-2021||Other||CPI MLA survives bid on life||PATNAThe Samastipur police on Monday registered a case of attempt to murder against three persons in connection with the attack on the vehicle of CPI leader Ajay Kumar, the MLA from Bibhutipur, at Yogi Chowk under Ujiyarpur police station late Sunday night.Kumar said the incident took place when he was returning home after attending a wedding function. When he reached near Yogi Chowk, motorcycle-borne miscreants intercepted his vehicle, whipped out their firearms and tried to fire at him. However, the MLA’s bodyguards thwarted them and fired a few shots. The miscreants fled the spot, leaving behind their motorcycle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cpi-mla-survives-bid-on-life-101620057848013.html
03-05-2021||Other||4 wholesale veg markets to be relocated in Patna||PATNAThe Patna district administration has decided to relocate four wholesale vegetable markets to avoid crowding and help maintain Covid protocol, as the state capital continued to remain a hotspot, contributing 2,028 of the 11,407 new Covid-19 infections in the state during the last 24 hours on Monday. Patna also accounted for 24 of the 82 Covid-19 deaths in the state during this period, which takes the state’s cumulative casualties to 2,821 and cases to 5.09 lakh since the detection of the first Covid-19 case in the state on March 22 last year. Among those who died on Sunday were the registrar of the Veer Kuer Singh University Nanheshwar Prasad and Narvadeshwar Rai, principal of the Lokmanya Balgangadhar Tilak College, Buxar. The Patna district administration ordered shifting of the Mithapur wholesale vegetable market to Chitkohra ground and the Digha market to ITI Maidan, which were comparatively more spacious. It had also ordered shifting of the Kankerbagh and the Rajendra Nagar vegetable markets to Rainbow Maidan, Rajendra Nagar. Meanwhile, the health authorities have decided to add 112 oxygenated beds for Covid-19 patients at the Patliputra Sports Complex in Kankerbagh locality of Patna. “The system doesn’t show admission of patients at the Patliputra sports complex today. We are trying to make the facility functional as soon as possible,” said Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari Singh. “From May 1, we have added 100 beds at the ESIC Bihta hospital and 115 at the Rajendra Nagar eye hospital. Eighty-four of the 115 beds at the Rajendra Nagar facility are oxygenated beds,” said Dr Singh. “We’re increasing beds in Patna as well as in other medical college hospitals. We’ve a continuous supply of oxygen and we’re allotting oxygen to hospitals as per their need. We’re also working on increasing the availability of oxygen,” said an ANI tweet, quoting Bihar’s health minister Mangal Pandey. Other than Patna, Vaishali district contributed to 1,035 new infections, Gaya 662, Muzaffarpur 653 and West Champaran 549 among others during the last 24 hours on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-wholesale-veg-markets-to-be-relocated-in-patna-101620057787949.html
03-05-2021||Other||IMA for lockdown to break Covid chain||PATNAThe Indian Medical Association (IMA) has demanded an immediate national lockdown to break the chain of coronavirus, after 13,534 new infections and 97 deaths during the last 24 hours on Sunday took Bihar’s cumulative Covid-19 tally to 4.97 lakh cases and 2,739 deaths. “We will appeal to the government to impose an immediate 15-day national lockdown to break the Covid-19 chain,” said Dr Sahajanand Prasad Singh, president-elect of the IMA. Dr Singh, who has been advocating for a national lockdown for around 15 days now, said it would ease the burden on heathcare facilities, which are already stressed. Dr Ajay Kumar, acting president of the IMA, Bihar chapter, said many senior doctors and heads of institutions were also in favour of a lockdown. “Many senior doctors, I spoke to, are in favour of an immediate lockdown. I have spoken to the directors of AIIMS-Patna, Dr PK Singh, and the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), Dr NR Biswas, besides the principal of the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) Dr Vidyapati Choudhary, superintendents of PMCH Dr IS Thakur, NMCH Dr Binod Kumar Singh and the Netaji Subhas Medical College and Hospital Dr Uday Kumar, and they are unanimous about a lockdown,” said Dr Kumar. “We are also trying to involve in our campaign for a lockdown the heads of medical units of BJP and JD(U), but they are yet to respond,” Dr Kumar said. He said the United Kingdom and China did well to contain the spread of virus by imposing lockdowns. “The United States of America, on the other hand, had to pay a heavy price for not imposing a lockdown,” Dr Kumar said. Talking about the lack of awareness in rural areas, he said there were still many people who came for consultation at his private clinic in Maner without wearing mask, and he ended up giving them one in order to sensitise them against the virus. Besides, six out of seven people, who come to my clinic with complaint of fever, still do not get themselves tested for Covid-19, roaming around freely, without masks, spreading the virus in the society,” recollected Dr Kumar. “Free movement of all such people will be curbed and the Covid-19 chain broken in case a lockdown is imposed, though some may argue that the country’s economy will suffer. Still, the risk is worth taking,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ima-for-lockdown-to-break-covid-chain-101620057728673.html
03-05-2021||Other||Bihar govt gripped in a state of indecision: HC||PATNAThe Patna High Court Monday said the state’s health department was fighting the Covid battle without of help of experts in their respective fields and the hospitals were struggling without adequate supply of oxygen, important drugs and manpower. “It is like complete failure, as infection seems to be unabated. The government seems to be gripped in a state of indecision,” it said.The court’s observation came after the director of the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), Patna, declared Covid hospital by the state government, said it had only 200 beds available, including 60 ICU beds, and it could not admit more patients due to irregular/short supply of oxygen cylinders and lack of required manpower. The bench of Justice Chakradhari Sharan Singh and Justice Mohit Kumar Shah observed that the situation was even worse at ESIC Hospital in Bihta after the authorities informed the court about the problems due to non-availability of medicines. “The doctors deputed there by the armed forces are virtually sitting idle. The government is not able to provide adequate support,” the court was informed. Upset over wrong facts submitted before the court that IGIMS was fully converted into Covid hospital and ESIC had 500 beds, the bench said that what the state government had furnished before the court in the name of a comprehensive action could “by no means be treated as an action plan, let alone a comprehensive action plan”. “We had directed the state government to prepare a comprehensive action plan for Covid management on April 15 and since then we have been reiterating during every hearing, but to no avail,” it observed. The court said that in the absence of an action plan, the system appeared to be moving aimlessly. “When the court wanted to know whether the state determined the quantity of oxygen it would require for treating Covid patients, it was informed that such determination is based on the number of patients in hospitals. This calculation is not displayed in the so-called action plan. We want a war room, comprising experts, to be developed to deal with the alarming situation,” it said. The bench also took note of the black marketing of essential drugs and oxygen and said it would hear all the aspects again on Tuesday, including the composition of an experts’ group. Advocate general Lalit Kishore, appearing for the state, told the court that if permitted, the state shall constitute a team of experts to advise the state government. Additional advocate general Anjani Kumar informed the court that against the allocated quota of 194 MT of oxygen by the Centre, Bihar had lifted 134 MT. “The state is facing unprecedented challenge, but a government hospital with less beds is raising demand for more oxygen, while others with more beds are struggling for it. The pace of RTPCR tests is also very slow and even slower is the supply of reports to the patients. The undertaking of the health department that the CT value will be displayed in all the RTPCR reports is also not fully honoured. It is a matter of serious concern for us, as it adversely affects treatment. The state must inform the court regarding development in this regard,” the court said. The court had last week expressed displeasure over lack of a strong information system and directed the state’s principal secretary (health) to ensure that the information regarding Covid care centres and hospitals, with their respective addresses and phone numbers, are put on the website of the health department by Friday so that the people in need may approach appropriate centers/hospitals for Covid treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-govt-gripped-in-a-state-of-indecision-hc-101620057727950.html
03-05-2021||Other||After hospitals, a dedicated crematorium for Covid patients||PATNAConsidering the rising number of Covid-19 deaths and long wait at crematoriums, the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to dedicate Bans Ghat crematorium for cremation of Covid-19 victims from Tuesday onwards, said PMC officials on Monday.The civic body has made an alternative arrangement at Patna City-based Nandgola ghat for performing last rites of those who have died of other ailments.Municipal commissioner Himanshu Sharma said, “As crematoriums are witnessing long queues because of Covid-19 deaths, we have decided to dedicate Bans Ghat crematorium for the last rites of Covid-19 patients. Rest of the cremation sites, including Gulbi Ghat, Khajekalan Ghat and Nandgola Ghat, will continue the cremation of Covid and non-Covid patients. Like other crematoriums, Nandgola Ghat will also have CCTV camera installation and ‘May I help you’ desk for strict vigil and assistance of grieving families.”“To overcome shortage of wooden pyres at all crematoriums, we have procured the same from Bengal and Sikkim. We have provided 250 tonnes of wooden pyres at Khajekala Ghat and 20 tonnes at Gulbi ghat. Around 50 tonnes of wood will reach here on Tuesday,” he said.PMC provides electric and wooden cremation facilities of Covid-19 victims for free and fixed rates for non-Covid deaths at all three ghats under its jurisdiction. Sharma appealed to people to contact control rooms and provide prior information before visiting cremation sites.“People are requested to inform control rooms of crematoriums and enquire about time slot before taking the bodies of the deceased there. Prior information will help crematorium staff make advance preparations for last rites. This will minimise the time required for cremation and prevent gathering at ghats,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-hospitals-a-dedicated-crematorium-for-covid-patients-101620057667916.html
03-05-2021||Pune||Gang of six arrested for robbing senior citizen couple in Sindh colony||The Pune police arrested a group of six men from various places in Maharashtra for locking a couple of senior citizens in their bathroom before stealing valuables from their house in Sindh Colony on April 25, according to Pankaj Deshmukh, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-4, Pune. The six people were identified as Sandeep Bhagwan Hande (25), Kishor Kalyan Changhate (21), Bholesh alias Krushna Kisan Chavan (25) all residents of Pimpalkheda in Gangapur, Aurangabad; Mangesh Bandu Gunde (20), a resident of Ambad in Jalna; Rahul Kailas Bavne (22), a resident of Peer Kalya Seed in Jalna; Vikram Deepak Thapa (19), a resident of Vinay nagar in Indiranagar, Nashik, according to the police. The six people entered the houses of these people by posing as representatives of care-taker bureaus and conducted reconnaissance before returning to the house, locking up the residents and stealing from them. The police have recovered valuables including three motorcycles, gold and diamond jewellery, and cameras collectively worth ₹17,50,000, according to DCP Deshmukh. Two teams were formed to track the men in various locations including Aurangabad, Nashik, and Jalna. Along with the case in which they were arrested, they were also found to be involved in two other cases registered at Chaturshringi police station in the past four months based on the recovered valuables. The two other cases are also similar in nature where the men entered the house, locked up senior citizen residents, and stole from them. Upon further investigation, the police found that the men collectively have seven other cases registered against them in other parts of Pune, Aurangabad, and Jalna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gang-of-six-arrested-for-robbing-senior-citizen-couple-in-sindh-colony-101620057367735.html
03-05-2021||Pune||Absconding Army hawaldar arrested for cheating using fake notes||An absconding Indian Army hawaldar was arrested in Pune on Sunday for being in possession of false currency notes of demonetised denomination and using it to cheat people. The man was identified as Annasaheb Arjun Ghaytidak (36), a resident of Range Hills area of Khadki in Pune. The police are on a lookout for one other person identified as Nabab Ali, a resident of Sanjay Park, in the case. A team of anti-dacoity and vehicle theft cell-2 raided Ghaytidak’s house to initially find 56 bundles of Indian currency notes. The first note in each bundle was the demonetised note of ₹1,000 followed by 99 notes of “Manoranjan Bank of India” printed on them. Similarly, 400 duplicate notes of ₹500 denomination were also found. Upon checking the man’s vehicle, the police recovered six gunny bags full of such bundles. In those six gunny bags, the police found a total of 288 bundles of ₹1,000 notes. The total worth of the face value of all the seized notes was found to be ₹24,35,440. The police also seized the arrested man’s vehicle, a Tata Safari, found to be worth ₹3 lakh. The man was found to be a Hawaldar in the Indian Army who had been absconding from his post at 521 ASC Battalion in Guwahati, Assam since February 2020, according to the police. The police had raided the place based on an anonymous information input but later found a witness called Santosh Ramchandra Raje (43), a resident of Satara who was duped of ₹4 lakh by the duo. The duo had convinced Raje that they had demonetised notes of ₹1,000 worth 200 crore collected from non-resident Indians (NRI). The duo had made Raje believe that the Reserve Bank of India was now exchanging notes collected from NRIs. The duo then promised a 5 per cent commission to whoever could get the new ₹2,000 notes for half of the money they made the victim believe that they had. However, when Raje approached them to take up the job, they took ₹4 lakh from him as deposit. However, as Raje could not find a legitimate method of changing the money, he started asking for his deposit back but never got it. A case under Sections 489(c), 420, and 34 of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 7 of the Specified Bank Notes Act 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/absconding-army-hawaldar-arrested-for-cheating-using-fake-notes-101620057247698.html
03-05-2021||Pune||PMC flouts own rules on tree plantation in Hadapsar, Mohammadwadi and Kondhwa||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is flouting their rules for tree plantation especially in areas of Hadapsar, Mohammadwadi and Kondhwa, according to Om Kare, a member of the Hadapsar Mohalla committee, under Hadapsar ward office.A letter was sent by Kare to the PMC road department as well to the Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar bringing to their notice that they were not following their own rules when it came to planting new trees. Kare said, “There are several new roads being built in areas like Hadapsar with road connecting Kalapadal and Chintamani Nagar, Mohammadwadi road, the road along Pune-Kolhapur railway line from Ramtekadi to Sasane Nagar, Phursungi border, Kondhwa to Katraj road, the connecting road from Magarpatta to Koregaon Park and Kharadi bypass to Mundhwa. There is not a single new tree planted.” “According to the tree authority rules and urban street design, any new roads have to have trees as they are essential to provide shade to road users especially, pedestrians and cyclists, to reduce local ambient heat and provide cooler atmosphere as well as improve quality of air by absorbing pollutants,” he added. As recommended by IRC codes, street trees should typically be upright and branched above 2.4m to provide adequate walking clearance under branches. It is mandatory to have tree pits (0.6 X 0.6) which provide space for tree growth. Tree pits can be individual, elongated or connected. They may be surfaced with porous pavers, or grates that allow water to readily flow to the root zone. Vijay Shinde, superintending engineer of the PMC road department said, “We have been planting trees in various areas wherever they are uprooted to make new pavements. I am not aware of the progress of the new roads and if there is any pending work, will inspect and plant new trees accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-flouts-own-rules-on-tree-plantation-in-hadapsar-mohammadwadi-and-kondhwa-101620057187632.html
03-05-2021||Pune||Gutkha products worth ₹2 crore seized from Lonavla||The Pune rural police have detained four people and are on a lookout for three others for producing large quantities of gutkha and other tobacco products in a factory in Lonavla. The total worth of the seized material is estimated to be around ₹2,09,70,000, according to Navneen Kunwat, sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) of Lonavla division. The factory was running out of a structure in Fangane village in Lonavla, located along the old Pune-Mumbai highway. “We got information from people in that vicinity that something wrong was happening in a building in that area. We did not know what was happening, so we went there and found these people producing large quantities of something and filling it in drums. We found 118 different types of chemicals. Upon questioning, the people present there revealed that it was gutkha. They produced patents of nine different brands of gutkha when it is illegal to produce gutkha in Maharashtra. So, we are investigating where they acquired the patent from. This product was clearly made illegally,” said SDPO Kunwat. The men were found preparing gutkha of different varieties and revealed that the drums filled with these products were transported to another facility where it was packaged in different brands’ packets, according to the police. “We are investigating where they bought this quantity of raw material from and where they sell it,” said SDPO Kunwat. A case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and National Food Security Act 2013 was registered at Lonavla rural police station against seven people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gutkha-products-worth-rs-2-crore-seized-from-lonavla-101620057127643.html
03-05-2021||Pune||Police crack December 2019 murder case during investigation of another murder||In the course of solving one murder case, the Pune police detected another murder case that had been undetected since December 2019, according to a statement issued by Hadapsar police station officials. The police were investigating the murder of a woman named Shubhangi Sagar Lokhande (21) who was killed in Shivshaktinagar chowk in Bhekrainagar area of Hadapsar on the morning of April 7. The case was registered at Hadapsar police station under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) when the woman’s body was found. Upon investigation, the police found that the woman had been killed by her husband Sagar Balu Lokhande (23), a resident of Uruli Devachi area of Pune. During interrogation, the man revealed that he was enraged about his wife getting in touch with her former husband, according to the police statement. “During a fight with the arrested man, his wife had revealed that her (former) husband had already killed a man in the past and that he would kill him if he tried to break them up,” read the police statement in Marathi. The former husband was identified as Santosh Sahdev Shinde (27), a resident of Kamthe Ali area of Fursungi in Hadapsar. The police tried to find him at his address to investigate the murder that the deceased woman had allegedly told the arrested man about. However, the police found out that the man had been missing from his own address for the past year and a half. At the time of Shinde’s disappearance, in December 2019, the police found an undetected murder case registered at Hadapsar police station. The deceased in that case was Narsingh Vitthal Gavhane (65) who was found dead in the burning ghats of Fursungi with his head bashed with a brick. The police found Shinde at his sister’s place in Chikhali on April 9 and interrogated him to find that he had killed Gavhane. However, he was found to be Covid-19 positive upon arrest and sent to Sassoon Hospital for treatment. He was remanded to police custody to April 21 and later sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/police-crack-december-2019-murder-case-during-investigation-of-another-murder-101620057067652.html
03-05-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh's Covid-19 caseload crosses 6 lakh mark; 12,062 new cases seen||Madhya Pradesh's Covid-19 tally on Monday passed the six lakh mark after 12,062 people were detected with the infection, an official said.The caseload in MP now stands at 6,00,430, including 5,905 deaths, 93 of which took place during the day, he added.The official said 13,408 people were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, taking the recovery count in the state to 5,08,775, leaving it with 85,750 active cases."With 1,787 new cases, Indore's caseload went up to 1,16,280, while that of Bhopal rose to 94,803 with the addition of 1,669 cases. Indore's toll rose by eight to touch 1,163, and 12 deaths took the toll in Bhopal to 758. The active cases in Indore and Bhopal stands at 10,819 and 11,488 respectively," he informed.With 59,448 samples being examined in the last 24 hours, the number of tests in MP crossed 79.28 lakh.Coronavirus figures in MP are as follows: Total cases 6,00,430, new cases 12,062, death toll 5,905, recovered 5,08,775, active cases 85,750, number of tests so far 79,28,482.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-s-covid-19-caseload-crosses-6-lakh-mark-12-062-new-cases-seen-101620053949623.html
03-05-2021||Patna||Indian Medical Association calls for lockdown to break chain of Covid-19||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has demanded an immediate national lockdown to break the chain of Covid-19 infections after 13,534 new infections and 97 deaths during the last 24 hours on Sunday took Bihar’s cumulative Covid-19 tally to 4.97 lakh cases and 2,739 deaths.“We will appeal to the government to impose an immediate 15-day national lockdown to break the Covid-19 chain,” said Dr Sahajanand Prasad Singh, president (elect) of the national IMA.Dr Singh has been advocating for a national lockdown for around a fortnight. He said the IMA would continue to urge the government to impose a nationwide lockdown as it would lessen the burden on the healthcare facilities which are already stressed.Dr Ajay Kumar, acting president of the IMA, Bihar unit, said many senior doctors and heads of institutions were also in favour of a lockdown.“Many senior doctors I spoke to are in favour of an immediate lockdown. I have spoken to the directors of AIIMS-Patna, Dr PK Singh, and the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), Dr NR Biswas, besides the principal of the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) Dr Vidyapati Choudhary, superintendents of PMCH Dr IS Thakur, NMCH Dr Binod Kumar Singh and the Netaji Subhas Medical College and Hospital Dr Uday Kumar. All of them are unanimous about a lockdown,” said Dr Kumar.“We are also trying to involve the heads of medical units of the BJP and the JD(U) in our campaign for a lockdown but they are yet to respond,” Dr Kumar added.He said the United Kingdom and China did well to contain the spread of the virus by imposing lockdowns. “The United States of America, on the other hand, had to pay a heavy price for not imposing a lockdown,” added Dr Kumar.Talking about the lack of awareness in rural areas, he said there were still many people who came for consultation at his private clinic in Maner without wearing a mask. He said he would give sanitiser and masks to such patients to sensitise them against the virus."Six out of seven people who come to my clinic complaining of fever still do not get themselves tested for Covid-19 and roam around freely, without masks,” Dr Kumar said.“Free movement of all such people will be curbed and the Covid-19 chain will be broken in case a lockdown is imposed, though some may argue that the country’s economy will suffer. Still, the risk is worth taking,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/indian-medical-association-calls-for-lockdown-to-break-chain-of-covid19-101620054441045.html
03-05-2021||Delhi||‘Essential life support machines’: Sisodia seeks GST exemption on oxygen concentrators for 6 months||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday requested Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to consider exempting the goods and services tax (GST) on oxygen concentrators for six months in order to make them more affordable for citizens.The health infrastructure of Delhi is crippling amid the shortage of oxygen supplies to treat the critical patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Several patients have lost their lives in the national capital since last month as hospitals have only managed to make temporary arrangements to address the oxygen shortage and their supplies are exhausting regularly.In a letter to Sitharaman, Sisodia said oxygen concentrators have become essential life support machines during this unprecedented health crisis. “Oxygen concentrators are in short supply and even if one manages to arrange an oxygen cylinder, there is an unprecedented shortfall in the availability of medical oxygen creating uncertainty and panic among patients under home isolation. There is no availability of oxygen concentrators in the market,” Sisodia said.Also Read| Delhi to receive 205 tonnes of liquid oxygen in Railways’ biggest single-day loadCiting Delhi’s Covid-19 disease situation, the deputy chief minister wrote there have been 25,000 fresh cases on a daily basis and 10% of these require some form of hospitalisation including oxygen support. Over 50,000 patients are in home isolation and around a quarter of them require some sort of oxygen support at home due to difficulty in availability of beds in the national capital.Sisodia informed Sitharaman that there are 16,272 non-ICU oxygen beds and 4,866 ICU beds in Delhi and the Aam-Aadmi Party-led government is creating additional 15,000 oxygenated non-ICU beds and 1,200 ICU beds “which are likely to be operationalised over the next 10 days.”The deputy chief minister also wrote that he was grateful to the Centre for allowing import of oxygen concentrators for personal use through e-commerce portals till July 31 and the reduction of integrated GST (IGST) on these imports from 28% to 12%.Also Read| Centre exempts imported Covid-19 relief material from IGST till June 30 for free distributionEarlier in the day, Sisodia wrote to Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, seeking the Indian Army’s help to set up and operationalise coronavirus facilities with 1,000 ICU beds and 10,000 oxygenated non-ICU beds.Also Watch| Delhi Covid crisis: Sisodia seeks Army’s help; speaks on oxygen shortage﻿Nearly 1.2 million have been infected with Covid-19 in Delhi while 16,966 have succumbed to the disease. On Sunday, 20,394 new cases were reported while the daily toll remained above 400 (407 to be exact) for the second consecutive day. The overall recoveries have climbed to 1,085,690 while the active cases are at 92,290.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sisodia-writes-to-sitharaman-for-gst-exemption-on-oxygen-concentrators-101620054071214.html
03-05-2021||Pune||Covid second wave: Young patients in grip of ‘Happy Hypoxia’||Pune: The second Covid wave has infected many young population (0-25 years), unlike the first outbreak. Young people are reporting lung infections and suffering from “Happy Hypoxia”, a condition where the patient does not know that their blood oxygen level is low and continue with their daily activities. According to medical experts, non-regular monitoring of oxygen saturation levels in these cases could cause death also as the drop could be too steep and youngsters would not realise because of their high immunity and health. The normal oxygen saturation in bloodstream of a healthy person is above 95 per cent, but these cases could display dangerous decline of as less as 40% and would need immediate oxygen support and in critical cases, ventilators as well. Dr Kapil Zirpe, a member on the city and district Covid-19 task force and head of department, critical care at Ruby Hall Clinic, said that patients with mild and severe symptoms show “Happy Hypoxia”. “Some patients who are at home also display drastic drop of oxygen levels which is common in this condition,” said Dr Zirpe. Dr Dnyaneshwar Mote, member of the Pune city Covid task force for Social Action, said that at least 10 per cent of patients showing “Happy Hypoxia” will need critical care. “This condition is seen in patients with mild symptoms or who are asymptomatic. They may not show symptoms of breathlessness but their SPO2 (blood oxygen saturation) levels are dangerously low. This can worsen the Covid symptoms and damage lungs severely,” said Dr Mote. He said patients should regularly monitor oxygen level in blood. “If they notice a drop in oxygen, they must contact their physician immediately and arrange for a bed before symptoms get worse. Patients who are treated in time can recover fast without much lung damage in Covid,” said Dr Mote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-second-wave-young-patients-in-grip-of-happy-hypoxia-101620053168403.html
03-05-2021||City||'Govt not showing true picture of Covid-19 situation': Goa resident doctors||Goa's resident doctors, who are at the frontline of dealing with the pandemic, have written to the Dean of Goa Medical College complaining that the ‘higher authorities’ are misleading the state about its preparedness to tackle the growing number of Covid-19 patients developing serious complications, HT has learnt.“The oxygen supply in various covid wards is not even close to sufficient. The central oxygen flow delivers a very low flow of oxygen at times and that is inadequate to keep NIVS and ventilators working effectively. Also, the oxygen cylinders being used for patients get over in the middle of the night and it takes at least 2-3 hours for replacement cylinders to come. Sometimes, when patients are kept without oxygen during this time, their oxygen levels drop to as low as 60%,” the doctors said in their letter.“The situation with respect to the availability of beds is even worse. Some critical patients have to be managed on trolleys and floors and are kept on ventilators in the critical covid wards. Wards with a capacity of 30 beds have more than 50 patients on average,” they added.“Every day we read in the news that all higher authorities are saying that there is no issue of oxygen and beds. People come and ask us if that is the case then why are patients kept on trolleys/wheelchairs/floor and not getting oxygen? In the middle of the night when oxygen gets over, patients' condition worsens and some even die. The junior doctors on duty are the ones who face angry relatives,” the doctors said.The portal set up by the Goa government to inform about the availability of beds shows that there are more than 50 beds available in health facilities across the state while the actual availability is close to none.Goa reported 2,023 fresh cases taking its tally past the 95,000-mark while the total number of patients who have succumbed since the beginning of the pandemic is nearly 1,300. Over the last couple of days, Goa has recorded deaths in excess of 50 per day.The resident doctors also spoke about a ‘VIP’ culture which they say is forcing them to admit VIP patients despite such patients not requiring hospitalisation.“Residents in covid casualty who are managing more than 30 new patients at a time are told to see these "VIP" patients on a preferential basis and get them admitted fast, even if many times, they don't require admission. The other critical patients who have been waiting for 2-3 hours to be seen then fight with us,” the doctors said.State health minister Vishwajit Rane assured to "resolve their grievances".“The GARD has been our backbone in this fight against Covid-19. During our interaction, we took suggestions from them and also assured them that all their issues will be resolved at the earliest. The government will provide support to them in resolving their issues as their concerns were valid,” Rane said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-not-showing-true-picture-of-covid-19-situation-goa-resident-doctors-101620052056695.html
03-05-2021||Other||Rare butterfly species documented on Vetal tekdi by city research students||PUNE The Plains Blue Royal butterfly has been sighted for the first time in the Pune district on Vetal tekdi (hill) in 2020.This butterfly is one among findings on 87 butterflies on Vetal tekdi by five students from the city whose research has been published in the Journal of the Indian Ecological Society in April. Besides the Indian Plains Blue Royal, the students also found several seasonal butterflies like the Silverlines, Albatrosses, and Orange and Crimson Tips, as well as Pioneers and Gulls.The research paper is a collaboration between Rajat Joshi and Kalyani Bawa, students of environmental sciences in Fergusson College; and Advait Chaudhari and Atharva Bapat, data science students at MIT, Pune; and Swanand Oak, a student of hospitality sciences. The five began to document these butterfly species from 2017. “We traversed six different paths connected to the hill and documented the butterfly species using line transect methods in sunlight conditions on pleasant sunny days,” said Joshi.“Butterflies are amongst the most important creatures thriving in an ecosystem. These are sensitive to their habitat changes and we get to know the state of a particular habitat due to their presence. These are vital pollinating agents and an important food link in the intricate food chains,” said Joshi, who got interested in butterfly watching and photography in Fergusson College, due to a college assignment. “Vetal tekdi is in the heart of the Pune city and an attraction to various nature lovers due to the varied ecological forms here. Many people enjoy the proximity of the green woodland trees, grasslands and the stone quarry filled with water for most of the year. The hill is decorated with various life-forms prevailing on it,” said Kalyani Bawa.From being Sunday photographers of flora and fauna, the students aimed at protection of the butterfly species. “There has been construction planned on the hill premises which would prove dangerous for the local biodiversity to thrive. Thus, considering the ecological point of view, along with educating the people about the lesser known aspects of nature, we selected the hill,” said Joshi.“The most important thing is public participation. Linking the scientific knowledge with the citizens will develop awareness about the rare butterfly species. The awareness would lead to a people’s movement in protecting and conserving the butterflies, as well as the tekdi, from human disturbances,” added Joshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rare-butterfly-species-documented-on-vetal-tekdi-by-city-research-students-101620051546742.html
03-05-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh records 288 more Covid-19 deaths, 29,192 new cases||Uttar Pradesh on Monday recorded 288 more Covid-19 deaths which pushed the toll to 13,447 while the infection tally rose to 13,42,413 with 29,192 fresh cases, an official statement said.Of the fresh Covid-19 deaths, Lucknow reported 26 followed by Allahabad (25), Jhansi (21), Gorakhpur (19), Kanpur and Chandauli (17 each), Gautam Buddh Nagar (13), Varanasi (11), and Meerut (10), it said.Of the new cases, 3,058 were reported from Lucknow, 1,446 from Gautam Buddh Nagar, 1,404 from Moradabad, 1,311 from Kanpur, 1,222 from Saharanpur, 1,097 from Gorakhpur, 1,082 from Amroha and 1,022 from Varanasi, the statement said.As many as 38,687 Covid-19 patients have recovered from the disease in the state taking the total number of discharged patients to 10,43,134.The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 2,85,832, the statement said.In the last 24 hours, more than 2.29 lakh samples were tested for Covid-19 while so far, over 4.15 crore samples have been tested in the state, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-records-288-more-covid-19-deaths-29-192-new-cases-101620050218673.html
03-05-2021||Other||Jica, riverfront devp projects hinge on PMC ability to ensure all sewage generated is treated||PUNE Though, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to spend at least ₹1,000 crore to treat sewage water released into the Mula-Mutha river, the PMC still has to install an additional sewage treatment plant to its waste management portfolio.The PMC has begun work on two major projects which are inter-dependent. The Japan International Cooperation Agency (Jica) funded pollution abatement of the Mula-Mutha river and the Mula-Mutha riverfront development project.Under the Jica project, the PMC will construct 11 new sewage treatment plants (STPs) in different parts of the city.Presently, the city generates 744 million litres per day (MLD) of sewage and treats 550 MLD. The project will create an additional treatment capacity of 396 MLD. This includes the laying down of 113.6km of sewage lines and renovation/rehabilitation of four existing intermediate pumping stations. When the Jica project is completed in 2025, it will process 850 MLD of sewage, whereas the sewage generation in the city then is expected to increase to 1,200 MLD.The riverfront development project aims to curb sewage flowing directly into Pune’s rivers by laying an interceptor sewer, which will curb and divert the sewage to the nearest STP. It therefore becomes essential to plan for infrastructure services in advance. The embankment will be so designed that it will house the interceptor sewer line.Vivek Velankar, convenor of the Sajag Nagrik Manch, said, “On the riverfront development project, the corporation is assuming that Jica will take care of all the sewage water. However, Jica will happen in 2025 and will treat only 860 MLD of sewage water, as mentioned in the project. By that time, there will be an increase of 350 MLD of sewage flowing into the river. The whole riverfront development project will be useless. Due to the merger of new villages, sewage will increase.”He added, “Jica and the riverfront projects are dependent on each other. If we cannot stop sewage and clean rivers, there is no use implementing a riverfront project. If all sewage released in the river is not treated, finally public money will be wasted.” Mashish Ghorpade, director and a member of Jeevitnadi, said, “Before implementing a riverfront development project, PMC should frame water quality norms. PMC should achieve a certain type of water quality. Otherwise, there is no point in spending crores of rupees on the project.Sarang Yadwadkar, environmentalist, said, “The river should be clean before implementing a riverfront development project. PMC has to give priority to cleaning the river rather than beautification of the riverfront.” Mangesh Dhighe, PMC’s environment officer said, “Water has to be treated. There is definitely a requirement of more sewage treatment plants because of the addition of villages. We will air mark the areas for new STPs. If Jica falls short, we definitely need more numbers of STPs.”Jagdish Khanore, project head of Jica, said, “The main purpose of Jica is to treat sewage water and release it in the river so that clean water will flow in the river. Jica has considered the project population of the existing city area. It has not considered the proposed merger of 23 villages in PMC limits. We will have to make another plan to treat sewage water generated in these villages. At present, we have made plans for the 11 merged villages worth ₹392 crore, to treat 107 MLD of sewage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jica-riverfront-devp-projects-hinge-on-pmc-ability-to-ensure-all-sewage-generated-is-treated-101620050406678.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Non-essential services suspended in Chandigarh for a week, starting Tuesday||In a bid to control the spread of Covid-19 in Chandigarh, the UT administration on Monday clamped week-long restrictions in the city on the pattern of Punjab.As per the fresh orders, there will be day time restrictions from 5pm on May 4 to 5am on May 11. The complete weekend lockdown will also continue during this period.While there will be no restriction on inter-state movement, those entering Chandigarh without Covid negative reports or vaccine certificates will be subject to random testing.As per the latest UT order, all shops selling non-essential items will remain closed. Recruitment exams, except those like UPSC, will be postponed.Visitors entering government offices will also be required to produce vaccination certificates or Covid negative reports.The decisions were taken in the Covid review meeting held here on Monday. In the meeting, chaired by the Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, there was a detailed discussion on the restrictive steps, including lockdown measures, taken by the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana. “In view of the fact that Chandigarh is the common capital of Punjab and Haryana, total sealing of borders will not be possible. It was also felt that a total lockdown for a long period will adversely affect the economy and may also lead to migration of labourers from the city, thereby causing massive disruption,” said a UT spokesperson.Several previously imposed restrictions have been retained. All government offices and banks will work at 50% capacity. As far as possible, all private offices will ensure that their staff work from home. Public transport will run at 50% capacity.The ban on cinema halls, gyms, spa, bar, swimming pool and coaching centres will continue. Sports complexes will also remain closed. Special permission can be given by secretary (sports) to athletes preparing for Olympics etc. Crowded places such as Sukhna Lake, museums, libraries, Rock Garden etc. will remain closed for public.Restaurants, including cafes, coffee shops and eating joints will be allowed to provide only take away services. These won’t be allowed to offer sit-in services. Home deliveries will be allowed till 9pm.The complete ban on all social, cultural, sports and political gatherings will continue. Gathering for occasions such as marriages will be restricted to 50 and for cremation/funeral, it will be 20 persons.Schools, colleges and coaching centres will remain closed. However, teaching staff will be required to come as per detailed instructions to be issued by the education department.Meanwhile, all hospitals, nursing homes and health-related facilities like testing laboratories etc. will function normally. Shops selling essential items like milk, bread, vegetables, fruits, dairy products, eggs, meat and mobile repair are also allowed to run as normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nonessential-services-suspended-in-chandigarh-for-a-week-starting-tuesday-101620046628599.html
03-05-2021||Other||Karnataka bypolls gives hope for Congress revival in state||The Congress emerged victorious in one of the three bypolls in Karnataka and managed to make significant gains in Belagavi that infuses new hope into a party, which analysts said, appears to nurse the potential to reinvigorate its fledgling strategies and its chances in the 2023 assembly elections.Despite the poor outing of the Congress in other state elections, such as West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Kerala among other places, the results in Karnataka paint a picture of hope for a chance at power for the Congress. DK Shivakumar, the party’s state unit president, said that the results hint that the people were showing their confidence in the party.With just two years to go for the assembly polls, the Congress has an opportunity to capitalise on the internal bickering within the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the growing voices against chief minister BS Yediyurappa, they add.“If they (Congress) make their candidate choice strategically and carefully, they can fight the BJP,” A Narayana, political analyst and faculty at the Azim Premji University in Bengaluru said.Also Read | Karnataka deputy CM Ashwathnarayan appointed as chairman of Covid-19 task forceNayarayan adds that Satish Jarkiholi was a strong local face who was not “paradropped” by the high command, and has influence over the district which can help “stop the juggernaut” of the BJP. The BJP is a cadre-based party as opposed to the Congress that depends on mass support. The supporters of the BJP are more likely to vote for the party and Prime Minister Narendra Modi than the candidate but the same may not be true for the Congress.Analysts said that the Congress has gained in Karnataka by decentralising power, leaving more decision-making powers with the local units than with the high command. However, this has led to the creation of local chieftains like Siddharamaiah who refuse to cede control over party affairs to Shivakumar, who is party president in the state, analysts said. In the case of Belagavi, the party chose Satish Jarkiholi, a legislator known to be politically tactful, despite his well-known differences with Shivakumar, who is known to put the interests of the party over his personal gains. Jarkiholi lost Belagavi by just around 5,200 votes against Mangala Suresh Angadi. In comparison, the Congress candidate in 2019 lost to the late Suresh Angadi of the BJP in 2019 by a margin of nearly 400,000 votes.Though the BJP has made light of any talk on Congress revival in Karnataka, indicators such as local body elections, run on extremely hyper local issues, point to a potentially contrasting narrative.The Congress won six out of the 10 urban local body (ULB) elections across several districts in Karnataka, including pockets of Shivamogga, the home district of chief minister Yediyurappa.The results came as an embarrassment to the ruling BJP, which is yet to put its house in order despite being in power for two years in the state. With allegations of mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic situation, poor performance, cash crunch, running a parallel administration through his second son (BY Vijayendra) and simmering dissent, Yediyurappa has spent most of his time in office managing one crisis after another.The other factor, analysts said, that was helping the Congress was the gradual dilution of the former prime minister HD Deve Gowda and former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy-led Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S).Analysts also said that the Congress has put Siddharamaiah and Shivakumar at the helm of affairs which gives them the best chance for a revival, if the two can manage to put their differences aside.“We have seen the gradual dilution of the JD(S), are increasingly getting marginalised and searching for a political identity for themselves. So that gives the Congress greater credibility in terms of revivalism in Karnataka politics,” Vinod MJ, a Bengaluru-based political analyst said.“This is a kind of revival that the BJP cannot ignore,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnataka-bypolls-gives-hope-for-congress-revival-in-state-101620046566380.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||60-year-old Covid patient ends life in Rewari hospital||A 60-year-old Covid patient committed suicide by jumping off the third floor of the Civil Hospital in Rewari on Monday. The patient had retired from the post of sub divisional officer (SDO) in the state’s power department recently. Also read: Govt to rope in medical interns, final yr MBBS students to fight new Covid waveHospital authorities said the patient had been brought to the isolation ward on Sunday after he tested positive. Doctors said he was rushed to the trauma centre but was declared brought dead. A police spokesman said the victim’s son told them that his father was mentally upset for the past many months. “We are collecting CCTV footage of the incident and interrogating the medical staff of the isolation ward about the incident,” the spokesman added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/60yearold-covid-patient-ends-life-in-rewari-hospital-101620046446514.html
03-05-2021||Bhopal||Damoh bypolls: Madhya Pradesh BJP candidate blames internal sabotage for defeat||The BJP's Rahul Lodhi on Monday blamed "massive internal sabotage" for his defeat at the hands of Congressman Ajay Tandon in the Damoh bypoll in Madhya Pradesh, the result of which was announced a day earlier.Tandon beat Lodhi by 17,097 votes, the bypoll having been necessitated after the latter left the Congress and joined the BJP late last year.Speaking to reporters in the early hours of the day, Lodhi said, "The reason for my defeat is absolutely clear. It was due to massive internal sabotage. We lost heavily from the urban areas. People who said the BJP was like their mother have committed dishonesty."Queried about who he was referring to, Lodhi said, "It is senior BJP leader and former MP minister Jayant Malaiya (74) and his family. They are solely responsible for my defeat. We lost in their ward. We lost heavily in city areas where Malaiya's son Siddharth was supposed to drum up support for us."He said the "Malaiya family gameplan" had succeeded while the BJP had lost, and demanded that they be expelled from the party.During the day, Union Minister and senior MP BJP leader Prahlad Patel too had blamed "conspiracies" on the part of insiders for the party's defeat in the Damoh bypoll.The Damoh bypoll result gives clear indications of future challenges, conspiracies and improvements in the system and workers will find solutions through diligence and without being malicious, Patel, the local Lok Sabha MP, had said in a tweet.While former state minister Jayant Malaiya, who was BJP MLA for several terms from the area earlier, stayed away from the bypoll campaign, sources said there were several local leaders in the party who were upset with Lodhi joining it.Lodhi, incidentally, had defeated Malaiya in the 2018 Assembly polls, though the former at the time was in the Congress.MP Home minister Narottam Mishra on Monday said "we lost Damoh due to out own Jaichands".It is a common reference for an insider who betrays, the term coming from the role played by Jaichand who back- stabbed Prithviraj Chauhan in the latter's fight against invader Muhammad Ghori in the 12th century.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/damoh-bypolls-madhya-pradesh-bjp-candidate-blames-internal-sabotage-for-defeat-101620045537035.html
03-05-2021||Patna||Bihar raises wheat procurement target, sets May 31 deadline||The Bihar government aims to complete wheat procurement based on the minimum support price (MSP) by May 31 despite the process not having begun in the majority of districts.With the aim to procure around 1 lakh MT (metric tonne) wheat, the food and consumer protection department last month asked the district authorities to start the procurement drive through primary agriculture cooperative societies (PACS) and Vyapar Mandals. However, it received a lukewarm response from the ground-level officials due to the ongoing Covid-19 crisis.After complaints that farmers were being forced to sell their produce at ₹1,500 to ₹1,600 per quintal against the MSP of ₹1,975, secretaries of food and consumer protection, cooperatives and agriculture departments, held a meeting on Saturday and announced intensification of the procurement drive along with a substantial hike in the procurement target to 7 lakh MT against the previous target of 1 lakh MT announced last month.Agriculture secretary N Sarawana Kumar said this year’s wheat production was estimated to be around 65 lakh MT, up by 10 lakh MT compared to last year. “The procurement has started from PACS and Vyapar Mandal outlets from across the state. The department has roped in ‘Krishi Salahkars’ to prepare the list of farmers in their areas, who are interested in selling their produce to the state government, and facilitate the process,” Singh said.Bihar accounts for 5.7% of the total wheat production in the country. Statistics show that wheat has been cultivated in over 233,000 hectares in Bihar this year. According to the Central government’s records, the state government could produce only 5000 MT of wheat last year, which was less than 1% of the national production.Food and consumer protection department secretary Vinay Kumar said farmers have benefitted from the government’s announcement to procure lentil and gram on the MSP. “The market price of pulses has jumped up since then,” he claimed.Cooperative secretary Vandana Preyasi said the procurement process has been made flexible to reach the maximum number of farmers. “PACS and Vyapar Mandals have done record procurement of paddy this year, even as a district cooperative officer and four other department staff fell victim to Covid pandemic. All the personnel of procurement agencies have been asked to strictly adhere to Covid appropriate behaviour,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-raises-wheat-procurement-target-sets-may-31-deadline-101620045666514.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana added nearly 200,000 Covid-19 cases, over 1,000 fatalities in April||Haryana, where a week-long lockdown started on Monday to curb the spread of Covid-19, added nearly 2 lakh cases and over 1,000 fatalities between April 1 and April 30.Gurgaon, which is the worst-affected district in the state, contributed 59,540 cases during April. Districts like Faridabad, Hisar, Karnal and Sonipat also fuelled the sharp increase in infections.Data issued by the state's health department showed that as on April 1, Haryana's total Covid-19 case count was 2,92,409, which rose to 4,87,978 on April 30, a jump of 1,95,569 cases.The total fatalities increased from 3,164 to 4,216 during the period, it showed.Among the worst-hit districts like Gurgaon, which share borders with Delhi, the infection count rose from 63,408 on April 1 to 1,22,948 on April 30.The count in Faridabad increased by 24,919 cases from 47,849 to 72,768 between April 1-30, while in Sonipat it increased by 13,568 new from 15,500 to 29,068 during the period.In Karnal and Hisar, the cases jumped from 14,668 to 27,251 and 17,467 to 29,755, respectively, during April.The per day fatalities in Haryana, which on an average was around 10-12 per day till April 1, rose to 100 and above towards the month's end.Similarly, daily case count for the entire state which on an average was around 1,500 to 1,600 jumped to more than 13,000 by April end.Gurgaon district, which till April 1 was reporting about 300-400 cases per day, saw a huge surge by month-end with 4,000 plus daily infections.Faridabad district's daily case count jumped from around 100 per day around the beginning of April to 1,500 plus by the month's end.The active cases in Haryana rose from 10,362 on April 1 to 97,562 on April 30, recovery rate dropped from 95.37 per cent to 79.14 per cent and the Covid-19 positivity rate jumped from 4.67 per cent to 6.63 per cent.Haryana is under lockdown from Monday to 5 am of May 10, a measure taken by the state government to check spread of infection.Earlier, a weekend curfew was imposed in nine districts -- Gurugaon, Faridabad, Panchkula, Sonipat, Rohtak, Karnal, Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad -- from 10 pm on Friday till 5 am on Monday.With a sharp surge in case, the demand for medical oxygen and oxygen beds has risen manifold and the state government has maintained that it is doing its best to tackle the present situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-added-nearly-200-000-covid-19-cases-over-1-000-fatalities-in-april-101620043316369.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||BSF guns down Pakistani intruder along border in Tarn Taran||A Pakistani intruder, who was trying to push in a drug consignment into Indian territory, was shot dead by Border Security Force (BSF) personnel near the border at Khalra village on Sunday night. The incident took place at 9.45pm when the accused was found roaming across the barbed-wire fence and ahead of the zero line, a senior BSF official said, adding that three Pakistani currency notes in the denomination of ₹10 and 20-gm tobacco were recovered from the intruder. Also read: Govt to rope in medical interns, final yr MBBS students to fight new Covid wave“Our troops noticed the accused intruding into Indian territory, ostensibly on a recce to push in a drug consignment through the barbed-wire fence. When our personnel challenged him to stop, he didn’t pay heed. When he tried to flee towards Pakistan, the troops opened fire and he was killed,” the official said. “The accused appears to be in his 50s. His identity could not be ascertained. Pakistani Rangers were informed about the body, but they refused to claim it. We have now handed it over to the local police for its identification,” he said. On April 8, a Pakistani national was arrested with 21kg of heroin near Khemkaran, 15km from Khalra. In another operation in Amritsar’s Kakkar village on the same day, a Pakistani national was shot dead and 22kg of heroin and two AK-47 rifles were recovered. On February 13, a Pakistani intruder was shot dead by the BSF near Khalra village. During the area’s search, the BSF recovered 14kg of heroin, a pistol, a magazine and six rounds of ammunition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsf-guns-down-pakistani-intruder-along-border-in-tarn-taran-101620041765825.html
03-05-2021||Jaipur||Coordinate with Centre to raise daily oxygen quota, CM Gehlot tells officials||Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday asked the officials to maintain a constant coordination with the Centre to increase the allocation of medical oxygen to Rajasthan in view of the increasing number of coronavirus cases.He also directed them to strongly advocate for providing tankers to Rajasthan according to the daily requirement of medical oxygen.The chief minister said it is very important to maintain the coronavirus protocol strictly for the protection of life. He directed that the guidelines of ''Pandemic Red Alert Public Discipline Fortnight'' starting from Monday be strictly followed and there should not be any laxity in it.Gehlot was reviewing through video conference the supply of oxygen, availability of medicines, coronavirus infection and ''pandemic red alert public discipline fortnight'' starting Monday.He said the consumption of oxygen in the state is increasing rapidly due to the rising infection. Since the Centre is allocating oxygen under the national plan, it is very important to increase the quota in view of the Rajasthan's demand.The CM instructed the officials concerned to purchase oxygen concentrators at the earliest. He said a committee of officials constituted to import them from abroad should speed up the process, so that coronavirus patients can be helped in the treatment."If we can discipline our behaviour and ensure the implementation of the protocol of public discipline fortnight, then we will be able to succeed to a great extent in fighting this challenge," Gehlot said.Health Minister Raghu Sharma said daily Covid-19 testing capacity in the state has now been increased to 1.44 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/coordinate-with-centre-to-raise-daily-oxygen-quota-cm-gehlot-tells-officials-101620041132257.html
03-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt provides 10 oxygen cylinders to IBS hospital after SOS||The Delhi government on Monday rushed ten D-type oxygen cylinders to the IBS hospital in Lajpat Nagar after an SOS was received regarding the shortage of medical oxygen."We have rushed 10 D-type oxygen cylinders from our SOS reserves to IBS hospital in Lajpat Nagar, which would help them tide over the crisis," AAP MLA Raghav Chadha said on Twitter."Sincerely hope that with the intervention of judiciary, the Centre will finally be charitable enough to give Delhi its share of oxygen," he added.A journalist tagged the Delhi MLA in his tweet and sent out the SOS saying that IBS Hospital in Lajpat Nagar was running out of Oxygen and 37 patients were on oxygen support.The tweet was sent at 1:18 pm.Several hospitals in Delhi continue to grapple with a shortage of oxygen, as coronavirus cases continue to spike. On Saturday, 12 Covid-19 patients, including a senior doctor, had died at Delhi's Batra Hospital after the facility ran out of medical oxygen.Delhi recorded 20,394 new Covid-19 cases and 407 deaths on Sunday.As per the official data issued on Sunday, the total count of cases in the city has gone up to 11,94,946 including 92,290 active cases and 10,85,690 recoveries. The death toll has gone up to 16,966.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-provides-10-oxygen-cylinders-to-ibs-hospital-after-sos-101620039637504.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid lockdown brings life to halt in Haryana||On Day 1 of the week-long lockdown across Haryana to contain the spread of Covid-19, police struggled to keep people indoors in Rohtak, Hisar and Jhajjar districts even as state home minister Anil Vij appealed to residents to adhere to the curbs. “I never wanted to impose a lockdown, but people are not following Covid-appropriate behaviour,” Vij, who also holds the health portfolio, said. When asked about his earlier assurances of not imposing a shutdown in the state, he said that there was no alternative left after the active cases crossed 1 lakh with nearly 15,000 new cases being reported daily. Though there were fewer vehicles on roads as prohibitory orders were imposed, police personnel were seen taking rounds of various sectors in Rohtak and asking shopkeepers except chemists to close down shops Movement in case for health emergency, vaccination and buying essentials was allowed. Shopping malls and gyms remained closed home delivery of food items from hotels and restaurants was allowed. Police get cracking at 11am In the morning, people were seen waiting around vegetable and fruit stalls near Jat Bhawan in Rohtak, flouting social distancing norms. But after 11am, the police got cracking and the streets wore a deserted look. Sheela Devi, a shopkeeper, said: “We have adequate supply of daily needs, but the police asked me to close the shop at 11am, otherwise they would be forced to issue a challan. Though fewer customers came today, most of them were done with their purchases by 9.30am. It’s important to save lives first, business and profit can follow,” she said. Raju, a retail fruit seller, said: “We are buying limited fruits because of fewer customers. My income has fallen over the past few days. The police want us to go back home at 11am.” (With inputs by Bhavey Nagpal in Ambala)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-lockdown-brings-life-to-halt-in-haryana-101620039845581.html
03-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai's oxygen quota being diverted to Thane, Navi Mumbai, says BMC||The diversion of Mumbai's quota of liquid medical oxygen, currently in high demand for Covid-19 patients, to neighbouring Navi Mumbal and Thane has led to its "short supply" in some hospitals here, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has claimed.BMC's Additional Commissioner P Velrasu has demanded that local administration officials be deployed at the refilling facilities of two companies in Navi Mumbai to monitor and ensure smooth supply of the life-saving gas in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR).He wrote a letter last week to Konkan divisional commissioner Annasaheb Misal, claiming that the diversion of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) had led to multiple distress calls of its "short supply" in some hospitals and on one occasion, patients were shifted to other medical facilities.The Maharashtra government has fixed a quota of the liquid medical oxygen for Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai and other areas in the MMR, considering the huge increase in its demand due to a surge in Covid-19-19 cases, the letter said."It has been observed that the supply of LMO received for Mumbai quota has been diverted to Navi Mumbal and Thane region from common suppliers," the BMC said in the letter, which was also marked to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) commissioner.In spite of the allocation of LMO quota, its availability at re-fillers is decreased for the BMC by more than 50 per cent of the available quota, it said.The BMC said the the supply of LMO should be as per the quota fixed for a particular region.It also requested to deploy adeputy collector and a tehsildar (revenue officer) at the refilling facilities of two companies in Navi Mumbai area, to monitor the supply and ensure smooth delivery of LMO, as per the allocated quota."This will certainly help in reducing the distress calls from hospitals and also avoid forceful transfer of patients or loss of human life due to unavailability of medical oxygen," the civic body said in the letter.The letter said the BMC-run hospitals receive some liquid medical oxygen in jumbo tanks and a part of the LMO is diverted to re fillers, who in-turn provide filled cylinders to the civic medical facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-oxygen-quota-being-diverted-to-thane-navi-mumbai-says-bmc-101620039087312.html
03-05-2021||Gurugram||RWAs get nod to set up Covid care centres||Amid the surge in coronavirus cases in the district, Gurugram deputy commissioner Yash Garg has granted resident welfare associations (RWAs) across the city to set up their own Covid-19 care facilities (CCF).In his order issued late on Saturday night, Garg stated that RWAs can set up the facility using their own resources.Garg said the Haryana government has also issued directions to increase the number of quarantine and isolation facilities.“Requests were received from gated housing societies to set up small Covid-19 care facilities run by Resident Welfare Associations (RWA), housing societies and NGOs using their own resources. This will help reduce the burden on existing facilities for managing pre-symptomatic, asymptomatic, and very mild cases of Covid-19 residing in that particular society. Such orders are extremely crucial at this juncture to check the exponential increase in the number of cases and to contain the pandemic,” read the order.Setting guidelines for CCFs, the order said it is not meant for critical patients, senior citizens, children below 10 years of age, pregnant or lactating women, people with comorbidities or immuno-compromised -- all of whom should be admitted to proper hospitals.Confirmed and suspected cases need to be kept in separate partitioned areas and there should also be separate toilets for both categories.Garg’s order further states that CCF can be set up in a community hall, common utility area located within the residential complex, or in empty flats.The facility should have a separate entry and exit point while beds need to be placed at a minimum distance of three feet from each other. CFCs should also be adequately ventilated and a doctor residing within the residential complex or provided by an NGO should facilitate daily medical examination of the admitted patients.The doctor and a caregiver will have to undergo a training on Covid-19 management and infection, prevention, and control practices, organised by the chief medical officer.The CCF will also need to be either monitored by CCTV cameras or guards should be placed at the entry and exit points to ensure patients don’t leave the premises or their relatives, friends, or acquaintances don’t visit them.“The DC’s order only allows RWAs to convert their community center, empty flats into a CCF. It does not provide any financial assistance or supply of resources to the RWA. Without any monetary aid or supply of oxygen cylinders, concentrators, Covid-19 related medicines, and machinery, RWAs simply do not have the capital or the resources to themselves set up a fully functional CCF. We will be reaching out to the DC for more assistance in the matter,” said Dhruv Bansal, official spokesperson, Gurgaon Citizens Council (GCC) an umbrella body of RWAs in Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rwas-get-nod-to-set-up-covid-care-centres-101620038164856.html
03-05-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh extends ‘partial corona curfew’ till 7am on May 6 amid surge in Covid-19 cases||The Uttar Pradesh government announced on Monday that the ongoing ‘partial corona curfew,’ imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) across the state, has been extended by two more days till 7am on Thursday.“The ongoing partial corona curfew that began at 8pm on Friday, April 30, and was due to be over at 7pm on Tuesday, May 4, has now been extended till 7am on Thursday, May 6,” an order issued by the Uttar Pradesh government said.Also Read | Covid-19: UP extends weekend curfew by 24 hours, to be in effect till 7am on TuesdayThe order further noted that during this period, essential and emergency services will continue to function as usual; these include medical services, medicine shops, vegetable shops and continuous process industries.According to officials, the direction to extend the curfew by an additional 48 hours was taken at a Covid-19 review meeting chaired by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who recently tested negative for the viral disease after contracting it last month.Last Thursday, the state government announced the extension of the curfew till 7am on May 4. Originally intended to be a weekend curfew, it was earlier in effect from 8pm on a Friday to 7am on Monday of the new week. The surge of Covid-19 cases in the state, however, necessitated its extension by a further 24 hours, and eventually, by another 48 hours. On April 20, the government also announced a daily night curfew in all districts with more than 500 active cases.According to a health department bulletin, Uttar Pradesh recorded 30,983 new Covid-19 cases and 290 related deaths on May 2, taking its infection tally to more than 1.3 million. Thus far, 13,162 people have succumbed to the infection, while more than 296,000 people are still in its grip.State capital Lucknow saw 3,342 of the fresh infections as well as 25 deaths, while Varanasi, Gautam Budh Nagar, Kanpur, Saharanpur, Ghaziabad and Meerut reported 1610, 1571, 1357, 1089, 1085 and 1033 cases respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-extends-partial-corona-curfew-till-7am-on-may-6-amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-101620036583738.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana police struggles to enforce fresh Covid-19 lockdown on Day 1||The first day of the week-long lockdown in Haryana received a mixed response in the northern districts, where the police struggled to keep people off the roads and markets while routine traffic continued on highways and link roads.“We have deputed all senior cops to monitor the situation and violators are being challaned (fined) for coming out without permission,” said Karnal superintendent of police (SP) Ganga Ram Punia. He said police check posts were erected to enforce the lockdown and violators were being booked.Highway and city roads were also busy in Kurukshetra and Panipat.“People are not following the guidelines and coming out without any valid reason,” said a cop deputed on the NH44.The Haryana government announced a week-long state-wide lockdown beginning 5 am on Monday till May 10 to curb an alarming rise in Covid-19 cases during the second wave of the disease in the state. On Sunday, the state recorded 145 deaths due to the infection—the most in a 24 hour period. It also reported 13,322 new infections, taking the case tally to 514,888. The lockdown came a day before a weekend curfew imposed in the nine worst-affected districts of Panchkula, Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Rohtak, Karnal, Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad districts, was set to end at 5am on Monday.The state government guidelines said that vaccination centres, banks and essential services will remain functional during the lockdown along with all health services, including hospitals, nursing homes and clinics. Bank branches and ATMs, IT vendors for banking operations will also remain functional. Bank branches will be allowed to work as per banking hours during the lockdown.The entire supply chain of essential goods is allowed to function including manufacturing, transport, wholesale or retail sale through local stores. E-commerce companies are allowed to operate, ensuring strict social distancing norms. All goods traffic will be allowed to ply.The guidelines added that buses for public transport with 50% capacity, taxi and cab aggregators with a maximum of three passengers in addition to the driver and metro rail will also be allowed to ply. Also, passenger movement by trains will be allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-police-struggles-to-enforce-fresh-covid-19-lockdown-on-day-1-101620035521071.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab prescribes local drugs to treat critically ill Covid patients||The Punjab government on Monday decided to use Itolizumab and Dexamethasone drugs in the Covid treatment protocol in light of the low availability of Tocilizumab for treating critically ill patients. An order in this effect was passed by principal secretary, health, Hussan Lal on Monday. Also read: Reports on Centre not placing new order for Covid-19 jabs ‘baseless’, says govtSharing the development on Twitter, chief secretary Vini Mahajan said the decision to use Itolizumab and Dexamethasone was taken on the advice of the experts’ group of the Punjab government to tackle Covid-19, headed by former PGIMER, Chandigarh, director Dr KK Talwar. The order by the principal secretary, health, says, “It has been observed that doctors are prescribing injections of Tocilizumab-400 mg. This injection is not made in India and its availability in the country is low. Since this drug is not easily available, the doctors treating critically ill patients are advised to prescribe drugs that are equally effective and available in the market.” Amid the rising demand for Tocilizumab, there have been reports about black-marketing of these injections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-prescribes-local-drugs-to-treat-critically-ill-covid-patients-101620034981005.html
03-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka deputy CM Ashwathnarayan appointed as chairman of state's Covid-19 task force||Amid a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state, Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday reconstituted the Covid-19 Task Force and appointed Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwatha Narayana as the chairperson of the same, an official statement released by the state government said.As per the statement, the Task Force aims to examine the measures taken to contain the surge of the pandemic and create awareness among the public with regard to Covid-19 management.Earlier the Task Force was headed by Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for public works, Govinda Karajola, it said.It further mentioned that Suresh Kumar S, Minister of Primary and Secondary Education; CC Patil, Minister of Information and Public Relations, and K Sudhakar, Minister of Health and Welfare and Medical Education are the members of the task force.The Chief Secretary to the government, Additional Chief Secretary (Department of Health & Family Welfare), The Principal Secretary (Department of Medical Education) will assist in providing the relevant information to the task force, the statement said.According to the Union Health Ministry, Karnataka is among the ten states that reported 73.78 per cent of the new Covid-19 cases in the country. With 37,733 fresh cases in the last 24 hours, the state reported the second-highest number of new Covid cases in the country, the ministry said.As per the ministry, Karnataka is among the twelve states that account for 81.46 per cent of India's total active cases. The state presently has 4,21,456 active cases, said the ministry.Karnataka is among the ten states that account for 74.54 per cent of new deaths in the country. As per government data, the state recorded 217 deaths in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-deputy-chief-minister-ashwathnarayan-appointed-as-chairman-of-state-s-covid-19-task-force-101620032693212.html
03-05-2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee to meet Bengal governor at 7pm to stake claim to form government||Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee will meet West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar at 7pm on Monday and stake claim to form the state government, after her party's stupendous win in the assembly elections, Raj Bhavan sources said.The ruling TMC has won over 200 seats in West Bengal, where polling was held in eight phases in March and April, and is leading in one where counting is still in progress. The BJP emerged as the main opposition party with 77 seats under its belt.It is for the second time in succession that Mamata Banerjee powered her party to a two-thirds majority in the state assembly."Tomorrow at 7 PM Hon'ble CM will be calling on me at Raj Bhavan," Governor Dhankhar had tweeted Sunday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-to-meet-bengal-governor-at-7pm-to-stake-claim-to-form-government-101620030994492.html
03-05-2021||Other||Union minister Thawar Gehlot’s daughter succumbs to Covid in Indore||Union Social Justice and Empowerment minister Thawar Chand Gehlot’s daughter Yogita Solanki succumbed to Covid at the Medanta hospital in Indore, Madhya Pradesh, on Monday. The minister’s office said Solanki’s infection was detected about a fortnight ago.“She died this morning after suffering a heart attack. According to doctors, there was a blood clot which also caused a paralytic attack,” a statement by the minister’s office said.“Her RT-PCR test report was negative but there were symptoms,’’ said an aide to the minister. “When they got a HR-CT scan done, they found 90% damage to her lungs after which she was admitted to hospital.’’ Also Read | Covid-19 vaccination begins at Delhi’s 301 centres for 18-45 age groupInitially, the 44-year-old was taken to a hospital in Ujjain as the family is based there, but as her condition deteriorated, she was moved to Indore.The official said Solanki was a homemaker who was survived by her husband who works with the health department and two children, a 23-year-old daughter and a 20-year-old son. Gehlot left for Ujjain after attending the Prime Minister’s special meeting of the council of ministers last Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/union-minister-thawar-gehlot-s-daughter-succumbs-to-covid-in-indore-101620030660774.html
03-05-2021||Delhi||25 flights, 300 tonnes cargo: How Delhi airport handled Covid relief over 5 days||The Delhi international airport handled 25 flights carrying 300 tonnes of Covid-19 relief cargo in the last five days, its operator, DIAL, said on Monday.The airport has set up a 3,500 square meter dedicated logistics facility, called 'Jeevoday warehouse', for interim storage and distribution of the relief materials, the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) said in a statement.India is struggling with the second wave of coronavirus infection as hospitals in several states are reeling under a severe shortage of drugs, oxygen, and beds."In a span of just 5 days – April 28 to May 2 - Delhi airport has handled around 25 Covid relief flights totalling around 300 tonnes cargo, originating from various countries like the US, United Kingdom, UAE, Uzbekistan, Thailand, Germany, Qatar, Hong Kong, China, etc," the statement noted.Most of the relief flights were conducted by Indian Air Force (IAF) aircraft such as IL76, C-130, C-5, C-17, it said.These flights brought in over 5,500 oxygen concentrators, approximately 3,200 oxygen cylinders, over 9,28,000 masks, 1,36,000 Remdesivir injections, which are required in view of a massive surge in Covid-19 cases in the country, the statement noted.The daily Covid-19 cases in India showed a slight dip on Monday, with 3,68,147 new infections being reported in a span of 24 hours. The total caseload in the country stands at 1,99,25,604, according to the Union Health Ministry.The death toll due to the disease increased to 2,18,959 with 3,417 more fatalities being reported in a day, it stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/25-flights-300-tonnes-cargo-how-delhi-airport-handled-covid-relief-over-5-days-101620029757344.html
03-05-2021||Pune||Three Pune doctors arrested for demanding money from Covid patient for ventilator bed||Police in Pimpri Chinchwad, on the outskirts of Pune, arrested three doctors on Monday in an extortion case for demanding and accepting money for a ventilator bed at the municipal corporation’s Covid hospital in Auto Cluster, Pimpri. A case has been registered against them at Pimpri police station.“A teacher from Chikhali was asked for money. She was admitted on April 23 and she died on April 28 while under treatment. All three doctors have been arrested,” said Manchak Ipper, Deputy commissioner of police, Zone-1 of Pimpri Chinchwad police.The arrested doctors were identified as Praveen Jadhav, Sachin Kasbe, and Shashank Rale, according to the police. The three will be produced in a local court.The doctors allegedly charged ₹1 lakh for the bed and shared the amount among themselves, according to the complaint lodged by municipal corporation officials.A case under Sections 384 (extortion) and other relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and other applicable laws was registered at Pimpri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-pune-doctors-arrested-for-demanding-money-from-covid-patient-for-ventilator-bed-101620028260860.html
03-05-2021||Lucknow||Free medicines, consultation to UP prisoners’ kin at their doorstep||Elderly parents of Sheru Nishad, a prisoner in Naini Central Jail, Prayagraj, were sick and unattended at their home, without medical consultation or medication for the past many months. However, they were visited by a jail warder on Sheru’ request a few days ago. The warder arranged his parents’ video consultation with the doctors in Naini jail and also handed them over a free medicine packet. Later, Sheru was made to talk to his parents over the phone from the jail.Similarly, Chandan, who is lodged in Sonbhadra district jail for the past 20 months, was worried for his old mother, who stays alone in her village. His mother suffers from lung problems and can’t visit the doctor due to her old age. The authorities of Sonbhadra district jail send a warder to her house, who gave her a packet of medicine free of cost after arranging a telephonic medical consultation with a doctor for her.UP prisons headquarters spokesman Santosh Kumar Verma said four prisons in the state are now providing medical assistance at doorsteps to prisoners’ parents and family members, who are seriously ill or suffering from Covid-19 infection. “We have provided medicines for Covid-19 positive people on the same lines,” he added.He said this service was first started at Prayagraj’s Naini Central Jail apart from the district jails at Sonbhadra, Firozabad and Mathura. The facility for prisoners to call their family members over phone started last year at all jails after in person meetings were stopped to curb Covid-19 infections among prisoners.Verma said over 40 such in-house calls have been made so far since last week of April. He said the jail authorities are planning to extend the medical assistance service for prisoners’ families at all 71 jails across the state by setting up a dedicated and trained team of jail personnel for the purpose.Meanwhile, the jail authorities are also focused on maintaining hygiene and cleanliness to curb any infection in the state jails where over 1.10 lakh prisoners remain lodged at a time. At present, 45 temporary jails are operational to quarantine new prisoners for two weeks before they are shifted to permanent jails.Verma said at least 16,611 inmates have been infected with Covid-19 since the outbreak of the pandemic in April 2020. 14,882 of these have recovered leaving 1,722 active cases in UP jails, including 353 in 71 permanent jails and 1,230 in 45 temporary jails . As many as 111,882 prisoners are lodged in UP jails, including 108,892 prisoners in 71 permanent jails and 2,990 inmates in 45 temporary jails.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/free-medicines-consultation-to-up-prisoners-kin-at-their-doorstep-101620027900736.html
03-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 vaccination begins at Delhi's 301 centres for 18-45 age group||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said that the vaccination against Covid-19 has begun 301 centres for beneficiaries aged 18-44 across the national capital."Vaccination has started at 76 schools of Delhi government today. With this, vaccination has begun at 301 centres for the 18-45 age group. Our target is to make 10 centres at every school. We will continue to expand the number of centres as we receive more vaccines," said Sisodia after his visit to Vinod Nagar vaccination centre.He further said that the Delhi government received 4.5 lakh vaccine doses on May 1 and they are in touch with vaccine manufacturers for more jabs."We received 4.5 lakh vaccine doses on May 1. We are in touch with vaccine manufacturers. We have given appointments to 45,150 people for vaccination today. People are very eager for taking the vaccines. We hope for 100 per cent turnout," said Sisodia.The Deputy chief minister further said that they have sought help from different sources including the army, the central government and its different wings, and the private sector for transportation of oxygen.Sisodia said that as per the data, Delhi on Sunday only 440 MT of oxygen which is lower than the allocated quota of 590 MT.He further said that Delhi needs 976 MT of oxygen daily as the government are increasing the number of beds.The inoculation drive for those between 18 and 45 years of age started in many parts of the country on May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-vaccination-begins-at-delhi-s-301-centres-for-18-45-age-group-101620026523665.html
03-05-2021||Bangalore||24 patients dead at Chamarajanagar district hospital in 24 hours||At least 24 patients died in Chamarajanagar district, about 175km from Bengaluru, in the last 24 hours. The incident happened at the district government hospital, according to people aware of the developments. “In the last 24 hours there have been 24 deaths, it didn’t happen all of a sudden,” Ravi, district health officer of Chamarajanagar told Hindustan Times. On a specific question if these people died due to shortage of oxygen, the district health officer said that this was not the case. “All of them (deceased) were on ventilators, comorbidities and other things and not lack of oxygen,” he added.Also Read | Karnataka sees over 37,000 new Covid-19 cases, Bengaluru Urban adds 56%Though the sequence of incidents remains unclear at this moment, the state government has gone into a huddle.Karnataka’s home minister, Basavaraj Bommai, has asked for a detailed report and a probe into the incident.The incident also places emphasis on the fact that all may not be well in Karnataka where the government has repeatedly tried to reassure that it have adequate supply of oxygen, medicines, vaccines and crematoriums even though the ground realities paint a very different picture.Meanwhile, the Congress mounted an attack on the ruling BJP in Karnataka following the death of 24 people.“Died or Killed? My heartfelt condolences to their families. How much more suffering before the ‘system’ wakes up?” Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted.The All India Congress Committee general secretary and Karnataka in-charge, Randeep Singh Surjewala demanded the arrest of the health minister.“This is murder by designed negligence of Yediyurappa Govt ! The Health Minister must resign. Will CM Yediyurappa ji own moral responsibility for the deaths?” Surjewala tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/24-patients-dead-at-chamarajanagar-district-hospital-in-24-hours-101620027000783.html
03-05-2021||Delhi||#StudentsLivesMatter: Cancel, don’t just defer exams say DU students||The new wave of Covid has hit almost every other household across the Capital, impacting lives of many students, directly or indirectly. Students of Delhi University have come forward to raise their voice about the stress to appear for exams, sooner or later. While some are battling Covid themselves, others are tending to their Covid positive family members, and feel that it’s taking a toll on their mental health to prepare for exams alongside. Unable to cope this stress, students of varsities across India have also written to the authorities, with a signed petition, asking for their exams to be cancelled and not just postponed. Alongside, the youngsters are also participating in Twitter storms to ensure that their voice is heard. “Humare exams cancel nahi hue, they have been rescheduled in July. And we really want suspension of online classes for atleast two weeks. Teachers ko bhi request kiya tha, but koi nahi sun raha humari,” says Disha Bhatia, a first year student of Gargi College, DU, adding, “Second and third year ke exams abhi ke liye cancel ho gaye hain, but phir bhi unko bola ja raha hai ki June 1 se unke exams honge... The new wave of Covid has created a turbulence in lives of most of us. Irrespective of this, the professors have been continuously pushing us with back to back tests and assignments. With all the negativity and emotional trauma around us, even the online classes have become a headache and are affecting our mental health.” The digital petition signed by more than 3,000 students, mentioning about this stress that they have been facing during the ongoing Covid wave, asks for complete cancellation of exams and suspension of classes. Arya Ray, a second year student of Sri Venkateswara College, who started the digital petition says, “We didn’t know whether a petition would matter, but we just couldn’t sit at home and do nothing about it. So this was just us doing our bit, trying to make the system play its part. Frankly, it is ridiculous that my classmates and I had to start an online petition, participate in Twitter storms and mass emailing campaigns just to get DU and other universities to take note of the situation and emphasise that #StudentsLivesMatter... The situation with regard to the pandemic is worse than ever; we are struggling day and night to find hospital beds and oxygen cylinders so that our loved ones can at least have a fighting chance and even then, every day brings news of relatives and friends not making it. Our professors are trying their best to take classes even when there are people suffering in their own homes. Despite all of this, there had been no action for respite from the university and we were expected to prepare and sit for exams. Even if they ignore our mental health, our physical suffering is quite tangible and visible now.”DU has postponed the intermediary and final year exams for the moment, and is planning to conduct them at a later stage in the coming months. However, the students have been requesting for complete suspension of exams as well as the online classes. “This wave of Covid 19 has hit everyone, both professors and students, and if they go ahead with the examinations at any stage - later or now - it’ll be a terrible burden for everyone,” opines Sumaho Guha, a second year student of Kirori Mal College, DU, adding, “No one is in the right mindset to either write an exams or check the answer scripts. They should cancel the exams completely for the second year and put greater weightage on the assignments, so that students can put more effort in it. The exams for third year students are crucial, so they could be postponed further.” Meanwhile, IITians have also been facing extreme mental pressure with regard to their examination, and want them to get postponed. Aditi Singh, a student of IIT Delhi, says, “Actually, a lot of students have directly or indirectly been affected by Covid, and we all want the exams to be postponed. They have neither lessened the assignment strain nor have they changed the examination dates yet. Only, there has been a relaxation in the grading and passing criteria. But we want exams to be postponed by at least a week or so, considering the current scenario.” Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/studentslivesmatter-cancel-don-t-just-defer-exams-say-du-students-101620025626027.html
03-05-2021||Delhi||Commonwealth Games village becomes Delhi's first Covid centre with own oxygen plant||Amid the shortage of medical oxygen across the country due to a massive surge in Covid-19 cases, Delhi has got its first Covid care centre with its own oxygen plant at the Commonwealth Games village Sports complex.The oxygen plant can supply oxygen to 18-20 patients simultaneously.Dr Anurag Mishra, Clinical Manager at the Covid care centre, told ANI that to overcome the shortage of medical oxygen, oxygen plant has been set up at the Covid care centre itself."The shortage of medical oxygen in Delhi is due to the supply chain of the oxygen cylinders. Setting up our own oxygen plant is a great move," Mishra said."The plant has been donated by the HCL foundation. We are thankful to them as we no longer depend on a supply chain," he said.He further urged the hospitals to set up their own oxygen plant as it can save many lives.Several hospitals in Delhi continue to grapple with a shortage of oxygen, as coronavirus cases continue to spike every passing day. On Saturday, 12 Covid-19 patients, including a senior doctor, had died at Delhi's Batra Hospital after the facility ran out of medical oxygen.Delhi recorded 20,394 new Covid-19 cases and 407 deaths on Sunday.As per the official data issued on Sunday, the total count of cases in the city has gone up to 11,94,946 including 92,290 active cases and 10,85,690 recoveries. The death toll has gone up to 16,966.A lockdown is also in place in the national capital till May 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/commonwealth-games-village-becomes-delhi-s-first-covid-centre-with-own-oxygen-plant-101620023671174.html
03-05-2021||Gurugram||Families fume as private ambulances charge a bomb||The surge in Covid cases in Gurugram and the subsequent rise in demand for private ambulances has left relatives of many Covid patients fuming as they find themselves paying exorbitant fares to operators to transport their loved ones. The families have and asked the district administration to cap the fares.According to relatives, private ambulance drivers are allegedly demanding ₹20,000 to ₹30,000 to transport patients to a private hospital within a 5 km radius. For outstation transport, the drivers are allegedly demanding up to ₹1.5 lakh.With shortage of oxygen reported across the city on Saturday and Sunday, several families have taken steps to move patients to hospitals in their home towns.Nandkishore Deoli, whose brother-in-law was admitted in a Sector 56 hospital, said he decided to shift him to Dehradun but the ambulance driver asked him for ₹70,000. When they finally agreed to the demand, the driver raised the fee to ₹1.50 lakh, reasoning that he will have to return with an empty ambulance. “We ended up taking my brother-in-law in our private car,” he said.Amit Kumar, brother of a critical patient who was shifted to Jaipur on Sunday, alleged that they paid ₹80,000 to the ambulance driver. “We contacted six ambulances and their prices were almost the same. We had no choice... There was no oxygen and by paying this amount, at least we have saved his life,” he said.Ashish Singla, chief medical officer (CMO), MCG, said they operate 35 ambulances. “We are providing these ambulances free of cost, but other private ambulances do not fall in our jurisdiction... Families should contact us on 18001801817 or 1950 helpline numbers,” he said.On the other hand, the regional transport authority (RTA) of Gurugram, said that they have provided 20 ambulances to MCG, capping the charges at ₹15/km. “We can only cap those whose requisitions are done through us. There are more than 200 private ambulances and we do not maintain their records and movements. We can only provide their registration details,” said Dhaarna Yadav, secretary, RTA, Gurugram.Yadav said they have not received any complaints so far. “People should share videos, pictures, and details of the ambulance or drivers. We will take action as soon as we receive a complaint,” she said.Meanwhile, Gurugram deputy commissioner Yash Garg said, “Rates of private ambulances will be notified in a day or two. We don’t want patients to suffer due to overcharging.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/families-fume-as-private-ambulances-charge-a-bomb-101620023134237.html
03-05-2021||Gurugram||Few private hospitals shut down, cite oxygen shortage||A day after eight people died in a private hospital due to shortage of oxygen, some smaller, private hospitals in the district have discharged all patients and shut their operations, claiming that the municipal corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is not paying heed to their repeated requests for help.Swati Rathore, director of Kriti hospital in Sector 56, said that they discharged 18 patients after they were not supplied oxygen on Saturday. “People easily blame hospital administration and doctors for their negligent approach but how can we run operations without oxygen,” she said. The MCG commissioner and his team are responsible for management of oxygen supply in the city.Asha Devi, director of Mamta Hospital, said they have stopped fresh admissions as they have not received a singly oxygen cylinder for the last four days. In the absence of continuous oxygen supply, many doctors said they had to turn away patients and ask families of existing patients to arrange for oxygen cylinders to continue treatment.Dr Prithvi Raj Aryan, director of Aryan Hospital on Old Railway Road, said, “Since Thursday, I’ve been requesting officials to provide me oxygen for my patients but we have not got a single cylinder yet,” he said.Around 10.13 am on Sunday, Park group of hospitals said the liquid oxygen allocated to the hospital in Gurugram was hijacked by some other hospital. “More than 140 patients lives are in danger,” it tweeted. At 10.43 am, the hospital tweeted saying that they have received about less than one ton of oxygen.Amandeep Chauhan, district drugs controller, said they have ensured all hospitals received their share of oxygen on Sunday. “We received 14 MT from Panipat and 20 MT from Bhiwadi on Sunday and more is expected by tonight...,” he said. Vinay Pratap Singh, MCG commissioner, said a counter was placed at the refilling stations in Manesar for refilling oxygen cylinders. “Covid-positive patients, carrying test reports, will be given oxygen cylinders,” Singh said. Meanwhile, some hospitals have demanded extra security for staff, doctors.On Sunday, Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar said he held a meeting with the DC and the MCG commissioner on assuring smooth oxygen supply to all the hospitals. “Oxygen allocation will be made strictly for institutions that have submitted Google forms,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/few-private-hospitals-shut-down-cite-oxygen-shortage-101620023002953.html
03-05-2021||Gurugram||2 killed as BMW rams into underpass wall||Two persons died after a speeding BMW car allegedly lost control and rammed into the underpass wall before crashing into a pillar near the underpass of DLF Phase 2 Rapid Metro Station on Golf Course Road, early on Sunday morning.Police identified the deceased as Gaurav Jindal (37) and Sawan Khanna (35), both residents of Sector 15. Jindal, who was behind the wheels, is the younger son of RSS leader Pawan Jindal. The incident occurred around 2.30 am and photos of the damaged car were widely circulated online.The vehicle was speeding, police said, adding that one of the passengers was thrown out of the vehicle because of the impact.Saurav Jindal told police that his younger brother Gaurav and his friend Sawan had gone to meet a friend in DLF Phase 1 around 12.30 am. “We received a call following which we rushed to the spot and took both of them to a private hospital in Sector 38 where doctors declared them dead on arrival,” he said. The families said they did not suspect any foul play.Dr Deepak Mathur, forensic expert, who conducted the autopsy, said that the cause of death was severe head injuries. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that no case was registered.Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar and home minister Anil Vij took to social media to mourn the demise. MP Sanjay Bhatia, BJP state president Om Prakash Dhankhar and Haryana minister Dr Banwari Lal reached their residence on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/2-killed-as-bmw-rams-into-underpass-wall-101620022868813.html
03-05-2021||Gurugram||3 arrested for illegal sales of remdesivir vials, hospital booked||Three people, including two hospital staff, were arrested for allegedly black marketing remdesivir for ₹45,000 per vial. Five vials of remdesivir were recovered from the suspects, said police.A case has also been registered against Narayana Hospital in DLF Phase 3 for cheating and negligence after the suspects revealed they used to steal injection and sold them at premium rates, said police.Inderjeet Yadav, deputy superintendent of police, CID, said families were paying for the injection, which the suspects never injected. A Max Healthcare spokesperson said, “We have checked our stock of remdesivir and have not found anything amiss. We are supporting the investigation.” Narayana hospital did not respond to messages and calls seeking comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/3-arrested-for-illegal-sales-of-remdesivir-vials-hospital-booked-101620021689418.html
03-05-2021||Other||Bihar incentivises oxygen production amid shortage for Covid patients||The Bihar government has cleared Oxygen Production Policy 2021 pledging financial assistance for establishing oxygen manufacturing and related capacities in the state at a time when an acute shortage of the gas has taken lives of many Covid-19 patients across the country.“This policy has been introduced with an aim to leverage the opportunities in oxygen manufacturing and to make Bihar self-dependent in production of oxygen,” said state industry minister Shahnawaz Husain.Hospitals in Bihar are currently struggling to maintain adequate supply of medical oxygen due to its high demand among the record number of Covid-19 patients infected in the second wave of the disease since February. Many lives have been lost nationally with hospitals running out of oxygen, prompting a diversion of oxygen supplies to struggling states.Bihar added 13,534 new Covid cases and recorded 97 fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 497,640 and the death toll to 2,739 on Sunday. 40 of these deaths registered on Sunday were reported from capital Patna, where it was difficult to find hospital beds, both in public and private facilities. The state capital reported 2,748 new infections on Sunday- the most by any district.The minister said the oxygen production policy will support the efforts to contain the Covid-19 crisis and will promote, facilitate and incentivise investment in medical and industrial Oxygen manufacturing units in Bihar to lessen the dependence on other states. It will also help create local skilled manpower and employment opportunities in the oxygen manufacturing sector, he added.Underlining the efforts to augment the state’s oxygen generation capacity, the minister claimed that while at the beginning of the current month, Bihar had 11 oxygen refilling plants supplying 16 tonnes of LMO, it had now increased to 19 plants supplying 110 tonne of LMO.As on April 22, Bihar required 157.67 MT (metric tonne) of oxygen for oxygenated beds and 12.42 MT of oxygen for ICU beds, which totals to 170.09 MT. On April 25, Bihar had 156 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) followed by 119 tonnes on April 28 and 107 tonnes on April 29, suggesting an increase in shortfall of the life-saving gas.Supply of 194 MT medical oxygen per day from the Centre will fill the shortage of around 40-50 MT (approximately) that the state is facing, said an official, who wished not to be quoted. The Centre on Sunday increased Bihar’s oxygen quota to 214 MT.Under the new Oxygen Production Policy 2021, the state government will provide 30% capital subsidy for establishing plant and machinery with maximum assistance limit of ₹25 crore for cryogenic oxygen plants producing liquid medical oxygen (LMO); ₹0.25 crores for setting up oxygen storage tanks at existing hospitals, and a maximum of ₹75 crore for oxygen cylinder manufacturing.Investments from the underprivileged social groups of Scheduled Castes (SC), Scheduled Tribes (ST), Extremely Backward Castes (EBC), women, differently-abled, war-widows, acid attack victims and the third gender, will get a capital incentive of 15.75%.“For availing incentives under this policy, the eligible units will be required to submit Stage-1 application and also apply for financial clearance latest by September 31. This policy will remain in operation till 31st March 2025,” said HusainNoted analyst and former director of the A N Sinha Institute of Social studies, D M Diwakar said the policy was introduced very late by the government.“This policy has come too late and speaks of the government’s insensitiveness towards common people. The proposal for plants, as per policy document, has to be submitted by September. How will the government cope with the requirement in-between? No work has been done in Bihar’s health system and people have been pushed to the wall,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-incentivises-oxygen-production-amid-shortage-for-covid-patients-101620022381189.html
03-05-2021||Lucknow||UP BJP spokesperson dies of Covid-19, CM expresses grief||Manoj Mishra, the spokesperson of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Uttar Pradesh, died due to Covid-19 in the wee hours on Monday. He was admitted to a hospital in Kanpur after he had tested positive for Covid-19.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath condoled the demise of UP BJP spokesperson Manoj Mishra."Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath-ji has expressed deep grief on the demise of Dr Manoj Mishra, senior spokesperson of the Bharatiya Janata Party," read a statement issued by the chief minister's office.The chief minister has also expressed condolences to the bereaved families, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-bjp-spokesperson-dies-of-covid-19-cm-expresses-grief-101620019384014.html
03-05-2021||Ranchi||Wild tusker kills one, damages 3 houses in Pakur||A wild elephant trampled a 45-year-old man to death and damaged three houses at Kopa village in Littipara block of Pakur district late on Saturday night, officials said on Sunday. A week ago, the tusker killed another man in Amrapara block of the district.The deceased was identified as Gabriel Malto. “A wild elephant, separated from its herd, has been roaming between Littipara and Amrapara blocks of the district for past one week. It killed another person a week back in Amrapara,” forest range officer of Hiranpur, Kamlesh Singh said.According to available information, Malto woke up past midnight after hearing an unusual sound coming out of his house. When he went out of his house to check, the wild elephant attacked him and trampled him to death, Malto’s family members said.After killing Gabriel, the elephant also damaged his house. His wife and three children anyhow ran away to protect themselves from the crumbling house, said Robert Malto, a relative of Gabriel.Robert said the animal also damaged two other houses in the village. “We are living in panic. Every family in the village is spending each night in fear. The forest department should take immediate action to chase away the elephant from the area,” he said.“Forest patrolling team returned from their daily duty around 2am. I believe the incident took place after that. The villagers were alerted about the elephant’s movement in the area and cautioned against coming out of their houses after evening,” Singh said.He said the bereaved family will be given compensation of ₹4 lakh as per government rules. “We are giving a part of it so that the family can perform his last rites,” Singh said.Following the incident, the forest department deputed a quick response team (QRT) to drive out the elephant to the forest. “The jumbo has lost its track. Frequent chases by villagers are also irritating the elephant to find,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/wild-tusker-kills-one-damages-3-houses-in-pakur-101620017280872.html
03-05-2021||Other||BIT Sindri alumnus donates $1 million to PM Cares||KP Singh, an alumnus of Sindri’s Birsa Institute of Technology (BIT) and founder of a multinational nuclear company, has donated $1 million to PM Cares Fund for combating the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic in India, officials said on Sunday. Set up by the central government during the coronavirus outbreak last year, the PM Cares Fund is aimed at providing relief and financing research to fight the crisis.Confirming the same, BIT Sindri director Prof DK Singh said USA-based KP Singh, a 1967 batch alumnus, transferred the amount through BIT Sindri Alumnus Association of North America chapter. “ KP Singh , who belongs to Lakhisarai district of Bihar, besides donation of $ 1 million in PM Cares Fund, has also announced to set up a 100-bed hospital at a cost of $30 million at his native place of Barahiya town in Lakhisarai. The Government of Indian has directed Lakhisarai district administration to provide land in Barahiya for the ambitious project,” said the BIT director.BIT Sindri Alumnus Association has seven chapters abroad and 24 chapters in the country. KP Singh is founder of Holtec International , a supplier of nuclear energy equipment. At present, his company supplies equipment for a nuclear plant in Maharashtra. After completing his B.Tech from BIT Sindri in 1967, he completed MS in Engineering in 1969 and PhD in Mechanical Engineering in 1972 from University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia state of USA.Ghanshyam Rai, training and placement officer of BIT Sindri, while highly KP Singh’s initiative said the institution was thankful for his help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bit-sindri-alumnus-donates-1-million-to-pm-cares-101620017219691.html
03-05-2021||Ranchi||Madhupur bypoll: JMM retains seat, Hafizul defeats BJP’s Ganga Narayan||In a shot in the arm for the ruling dispensation, JMM candidate and state tourism minister Hafizul Hassan won the Madhupur by-election on Sunday, defeating BJP candidate Ganga Narayan by over 5,000 votes. By-election for the seat, necessitated due to demise of JMM party veteran and minority welfare minister Haji Hussain Ansari in October last, was held on April 17, wherein over 71% voters exercised their franchise amid the ongoing second wave of Covid-19. Late Ansari’s son, Hafizul Hassan, who was inducted in the Hemant Soren cabinet in February, managed to retain the assembly seat that has been a traditional strong hold of the JMM, with Ansari winning from Madhupur on four occasions. Though Hassan continued the winning streak, the margin victory reduced from over 23,000 votes in 2019. Thanking the voters and alliance partners of the UPA for their support, chief minister and JMM working president Hemant Soren said, “This is the third by-election win for the UPA dispensation. I hope this will come as n answer to many people who are involved in political gossip in the state.”This was the third by-election in the state since the Hemant Soren goverment came to power in December 2019. The other bypolls were also won by the ruling dispensation . The opposition BJP fielded Ganga Narayan, reportedly a money bag with business interests in Goa, in Madhupur days after he joined the saffron party. Singh contested from Madhupur on AJSU Party’s ticket in the 2019 Assembly polls and stood third in the race. BJP’s former minister and two-term legislator Raj Paliwar lost to Haji Hussain Ansari in 2019. The party’s central election committee picked Ganga Narayan over Paliwar to take on JMM’s candidate in Madhupur, that witnessed a direct fight between the two parties, unlike 2019 when Singh made the election triangular. Meanwhile, state BJP president and Rajya Sabha member Deepak Prakash described the bypoll result as “victory of power and not of the JMM”. “The fact that the JMM managed to win by a thin margin shows that it is losing people’s support. We gave them a close fight and the ruling combine just scraped through. We thank people of Madhupur, as we have lost by very few votes. We will continue to work hard and continue to raise issues of people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/madhupur-bypoll-jmm-retains-seat-hafizul-defeats-bjp-s-ganga-narayan-101620017159617.html
03-05-2021||Other||Bihar reports 97 new deaths, 13500 cases in last 24 hours||PATNABihar on Sunday reported 97 coronavirus deaths, 30 of them in Patna, eve as the state added 13,534 new cases, taking the state’s cumulative cases to 4,97,640 and deaths 2,739. Patna, with 2,748 new infections during the last 24 hours, topped the districts with most number of cases as patients found it difficult to get hospitals beds, both in public and private facilities. Hospital beds were scarce as the AIIMS, the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), which has been designated as a dedicated Covid-19 hospital, the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) and the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH) were overwhelmed with patients in the state capital. The NMCH, which reported 11 deaths on Sunday, was treating 378 patients while 122 beds were still available there, according to a bulletin released by its nodal officer Dr Mukul Kumar Singh. Similarly, the PMCH had 102 patients out of around 135 beds available for Covid-19 patients. The hospital reported nine Covid deaths on Sunday, according to a bulletin released by its superintendent Dr IS Thakur. Among other leading districts, Vaishali accounted for 805 new infections, West Champaran 652, Nalanda 611, Begusarai 569 and Gaya 544, among others. Meanwhile, former deputy chief minister and Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Kumar Modi lost his younger brother Ashok Kumar Modi to Covid-19 on Sunday. Former special secretary, ministry of home, JK Sinha, also lost the battle to Covid-19 on Sunday. The government came in for criticism amid reports that some ventilators, sent by the Centre under the PM-CARES, were lying unutilised in absence of trained manpower to operate them at a government isolation centre in Khagaria. The state faces acute shortage of trained anaesthesiologists and technicians to operate ventilators at its facilities. Barring AIIMS and the IGIMS, government facilities, ventilators were largely underutilised at many public facilities. The government, said sources, was considering to rent out ventilators to private facilities, which had the required infrastructure to operate them. In its vaccination drive, the state inoculated 62,402 people on May 1 against a daily target of over 2 lakh beneficiaries. The state had so far vaccinated 72,28,280 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-reports-97-new-deaths-13500-cases-in-last-24-hours-101620017099651.html
03-05-2021||Other||LJP leader’s body found three days after abduction||PURNIABody of Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Anil Oraon was recovered on Sunday, three days after he was abducted from near his house in Purnia town, triggering violent protests by his kin and supporters. Oraon (38), a tribal leader and state president of LJP’s scheduled tribes (ST) cell, has unsuccessfully contested 2020 assembly elections from Manihari in Katihar.He was abducted Thursday last and his family had claimed to have received a ransom call for ₹10 lakh. While his sister Seema Devi had filed a missing report at Khazanchi Hat police station, his family claimed they also paid the ransom to kidnappers. “Though the family paid ₹10 lakh, the leader was killed,” said a person close to the family.“Oraon was killed due to a land dispute,” said LJP state general secretary, Shankar Jha, demanding immediate arrest of the culprits.The situation became tense on Sunday morning after the police recovered Oraon’s body from Dangraha village of Krtiyanand Nagar block in Purnia district, about 10 kms from his residence. The injuries on his body indicated he had been beaten mercilessly before being shot dead. Both his hands were also tied to each other, said a doctor at Purnia district hospital, where Oraon’s body was taken for autopsy.Later, hundreds of people went on a rampage, vandalising traffic barriers and attacking policemen. Station house officer of Khazanchi Hat police station, Sunil Kumar Mandal, claimed they had carried out raids and the case would soon be cracked.Three persons, including a woman, were earlier detained in the case. Police said Oraon’s body was recovered on the basis of information received from these detainees. A police officer aware of the developments in the case said land dispute was being looked at as a possible motive for the murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ljp-leader-s-body-found-three-days-after-abduction-101620017039693.html
03-05-2021||Delhi||Partly cloudy sky in Delhi; AQI remains in moderate category||Delhi is likely to see a partly cloudy sky on Monday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Monday is likely to be 25 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 38°C. The minimum temperature on Sunday was 24.8°C and the maximum temperature was 39.5°C – one degree above normal. Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Monday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 196. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI was 174, which is the higher end of the moderate category. Also Read | Delhi L-G seeks action plan on shortage of beds, oxygen amid Covid-19 surgeAn AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. On Sunday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “Satellite fire data indicate effective fire counts have decreased and around 700 which are mainly wheat crop burning in the northern part of India. Model trajectory and transport-level wind direction are not very favourable for fire-related intrusion, which has led to improvements in air quality in Delhi. SAFAR Model forecast improved wind speed and good ventilation for the next two days. Hence, AQI is likely to improve and stay in the moderate category for the next two days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/partly-cloudy-sky-in-delhi-aqi-remains-in-moderate-category-101620011519923.html
03-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi L-G seeks action plan on shortage of hospital beds, medical oxygen amid Covid-19 surge||The lieutenant governor of Delhi, Anil Baijal, on Sunday asked concerned departments and agencies to submit an action plan with regard to the availability of hospital beds, medicines, medical oxygen as well as increasing the capacity of crematoriums and graveyards amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in the national capital."Lt Governor has sought further advise from concerned departments and agencies with regard to the availability of key medicines, beds, medical oxygen and augmentation of capacities at crematoriums and graveyards, with the aim of addressing the ongoing problems being faced by people," the LG office said in a tweet from its official handle.The LG has also asked the departments and agencies of the Delhi government to submit a quantifiable action plan that could be monitored while addressing the problems due to shortages."LG has also suggested that the possibility of reemploying recently retired Doctors and other paramedical staff, where ever required, be looked into to address shortages," he added.A massive surge in Covid-19 cases in the national capital has resulted in shortages of hospital beds, medical oxygen, and medicines for patients.Meanwhile, Delhi's new Covid-19 cases slightly dipped on Sunday to 20,394 but the city saw 407 deaths in the last 24 hours. This is the second consecutive day when Delhi saw more than 400 deaths.The total count of cases in the city has gone up to 11,94,946 including 92,290 active cases and 10,85,690 recoveries. The death toll has gone up to 16,966.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-l-g-seeks-action-plan-on-shortage-of-beds-oxygen-amid-covid-19-surge-101620010042356.html
03-05-2021||Lucknow||Covid-19: UP real estate sector seeks relief from state, Centre||The real estate sector in Uttar Pradesh is demanding a relief package on the lines of the one given to the micro small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) sector by the Central and state governments. They are demanding moratorium on loans, extension of key approvals by a year and on site vaccination drive for workers to cope up with the fresh slump driven by the second wave of Covid-19.The real estate sector has been hit hard with sales and construction activity coming to a halt since the pandemic-induced lockdown in March last year.Just when it started showing some signs of recovery from November last, the second Covid wave has derailed it again, claim industry representatives.Citing various relief measures announced for MSMEs such as moratorium on loans and subsidies, the UP unit of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (CREDAI), an apex body of private real estate developers, has requested for a couple of major reliefs for the real estate sector from the state government.“We have requested the state government to extend the deadline of all statutory approvals by a year. This extension must be enforced after the pandemic subsides,” said Shobhit Mohan Das, president, CREDAI, UP.The developers’ body cites Covid-related challenges hampering progress of projects to seek extension of approvals given by development authorities, housing board and UP-RERA by a year. While UP-RERA has made registration of all projects compulsory, it has also specified a timeframe for completion of the project so that homebuyers get possession of flats within due time.The sector’s other demand to allow vaccination of labourers working at project sites using the fund collected as labour cess from developers.The building and other construction workers’ welfare board of the state government collects labour cess. This fund is utilised for various welfare schemes launched for labourers by the state government.“Vaccination at project sites will to some extent ensure holding back of labourers and continuity in the projects,” said Ramandeep Singh, president-elect, CREDAI, Uttar Pradesh. The CREDAI is also planning to meet union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman with its demand for moratorium on loans taken by developers for their projects. The labourers employed in the sector are primarily migrant workforce, which has begun to leave for their hometowns amid the resurgence of Covid infections. Their departure during the lockdown last year had stalled several projects, which picked up pace only towards the end of the year.“Soon, we will meet the Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman seeking moratorium on loans availed by developers and also homebuyers on the lines of MSMEs. This will, to some extent, ease financial constraints of both developers and home buyers,” said Ramandeep Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid19-up-real-estate-sector-seeks-relief-from-state-centre-101620009839938.html
03-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi L-G seeks advice to help boost infra||Delhi’s lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal on Sunday sought advice from concerned agencies on availability of hospital beds, medicines, oxygen shortage, augmentation plans and ways to scale up capacity of crematoriums and graveyards in the light of the severe surge in Covid-19, the L-G office said.“Lt Governor has sought further advice from concerned departments/agencies with regard to availability of key medicines, beds, medical oxygen & augmentation of capacities at crematoriums/grave yards, with the aim of addressing the ongoing problems being faced by people,” said the Delhi Raj Niwas in a post on Twitter.“He has asked for submission of a quantifiable action plan with monitorable time lines in this regard. HLG (Baijal) has also suggested that the possibility of reemploying recently retired Doctors and other paramedical staff, where ever required, be looked into to address shortages,” the Raj Niwas tweeted.Baijal was tested Covid-19 positive on Friday and he is currently under home isolation.A fourth wave of the pandemic is raging in Delhi. An unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases and disproportionately high number of severe infections have left the healthcare system overburdened.On Sunday, according to the government’s health bulletin, Delhi recorded 20,394 new cases and 407 more deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-l-g-seeks-advice-to-help-boost-infra-101620006985890.html
03-05-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand sees record 159 fatalities from Covid-19, death toll climbs to 2,829||Jharkhand saw a record new 159 deaths from Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of fatalities to 2,829 on Sunday. The state saw 6,323 new cases of infection, taking the total to 23,9734, as per the report issued by the health department. The report said that of the 2,39,734 cases, a total of 1,78,468 patients have recovered. Of the total deaths, 45 casualties occurred in the state capital Ranchi.Meanwhile, the BJP's leader of legislative party Babulal Marandi on Sunday attacked chief minister Hemant Soren, asking him to understand the gravity of the situation in the state and do something when people were dying during the second surge of the Covid-19 pandemic."The state is in a tizzy. People are dying in agony. Open the eyes and understand the seriousness. Do something," Marandi said in a tweet asking Soren to swing into action.Returning the attack, the ruling JMM in a tweet said "it is a low-level politics" during these sad times and questioned why it took the central government 13 days to give permission to import a life-saving drug Remedisivir. The JMM tweet was retweeted by chief minister Hemant Soren.Marandi in a series of tweets also alleged that the death rate in Jharkhand due to Covid-19 was much higher at 2.67% as against the national average of 0.94%."The condition in capital Ranchi is horrible where the death rate has been 3.27% and recovery rate is only 44%," Marandi said in a tweet, asking Soren "to do something."He said even in the neighbouring Odisha 54% of the people recovered and the death rate was barely 0.11%, he said adding that though 85% of the people in Jharkhand have recovered, the death rate was still 2.67%.Marandi even cited the case of Maharashtra, saying although the state was badly affected, 96.91% of people there recovered and the death rate was registered at 1.27%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-sees-record-159-fatalities-from-covid-19-death-toll-climbs-to-2829-101620005789626.html
03-05-2021||Delhi||DU to postpone final-year exams||The Delhi University (DU) has decided to postpone the examination of final year students by at least two weeks in the wake of the fourth wave of Covid-19 that has swept across the Capital. The exams were scheduled to begin from May 15.The decision comes amid demands for postponement of exams by both students and teachers in the light of the current Covid-19 situation.DU’s dean of examination D S Rawat said the decision was taken on Saturday in a meeting attended by all deans, officials and chaired by the acting vice chancellor (V-C) P C Joshi. “Taking the current situation into consideration, it was decided to postpone exams by at least two weeks. There are so many Covid-19 positive cases in the university itself. Sixteen officials in the examination branch have tested positive in the last few days and two of them succumbed to the virus on Sunday morning. The examination branch will remain closed for the next three days,” he said.“We will wait for two weeks for the situation to stabilize. Exams are likely to begin from June 1,” he added.The examination was to be conducted only for final year students. It will be conducted in an online open book format. The university has already announced that it will conduct exams for students of other semesters later.Earlier on Friday, the DU Teachers Association had written to the acting V-C requesting him to postpone the exams. “The fact that students are battling illness of self and family members is evident from the fact that the attendance in classes has significantly dropped. It is cruel for us to continue to behave as if we ought to be unaffected by whatever is happening around us...Many Heads of Departments have already written to the Dean, Examinations requesting that the exams for final year/ semester students be postponed in view of the number of Covid positive cases among students and teachers...Hence, we request you to consider cancelling examinations for all students and decide upon alternative means to evaluate students,” read the letter released by the association.Meanwhile, students welcome the decision. Rashi Rajput, a final year BCom student, said, “Many of my family members are currently down with Covid-19. I have also recovered recently. We can’t give exam under such stressful situation. I’m appreciate that the university has acknowledged our concerns.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-to-postpone-final-year-exams-101620006449443.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||No entry in Punjab without negative Covid-19 test or vaccination certificate||As Covid-19 cases continue to rise across the country, the Punjab government on Sunday issued that no one will be allowed to enter the state without a negative Covid-19 test result or a vaccine certificate.In a set of new guidelines to curb the spread of the virus, the state government further said that all non-essential shops would be closed till May 15."Nobody to enter the state whether by air, rail or road without either a Covid-19 negative report or vaccination certificate. In addition, all non-essential shops will continue to remain closed till May 15," the order said.It added, "The daily night curfew from 6 pm to 5 am and a weekend curfew from 6 pm on Friday till 5 am on Monday will continue. RT-PCR testing of road and streetwise vendors to be carried out."In the last 24 hours, Punjab reported 7,327 fresh Covid-19 cases, 5,244 discharges, and 157 deaths, the state health department informed. There are currently 60,108 active cases. The total number of discharges stands at 3,15,845 while the death toll is at 9,317.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-entry-in-punjab-without-negative-covid-19-test-or-vaccination-certificate-101620006020267.html
03-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi hospitals raise alarm with perilously low oxygen stock||Several hospitals in Delhi sent out desperate calls to authorities to replenish their oxygen supplies when they dropped precariously, threatening lives as the health infrastructure was crumbling under the pressure of an unprecedented rise in the number of Covid patients requiring oxygen or ICU support.With the city reporting over 20,000 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) each day, city hospitals have been facing acute oxygen shortage for nearly two weeks. Many hospitals sought help from the authorities on social media and three --- Sita Ram Bhartiya Hospital, Venkateswara Hospital, Maharaja Agrasen Hospital --- moved the high court, demanding replenishments, saying lives were at stake.Delhi received 454 MT of oxygen in the last 24-hours against its increased quota of 590 MT. This doesn’t even meet its previous quota of 490 MT. The Delhi government has demanded 976 MT of medical oxygen to add 1,200 ICU and 15,000 oxygen beds. According to the Delhi Corona app, only 20 ICU beds of the total 5,154 were available at 11pm on Sunday.Delhi government officials said that the Indian Oil Corporation has given five tankers to the Capital to transport oxygen. On Sunday, the government deployed an official at an oxygen plant in Faridabad to ensure steady supply.After the Vimhans hospital sent out an SOS around 7pm on Sunday, AAP MLA Raghav Chadha tweeted, “This is criminal abdication on part of those who were supposed to supply oxygen. However, we are in process of arranging 2MT of LMO for Vihmans from our reserves so that they get through the night. I urge Central Govt to deliver to us the allocated oxygen. We too are raising SOS.” At least 94 patients were admitted at Vimhans ICU when the hospital said it was about to run out of oxygen.The oxygen shortage has directly resulted in the deaths of 32 Covid-19 patients in two private hospitals of the city in the last ten days. Without attributing any deaths to the shortage, managing director of Aakash healthcare in Dwarka Dr Aashish Chaudhry said, “With erratic oxygen supply, many a times the pressure to the machines in the ICU drops, we have teams on standby but it does result in the worsening of clinical conditions of some.”Around 1pm, the Madhukar Raibow Children Hospital and Sitaram Bhartia hospital, which are primarily mother and child care hospitals, reached for the last few cylinders of oxygen on Sunday.“It has been a constant challenge for the last ten days or so as the need for oxygen soared. We used to need 10 to 12 cylinders of oxygen a day, now we use 90 to 100 cylinders. The government has allotted vendors to us but when we are in need, they might not have supplies. We do high risk deliveries and many neonates are on ventilators other than Covid-19 patients,” said Dr Shishir Paul, clinical director of Madhukar Rainbow hospital, where at least four babies with Covid-19 were admitted on Sunday morning.Madhukar rainbow is the only hospital that has consistently reserved ICU beds for pregnant women and children even as the city had completely run out of ICU beds.Sitaram Bhartia hospital ran out of liquid oxygen on Sunday afternoon and has been managing patients on oxygen cylinders ever since. They received some 20 cylinders as an emergency backup from the government reserve. “But, with the current demand, five cylinders last about 40 minutes,” hospital officials said. Their full tank of oxygen used to last 14 days earlier, now it lasts about 24 – 30 hours, they said. The hospital had four babies on oxygen supply, two of whose mothers were Covid-19 positive and admitted to the same hospital.Maha Durga city hospital ran out of liquid oxygen at 2am on Sunday morning; the oxygen tanker with emergency supply of 0.7MT reached the hospital at 7 am. For five hours, the hospital managed the 130 Covid-19 patients on backup oxygen cylinders. The hospital received another 2MT of oxygen by afternoon, however, there was no assurance for further supply as the vendor had said they were not getting any oxygen.“We have been allotted a restricted quota of 2.7MT, our current requirement is 3.5MT,” said Dr Nitin Makhijia, medical director of the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hospitals-raise-alarm-with-perilously-low-oxygen-stock-101620005883275.html
03-05-2021||Delhi||SC tells Centre to raise Delhi’s oxygen quota; SOS calls persist||The Supreme Court directed the Union government to ensure the deficit in oxygen supply to Delhi is met by the midnight of May 3, according to its order uploaded on Sunday, which came hours after at least five hospitals sent distress messages about their dwindling stocks and a day after 12 people died at a private hospital when their oxygen support dried up.The court noted details of allocations, demand, projected demand, and actual daily dispatches of liquid medical oxygen and said it “accepts the submissions” by the solicitor general to ensure Delhi is supplied with oxygen as per its “projected demand”. The order cited an April 18 forecast that predicted Delhi would need 700MT of oxygen daily.“We accept his submission and direct compliance within 2 days from the date of the hearing, that is, on or before midnight of 3 May 2021,” the order said.According to data available on Sunday, the Capital received the most amount of medical oxygen in a day so far with 454 MT on Saturday, which came after the Delhi high court threatened to initiate contempt proceedings against Union government officials. The apex court’s directions now mean Delhi will need to be supplied with 700MT of liquid medical oxygen by the May 3 deadline.Earlier in the day, the Delhi HC pulled up officials from both administrations afresh in an unusual Sunday sitting, which was to discuss an application by the Centre for the HC to recall its May 1 order warning of contempt proceedings if the Capital did not receive its quota of 490MT.“On Saturday, Delhi received 454 MT oxygen, of which 32 MT was arranged from Haryana at the last minute by the central government,” said a senior Delhi government official, who asked not to be identified.Delhi government records showed that between April 21 and 30, the city received total 3,534 MT oxygen – which comes down to 353.4 MT per day. But supplies on Friday were particularly low, 312MT.Delhi government officials said the Capital’s oxygen demand has risen further. “Delhi needs 976 MT oxygen per day. On the other hand, the allocation is only 590 MT. We have already requested the central government to increase the allotment to 976 MT, and to preferably do it from nearby oxygen plants to reduce the supply time. We are not even getting what has been allotted to us. We are doing our best to manage with whatever oxygen we are getting on a daily basis,” said a spokesperson.Some of the shortfall came into focus on Sunday when hospitals began sending SOS messages about their oxygen stock drying up. “We have Liquid Oxygen supply till 12 Noon today at Madhukar Rainbow Children Hospital, Malviya Nagar, New Delhi,” said a tweet by the hospital at 10.27am. A representative later said they had 50 patients, including four newborns, on oxygen support. The hospital does not have a liquid oxygen storage tank and depends on oxygen cylinders from a private vendor.Rainbow Children Hospital was among five hospitals that sent out such SOS messages. Together, these had over 550 Covid-19 patients, although it was not immediately clear how many of them were on oxygen support. The hospital said it received 20 oxygen cylinders around 1:30pm.On Saturday, 12 Covid-19 patients, including a senior doctor, died at south Delhi’s Batra Hospital after the facility ran out of oxygen for around 80 minutes. Late on April 23, 20 coronavirus patients died in similar circumstances at the Jaipur Golden Hospital. The crisis has persisted since April 21 due to a combination of factors. Delhi’s quota set by the Union government is 490MT, lower than the 700MT the Capital’s government says it needs; the city does not have adequate number of oxygen tankers to bring in supplies from neighbouring states, and other states have been unable to spare vehicles for Delhi since they too are recording a surge in oxygen demand as the Covid-19 infection continues to spread.The problem relented briefly last week with the Capital appearing to be able to source adequate oxygen for its reduced bed strength, but that has meant hospitals have not been able to add more vacancies for seriously ill patients who may need oxygen even though they had empty beds.The situation prompted the interventions of the Delhi high court and the Supreme Court, and top officials of the state and central governments, including the Prime Minister, held key meetings.Solutions include setting up more oxygen plants in the city, and link them to hospitals, so that these facilities can become self-sufficient; and bringing in tankers from other states or countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sctells-centre-to-raise-delhi-s-oxygen-quota-sos-calls-persist-101619989137929.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||32 ventilators lying unused in upcoming medical college in Mohali||Even as several parts of the state are reeling under an acute shortage of critical care facilities for Covid-19 patients, 32 ventilators are gathering dust at the upcoming Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences, Mohali.The ventilators were received nine months ago under PM-Cares Fund, but the institute itself has not been made operational yet. Punjab government had planned to start the first academic session from 2021, but it was delayed due to the Covid-induced lockdown.Principal Dr Bhavneet Bharti said, “We received 32 ventilators under PM-Cares Fund, but we cannot use these until we make the college operational. We are waiting for a team of the National Medical Council to visit for inspection, which was due in March. We will get a go-ahead only after inspection.”It may be recalled that on Thursday, Hindustan Times had reported how eight ventilators, which the civil hospital in Phase-6 had bought around eight months ago were lying unused due to lack of infrastructure and staff to operate it. The next day, hospital authorities had handed over the ventilators to two private hospitals in Mohali. Member of Parliament Manish Tewari said, “In such trying times when people need critical care, ventilators are lying unused. I will take up the matter with the authorities concerned.” Mohali has emerged as a medical tourism destination with 30 private hospitals, having top-class facilities, catering to patients from the region. These currently have 256 ventilator beds, of which 251 were occupied, as on Sunday. Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said, “We will be making the BR Ambedkar Medical College operational soon. We are trying to have some ICU beds in government hospitals too.”Om Parkash Soni, minister of medical education and research, Punjab, said, “We are coming up with 100 more beds at three medical colleges in Patiala, Amritsar and Faridkot. We will use these ventilators there.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/32-ventilators-lying-unused-in-upcoming-medical-college-in-mohali-101619987518660.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula takes the lead, inoculates 89 people in 18+ group||Leading the tricity in starting Phase 3 of the vaccination drive, Panchkula on Sunday inoculated 89 people in the 18-44 age group.Ramping up the drive, the administration has increased the vaccination sites for this age group from one to five from Monday onwards. These are at Government Dispensary, Sector 25; Urban Health Centre, Sector 16; Ayush Dispensary, Sector 9, Primary Health Centre (PHC), Pinjore; and Community Health Centre, Raipur Rani. Online registration and appointment through CoWin portal is mandatory for this age group.The drive for those aged above 45 (only second dose) will continue in 11 centres at Sector-26 Polyclinic; Mansa Devi Complex, Sector 4; Government Dispensary, Sector 12-A; Sub-Divisional Hospital, Kalka; and MLA Hostel Dispensary; and the PHCs at Old Panchkula, Nanakpur, Surajpur, Kot, Barwala and Hangola.Meanwhile, there is still no clarity on when more supplies will arrive in Chandigarh and Mohali to cover the youngest age group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-takes-the-lead-inoculates-89-people-in-18-group-101619987218675.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana announces Covid-19 lockdown till May 9||The Haryana government on Sunday announced a lockdown in all 22 districts of the state till May 9, prompted by an alarming rise in Covid-19 cases, which crossed the 100,000 mark, and deaths. Health minister Anil Vij announced the government’s decision on social media platform Twitter, stating that the entire state would be under lockdown from May 3.The announcement came a day before a weekend curfew imposed in the nine worst-affected districts of the state, Panchkula, Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Rohtak, Karnal, Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad districts, was set to end at 5am on Monday.Haryana on Sunday recorded its highest death toll over 24 hours, with 145 deaths taking the toll to 4,486, while 13,322 new infections took the case tally to 514,888.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar held meetings with the district administration officials in Sirsa, Kurukshetra, Sonepat and Bhiwani on steps to check spread of the infection. He said everyone must follow Covid-related guidelines.The chief minister appealed to all to refrain from creating an atmosphere of fear and urged them to instead play a positive role in this fight against the pandemic.He said, “We should move forward with the thought ‘Jaan Hai toh Jahan Hai’ and continue this fight against Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lockdown-clamped-in-haryana-till-may-9-101619987038764.html
03-05-2021||Other||Chandigarh, Mohali set new records in daily Covid cases, Panchkula sees 55% dip||Daily Covid-19 cases in Mohali zoomed to a new high for the second in a row with 1,045 fresh infections on Sunday.Chandigarh, too, recorded its biggest single-day surge with 860 people testing positive, up from its previous high of 837 cases recorded on April 27. On Saturday, Mohali had seen its last peak of 936 cases.Panchkula, on the other hand, reported a 55% drop in its daily cases with 198 infections on Sunday against 446 the day before.Also, after 20+ deaths for five straight days, tricity’s daily toll dropped to 18, which included seven each in Chandigarh and Mohali, and four in Panchkula.With the decrease in cases, Panchkula’s daily positivity rate – percentage of samples testing positive – also dipped from Saturday’s 27% to 21%, but increased in Chandigarh from 20% to 21% and remained constant in Mohali at 19%.All deceased in Chandigarh, who were aged between 45 and 72, had comorbities.With the fresh cases, the city’s tally climbed to 44,306, of which 7,592 people are still fighting the virus and 496 have succumbed to it. The recoveries stand at 36,218 (81.74%), matching the national average.Mohali’s caseload surged to 48,551, including 9,233 active cases – highest in the tricity.The latest fatalities pushed its toll to 610, while with 975 patients getting discharged, the total recoveries reached 38,377 (79%).The maximum cases on Sunday were from Mohali city (355), followed by 224 in Dhakoli, 177 in Kharar, 147 in Dera Bassi, 69 in Gharuan, 25 in Boothgarh, 15 in Kurali and seven in Lalru. Panchkula’s tally reached 21,687, of which 2,383 people are still infected – lowest in the tricity, while 217 have died. The district’s recovery rate (88%) is the highest in the three cities with 19,087 recoveries.The youngest among those who died here was a 38-year-old woman from Amrawati Enclave, who also suffered from hypothyroidism. The other deceased were two women, aged 70 and 56, and a 65-year-old man, who all had other illnesses as well.The new cases were scattered around the sectors, Abheypur, Abdullapur, Alipur, Amrawati Enclave, Barwala, Beer Ghaggar, Kalka and Pinjore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chandigarh-mohali-set-new-records-in-daily-covid-cases-panchkula-sees-55-dip-101619986860648.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Record 145 deaths in a day in Haryana||A record 145 people succumbed to the novel coronavirus in Haryana on Sunday while 13,322 new cases of infection were detected in the state. The virus claimed 16 people each in Hisar and Karnal, 14 in Rohtak and 11 in Bhiwani. The number of active cases rose to 1,05,270 while 10,423 people recuperated. Around 1,441 critical Covid patients are undergoing treatment in government and private hospitals. Gurugram district detected 3,609 fresh cases, Faridabad 1,755, Sonepat 934, Hisar 879, Ambala 316, Karnal 773, Panipat 794, Rohtak 525, Rewari 49, Panchkula 198, Kurukshetra 144, Yamunanagar 349, Sirsa 638, Mahendergarh 583, Bhiwani 428, Jhajjar 265, Palwal 101, Fatehabad 216, Kaithal 230, Jind 405, Nuh 99 and Charkhi Dadri district 32 cases. On Saturday, the state had recorded 125 fatalities and 13,588 new cases. Vaccination camp for scribes A special Covid vaccination camp will be organised at the MLA dispensary in Chandigarh for journalists, Haryana health minister Anil Vij said on Monday. The journalists must carry their Aadhaar Cards to get the jab. He said vaccination of those aged between 18 and 44 years had started in all districts from May 2 in 200 centres. The health minister said around 1.1 crore people in the state fell in the age bracket. Additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Rajeev Arora said 14,918 vaccine doses were administered to people in the 18-44 category across the state. The consolidated number of beneficiaries who have been administered vaccine doses till Sunday was 38.47 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/record-145-deaths-in-a-day-in-haryana-101619986859620.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Man held for duping people by promising oxygen, Covid vaccine||Police on Sunday arrested a man in Kapurthala for allegedly duping a number of people on social media by promising them to provide oxygen and Covid-19 vaccines. The accused, identified as Sachin Grover of Kapurthala, is already a proclaimed offender in a fraud case, the police said. Kapurthala city police station in-charge Raghbir Singh said Grover was promising people an oxygen cylinder for ₹10,000 and a vaccine shot for ₹4,500. He connected with people through social media and asked them to transfer money in his account and then did not respond to their messages, the SHO said. “Earlier, the accused used to dupe youngsters by promising to provide them roles in the Punjabi entertainment industry. He used to charge ₹35,000-45,000 from each person. When he was booked for fraud in Kapurthala, he shifted his base to Delhi. But he moved back to Kapurthala a few months back and started living on rent in the city. He has duped at least 40 people. Besides, he was also involved in immigration frauds,” he added. A case under section 420 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of Information Technology Act was registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-held-for-duping-people-by-promising-oxygen-covid-vaccine-101619986739546.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Robber injured in police encounter commits suicide in Amritsar jail||One of the four alleged robbers, who were arrested after an hour-long encounter on the outskirts of Patti town in Tarn Taran district in January, committed suicide in the Amritsar central jail on Sunday morning. Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi of Bhullar village in Tarn Taran’s Bhikhiwind sub-division was found hanging in a bathroom in the jail’s hospital ward. He was complaining of having severe pain for some time due to a bullet wound in his leg, officials said. Gurpreet along with Gurjinder Singh of Manakpura village, Rajbir Singh, alias Raju of Gandiwind and Jagjit Singh alias Jaggi of Naushehra Pannua village was injured in the encounter at a resort where a marriage function was underway on January 18. Their accomplice Gurmeet Singh of Jatta village was killed in the firing. Two police constables were also injured in the incident. The accused had allegedly committed seven robberies at gunpoint within 24 hours. The police had said they were facing nearly 50 criminal cases in Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Ludhaiana, Jalandhar and Rupnagar districts. Additional deputy commissioner of police (city 1) Harjit Singh said their preliminary investigation suggested that Gopi ended his life early in the morning.An assistant jail superintendent said, “At around 6:45 am, our staff noticed Gopi hanging in a bathroom. He was admitted to the jail’s hospital ward for the last a few days after he complained of pain in the leg. His condition was fine till Saturday night.”The body was handed over to the family after conducting post mortem on it at the Amritsar civil hospital. A judicial probe has also been initiated in the matter, he added.On January 18, the accused allegedly opened firing at a police party that was chasing them on the Tarn Taran-Patti road. Later, they took shelter in the marriage palace where a function was going on. Nearly, 50 police personnel reached the spot to flush them out of the banquet hall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/robber-injured-in-police-encounter-commits-suicide-in-amritsar-jail-101619986738525.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Shops selling non-essentials to stay closed in Punjab till May 15||The Punjab government on Sunday directed that the shops selling non-essential goods will remain closed and nobody will be allowed to enter the state without a negative Covid-19 report not older than 72 hours or an over two-week-old vaccination certificate till May 15. The state government has already imposed a night curfew from 6pm till 5am and weekend lockdown from 6pm on Friday till 5am on Monday.The order on additional restrictions was issued by the department of home and justice which also said that chemist shops and those dealing with supply of milk, bread, vegetables, dairy and poultry products such as eggs, meat, mobile repair, etc will be allowed to open. There will be no restrictions on laboratories, nursing homes and all other medical establishments. The four-wheelers, including cars and taxis, would not be allowed to have more than two passengers. “No pillion riders will be allowed on motorcycles and scooters except those belonging to the same family or living in the same house,” reads the order. However, vehicles carrying patients to hospitals are exempt from these restrictions. All government offices and banks have been directed to work at 50% strength other than those where officials are involved in pandemic management. Further, no gathering of more than 10 persons will be allowed even for weddings, cremations or funerals whereas all religious places would be closed at 6pm. The district authorities have been instructed to ensure social distancing in sabzi mandis that would be open only to fruit and vegetable wholesalers. RT-PCR testing of road and street vendors has been ordered. The department has also suggested that appeals be made to farmer unions not to hold gatherings and restrict number of protesters to token presence at toll plazas, petrol pumps and malls, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shops-selling-non-essentials-to-stay-closed-in-punjab-till-may-15-101619986680948.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Not a single Chandigarh area untouched by Covid’s second wave||The fast-spreading second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has not spared any sector, village or rehabilitation colony in Chandigarh.In contrast, during the first wave last year, the cases were concentrated in 75% of the city areas, with rehabilitation colonies, particularly Bapu Dham Colony, predominantly affected.According to municipal corporation figures, as of April 30 more than 4,000 houses in the city had active cases. Nearly 73% of these are in sectors and remaining in rehabilitation colonies.Sectors worst affected Notably, almost half of the affected households are located in Sectors 21 to 50.On the other hand, only three areas in colonies/villages – Manimajra, Dhanas and Mauli Jagran – are in the Top 10 areas in terms of number of houses with active cases (see box). Manimajra tops the list with 280 households having more than 450 positive patients, followed by Sector 41 with 145 affected houses and Sector 38 with 141 houses.While in the first wave, the northern sectors remained largely untouched by the pandemic, this time around, the virus has spread to the posh areas as well. In Sectors 1 to 12, 280 houses have over 430 active cases.Absence of curbs to be blamed: ExpertThe lack of lockdown or strict restrictions this year is being seen as one of the reasons for the wider spread of the disease in the city.“Last year, the lockdown was enforced much before the pandemic peaked in September, limiting mobility across different locations of the city. This time around, the restrictions are coming when the infections have already spread widely, allowing the virus to spread to more areas,” said Dr Rajesh Ahuja, former head of the department of community medicine and public health, PGIMER.The new variants of the virus, which are considered to be more infectious, are also to be blamed for the current scenario. “Last year, if one person tested positive, they further infected half or one-third of their family members. But, now, two-thirds or entire family members are testing positive,” said Dr Ahuja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/not-a-single-chandigarh-area-untouched-by-covid-s-second-wave-101619986499579.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Tikait among 12 leaders booked for gathering in Ambala||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tiktait, state president Rattan Mann and 10 other union leaders were booked in Ambala after they addressed a ‘Kisan-Mazdoor Mahapanchayat’ in Ambala’s Dhurali village on Saturday. Despite the imposition of Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), which prohibits the assembly of four or more people in an area, in Ambala at least 250 people had gathered for the mahapanchayat, without permission, said police, adding when officials ordered the assembly to disperse, they refused to leave. Ambala sadar police station in-charge Suresh Kumar said, “The union did not seek permission to organise a mahapanchayat and also refused to obey public servants’ orders. A case has been registered against them under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection dangerous to life) and 270 ( (malignant act likely to spread infection dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code against them.”Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Hamid Akhtar had said that they had been asked to defer the programme on Friday but they refused. On why he was addressing such rallies in this hour of crisis, Tikait said it was not a rally but farmers had gathered for a meeting where he told them how to remain safe from the virus.However, most attendees at the rally were seen flouting social distancing norms. Except for Tikait and the union’s state president Rattan Mann no one was seen wearing a mask.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tikait-among-12-leaders-booked-for-gathering-in-ambala-101619986438628.html
03-05-2021||Other||3 held for overcharging people for Covid supplies amid crisis||New Delhi: A day after the Delhi Police made their Covid helpline number, launched a fortnight ago, available for addressing complaints of cheating and overcharging by medical service providers or any other unscrupulous elements amid the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, three more people were arrested for allegedly taking advantage of people in distress. On Saturday, police took note of media reports and social media posts claiming that ambulance service providers are overcharging and many people are cheating in the name of providing oxygen cylinders and life-saving drugs for treating Covid-19. The Delhi Police threw open their Covid helpline number 011-23469900 for receiving all such complaints of illegal activities. The helpline, launched on April 16, has 10 lines to facilitate movement of people falling under exempted categories and resolve issues related to issuance of e-passes. The helpline receives more than 500 calls every day, said police. While two of the three people arrested are ambulance drivers who were overcharging Covid-19 patients or their kin, the third is a chemist who was charging four times the MRP on medical equipment. On Saturday, two ambulance drivers were held for overcharging. The first of the three fresh arrests was that of ambulance driver Kandhi Lal, about whom police received a complaint of overcharging. “We sent a policeman as a decoy customer. He was asked to pay ₹14,000 to move a body from a hospital in north Delhi to Nigambodh Ghat, which is a 6km-journey,” said Guriqbal Singh Sidhu, additional deputy commissioner of police (north-west). The two other arrests were in south-east Delhi. Bablu, an ambulance driver, was arrested for allegedly demanding ₹9,000 for moving a patient from one hospital to another located 10kms away. “Sudhir Gahlot, a chemist, was arrested for charging four times the MRP on equipment, such as oxygen flow meters, oxygen pumps and water nozzles,” said R P Meena, deputy commissioner of police (south-east). In both these instances, the police used their personnel as decoys to verify the authenticity of the allegations levelled against them and subsequently, arrested them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-held-for-overcharging-people-for-covid-supplies-amid-crisis-101619986318673.html
03-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt plans vaccination for residents in 77 public schools from Monday||Starting Monday, 77 public schools Delhi will operate as Covid-19 vaccination sites exclusively aged between 18 and 44, as part of the state government’s plans to open up the drive for all adults, a senior government official said on Sunday.West Delhi district will have 17 such schools, southeast Delhi will have nine, while there will be eight in Shahdara district, seven each in north and southwest districts, six each in central, northeast and northwest districts, four each in New Delhi and south districts, and three in east Delhi, showed a state government document.The senior government official quoted above said the government plans to increase the number of such locations for the 18-44 age group to 100 by the end of the week, and have two to five vaccine sites in each of them. “By mid-May, we plan to have at least one vaccination site in each of the 272 municipal wards in the city,” said the official.Delhi currently has over 539 sites to vaccinate all residents aged 45 and above.Covid-19 vaccines will be administered for free in government-run sites.The third phase of the Covid-19 immunisation drive began in the city on Saturday with at least four private hospitals and a government clinic inoculating people aged between 18 and 44.The drive began in four Max Hospital branches — at Shalimar Bagh, Patparganj, Panchsheel Park and BLK hospital in Rajendra Place, which is also under the same management.For phase 3, Delhi has 150,000 doses of Covaxin and 300,000 doses of Covishield, according to another document seen by HT.So far, 3,302,559 total doses of vaccine have been administered in Delhi, of which 710,672 were second doses for beneficiaries, government records showed.The government’s health bulletin said, 49,633 doses were administered on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/77-public-schools-in-delhi-to-get-vaccination-centres-from-monday-101619986318028.html
03-05-2021||Delhi||Covid orphans: Child rights body issues a caution||Flooded by requests for adopting children who lost their parents to Covid-19, both online and offline, the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) has urged people not to fall for misinformation floating on social media, and advised interested families to follow the due legal process to initiate the adoption process.Several children have lost their parents to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic -- fourth wave, as per the Delhi government -- in the national capital. Earlier this week, DCPCR appealed to people on social media to call on their helpline number and report cases where children need essential supplies, have lost their parent(s), or are struggling to support themselves due to the illness. Following this, the child rights body said requests for adopting children orphaned amid the pandemic have also started pouring in.Commission chairperson Anurag Kundu tweeted on Saturday evening: “Do not believe anyone who says he/she can give you the child for adoption. They are either lying or misleading or simply involved in illegal practices. Do reach out to your lawyer friends for advice.”Kundu said he himself has received around 10 such requests in the last few days. “Besides, I see a lot of posts floating around about child adoption. People need to understand that they have to follow a legal process. Any adoption without it is illegal,” he said.Explaining the standard process of adoption, Kundu said that when a child is orphaned, abandoned, surrendered or the parents are unable to support him/her, the child is produced -- by anyone -- before the concerned Child Welfare Committee (CWC). “The committee, in the interim period, sends the child to a children’s home, fit facility or Special Adoption Agency (if the child is below six years) and the Committee then passes order conducting a social investigation report by social worker, child welfare officer or child welfare police officer to check the background of the child and his family in a structured format. It’s called a social investigation report. Once it’s established that the parents are either unwilling to support, or simply unable to, or the child has turned orphaned and nobody is coming forward, the committee declares the child legally free for adoption, following the procedure laid down in JJ Act, 2015, and Model Rule, 2016, as well as adoption regulations. Then the CWC directs the appropriate authority in CCI (child care institution) and DCPO (district child protection officer) to complete medical examination report and registers the child on the Central Adoption Resource Authority as per procedures and upload all relevant documents required. No child can be adopted without following this process,” he said, adding that any other route is illegal and punishable under law.Kundu also flagged some posts on Twitter by people claiming that few children who lost their parents to Covid-19 were adopted within hours of them seeking help on social media. He also tagged Delhi Police while flagging another such post inviting people to adopt two girls whose parents allegedly succumbed to the virus.“We are encouraging people who are approaching us to follow the legal process. Besides, they should not take any decision in the heat of the moment. It’s a lifelong decision which needs to be taken after due consideration,” he added.A Delhi police spokesperson decline to comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dcpcr-warns-against-falling-for-social-media-posts-to-adopt-children-orphaned-by-covid-101619986198078.html
03-05-2021||Other||Road rage: 3 held for killing, robbing man||New Delhi: Three men who robbed and killed a 25-year-old mason in South Delhi’s Sangam Vihar two weeks ago after his motorcycle brushed past one of them have been arrested, the police said. The victim, Azad Ahmad, lived with his family in Sangam Vihar and worked as a mason. The crime happened while he was returning on his motorcycle from his brother’s home in Tughlaqabad around 11.15pm on April 18. Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south), said as Ahmad rode past a school in Sangam Vihar, his motorcycle brushed past one of the suspects, who were drunk and were walking to buy cigarettes. “That led to a verbal altercation during which they thrashed Ahmad,” said the DCP. Ahmad, in his complaint to the police before his death, said he was pulled down from his motorcycle and thrashed with sticks and an iron rod. The DCP said as the trio thrashed him, they also decided to rob him as no one was around. “They robbed his mobile phone, ₹1,000 cash and some documents,” said Thakur adding that a case of causing hurt during robbery was registered. The victim succumbed to his injuries on April 25 after which police added murder charge in the FIR. Simultaneously, the police started screening CCTV footage and enquiring from locals to find the suspects. The suspects were arrested one by one over a period of several days until the last suspect was arrested on Saturday. The police have recovered the robbed phone and the documents which were dumped in a drain near the crime scene.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/road-rage-3-held-for-killing-robbing-man-101619986138640.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Cancellations mount: Second Covid wave hits Mohali’s banquet hall owners hard||The second spike in Covid-19 cases has affected the wedding business the most, with owners of banquet halls decrying complete losses and a sea of cancellations during one of their peak seasons.A maximum of only 10 people are allowed to attend weddings, which has taken away all the business from the banquet hall owners in Zirakpur. As per Rajiv Chhabra, owner of AKM Resorts in Zirakpur, the period between April 24 and May 24 every year is usually peak wedding season for resorts, but now they have had to cancel all bookings: “Rather than bring 10 people to a resort, people are cancelling the weddings or opting for hotels in Panchkula or Chandigarh. We have been facing similar hardships since March 2020 and many resorts are shutting down because of shortage of funds.”Parvinder Singh, who runs Nimantran Banquet halls in Dhakoli, said, “Giving refunds to people isn’t easy. We had already paid the money to caterers and decorators, so we had to pay people out of our own pockets. Considering how the situation has worsened, people don’t know how long it will take for things to improve.”Samuel Massey, who runs Sohi Banquets in Zirakpur, added, “The government needs to look out for banquet hall owners. We employed a lot of people who we have had to let go. Some concession in the taxes we pay or in the electricity and water bills will be welcome.”Even though some marriage ceremonies have gone over to the hotels in Chandigarh, the hospitality units are still struggling. President of the Chandigarh Restaurants and Hotels Association, Arvinder Pal Singh, said, “We have had a lot of cancellations as well because of the 6pm lockdown rule. We can host only one marriage party per day, but only up to 50 people are allowed to attend.”Apart from banquet hall owners, the Chandigarh Tent Dealers Society is also reporting losses. Chief adviser Anil Vohra said, “Lockdown means all our bookings get cancelled and have to be refunded. It would be tough doing this again this year and some of the smaller tent houses are likely to shut down if things don’t improve.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cancellations-mount-second-covid-wave-hits-mohali-s-banquet-hall-owners-hard-101619985661003.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Desperate parents in Chandigarh seek school fee waiver||With the second wave of the Covid pandemic extending the economic slowdown, parents of schoolchildren are demanding fee concessions on the lines of the last session.In the absence of any instructions by the administration, schools have been charging annual charges and other dues, along with tuition fees.“My child’s school has announced the waiver of only medical, diary, magazine and ID card charges, which do not amount to much. Schools should waive the annual charges and only levy tuition fees,” said a parent of a student at Mount Carmel School, Sector 47, requesting anonymity.A notice sent out by the school to parents (copy with HT) adds that they won’t charge late fee for the first quarter and even consider waiving fees for parents who had lost their jobs. However, the notice cautioned parents against “anti-school activities or mobilising parents”. School principal Dr Parveena John Singh was unavailable for a comment.Parents of students at KBDAV School, Sector 7, have already held two protests this month seeking waiver of annual charges. Principal Pooja Prakash said, “We had written to the UT education department about this and are awaiting their directions. No parent is being coerced to pay. Our charges are already nominal and only an up to 8% hike, allowed by the Right to Education Act, has been effected.”Officials of the UT education department said they were exploring all options keeping in view the court cases, provisions of the Fee Regulation Act and the pandemic situation.President of the Independent School Association, HS Mamik said, “Some schools are allowing concessions on their own, but not schools can afford to do so.” At Tender Heart School, Sector 33, academic charges for four months have been waived. “Taking the parents’ plight into consideration, we took this decision voluntarily. We will decide on whether to extend this after the summer vacations,” said principal Vikrant Suri. Mamik, who is also the chairman of Vivek High School, Sector 38, said his school had not hiked fees during the current or the previous session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/desperate-parents-in-chandigarh-seek-school-fee-waiver-101619985660032.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||At Ambala Cantt’s Roti Bank, free protein-rich diet for Covid patients||While serving in the National Service Scheme (NSS) during his college days at Karnal’s Dyal Singh College in the late 1980s, young Vinay Mehta was inspired to feed the needy.After shifting to Ambala for employment, he and his friends used to organise open kitchens on Mahashivratri for many years, but found that there were many such organisations doing to the same.Later in 2017, he along with his friends raised a Roti Bank at the old building of the civil hospital in Ambala Cantt and started serving free one-time food and tea. Now, they have a kitchen and a staff of five-six employees who prepare and distribute food in disposable plates.Catering to 150-170 patients Talking about his initiative, Mehta said that as people started contributing, they increased the number of plates and started serving it twice to patients and their attendants. “As per the advice of the doctors, now we are serving a protein-rich light diet including almonds in the morning and meals thrice a day including paneer and fruits to the infected patients. Currently, we are catering to around 150-170 patients, but not their attendants,” said Mehta, who is also a BJP worker.The Roti Bank that is run by 10 permanent members contributing on yearly basis is grabbing attention after state health and home minister Anil Vij on Friday praised the facility in his constituency and appealed to the residents to replicate the model in other districts of Haryana.The minister tweeted: “All social, political, commercial, religious and other organisations in the state are requested to run ‘Roti Bank’ for Covid patients, as is being done at civil hospital, Ambala Cantt.”Professor Vinay Malhotra, a retired principal, said, “They’ve adopted a hygienic and a smooth system to serve food at the doorstep of the patient, which is prepared at a kitchen at the hospital. We occasionally donate to them. Even patients who have had their meal once return after months to donate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-ambala-cantt-s-roti-bank-free-protein-rich-diet-for-covid-patients-101619985598740.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Highest single-day spike of 157 deaths, 7,327 infections in state||A record single-day spike of 157 Covid-19 fatalities and 7,327 new cases pushed Punjab’s death toll due to the disease to 9,317 and infection tally to 3,85,270, according to a medical bulletin issued here on Sunday.The number of active cases rose to 60,108 from 58,229 on Saturday, it said.Of the new fatalities, 18 deaths were recorded in Bathinda, 17 in Ludhiana, 15 in Amritsar, 12 in Sangrur and 11 in Gurdaspur, the bulletin said. Ludhiana recorded a maximum 1,404 cases, followed by 1,045 in Mohali, 725 in Jalandhar, 602 in Patiala and 582 in Bathinda, among fresh cases in the state.A total of 5,244 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the overall recoveries to 3,15,845, as per bulletin.There are 229 critical patients who are on ventilator support while 7,525 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.809 ventilators provided to districts: CSChief secretary Vini Mahajan on Sunday said the state government has provided 809 more ventilators to districts in the state. Mahajan, who was chairing a high-level meeting to review the Covid situation and vaccination status in the state, directed all the deputy commissioners to install the new ventilators and ensure that not even a single oxygen concentrator and ventilator remain unutilised. She also ordered to impose work from home for private offices so that the chain of Covid transmission could be arrested. Principal secretary, health and family welfare, Hussan Lal, said the state would get 3,29,830 doses of Covid vaccine for launching Phase-III of vaccination drive soon. “On an average, 6,532 cases were reported daily last week with overall positivity rate of 11.7%, while the count of daily cases remained 2,896 during the first peak in the state during September last year,” he added. A total of 73,40,768 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. Vaccination: Cab service for elderly in Moga Moga: The Moga police have started a cab service for senior citizens to take them to vaccination centres. The cab will also drop them back home after the jab. The district police have formed two teams for the purpose, which will be supervised by DSP, cyber crime Sukhwinder Singh. Those who need cab service can dial 9656896568,” the DSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/highest-single-day-spike-of-157-deaths-7-327-infections-in-state-101619985478909.html
03-05-2021||Other||Langah’s son among five held with heroin during raid in Gurdaspur||Gurdaspur Police on Sunday arrested five persons, including Parkash Singh, son of former Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) minister Sucha Singh Langah, after they were found inside a house in Dhariwal town with heroin on their person, during a raid. Parkash’s father, who also served as an SGPC member, was excommunicated by the Akal Takht after a video, purportedly showing him in an objectionable position with a woman, was circulated on social media in 2017. He has been seeking pardon over the past week, with his parents also submitting an application to the Takht. Gurdaspur SSP Dr Nanak Singh said they had a tip-off that some youngsters were coming to supply heroin to Rajesh Kumar at his house in Dhariwal town. The team conducted a raid at the house where they found five persons with heroin. Apart from Parkash and Kumar, the other accused are Aditya Mahajan, Kunal and Sudhir Singh, who belong to Dhariwal. “On checking, 8gm heroin was recovered from Mahajan, while 2.5gm heroin and 2gm heroin was recovered from Kunal and Sudhir, respectively. The other two were consuming heroin. A case has been registered against all these accused under relevant sections of the NDPS. The accused are being quizzed about their network of drug trade,” the SSP added.The former SAD minister said, “This is nothing, but a conspiracy of my rivals. They do not want me to be pardoned, and are afraid that as I am visiting the Sri Darbar Sahib for atonement, my prayer will be granted. My son is innocent. Police did not recover anything objectionable from him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/langahs-son-among-five-held-with-heroin-during-raid-in-gurdaspur-101619985299105.html
03-05-2021||Lucknow||Two more trains bring 90.78 MT oxygen to UP||Two more Oxygen Express trains carrying 90.78 metric tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) in six tankers arrived in the state capital on Sunday morning.One train with four tankers containing a total of 60.28 metric tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) reached Lucknow from Bokaro on Sunday morning, according to a railway press release. The other train from Bokaro reached Lucknow with two tankers carrying 30.50 metric tonnes of LMO. After it reached Lucknow, the second train was sent to Bareilly, an official said. Meanwhile, another train left for Bokaro late on Saturday night to bring more liquid medical oxygen to Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/two-more-trains-bring-90-78-mt-oxygen-to-up-101619985238002.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Indiana’s Sikh community honours victims of FedEx mass shooting||WashingtonSikhs in the US state of Indiana have held a memorial service to honour the eight people, including four community members, who were killed in a mass shooting at a FedEx facility last month.Brandon Scott Hole, 19, a former worker at the Indianapolis FedEx facility, killed eight people on April 15 before killing himself. Four of those killed were Sikhs, including three women. The memorial service on Saturday was opened with “ardaas”, a Sikh prayer.“We are so thankful to everyone who came together to attend and help put on this important event,” said Balwinder Singh, an Indianapolis Sikh community leader.“What happened on April 15 is a tragedy that forever altered too many lives, and only by coming together to grieve, honour, and call for action can we move forward,” he said.The event, held at a city stadium, featured city, state and federal representatives, Indianapolis-area interfaith leaders and Sikh community members.“As your governor, I stand with you in support of the Sikh community, with each of the families of the victims, with the hundreds of others who are feeling the impact of this tragedy, and with our law enforcement and first responders who face it daily so most of us don’t have to,” Indiana Governor Eric Holcomb said.“And we stand with this city and the entire community, still reeling from the impact of that terrible day. I’m grateful for each person here today to honour lives so tragically lost, to show support for survivors and to extend a comforting hand to the families and friends who were taken from us far too soon,” he said.Several of Indiana’s congressional representatives sent letters of support that were read aloud at the event.President Joe Biden also wrote a letter of support, IndyStar reported.The letter was read by Erika Moritsugu, deputy assistant to the president and Asian American and Pacific Islander senior liaison. “To the people of Indiana, I share the heartbreak you are experiencing after such senseless violence pierced your community and our nation’s soul once again,” Biden wrote. “They were our friends and neighbours. They were immigrants and fellow Americans, seeking their piece of the American dream.” Komal Chohan, whose grandmother was killed during the shooting, said: “It makes us feel like we’re not alone.” “We don’t know if this was bias-related. It feels good to know that not everybody views us in that manner and not everybody sees us as outsiders,” Chohan said.There are an estimated 8,000-10,000 Sikhs in Indiana. Though Sikhs began settling in the state more than 50 years ago, the first gurdwara was not established until 1999. There are 10 gurdwaras in the state now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/indianas-sikh-community-honours-victims-of-fedex-mass-shooting-101619985178662.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Tarn Taran woman cop whose mother was held with heroin dismissed||Police on Sunday dismissed the constable daughter of the former member of Shiromani Akali Dal’s Tarn Taran women wing Jaswinder Kaur, who was arrested by the anti-drug special task force (SFT) with 1.2 kg of heroin on April 21.Gurjinder Kaur, who was posted at the Chohla Sahib police station, was sent to Tarn Taran police line soon after her mother’s arrest. A team of STF, led by an assistant inspector general (AIG), conducted a raid at Jaswinder’s house in Chambal village falling under the Sarhali police station. She was arrested along with four others —Manjit Singh, his sons Jagveer Singh and Gurpreet Singh, and the latter’s wife Mandeep Kaur of Bhail village in Goindwal Sahib sub-division. The police also recovered ₹70,000 drug money.According to the STF, Manjit had brought the heroin from Jaswinder. A case under the NDPS Act was registered against the accused at the STF police station in Phase 4, Mohali.“A few days back, the STF had arrested Jaswinder and recovered 1.2 kg heroin from her possession. She was a former member of the women wing of the Akali Dal. Immediately after Jaswinder’s arrest, Jassi’s daughter Gurjinder Kaur was sent to the lines and a departmental probe was initiated against her. After the probe, she has been dismissed,” said a spokesperson of Tarn Taran police.Gurjinder had been aiding her mother in running the illegal business. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale said they have adopted zero tolerance against the drug menace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tarn-taran-woman-cop-whose-mother-was-held-with-heroin-dismissed-101619985119901.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||‘We shall overcome’: Positivity campaign initiated by Chandigarh NGO takes off at schools||Taking inspiration from the anthem of the American Civil Rights Movement, Yuvsatta, an NGO that has been mobilising youth for peace, has taken a step forward to motivate students to fight back against Covid with protocols, while living in the midst of it.Activist Pramod Sharma, who has been mobilising youth for peace, says: “Students have been worst-hit by the crisis as they can’t attend school, play or interact with their peer group. The symbolic online classes have not been enough to channel their energy or provide them support, with death and morbidity all around.”Sharma adds that the campaign targets to motivate the youth to stand together during this national emergency and create awareness to live with it while following protocols. The campaign, which took off on April 28, has already found 12 educational institutions in the city and the region becoming a part of it. These include Government Girls Model School, Sector 18; Government Model Schools in Dhanas and Karsan; DAV Model School , Sector 15-A; KB DAV Model and CL DAV Model Schools, Sector 7; St. Joseph’s, Sector 44, Carmel Convent, Jammu and Chitkara University, Rajpura.A beginning has been made putting up inspirational banners at the institutions. This is to be followed by webinars and distribution of stickers and posters to the youth. A Covid Times Peace Prize has been announced for the five best schools in the city for carrying forward the campaign. The award will include a cash prize and a certificate. “Our aim is to promote the power of positivity among students,” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/we-shall-overcome-positivity-campaign-initiated-by-chandigarh-ngo-takes-off-at-schools-101619985118810.html
03-05-2021||Other||Migrant workers start leaving Amritsar in a trickle, for now||With covid-19 curbs affecting livelihood of majority of people in Punjab, bringing back bitter memories of last year when a sizeable period passed in lockdown, migrant labourers have started returning to their home towns and villages in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and other states by train. On Sunday, 50 migrant labourers, with their luggage, were seen at Amritsar Railway Station to board trains bound for UP and Bihar. They were carrying bags.People working as vendors, factory workers, construction workers and those employed with in hotels and restaurants have been hit. Most of them are migrant labourers and don’t have houses. “We have been left jobless due to covid-19 restrictions and have chosen to return home, instead of staying here. We will not return till normalcy returns,” one of them said; this was the common refrain. Manoj Kumar, of Chandoli village, in Banaras district of Uttar Pradesh (UP), said, “I have been living here for the past 15 years and work in a factory manufacturing fans in Amritsar. The unit has been non-operational for the last few days. What will I do here if the factory is lying defunct? I have decided to go back with five more people accompanying me.” He added, “The current lockdown has affected the factory owner severely. He has expressed inability to accommodate us anymore.”Another migrant Vinay Kumar, said, “I am a daily wager and have no work to do amid lockdown. I am going back home the second time due to lockdown as we had no work.”Workers who have not stepped out to go to their homes, also fear that the lockdown will be prolonged and that they will lose their source of livelihood and their housing.“Migrant labourers have started going home. The lockdown and night curfew have hit small businesses run by migrant and factories and factories have cut jobs. Unemployed workers are unable to pay rent. So, a section of the labourers has decided to go back home,” said Mahesh Verma, leader of migrant labourers, and president of the Shiromani Akali Dal’s Parwasi Wing.He added, “Travelling home is not affordable by everybody. Only those who have some money are going. A sizeable number of migrant workers are vendors, who start their work after 5pm. How can they run their livelihood in the new lockdown timings?”Notably, tourism, restaurants, hospitality, textile, handicraft, fan manufacturing, medicines, rice sheller etc are main fields of industries in Amritsar. Kamal Dalmia, chairman, Focal Point Industries Association, Amritsar, who runs a textile unit, said, “Most factory owners have reduced their shift to eight hours. New orders are rare and payment from customers is blocked. No factory owner can afford manufacturing of unsold goods for much time. Temporary workers are being asked to go for leave for 20 days or more.”3 buses from Barnala move to native states BARNALA Over a hundred migrant workers moved to their native states amid rumours of complete lockdown due to covid-19 and Ramadan by hiring special private buses from Barnala district on Sunday. Those going back claimed that they will return for work after a short period. Wheat crop harvest season has almost ended and paddy transplantation will start in the month of June in Punjab.The driver of the private bus, who did not want to be named, said the migrants had hired three buses, which would drop them at Purnia from Barnala and Sangrur districts. Mohammed Jaladeen, of Purnia district of Bihar, who boarded the bus from Dhanaula town, said, “We are going home for Ramadan. I want to celebrate the festival with family members. However, we will come back again for work,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/migrant-workers-start-leaving-amritsar-in-a-trickle-for-now-101619984939298.html
03-05-2021||Other||Bikru steps out of Vikas Dubey’s shadow, elects woman pradhan||Free from the electoral influence of gangster Vikas Dubey for the first time in 25 years, his native village Bikru in Kanpur elected its second woman village pradhan on Sunday.Winning a close contest, Madhu Devi defeated Bindu Kumar by 54 votes. In the last two decades, the village head’s post had been held solely either by Vikas Dubey or the people he supported in Bikru and the adjoining villages.In July 2020, Dubey made the national headlines when he and his men ambushed a raiding police team and killed eight policemen.Soon afterwards, the Uttar Pradesh police gunned down Dubey and five of his gang members in separate encounters.In his heyday, Vikas Dubey had constantly remained in control of the Bikru gram panchayat, allegedly rigging the polls in his favour or for those he supported.In the previous election, Bikru had chosen Dubey’s daughter-in-law Anjali Dubey for the pradhan’s post. His wife Richa had won as member of the zila panchayat.This time, people in Bikru village were happy with the freedom they had to cast their votes. Many youngsters saw candidates canvassing in their village for the first time and they participated wholeheartedly in the process. Bikru village has a total of 1,400 voters. After her victory, Madhu said she would work for the overall development of village and help the women through self-help groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bikru-steps-out-of-vikas-dubey-s-shadow-elects-woman-pradhan-101619984937916.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Another illicit liquor manufacturing unit busted in Amritsar, 5 arrested||The Amritsar rural district police have busted another illicit liquor manufacturing unit with the arrest of five persons from Boparai Khurd village falling under the Lopoke police station on Saturday night. This is the ninth such racket busted by the police in Amritsar since February this year under the state government’s “Red Rose Operation”.Police have seized 1,18,400 kg ‘lahan’ (raw material used in making liquor), 390-litre illicit liquor, eight stills, 94 drums (each of 50 litre), four LPG cylinders and 20 tarpaulins during a search operation in the village. Those arrested were identified as Sarwan Singh, Angrez Singh, Sanjay, Avtar Singh and Resham Singh of Boparai Khurd village. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Amritsar (Rural) Dhruv Dahiya said based on specific intelligence inputs, police teams carried out a six-hour-long operation in the area, leading to unearthing of the large-scale illicit liquor manufacturing unit.“Preliminary investigations indicate that the accused had established a semi-mechanised scale of production of illicit liquor, which is based on sourcing of raw materials like jaggery from within the village, and is sustained by extensive illicit distribution chains radiating from outside the village,” he said in a statement. A case under Sections 61, 78 (2), 1 and 14 of the Excise Act has been registered at the Lopoke police station and the process to forfeit the properties of the accused persons, as per the legal provisions, is underway, he said. Earlier, the police had busted such rackets in Chak Mishri Khan, Chapa Ram Singh, Lakhuwal, Khiala Kalan, Kotli Sakka, Jasso Nangal, Jethuwal and Fatehwal villages in which more than 700 tonnes of “lahan” was seized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/another-illicit-liquor-manufacturing-unit-busted-in-amritsar-5-arrested-101619984878952.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Pvt hospital in Panchkula now a dedicated Covid care facility||Panchkula district magistrate Mukesh Kumar Ahuja on Sunday notified Kare Partners Superspecialty Hospital in Sector 2 as a dedicated Covid Hospital. He also inspected the Panchkula civil hospital to check the facilities available for Covid-19 patients.“It is necessary to ensure smooth functioning of healthcare facilities and proper care for Covid patients, including their treatment, food and drinking water,” he said.He said that sub-divisional officer (civil) and Panchkula civil surgeon will hold a regular meeting of the Covid task force and get a report on treatment, food and drinking water.On May 1, the DC had constituted a team to control the spread of Covid-19 in the district. Ahuja directed police to keep a check on hoarding of medicines, injections and oxygen.A control room has been set up by the administration, with 24 hours functional helpline number. The contact number is 0172- 2590000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pvt-hospital-in-panchkula-now-a-dedicated-covid-care-facility-101619984698353.html
03-05-2021||Other||Punjab left with 30,000 vaccine doses, awaiting fresh stock from Centre||The Punjab government on Sunday said that it is running short of Covid-19 vaccines. It is awaiting fresh stock from the Centre to continue with the inoculation of 45+ population at vaccination centres across the state. The state, which could not start the vaccination for 18-45 years category from May 1, due to non-availability of direct supply from the Serum Institute of India (SII), is left with just 30,000 vaccination doses. Director, health, Dr GB Singh said there were hardly any vaccine doses left with the state and vaccination would be carried out at very few centres. “The last batch of two lakh doses was received from the Centre on April 30. We have not got anything since,” he added. The Union ministry of health and family welfare has allocated 6.2 lakh doses, including 4.7 lakh Covishield and 1.5 lakh Covaxin, for the state during the first fortnight of this month for free vaccination of 45+ population. “They have confirmed this allocation, but no consignment has been received. We are waiting for fresh stock of vaccine to continue the inoculation drive,” Dr Singh added.Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, nodal officer for Covid-19, said that since the health department was left with just 30,000 doses, few vaccination sessions would be conducted on Monday. “The district authorities will decide on which hospitals will administer the jab,” he added. For 18-45 age group, the state government has placed an order for 30 lakh doses of Covishield with the SII. The Centre had confirmed that 3 lakh doses would be sent and the same were awaited, the health director added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-left-with-30-000-vaccine-doses-awaiting-fresh-stock-from-centre-101619984642205.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Prashant Kishor’s bolt from the blue leaves Punjab Cong leaders in suspense||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s principal adviser and political strategist Prashant Kishor got a shot in the arm on Sunday with the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress defeating the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in West Bengal. But the Congress in Punjab is not celebrating his success for two reasons. The Congress, which once ruled West Bengal, failed to open its account there and then Kishor also announced his retirement from election management work. “I do not want to continue what I am doing. I have done enough. Time for me to take a break and do something else in life. I want to quit this space,” he told private news channels in separate interviews on his decision to quit as an election strategist. On being asked by a channel about his appointment in the state, he said: “If you help someone win an election, it is nothing if they offer you principal adviser or adviser’s post. They always like you to be by their side because it suits them. It is for me to decide whether I want to do that or not. I am telling you that I am not doing this work for anybody anymore.” Kishor, or “PK” as he is often called in political circles, was widely expected to draw the Congress’ poll strategy for the 2022 assembly elections. His announcement has come as a bolt from the blue for the Congressmen. While there was no official word from the chief minister or his other advisers, the poll strategist’s decision has left the party leaders in suspense. The sultan of spin, who has scripted several successful election campaigns across the country, had held meetings with the party’s first-MLAs and top officials of the state government after his appointed two months ago to gather feedback on the ground realities, implementation of poll promises and focus areas to draw the strategy for the assembly polls due early next year. “When I met him five weeks ago, PK gave no such indication and was all ears. He took a lot of interest and had everything on his fingertips,” a first-time MLA, who was among those who met Kishor at the chief minister’s residence in Chandigarh and seemed impressed, expressing disappointment over the development. A senior party leader, while being hopeful that he will not back off from his commitment made to the chief minister, did not sound sure. “He has not specified any timeframe for quitting as an election strategist. I think he will stick here, but one never knows,” he said. However, an aide of the chief minister said that since he now occupies an official position in the government as the chief minister’s principal adviser, Kishor is distancing himself from the company. “Under the government rules, any person occupying an official position cannot carry out any business activity,” he said. Kishor, in his interviews to a number of channels following the West Bengal poll results, also said that he would be parting ways with the Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC), the political advocacy group he founded. The poll strategist, who was inducted by Amarinder in the chief minister’s office on March 1, had worked with the Congress in Punjab in the 2017 assembly polls with Amarinder as the state unit chief. He was seen as the brain behind the “Coffee with Captain” and “Punjab da Captain” that had worked well for the party and the CM-face. “PK & his team and their work was absolutely critical to our victory in Punjab!” Amarinder had tweeted after the party’s victory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/prashant-kishor-s-bolt-from-the-blue-leaves-punjab-cong-leaders-in-suspense-101619984519061.html
03-05-2021||Other||SP chief unable to see govt’s work on Covid: UP minister||Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh on Sunday targeted Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav and said the SP leader was unable to acknowledge the “good work” done by the BJP government amid the pandemic.Singh said that the SP leader’s inability to see the work did not change the reality that the number of L-2 (Level-2) and L-3 (Level-3) hospital beds had increased three times in the state. He said 35,000 new beds were also being added. “Besides, medical kits have been distributed to 2.41 lakh patients in home isolation in the state, but the SP chief will not see this,” he said.The minister said under the Yogi government, the state aircraft were being used to bring people life-saving medicines.“The government is releasing data honestly on a daily basis on infection and recovery rates in the state,” he said.He also said the state government was working on several schemes to provide maximum benefits to the farmers. “Whether it was the issue of making payments to the sugarcane farmers or purchasing wheat from farmers, the Yogi government took appropriate decisions and steps well in time. The state government has made payments to 1.23 lakh sugarcane farmers while wheat procurement has been doubled since last year to about 1.2 metric tonnes,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sp-chief-unable-to-see-govt-s-work-on-covid-up-minister-101619984458596.html
03-05-2021||Other||Wise Bengalis saw through Modi, claims J&K Cong chief||Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress president GA Mir said on Sunday that wise Bengalis had rejected the politics of opportunism and communalism by defeating the BJP in West Bengal elections. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah put the lives of 130 crore Indians to risk by ignoring a grave national health emergency, for the sake of winning the West Bengal state elections. The Bengalis saw through their designs,” Mir added. “Today, the country is paying the price of the failure of the Modi government to take timely steps to upgrade the facilities and resources to deal with second Covid wave which has gripped the entire country in its worst form,” he said, adding that the strategy of West Bengal voters and their commitment to keep the communal and divisive forces at bay against all sorts onslaughts would be a lesson for voters elsewhere in different parts of the country. He also congratulated Tamil Nadu and Kerala voters for rejecting the BJP and its political ambitions.‘COVID-19 CRISIS: JAIRAM SHOULD TAKE CHARGE OF HEALTH’CM Jairam Thakur should take command of the health department in his hands, as the severity of the covid-19 pandemic demanded it, the state Congress said on Sunday. He also added that speed of decision-making was important in such a scenario. Former Jubbal-Kotkhai legislator as well as ex-chief parliamentary secretary Rohit Thakur said, “In view of the devastating second wave of the Corona epidemic, the state must keep the option of limited lockdown open in public interest. To effectively tackle the pandemic, the government must fill 5,984 vacant posts of doctors and paramedics of the total 15,306 sanctioned.” Thakur added that AIIMS Bilaspur, which was under construction for the past six years, should be made functional as soon as possible.In a letter to chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, CPIM legislator from Theog, Rakesh Singha, has questioned the state government’s strategy to deal with the Covid second wave. Citing data, Singha claimed that more than 50% deaths due to covid-19 were of referral cases. He said the major reason for this was a gap in the uninterrupted supply of oxygen to the patient.“These deaths can be minimised by preventing the repeated referral of the patient from one dedicated covid-19 hospital to another. The creation of several covid centres at this stage will only prove counterproductive,” he said.He said that analysis of the spread of the virus indicates the situation is going to become precarious in the days ahead and there are possibilities that the situation gets out of control. The reason for the same is there is qualitative difference in the nature of spread of the virus. “My suggestion to the government is to shift the OPD from IGMC, Shimla, to another institute and recruit more staff,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wise-bengalis-saw-through-modi-claims-j-k-cong-chief-101619984399570.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Cong to launch Covid control room||Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Sunday constituted a committee under which party leaders and workers have been mandated to reach out to those in need and facilitate quick assistance in combating coronavirus. A dedicated control room would also be launched at the party office here on Monday by Jakhar and health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu. “We are passing through a crisis situation and we all need to help each other,” Jakhar said during a virtual meeting with leaders from across the state. The Punjab Congress chief said: “Our cadres have been directed to help to the needy in this hour of distress,” he said in a statement. Jakhar said All India Youth Congress general secretary Amarpreet Singh Lalli has been appointed as the state coordinator, and Punjab Youth Congress general secretary Karambir Singh Bittu as state co-coordinator who will manage the helpline task from state office at Chandigarh. He said party leader Rahul Gandhi had been forewarning the Modi regime about the impending disaster, and the callous incompetence has pushed the whole country into a grim medical and health emergency. “Had the Centre acted on Rahul Gandhi’s advice, the situation would not have deteriorated like this,” Jakhar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cong-to-launch-covid-control-room-101619984338521.html
03-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana railway station has no ambulance of its own||The Ludhiana railway station, which is the largest in Ferozepur division, has no ambulance of its own, forcing it to depend on city-based hospitals to provide the service.This often leads to loss of crucial time in providing medical assistance in emergency cases, as was seen in a mishap that took place on April 22. A ticket checker, identified as Narinder Kumar Meena, 37, had slipped while trying to board a moving train following which his right leg was caught between the platform and the train. Staff deputed at the railway station’s hospital provided him first-aid and called for an ambulance through the emergency number 108 but the ambulance took over an hour to arrive. Railway station employees said that even after the ambulance arrived, the ordeal was not over. The ambulance drivers refused to take the injured ticket checker to a private hospital and said that they are allowed to drop patients only to government hospitals. The railway staff later took the injured to the Fortis Hospital on Chandigarh road in a private car. The victim succumbed to his injuries on April 26. When contacted senior divisional medical officer Dr Chetna Kapoor confirmed that the railway station’s hospital does not have a designated ambulance. “We have tie-ups with various hospitals which send their ambulances to us in case of an emergency. We asked the ambulance driver to take the patient to the private hospital but they said they can only ferry patients to government facilities,” she said. According to railway employees, the railway hospital has not had an ambulance for the past 10 years and the sole ambulance driver at the station had retired two years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-railway-station-has-no-ambulance-of-its-own-101619984158449.html
03-05-2021||Other||J&K dismisses teacher in interest of state security||In a first-of-its-kind order, the Jammu and Kashmir government has dismissed a teacher in north Kashmir’s Kupwara in the interest of security of the state. The general administration department issued an order on Friday terminating the services of Idrees Jan, a teacher of Government Middle School, Kupwara. “The Lieutenant Governor is satisfied under sub-clause (c) of the proviso to clause (2) of Article 311 of the Constitution of India that in the interest of the security of the state, it is not expedient to hold an inquiry in the case of Idrees Jan, teacher, Government Middle School, Kralpora, Kupwara,” the order read.“Accordingly, the LG hereby dismisses Idrees Jan from service with immediate effect,” the order adds. The dismissal comes after the government, on April 21, set up a Special Task Force to identify and scrutinise employees involved in any case related to posing a threat to the country’s security or anti-national activities.The order has not gone down well with employees and union leaders. Former employee union leader and chairman of Jammu and Kashmir Civil Society Forum (JKCSF), Abdul Qayoom Wani expressed resentment over the dismissal, calling it an attack on employees’ integrity.“The dismissal of Idrees and two other employees comes as a strange shiver for the whole Kashmir society under the shade of Article 311. This also neglect all other disciplinary service rules that govern the employees performance and conduct of his service career,” Wani said, adding, “This type of dismissal from government service remains ambiguous until the facts are made public and/or subjected to the judicial system for legal proceedings.”JKCSF has demanded that the decision must be revoked and reviewed judiciously, under service norms, so that justice can prevail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-dismisses-teacher-in-interest-of-state-security-101619983918607.html
03-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana DC instructs all private hospitals to increase L3 bed capacity by 25%||With 97% of the Level-3 (critical care) beds occupied in the district, deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma on Sunday directed all private hospitals to increase their bed capacity by 25%. As per official data, there are 481 Level-3 beds in the district, of which 454 were occupied on Sunday while of the 1, 468 Level-2 beds earmarked for Covid patients, 1, 176 had filled up. DC Sharma said the decision to augment the bed capacity was taken after almost all Covid beds in city hospitals were occupied by Saturday night.Presiding over a virtual meeting with hospitals, along with deputy director local government (DDLG) Amit Bambi, civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia Gill and ADC (D) Sandeep Kumar, the DC said there is an immediate need to scale up the bed capacity in view of the emergent situation. He added that a four-member team, comprising the civil surgeon, DDLG, ADC and the DC himself, will inspect the newly added beds.On the availability of oxygen, the DC said the administration has already ramped up the oxygen capacity by nearly 33% (2, 900 cylinders daily). He said earlier, Vardhman Steel Plant had been filling up 1, 500 cylinders of medical oxygen a day but now it has increased its capability to 2, 100 cylinders a day.Similarly, Weltech Equipment and Infrastructure Limited had also been generating additional oxygen, he said.The DC further requested the public to refrain from calling their relatives to the district. “We are augmenting bed and oxygen facilities in the district. That does not mean that we should call people from distant locations for treatment in Ludhiana hospitals. The surplus arrangements have been made to meet any exigency,” said Sharma.He is the second senior official to urge city residents to avoid inviting people living in other states for treatment in Ludhiana.He reiterated that people should avoid venturing out unnecessarily and also assured the migrants that factories will remain open. “However, I urge businessmen to discourage crowding in their respective units. If the set protocols are followed, the situation may improve in 15 to 20 days. Wehave the example of Delhi and Maharashtra before us. We should not land ourselves in a similar situation,” said Sharma.On the other hand, Dr Saroj Aggarwal, president of Indian Medical Association’s Ludhiana Chapter, said, “It is time the government takes control of the bigger medical institutions. The small hospitals neither have the manpower nor L-3 infrastructure to accommodate more patients. Since elective surgeries have been stopped in all hospitals, the ICU and beds of these departments are lying vacant. These can be put to use for treatment of Covid patients,” said Dr Aggarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-dc-instructs-all-private-hospitals-to-increase-l3-bed-capacity-by-25-101619983738678.html
03-05-2021||Other||HP records 600% jump in Covid cases, 800% increase in deaths in April alone||Dharamshala There is no sign of the brutal second wave of Covid-19 that continues to ravage the country, dying down soon. Himachal’s caseload is also rocketing upwards, with the small hill state seeing more than 600% rise cases recorded in April; deaths have risen eight times over March. Himachal recorded 35,682 Covid-19 infections in April which was sevenfold of the 4,960 cases recorded March. This was also the record one month high in terms of cases reported since last year. The earlier record of one-month high was in November 2020 when 18,459 cases were reported in the state. There were 449 deaths in April, against 53 in March—almost 750% rise. Earlier, the state saw maximum 323 fatalities in November 2020. RECOVERY RATE DOWN TO BELOW 80%While new infections have shot up sharply recovery rate plummeted to below 80%. On February 28, the state had only 318 active cases. The second wave hit the state in February end led to exponential rise in active cases. By March 31 the active cases were once again climbed to around 3,000 and April to 18,425. April month saw fivefold increase in Active cases in the state resulting in large scale hospitalization and eventually shortage of beds. The government is once again ramping up the bed-capacity. Kangra, Solan and Shimla are the three worst hit by the second wave. Kangra, which is also the most populous districts in Himachal, has recorded maximum 8,207 cases in April. Its tally almost doubled from 9,578 in March to 17,785 in April. In March the district clocked 1,121 cases. Solan is the second on the list with 5,414 cases recorded in one month follow by Shimla which recorded 4,280 infections. In terms of the fatalities also, Kangra is the worst hit district. It recorded a total of 149 fatalities in April while only 18 deaths were reported in March. Shimla recorded 81 fatalities, Mandi and Una 51 each, Hamirpur 34 and Sirmaur 33. CASUAL APPROACH TO BE BLAMED: CM Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has blamed the casual behaviour of people and large gatherings in social functions and weddings for the spike in Covid-19 infections and fatalities. “A large number of fairs, religious gatherings and public events were held in the state since January. People were not wearing masks or following covid-19 protocols, and this resulted in the spike,” chief minister had said. . On the other hand, people of the state allege that the political rallies during the elections to the Municipal Corporations and local bodies also contributed to the spurt. The state government has restricted the gatherings in marriages to 20 persons till May 10 and all the other social functions have been banned. The community feasts in marriages is also banned. The schools and colleges will also remain closed while the government offices are functioning five days a week with 50% staff on alternative days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hprecords-600-jump-in-covid-cases-800-increase-in-deaths-in-april-alone-101619983678547.html
03-05-2021||Other||Lockdown in city, movement of essential goods, workers allowed||Gurugram The Haryana government on Sunday decided to impose a week long lockdown in the state from Monday in order to curb the spread of Covid-19 infection, particularly in Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonepat districts, which have recorded almost half of the total Covid-19 cases in the state. On Sunday, Gurugram recorded 3,609 Covid 19 cases and nine deaths, taking the total number of active cases in the city to 39,256 and death toll to 497. As per the directions of state government, educational institutes, malls, theatres and restaurants will remain closed while industries outside municipal area and those producing essential goods will be allowed to operate. IT and IT-enabled services sector will be allowed to.operate with 50 percent strength. People going to work places and coming back will be allowed to move, the order said. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who held a review meeting in Gurugram on Sunday evening, said that the lockdown will be imposed in the state to curb the spread of infection. Khattar also reviewed the situation of oxygen supply and distribution in the city, availability of critical medicines required for treatment, assessed the situation of beds and also gave directions to officials to streamline operations. Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said that the issue of oxygen supply and distribution was discussed in detail, and the chief minister has assured that adequate amount of oxygen will be made available for the city. “It has also been decided to impose the lockdown in the city as per directions of state government. I appeal to the city residents to follow lockdown guidelines so that the chain of infection is broken,” said Garg. As per the directions of the state government, Garg said all educational institutions, training and coaching institutes shall remain closed. All cinema halls, shopping malls, shopping complexes, gymnasiums, sport complexes, swimming pools, entertainment parks, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places will remain closed while social gatherings, parties, meetings will be allowed only as per permission granted by deputy commissioners. All religious places shall remain closed and religious congregations are not allowed. Takeaways from hotels and restaurants, including those in malls, are allowed till 10.30 pm. Roadside dhabas, food stalls and fruit vendors are allowed to operate but only for takeaways. All marriage functions for which permission has been taken from SDM shall be allowed with a ceiling of 30 people indoors and 50 people outdoors. However, most activities are curbed in in containment zones where only home delivery of food is allowed, said the order. The order also said that people going to work in industries will be allowed to move in their personal vehicles while movement of maids, cooks, drivers, personal attendants, health care workers shall be allowed during the lockdown period. Transport of essential goods and infrastructure projects like roads, buildings and bridges are allowed. Also construction work at real estate sites, where labour is available on site, will be allowed. While industries outside municipal limits are allowed to function, those producing essential goods, auto parts, medical equipments and export units will also be allowed to operate. Industries can obtain passes from Saral Haryana portal. “We will be enforcing the lockdown strictly but ensure that economic activities, which are exempted, are allowed to function smoothly,” said Garg. The chief minister during the review meeting also asked the district administration to ensure that remdesivir injections and other critical medicines required for treatment of Covid 19 are available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lockdown-in-city-movement-of-essential-goods-workers-allowed-101619983618509.html
03-05-2021||Other||Confirming worst spread, total Covid cases doubled in a month in Ggm||Gurugram Gurugram recorded more coronavirus cases between April 1 and May 1 than the entire 12 months of the pandemic put together, data from the daily health bulletin issued by the district administration shows.Gurugram recorded its first coronavirus case on March 17 last year, which was also the first case in Haryana, and till March 31 this year, the district had seen 63,313 cases. On May 1 this year, the figure rose to 127,033, an increase of 63,720 cases in a month-long period.Data from the district health bulletin also gives perspective on the surge of Covid-19 cases in the city, especially over the last three weeks. Since April 11, daily cases in the city has continuously broken the previous single-day record -- 964 on November 8 -- with Thursday’s figure of 5,042 cases the highest now. The surge in cases has also had an effect on the infrastructure, with Gurugram having scant or no available Intensive Care Unit (ICU), ventilator, or oxygen beds for Covid-19 patients over the last three weeks.Of the city’s 2,347 beds across 43 Covid-19 hospitals, only 2 ventilator beds, 14 oxygen beds, and no ICU beds were available on Sunday evening, according to Gurugram Covid Combat Companion (GC3), a real-time portal managed by the district administration. Of the 2,347 total Covid-19 beds, 1,848 are isolation beds, 499 are ICU beds, and 255 are ventilator beds.Meanwhile, studies suggest the situation is not expected to improve any time soon.As per a State Bank of India (SBI) research report, the second wave of Covid-19 is likely to reach its peak by mid-May in India while a CLSA, foreign brokerage, report pegs it in June. The three-member national Covid-19 supermodel committee, formed by the central government to make projections regarding the spread of the pandemic and follow its trajectory, has also pegged the second wave to peak in mid-May.“The second wave of Covid-19 is unprecedented not just in Gurugram but across the country. We have carried out various measures to ramp up the existing infrastructure by adding more Covid-19 beds, regulating the supply of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) both on the part of procurement as well as the distribution within the city, to mitigate the situation. We are working continuously on various aspects that can lead to the addition of infrastructure, LMO supply, and other such measures that can provide more medical aid to those in need as well as curb the spread of the virus,” said Yash Garg, deputy commissioner.Last week, the district administration released a statement of various tie-ups with corporate companies and government agencies that will lead to the addition of around 1,200 Covid-19 beds across the city within this month.The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh also issued an order stating that only hospitals and nursing homes registered with the administration will be provided LMO from the city’s three oxygen refilling stations and no such establishment outside the district will be able to access the plants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/confirming-worst-spread-total-covid-cases-doubled-in-a-month-in-ggm-101619983558506.html
03-05-2021||Other||Hospital booked, three held for selling remdesivir for ₹45,000/vial||Gurugram: Three people, including two hospital staff, were arrested for black marketing remdesivir--a broad-spectrum antiviral medication, and charging ₹45,000 per vial amid the shortage of the medicine in the market. Five vials of remdesivir were also recovered from the suspects, said police. A case has also been registered against Narayana Hospital in DLF Phase 3 for cheating and negligence after the suspects revealed they used to steal injection and sold them at premium rates, said police. In a joint raid conducted by the chief minister’s flying squad, the crime investigation agency of Sector-40 and district drug controller on Sunday, a decoy customer was sent to buy the injection at Sector 52 and the suspects were arrested while handing over the vials, said police. Amandeep Chauhan, district drug controller, said he received a secret information that a nexus of hospital staff is engaged in black marketing and hoarding of remdesivir, which they were selling for ₹45,000 per injection. The informer provided the contact number of the suspects on the condition that his identity remains confidential. “A head constable was asked to make a call as a decoy customer. It was decided that the injections will be delivered at gate no 2 of Ardee ity at 10pm on Saturday,” said Chauhan. The suspect asked the decoy to receive the injection from the T-point of gate 2 and told him he will come on a scooty. The suspects also asked him to pay ₹45,000 for a remdesivir injection and agreed to deliver five injections for ₹2,25,000 in Sector 52. Chauhan said two teams kept a distance from the decoy customer and followed him in plain clothes. “After 15 minutes, one person came at the decided spot and informed the decoy that the injections are reaching in five minutes. A woman came, handed over the injections to the suspect and went away. While one staff member followed her, our teams caught the suspect while he was handing over the injections to our decoy and asking for money,” he said. The suspect was identified as Chetan Kapoor, a resident of Punjab working as a senior security assistant at Max Hospital, Gurugram. Meanwhile, police followed the woman up to a house on the ground floor and asked her to come out. Police said around 11.10pm Chetan got a call on his mobile. He informed the person that police had apprehended him and now, his wife will also be arrested. Chauhan said the caller was identified as Nitin Jose, a resident of Kerala who works as a nursing staff supervisor at Narayana Hospital, and was told to reach the spot in 10 minutes. “The woman was identified as Lima Oomen. She disclosed that her husband Jose gave her those injections and usually asked her to hand them over to prospective buyers,” he said. When asked from where he procured the remdesivir injections, Jose said he got the injections from Narayana Hospital. Instead of administering the injection to the patients, he made entries that he had injected the vials and later stole them, said police. Inderjeet Yadav, deputy superintendent of police, crime investigation department (CID), said families were paying for the injection, which the suspects never injected. “These injections are further sold by him through his network in the black market. He was working with Chetan at Max Hospital in Gurugram earlier. It is a major flaw on the part of Narayana Hospital to allow this pilferage.” Chauhan said they are investigating if the patients who paid for the injection survived or died. “This is a matter of investigation. It is a heinous crime that someone, who was to be administered this injection, did not get the dose,” he said. The teams suspect more people from these hospitals are involved in this nexus. However, the suspects have not given any names so far, said police. The Narayan Hospital is responsible for this negligence and carelessness, which is a criminal act and breach of trust, said police. Harish Budhiraja, inspector, chief minister’s flying squad, said they conducted a recce of the house into which the woman had entered. “We knew there are more people involved in black marketing, so we followed the woman. She entered a house in Housing board colony in Sector 52, which we raided and then arrested her,” he said.  Police said they are yet to verify details as to from where the injection was supplied to the private hospital and how the suspects stole them. The number of vials and the persons who bought them are also being ascertained. A case was registered at Sector 53 police station under Section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, Sections 27(2) and 27-D of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act,1940, and Sections 420 (cheating ),120B (conspiracy) of the IPC. In a statement released on Sunday, the spokesperson of Max Healthcare said, “We have been informed by the police regarding an incident involving one of our staff. We have checked our stock of remdesivir and have not found anything amiss. We are supporting the authorities in their investigation”.Narayana hospital did not respond to messages and calls despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hospital-booked-three-held-for-selling-remdesivir-for-rs-45000vial-101619983557957.html
03-05-2021||Other||Families left fuming as pvt ambulances charge a bomb to transport Covid patients||Gurugram The surge in Covid cases in Gurugram and the subsequent rise in demand for private ambulances has left relatives of many Covid patients fuming as they find themselves paying exorbitant fares to operators to transport their loved ones. The families have demanded capping ambulance fares and asked the district administration to take steps to stop the fleecing.According to relatives, private ambulance drivers are allegedly demanding ₹20,000 to ₹30,000 to shift a patient from a house to a private hospital, within a 5 km radius. For outstation transport, the drivers are allegedly demanding between ₹70,000 and ₹1.5 lakh. Many doctors at private hospitals also alleged that ambulance operators and drivers are making exorbitant demands to shift patients. With shortage of oxygen reported across the city on Saturday and Sunday, several families have taken steps to move patients to hospitals in their home towns.Nandkishore Deoli, whose brother-in-law was admitted in a Sector 56 hospital, said he decided to shift him to Dehradun but the ambulance driver asked him for ₹70,000 for the transport. When they finally agreed to the demand, the driver raised the fee to ₹1.50 lakh, claiming that he will have to return with an empty ambulance. “We took my brother-in-law in our private car as we didn’t have any other option,” he said. Amit Kumar, brother of a critical patient who was shifted to Jaipur on Sunday, alleged that they had to pay ₹80,000 to the ambulance driver. “We contacted six ambulances and their prices were almost the same. We had no choice, so we hired and shifted the patient to another hospital. There was no oxygen and by paying this amount, at least we have saved his life,” he said. Ashish Singla, chief medical officer (CMO), MCG, said they operate 35 ambulances. “We are providing these ambulances free of cost, but other private ambulances do not fall in our jurisdiction. These drivers do not come under our department and we do not have their details. Families should contact us on 18001801817 or 1950 helpline numbers after any home isolation death or to shift a patient from home to hospital,” he said. On the other hand, the regional transport authority (RTA) of Gurugram, said that they have provided 20 ambulances to MCG, capping the charges at ₹15/km. “We can only cap those whose requisitions are done through us. There are more than 200 private ambulances and we do not maintain their records and movements. We can only provide their registration details. They are private ambulances belonging to individuals and hospitals,” said Dhaarna Yadav, secretary, RTA, Gurgram. Yadav said they have not received any complaints so far but added that they will take action if anyone come forward and share details. “People should share videos, pictures, and details of the ambulance or drivers. We will take action as soon as we receive a complaint. People should come forward and hand over a complaint to us mentioning they had booked an ambulance from which area to which destination. If they want, we will not disclose their identity,” she said. A senior district official said that steps are underway to fix rate per kilometre to ensure people are not fleeced by drivers. (Police quote awaited)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/families-left-fuming-as-pvt-ambulances-charge-a-bomb-to-transport-covid-patients-101619983498421.html
03-05-2021||Other||Twenty session sites to vaccinate 18-45 years in the city today||Gurugram The third phase of Covid-19 vaccination for people aged between 18 and 45 years commenced formally in Gurugram and across the state, on Sunday. City health department officials said they held session sites at three centres -- Civil Hospital in Sector 10, government poly-clinic in sector 31 and at Fortis hospital. The vaccination outreach for city residents, aged between 18 and 45 years, would be expanded further on Monday, with the health department saying that they are planning to activate 20 session sites. “The third phase was launched on Sunday at three sites and we plan to hold vaccinations at 20 sites on Monday. As soon as fresh stock of vaccines is received, this outreach will be expanded further,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram. Yadav said that 270 persons were given the first dose of the vaccine on Sunday while two were given the second dose. Overall, 4,79,375 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the city till Sunday evening. As per government data, about 1.1 crore people of the state fall between the age group of 18 to 45 years and registration for their vaccination had started from April 28. The state health minister Anil Vij on Sunday also said that vaccination for the third phase had commenced across the state and it will be done free of cost at all government hospitals and vaccination centres. “For this, 66 lakh doses of Covid vaccine have been sought and its first batch has been received. The vaccination has been started at about 200 centres across the state,” said Vij. Meanwhile, to offset the shortage of oxygen, the government has also decided to set up five oxygen plants in the state. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khatar said that the equipment and machinery required for setting up these plants have been received for five districts -- namely Karnal, Panchkula, Hisar, Sirsa and Faridabad. Professor Joginder Singh from Sonipat has been directed to make all these plants functional on similar lines of Sonipat district, he added. For commissioning these oxygen plants, they will get all the required material ahead of time by the district administration, for which necessary directions have been issued to the deputy commissioners, asserted the Chief Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/twenty-session-sites-to-vaccinate-18-45-years-in-the-city-today-101619983499033.html
03-05-2021||Other||Speeding BMW hits divider in DLF Phase 2, two died||Gurugram Two persons died after a speeding BMW car allegedly lost control and rammed into the underpass wall before crashing into a pillar near the underpass of DLF Phase 2 Rapid Metro Station on Golf Course Road, early on Sunday morning. Police identified the deceased as Gaurav Jindal (37) and Sawan Khanna (35), both residents of Sector 15. The incident occurred around 2.30 am and photographs of the damaged car were widely circulated on social media. Jindal, who was behind the wheels, is the younger son of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) leader Pawan Jindal. The police control room was informed of the incident within minutes and police teams patrolling the area reached the spot and moved the car to the roadside. The vehicle was impounded by DLF Phase 2 police station which has also started an investigation in the matter. The vehicle was speeding, police said, adding that the impact was so high that one of the passengers was flung a few metres. Police said the vehicle was near the underpass exit, 50 metres away from DLF-2 rapid metro station towards cyber hub, when it overturned after colliding with a divider and a pillar. In his statement to police on Sunday morning, Saurav Jindal said his younger brother Gaurav and his friend Sawan had gone to meet one of their friends in DLF Phase 1, around 12.30 am. “We received a call from one of the passersby following which we rushed to the spot and took both of them to a private hospital in Sector 38 where doctors declared dead on arrival,” he said. Police said the bodies were handed over to the family members after the post mortem on Sunday morning. The families said they suspect no foul play in the accident. Dr Deepak Mathur, forensic expert, who conducted the autopsy, said that the cause of death was severe head injuries, adding that the bodies were almost crushed. “Both had multiple fractures, lungs torn and metal parts were found inside the body. They died die to head injury and excessive bleeding,” he said. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that no case was registered after preliminary investigation was conducted. “We have filed an inquest report under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) on Sunday. No other vehicle was involved in the accident and no one was hurt,” he said. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Home Minister Anil Vij took to social media to mourn the demise of Jindal. MP Sanjay Bhatia, BJP state president Om Prakash Dhankhar and Haryana minister Dr Banwari Lal reached the family’s residence in Sector 15 on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/speeding-bmw-hits-divider-in-dlf-phase-2-two-died-101619983497862.html
03-05-2021||Other||Many smaller, private hospitals shut operation due to lack of O2 supply||Gurugram A day after eight people died in a private hospital due to shortage of oxygen, at least six other smaller, private facilities have discharged all patients and shut their operations, claiming that the municipal corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is not paying heed to their repeated requests for help.The MCG commissioner and his team are responsible for management of oxygen supply in the city.Swati Rathore, director of Kriti Hospital in Sector 56, said that they shut their operations and discharged 18 patients after they were not supplied oxygen on Saturday. “People easily blame hospital administration and doctors for their negligent approach but how can we run operations without oxygen. The MCG commissioner does not reply to messages or attend calls. The deputy commissioner has helped us arrange 20 cylinders and is trying to support us, but we need oxygen regularly to run operations, so we have stopped our operations,” she said.Asha Devi, director of Mamta Hospital, said they have stopped taking fresh admissions as they have not received a single oxygen cylinder for the last four days. “There has been mismanagement at refilling stations with people with connections getting supplies out of turn while others are waiting for more than eight hours to get oxygen cylinders. We have stopped taking Covid-19 patients as we can’t save lives without oxygen,” she said.In the absence of continuous oxygen supply, many doctors said they had to turn away new patients and ask families of existing patients to arrange for oxygen cylinders to continue treatment.Some hospitals have put up notices announcing no new Covid admissions at their centres.Dr Prithvi Raj Aryan, director of Aryan Hospital on Old Railway Road, said that the hospital is not in a position to take new admissions. “We have placed a notice that there is no out-patient department, no beds and no oxygen on Saturday. Since Thursday I have been requesting officials to provide me with oxygen for my patients, but we have not received a single cylinder until now. The situation is getting out of control, families create havoc and staff have to run away to save themselves,” he said, adding that the hospital, which has 70 beds, is occupied by Covid patients.Umkal hospital in DLF Phase 2 said its staff members were standing in queue for the last 12 hours but were yet to receive any oxygen. They said their requests to the MCG have also gone unanswered.Around 10.13 am on Sunday, Park group of hospitals said the liquid oxygen allocated to Park Hospital in Gurugram was hijacked by some other hospital. “More than 140 patients’ lives are in danger,” it tweeted, asking for help.At 10.43 am, the hospital tweeted saying that they have received about less than one tonne of oxygen. “What happens after this? We are always under huge stress. Administration is constantly pressuring us to admit patients, but oxygen supply remains erratic,” it said.Other hospitals such as Signature Hospital in Sector 37 D, Center of Diabetes and Allied Sciences (CDAS) in Sector 47 and Sethi Hospital in Model Town have also stopped fresh Covid admissions due to non-availability of oxygen.Amandeep Chauhan, district drugs controller, said there is adequate oxygen supply now and they have ensured all hospitals have received their share on Sunday. “We have received 14 metric tonnes (MT) from Panipat and 20 MT from Bhiwadi on Sunday and more is expected by tonight. The situation is improvising and will be streamlined this week,” he said.Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG, said a counter was placed at the refilling stations in Manesar for refilling oxygen cylinders. “Covid-positive patients, carrying test reports, will be given oxygen cylinders,” Singh said.Meanwhile, a few hospitals have also demanded extra security after staff and doctors of a hospital were assaulted and premises vandalised after the death of eight patients at the facility in Sector 56 on Friday night.Dr Aryan said his hospital has requested for protection to prevent any untoward incidents.On Sunday, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said he held a meeting with the deputy commissioner and the MCG commissioner and directed them to ensure a smooth oxygen supply to all the hospitals in the district. “Oxygen allocation will be made strictly for institutions that have filled up and submitted Google forms. Incomplete forms will be rejected. In case of doubts, they can drop a message with their contact numbers at covid19gurugram@gmail.com, and the district administration will reply... There are 160 oxygen concentrators in the city hospitals,” he said, adding that the situation in the city has improved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/many-smaller-private-hospitals-shut-operation-due-to-lack-of-o2-supply-101619983437866.html
03-05-2021||Other||J&K forms five-member Covid crisis management committee||Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha reviewed the covid situation in UT on Saturday late evening and formed a five-member crisis management panel for effective management of the deadly disease. He also ordered an immediate oxygen audit in every hospital to ensure optimal availability. The five-member Crisis Management Group, comprises the chief secretary; financial commissioners, finance, and health and medical education; home secretary and principal secretary to the government, public works (R&B) department. The PS to LG will be a special invitee. It will interact with other officers and medical specialists as necessary.On Saturday, the UT recorded its highest single-day death toll this year, at 47; 30 in Jammu and 17 in Kashmir. The 47 includes four patients, who died allegedly due to low oxygen at ASCOMS hospital. The administration maintains they died of other medical reasons, and not due to shortage of oxygen.In view of spike in Covid cases, corona curfew, which has to end at 7am on Monday, May 3 stands extended till 7am on Thursday, May 6 in four districts of , Srinagar, Baramulla, Budgam and Jammu. A re-assessment will be done on May 6. Atal Dulloo, financial commissioner, health and medical education, said that a DRDO team had arrived in the UT to set up 500-bed Covid facility, one each in Srinagar and Jammu. It was informed that 1,50,000 doses of vaccination for people falling between the age of 18-45 years. PROBE ORDERED INTO FOUR DEATHS AT BATRA HOSPITAL Jammu Following the death of four covid patients, allegedly due to shortage of oxygen at Acharya Shri Chander College of Medical Sciences and Hospital, popularly called Batra Hospital, the Jammu and Kashmir administration has ordered a probe. Those dead were Prof Irshad Ahmad Hamal, Haider Ali, Manjeet Singh and Bitta Kumari Kher. Their kin alleged that the deaths were caused due to shortage of oxygen, a claim strongly denied by the administration as well as the hospital management. Financial Commissioner, Health and Medical Education department, Atal Dulloo has appointed Divisional Commissioner, Jammu Dr Raghav Langer as inquiry officer and asked him to probe into the circumstances leading to the deaths at Acharya Shri Chander College of Medical Sciences (ASCOMS) and hospital. Consequently, Langer has constituted a three-member committee comprising director health services (Jammu), Director Industries and Commerce (Jammu), who is also member of a panel constituted last month to ensure adequate and timely supply of medical oxygen to hospitals, and Superintendent Engineer Mechanical Engineering department Jammu, the officials said. WEEKEND LOCKDOWN WILL STAY,EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTES CLOSED TILL MAY 31 JAMMU The Jammu and Kashmir government Sunday announced that there shall be complete “Corona curfew (night curfew)” every weekend in all 20 districts from 7 pm each Friday till 7 am each Monday. The government has also announced that the closure of educational institutions has been extended till May 31. Only 50% shops will be allowed to open on a day while traffic shall ply with half of the sitting capacity till May 31. All paid public parks in J&K shall remain closed for visitors till May 31. Existing guidelines and SoPs in place for compulsory testing of all incoming passengers and travellers to J&K shall be strictly enforced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-forms-five-member-covid-crisis-management-committee-101619983383378.html
03-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s hosiery, textile industry go on 3-day self-imposed lockdown||Keeping in view the rising Covid-19 cases, the hosiery and textile industry on Sunday announced that they will be observing a voluntary lockdown from Monday to Wednesday this week and from Saturday to Wednesday next week onwards.Darshan Dawar, president, Knitwear Club, said, “The hosiery and textile industry has decided to go on a voluntary lockdown from Monday to Wednesday this week and from Saturday to Wednesday next week onwards. It is our contribution to stop the spread of coronavirus in the city.”Bahadurke Textile and Knitwear Association president Tarun Jain Bawa said that the situation is worsening day by day and it can be controlled by imposing a lockdown in the city. The government should impose a complete lockdown and should not allow any industry and shop to operate for at least seven days. This would bring down the number of cases and the government would get time for the preparation to fight against Covid., he added.The associations said that they would also discharge their social duty and would take care of their workers and their families.Vipan Vinayak, president of Knit and Fab Hosiery Association, said that at least 38 associations had decided to observe a voluntary lockdown.Industrial associations demand imposition of complete lockdownAs Covid deaths are rising exponentially, the demand for imposing a lockdown in the city is getting louder. The death of Dinesh Lakra, 56, a city-based industrialist and vice-president of Laghu Udyog Bharati and member of the governing body of Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC), who had succumbed to Covid-19 on April 30, triggered panic among the industrialists.This is the first time that the industry and traders are asking the government to impose a lockdown.Darshan Dawar said that they had demanded a complete lockdown for at least one week in the city to control the spread of the virus. The representatives of the association also met cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu to discuss the same.He added that if needed the government should extend the lockdown for another week.“We have sent at least 10 letters to chief minister Captain Amrinder Singh and Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking for a complete lockdown in Punjab or at least in the city as Ludhiana has the maximum number of Covid cases and deaths in the state,” said Badish Jindal, president of Federation of Punjab Small Industries Association.“The city hospitals are already struggling to meet the need for oxygen and beds. The lockdown will break the chain of Covid infection,” he added.Gurmeet Kular, president of the Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation, claimed that they were the first to request the government to impose a complete lockdown in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-hosiery-textile-industry-go-on-3-day-self-imposed-lockdown-101619983318429.html
03-05-2021||Other||Prayagraj: Youths create website providing details of medical facilities for Covid patients||With the sole motive to save lives of Covid patients across the country, a group of young technocrats have created a website on which data of the available resources are uploaded continuously. The Covid patients or their attendants may keep an eye on the availability of resources which include beds at hospitals, oxygen cylinders and medicines through the website which started functioning four days back.Although created recently, the website has helped hundreds of patients in getting oxygen, ambulances and medicines in many cities of the country including Delhi, Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Pune, Prayagraj and even smaller cities. With hundreds of volunteers now working to gather data, the website is now being continuously visited by the Covid patients and their attendants where they can search for the nearest medical facilities.The founder member of the website Pratapgarh resident Yogi Saksham, a first year BTech student said he and his friends decided to take the initiative after watching unbearable scenes of people dying due to lack of oxygen, medicines and other medical facilities.Saksham’s friends Jayant Dalmia of Prayagraj, Shreyas Gupta and Vedic Jhawar of Noida along with two of their friends started www.covidmuktbharat.in with help of a Noida-based IT company.Yogi Saksham informed that their classmates and friends in different cities of Uttar Pradesh are volunteering to collect data on the availability of hospital beds, oxygen cylinders, their refilling, food supply, plasma donors along with their blood group, ventilators, ambulances and other medical facilities. Once received, the data is verified by the core members of the group and then uploaded on the website.“Our motive is to provide reliable and accurate data of medical facilities to Covid patients. The data is collected by volunteers through different sources which include government websites, private agencies, doctors at different hospitals, CMO offices, medical staff etc. The received information is first verified properly and then uploaded on the site. The contact number of the concerned person is also mentioned so that patients may get immediate help. Anyone is free to volunteer for the site and may send information about the availability of medical facilities around them. We are receiving data from across the country which we are updating every hour on the site. It is our mission to connect to every corner of the country so that immediate help is provided to Covid patients and save their lives,” said Yogi Saksham.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/youths-create-website-providing-details-of-medical-facilities-for-covid-patients-101619983018526.html
03-05-2021||Mumbai||2,427 from 18-44 age group get vaccinated in Mumbai||A total of 2,427 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years were vaccinated across five centres in Mumbai on Sunday, the second day of the third phase of the Covid-19 inoculation drive. According to data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), 3,419 beneficiaries in this age group have been vaccinated over two days – Saturday and Sunday. The vaccination drive for the age group of 18-44 years will continue on Monday between 9am and 5pm, only for citizens who have registered and have been allotted a slot by BMC. It will take place at Nair Hospital in Mumbai Central, SevenHills hospital in Andheri, Rajawadi hospital in Ghatkopar, Cooper Hospital in Vile Parle, and BKC’s jumbo Covid-19 facility. Each of the five centres has 500 doses available for Monday’s drive.Owing to a shortage in doses, the drive for beneficiaries above the age of 45 will remain suspended on Monday. BMC said it will resume the drive for this age group only after receiving adequate stock from the Centre. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, in-charge of BMC’s public health department, said, “We have approximately 20,000 vaccine doses available, which are being utilised for vaccinating beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group. On Monday, BMC is expected to receive some more doses. Depending on availability, BMC will take a call on when to resume the drive for citizens in the age group of 45 years and above. It will remain suspended on Monday.” In Mumbai, the BMC has an estimated 9 million people between the ages of 18 and 44 qualify for vaccination. At 7.30pm on Sunday, BMC opened booking for slots for the age group of 18-44. Within 20 minutes, all slots were booked. At 7.50pm, BMC tweeted, “All slots taken! That was really quick dear 18-44s. Looking forward to see the ones who booked slots for tomorrow & we look forward to hosting the remaining some time soon too.It’s a just a matter of time. It will soon be time for you to #TakeTheJab #YoungAndVaccinated”. A statement from BMC on Sunday said, “Presently, people of all ages are visiting vaccination centres. Considering the prevalence of Covid-19, citizens should not come out of their house and visit the vaccination centres without an appointment and an allotted slot.” Presently, Mumbai has 136 vaccination centres, of which 73 are private, 50 are BMC-owned, and 18 are state or central government owned. BMC’s statement also said, “Appropriate decision will be taken from time to time regarding keeping these centres operational, based on availability of stock. All citizens will be informed in advance.” In a tweet on Sunday evening, BMC said, “Dear 45 and above, we know some of you are due for the second jab & some have not even got their first yet. But please rest assured that we will keep you constantly updated & each & every Mumbaikar will be vaccinated. All in good time.Thank you for your patience.” While vaccination in 27 districts from Maharashtra took place on May 1, the state government had announced that vaccination will start in all the remaining nine districts on Sunday. However, information regarding Sunday’s vaccination drive for citizens in the age group of 18-44 years was awaited on Sunday. The Maharashtra government had 300,000 vaccine doses distributed across the state , with a plan to cover seven days. It has instructed all districts to keep a maximum of five centres open so that the stock can last for seven days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2427-from-18-44-age-group-get-vaccinated-in-mumbai-101619983017956.html
03-05-2021||Other||Mumbai coastal road project work leaves fisherfolk in uncharted waters||Despite two Covid-related lockdowns in the last year, work on the city’s Coastal Road has continued at a swift pace. At least 217 acres of land has so far been reclaimed from the Arabian Sea for the project, with an additional 50-odd acres yet to be created. Officials estimate that about 30 percent of the work has been completed. The ‘Mavala’ underground tunnel boring machine (TBM) also continues to excavate earth from under Malabar Hill, at a pace of 7 metres (m) every day. About 330m of tunnelling has been finished presently. While the project is at least two years away from completion, land reclamation along the Worli coast has already begun impacting the livelihoods of fisherfolk, with women and small fishermen’s incomes being the first to be hit. For decades, these groups within the broader fishing community have conducted their trade almost entirely along the rocky shore between Nepean Sea Road and Worli.They largely include the Kolis, but also consist of members of the Agri and Christian communities who practice artisanal fishing. Boat owners, labourers, migrant workers, daily-wage or subsistence fishers, net-menders, oyster pickers and other vocations tied to the artisanal fishing trade have all been affected by the loss of these coastal commons, HT learnt through interviews and ground reporting. Since construction work on the coastal road began in late 2018, about 5-6km of the rocky intertidal zone between Priyadarshini Park and Worli sea face have been reclaimed, two officials involved with the project estimated. As a result, productive fishing grounds near Priyadarshini Park, Amarsons Garden, Breach Candy, Shree Mahalaxmi Temple, Worli Dairy and a significant portion of Haji Ali have been completely wiped out, fisherfolk said. Crucially, the space for women, who pick oysters and shellfish by hand, as well as small-scale fishermen who use non-motorised ‘tony’ boats, gill nets, cast nets, drift nets or simple fishing rods in shallow waters, has been reduced to a small patch of rocky shore outside Haji Ali. This area, popularly called Lotus Jetty, is set to shrink further once a connecting bridge is built across the waterfront. ‘Dol ka dhandha’, or the more lucrative practice of fishing in deeper waters at depths of over 20-25 feet, with larger ‘dol (bag nets)’, is reserved for certain families or groups of fishermen from Worli Koliwada. As per a March 2019 report by advocacy group Collective for Spatial Alternatives (CSA), their customary fishing grounds extend from Malabar Hill to Mount Mary. “For small fishermen, many of whom do not even have boats or official IDs, the shore is where you make a living. I have myself been doing it for decades. My family does not have permission to do dol fishing,” said 48-year-old fisherman Lawrence Fernandes, from Worli. During low tide, if one peers across the Lotus Jetty pier, one can see dozens of women, hunched over jagged rocks with tochas (ice pick) in hand, picking oysters, or scraping for shellfish in the muddy substrate with khupris (spade). They speak without pausing work, attempting to gather as much as possible before the tide returns. “There are more women coming here now. Earlier, we used to pick shellfish and oysters, even crabs, all the way from Worli Dairy to Priyadarshini Park. Now there is no more business along that shore, only Haji Ali is left,” said Turbherkar. “Marginal fishermen and women were always going to be the first, and hardest, hit by this project. They should have been given compensation before reclamation work started. Almost all indigenous land use has been completely erased along this coast. Most of the reclamation work was done during lockdown. Poor fishermen who were badly hit by the pandemic were left with no way to recoup their losses,” said Debi Goenka, founder of the Conservation Action Trust, one of several legal petitioners against the CRP. At Haji Ali too, shellfish and crab are getting scarce, fisherwomen say, pointing to the once gravelly part – that has now been reclaimed – where one could find them in large quantities – of the beach. But a small bucketful of oysters, which can be harvested even 200m away from the shore during low tide, will fetch them about ₹400-500 in the market. “Before the pandemic, if we were lucky, we could sell it for ₹800 also. But prices have been down for a while, and it takes a lot longer to gather enough money. I don’t know if there are more women or fewer oysters,” Turbhekar said. Multiple groups of women from Cuffe Parade, Colaba, Wadala, Trombay, Mahul, Sewri and Worli, expressed similar concerns. “Sometimes, one could find really big lobsters and crabs in front of Mahalaxmi temple. At Worli Dairy, I have picked up stingrays and other big fish that used to get washed up at low tide. Everything was gone after lockdown,” said Shubangi Tanel, 44, from Machhimar Nagar in Badhwar Park, Colaba, who has been foraging along this coast for over 20 years. Most women HT spoke to had fishermen husbands who ventured into deeper seas, either on their own boats or as labourers. “But this haath ka kaam (work by hand) has always been done by us. We sometimes go to Nariman Point or Marine Drive, but have to wait for the lowest low tide, which comes once every eight or nine days. And the tetra pods make it hard to enter the water. Mahalaxmi temple, Amarsons Gardens, Breach Candy and Worli Dairy were the best places to find shellfish and oysters on most days, until the reclamation,” says Madhuri Tandel, 36, from Colaba. Some, like Pratibha Patil, 40, from Cuffe Parade Koliwada, rely on this trade as the sole bread-winners in their family. Patil’s husband, Jayant, a fisherman, lost his legs in an accident at sea in 2016, after which she has relied solely on oyster and shellfish picking to make ends meet for her family of four. She sells her wares at Sassoon Dock. Out of at least 15 women HT spoke to over multiple visits to the area, four said this was the sole source of income for them and their immediate relatives. Three of their husbands had been in debilitating accidents, while one had passed away over a decade ago. Several others were unable to pay off existing debts, incurred largely due to medical expenses in the family. “Once they finish building the road, even what’s left at Haji Ali will be wiped out. Where will we go after that,” said Patil. Still others did not have any family history of fishing and had learnt the trade purely out of necessity. “Anyone who wants to make some money in a day can come here and do this work. No one will stop you,” said one of two women from Wadala, declining to give her name. Unlike their male counterparts, who are represented by unions such as the Worli Machhimaar Sarvoday Sahakari Society and Worli Koliwada Nakhwa Matsyavevsay Sahakari Society, these women, who hail from several localities other than Worli, are not organised into similar interest groups. This also seemed to be the case for fishermen like Mahesh Waghela, a 30-something resident of Worli Naka who now works as a security marshal, guarding an access road to the coastal road project construction site near Lotus Jetty. Waghela’s family, from Gujarat, has not been historically associated with fishing. But having lived his whole life around the Worli fishing zone, he picked up the trade growing up. “I’ve spent days at a stretch out at sea. During the August to December season, there is a need for labour on boats. When there is a job squeeze, during the off season, one could throw a net close to the shore and fend for themselves. Ghar ki kadhi toh ban jaati thi (you could catch enough to make a curry at home). Now we can’t even manage that much,” Waghela said. A Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute “rapid-report” from 2019 had stated that this particular segment of the seashore is a rich oyster bed, and that “livelihoods of oyster pickers, particularly fisherwomen,” is likely to be impacted by reclamation of the coastal road. The report also notes multiple instances of artisanal fishing across the shore from Haji Ali and Worli Dairy, at a distance of about 300m, recording catches of prawns, stingray, Ghol, seabass, moonfish, ribbonfish, acetetes and pomfret running into dozens of kilos in a single day. Even in deeper waters, Worli Koliwada’s fishermen say, they are anticipating tough times ahead. A range of commercially important species – pomfret, khaira, Ghol, barramundi, catfish, halwa, rawas (Salmon), hekru – are becoming harder to catch in viable quantities. “There is sedimentation in the water due to construction work and a lot of noise pollution. Fish are very sensitive and run away to deeper areas on slightest of disturbance. This reclamation is clearing out water even faster than the sea link did,” said Deepak Vasudev, an artisanal fisherman from Worli Koliwada. In their March 2019 report, experts at the Collective for Spatial Alternatives had noted, “Based on the past experience of Bandra-Worli sea link project, which caused siltation in Worli (affecting access to the sea), reduced fish catch, and affected navigation (due to sea link columns), it is inevitable that reclamation and construction activity for the coastal road will adversely impact fishing and livelihoods in the area. Except that the impacts are likely to be much worse.” Anand Pendharkar, a naturalist who has closely studied the area, said, “These predictions are now beginning to manifest themselves. Over the years, community dependence along this coast has come to include many stakeholders across categories of jobs, class and caste. The scale of dislocation is massive.” Officials in the civic body’s coastal road department did not directly respond to a detailed questionnaire seeking a comment for the story. However, a spokesperson for the department said that civic body is currently in the process of appointing a third-party agency to assess the nature and extent of the project’s impact on fisherfolk. “We have already floated a tender for a thorough rehabilitation assessment. A third-party organisation will take stock of the situation and work out a compensation plan for affected fishermen. We can give more details only after this has been done,” said the official. As per the tender floated by the civic body last December, the entire rehabilitation process for project-affected people (PAP) is slated to take about three years, which the fisherfolk said is far too long. HT also reached out to Ashwini Bhide, chairman of the civic body-appointed Fisherfolk Rehabilitation Assessment Committee (FRAC) for a comment, but did not receive a response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-coastal-road-project-work-leaves-fisherfolk-in-uncharted-waters-101619982717867.html
03-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s toll crosses 1, 400-mark as 17 more succumb||Seventeen more persons from the district lost their battle to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours even as 1, 404 others were found infected, health department officials said. The youngest fatality was a 25-year-old man from Jandiali village who had no pre-existing co morbid conditions.Spelling more trouble for the already overburdened health infrastructure, the active patients’ count crossed the 9,000-mark to settle at 9, 870 on Sunday. Health department officials say the number of active cases will cross the 10,000-mark on Monday. Ludhiana has been seeing a steady rise in daily infections since April 19, when the single-day infection count crossed the 700-mark for the first time. In the last 10 days, the district has recorded over 1, 000 cases four times. The cumulative count of cases since the outbreak last March stands at 57, 590, of which 46, 310 have recovered.The latest fatalities include nine women and eight men, the oldest being an 80-year-old man from Tajpur Road. The others include a 79-year-old woman from Abdullapur Basti, a 72-year-old woman from Gaushala Road, a 68-year-old woman from Barewal Road, a 65-year-old man from Noorwala Road, a 62-year-old woman from Mundian Kalan, a 61-year-old man from Madhopuri, three 60-year-old women from Subash Nagar, Prem Nagar and Giaspura, a 56-year-old woman from Ram Nagar, a 54-year-old woman residing near Jyoti Model School, a 54-year-old man from Sundar Nagar, a 49-year-old man from Azad Nagar, a 45-year-old man from Phullanwal and a 45-year-old man from Tibba Road, besides the 25-year-old man from Jandiali village.Those who tested positive include six healthcare workers, a cop and two international travelers.As of Sunday, there were 41 patients availing Level-3 (critical care) facilities in various government and private hospitals in the city. Apart from that, 1, 451 patients were admitted in the isolation wards of various private hospitals in the city which are running full to capacity, while 138 are in government hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-toll-crosses-1-400-mark-as-17-more-succumb-101619982418411.html
03-05-2021||Other||Innovate for oxygen production: Yogi to entrepreneurs||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday asked entrepreneurs in the state to explore the possibility of undertaking experiments and innovations for oxygen production and the manufacture of oxygen concentrators.He was addressing business people drawn from across the state at a video conference. The chief minister asked them to cooperate in the war against Covid and join hands in overcoming the medical oxygen problem.“With the Covid infection rate 30 to 50 times (more) intense in the second wave, there was a huge rise in oxygen requirement. Though the state took a lot of steps to overcome the problem and succeeded to a great extent, the business community and entrepreneurs may work towards new experiments and innovations in the areas of oxygen production and manufacturing of oxygen concentrators,” he said.Observing that entrepreneurs had always been with the society and the country in tough times, he said nation once again needed their energy and cooperation in overcoming the second wave of the infection.The government would extend all cooperation to those who intended to set up medical oxygen ventures, he said.He noted that 16 lakh business people had done GST registration so far and more of them should do so.“Life and livelihood both are hit under the present circumstances. To break the chain of infection, the government has introduced an effective system of weekly closure and night curfew. But all essential and emergency services will continue. Continue to extend cooperation. In case, any untoward incident happens with you, immediately inform the local administration. If you don’t feel satisfied with their action, then inform the chief minister’s office. Immediate action will happen,” he said.He also said business community’s interests were a priority for the state government which had “done a lot for their safety, security, insurance, ease of doing business”.Uttar Pradesh finance minister Suresh Khanna too participated in the event. He said despite the Covid pandemic, the state saw a rise in GST returns. In 2019-20, the state collected ₹72,931 crore and in 2020-21 the collection went up to ₹80,290 crore. UP Vyapari Kalyan Board chairperson Ravikant Garg also participated in the video conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/innovate-for-oxygen-production-yogi-to-entrepreneurs-101619982357885.html
03-05-2021||Other||With 41 deaths, J&K covid toll rises to 2,370||Srinagar Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday recorded 41 covid-19 related deaths taking the total death toll to 2,370. The UT also reported 3,571 fresh novel coronavirus infections taking overall cases to over 1.83 lakh. Of new cases, 2,421 cases are from Kashmir, while 1,150 are from Jammu, besides 41 travellers. Of 41 deaths, 28 were reported in Jammu division and 13 in Kashmir. On Saturday, 47 fatalities were reported, the deadliest day since the pandemic began.April recorded the highest monthly case tally of 45,123 infections and 449 deaths. Officials said with 1,126 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 486 in Jammu district, 268 in Baramulla, 222 in Anantnag and 195 in Budgam.The number of active cases, which has been rising exponentially, reached 32,421, officials said. Most of these cases have been added since February 9, when the UT had the lowest active case tally of 593. As many as 1,453 patients have recovered, including 848 from Kashmir and 605 from Jammu.Around 1.49 lakh persons have recovered, taking the recovery rate to 81% against 98% in the first fortnight of February. Over 73 lakh tests have been conducted. Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 81,000 cases and 1,063 deaths of the total.Reiterating on following covid SOPs including using of face mask, social distancing and maintaining proper hand hygiene, divisional commissioner Kashmir, Pandurang K Pole urged people to maintain actual covid behaviour for their safety and their family members.He maintained that over 8 lakh people have been vaccinated in Kashmir, and the process will be ramped up significantly.The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Sunday put Srinagar district and Lakhanpur, he gateway to Jammu and Kashmir, a containment zone with a 500 metre radius and areas on either side of the Jawahar tunnel in Ramban district under red category. The rest are in the orange zone, meaning the UT, as of today, has no green zone. An order issued by the state executive committee said that the categorisation will be followed for implementation of permitted activities in such areas notified by the SEC separately for the purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-41-deaths-j-k-covid-toll-rises-to-2370-101619982238435.html
03-05-2021||Mumbai||Experts urge govt to review data on out-of-school students in Maharashtra||A few days after the state education department released data revealing that 25,000 students in Maharashtra were found out of school during a survey conducted in the pandemic, educationists urged authorities to redo the survey later as the current figures as per them are grossly underreported. Experts said the numbers need serious reconsideration and hence the survey is not trustworthy. “The number of cane cutters in the state is itself 150,000 and then there are workers in brick kilns, quarry workers, construction workers, etc. The number of students who have migrated, haven’t been into schools and who might have been put in child labour is likely to be way higher than what the government has found. It is imperative to get a more realistic picture if the government wishes to act on it,” said Heramb Kulkarni, a Pune-based educationist. In 2015, the then Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led state government held an out-of-school survey to identify students who had never attended school or who were on the rolls but were not attending. The survey had identified around 50,000 such students. Multiple such surveys were conducted after that; the most recent one was conducted in March 2021 wherein only 25,000 students were found out of school while only 288 students were found engaged in child labour. Experts said every year, the outcome of these surveys remain a mere formality. “The government needs to first come up with a realistic figure and then act. It is not enough to identify the problem, but it is crucial to be consistent and ensure that the found out-of-school students remain in schools over time,” said Ghanshyam Sonar, convenor of the All-India RTE forum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/experts-urge-govt-to-review-data-on-out-of-school-students-in-maharashtra-101619981398348.html
03-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man kills wife over suspicion of affair, arrested||Kurar police on Sunday arrested a 54-year-old man for killing his wife with a kitchen knife after he suspected her of having an extramarital affair. According to the police, a 22-year-old man approached the Kurar police on Saturday night after his father allegedly killed his mother after an argument in Kandivli (East). The complainant, Shiva Soni, a resident of Kranti Nagar, came home after work. Police said that his father opened the door, took him inside and seconds later ran out himself.In his complaint to the police, Soni said that his father, Mahesh Soni, 54, a diamond polishing worker, used to fight with his mother Poonam, 45, often suspecting her of having an extramarital affair.Soni said that he would witness his father beating his mother on multiple occasions. However, on Saturday the fight between the two got violent after which his father picked up a kitchen knife and slit his mother’s throat.The officers said that after Soni saw his mother’s body, he ran after his father and tried to stop him, but could not as he was overpowered. Soni then alerted the neighbours who called up the police emergency number and informed them about the attack.The victim Poonam Soni was rushed to the hospital but was declared dead on arrival. “After searching the locality, we intercepted Mahesh near the Poisar drain and arrested him,” said Prakash Vasant, senior police inspector of Kurar police station.The police arrested Mahesh after registering a case of murder under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaiman-kills-wife-over-suspicion-of-affair-arrested-101619981397777.html
03-05-2021||Mumbai||300 citizens write to BMC, seek second public hearing for Deonar WTE plant||Over 300 citizens have written to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) solid waste management department in the past five days, voicing objections against its proposed waste-to-energy (WTE) plant at Deonar landfill. A public hearing organised on April 27 had seen several attendees criticise the project and the manner in which the public consultation process was being carried out.Citizens have sought an outright suspension of “all matters requiring public consultations until such time that normalcy can return”. Public consultations are an essential part of the environmental clearance process under the Centre’s Environment Impact Assessment Notification, 2006.“Not to do so would result in the citizenry unable to voice their concerns and participate in any meaningful way in matters that require their attention. The WTE plant proposal is one such example,” the letter continues, which was signed by at least 301 citizens at the time of going to press.Citizens pointed out that around 900,000 people, who inhabit the areas around Deonar dumping ground, would be immediately impacted by the WTE project, which apart from incentivising the production of waste, also is a potential source of harmful emissions such a dioxins, toxins, furans and particulate matter pollution.In the broader central Mumbai area, it has been alleged, the project will also impact people in living in Deonar-Mankhurd-Govandi, Powai, Pirojshah Nagar and even near the international and domestic airports. “After the experiences of the communities living in Mahul, it would be an extremely negligent exercise to not work along with this community before giving a go-ahead to a potentially harmful project,” states the letter. Hindustan Times had, on April 28, reported that the Environment Impact Assessment report for the 4MW WTE plant had not been made publicly available by BMC (as per the Centre’s EIA Notification, 2006) at the time of virtual public hearing. Responding to citizens’ demands for the same, BMC shared a copy on their website, and has given until May 4 for any comments or inquiries.“The hurried way in which the EIA was conducted and the public hearing was held has not given the larger public the time required to independently assess the project. The public was not adequately informed about this project; we say this because the newspapers in which the notice was provided are not publications that are read extensively. The onus of making sure that the members of the civil society are properly informed about such matters falls on the government and in this case, the same was not carried out. The MCGM, therefore, must provide the people with adequate time, 30-60 days, to properly go through the EIA and articulate their suggestions/objections to this project,” petitioners have demanded.Officials from BMC’s solid waste department could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/300-citizens-write-to-bmc-seek-second-public-hearing-for-deonar-wte-plant-101619981337916.html
03-05-2021||Mumbai||West Bengal, Tamil Nadu poll results boost morale of MVA||Assembly election results in five states, especially in West Bengal and Tamil Nadu, have given a boost to regional parties after Mamata Banerjee’s All India Trinamool Congress (TMC) and MK Stalin’s Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) emerged as undoubted winners in their respective states. Experts and observers believe that this has given a moral boost to Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, which comprises of two regional parties and has always been under the threat of getting dislodged. Leader of Opposition and former chief minister (CM) Devendra Fadnavis had, during his campaign rally for Pandharpur bypolls, said that bringing a change in the state leadership was his responsibility and that the steps for the same would be taken at appropriate time. Other Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders had also been hinting that West Bengal election result would add momentum to a change in the reign in Maharashtra. The leaders had said the focus of the party’s central leadership would shift to Maharashtra after the results.MVA, comprising of the Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress, formed government in Maharashtra in November 2019 after the alliance between the Sena and BJP was broken.Leaders from the three ruling parties in the state believe that the victory of the two regional parties in those states has given buoyancy to MVA government in the state. “Leaders from NCP and Sena share good relations with both Banerjee and Stalin and his family members. Both the parties had given open support to Banerjee in the Assembly polls by not contesting the elections. (NCP chief Sharad) Pawar saheb had planned to hold campaign rallies for TMC candidates in West Bengal, but could not go due to his health problems. Banerjee’s victory gives more power to regional parties while fighting against the mammoth strength of BJP,” said a Sena leader.“It has been proved by today’s results that if you have the courage and desire to fight against communal forces, people stand with you. We had exercised it in Maharashtra in 2019 and later replicated elsewhere at regional levels,” said NCP spokesperson and state minister Nawab Malik.On August 26 last year, during the meeting of chief ministers of all non-BJP ruled states with Congress’s interim president Sonia Gandhi, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray had praised Mamata Banerjee for her fight against the Centre. He had also said all non-BJP parties should come together and fight unitedly to ensure that their voice was not suppressed (by the BJP and the Central government led by it) in the federal structure of the democracy. “It is time to decide whether to fight back or seat idle out of fear,” he had said.Later in December, NCP chief Sharad Pawar had floated the idea of strengthening the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) to create a combative combine that could fight the BJP. In an interview with a local newspaper he had also said that the front and Congress should extend its support to regional leaders like TMC in their respective states by keeping differences aside.After West Bengal poll results, Pawar tweeted, “Congratulations @MamataOfficial on your stupendous victory! Let us continue our work towards the welfare of people and tackling the pandemic collectively.”Reacting to the controversial Nandigram constituency results, Pawar tweeted, “The voters of Bengal have overwhelmingly supported Mamata and endorsed her for a third term. This result has to be accepted with a large heart. But the manner in which attempts are being made to revoke her win can only be called pettiness.”Leaders from Maharashtra feel that the ‘Maharashtra model’ of fighting out the BJP aggression has given strength to smaller parties at regional level. “RJD’s Yashaswi Yadav gave run to ruling JD(U) and BJP for their money in Assembly polls last year. Now, TMC and DMK have replicated it in their respective states. If any leader of regional parties like Mamata emerges as national leader against Narendra Modi, it will give more power to regional parties to fight against BJP’s political power,” a Congress leader said requesting anonymity.Political analyst Hemant Desai said after the setback in West Bengal, the BJP would not go for any attempt of toppling the Maharashtra government at least in immediate future. “BJP is a party which senses the waves very quickly. It has realised that using central agencies against regional parties boomerangs against them, and same may be witnessed in Maharashtra in probes by CBI and NIA. The BJP will resort to course correction in Maharashtra and would not go for any attempt to dislodge the government. But at the same time, the NCP or Sena too should take a firm stand and show courage to fight against BJP, like Mamata did,” he said.Fadnavis on Sunday said they would take steps against MVA at appropriate time. “This is the time to fight against Covid-19 pandemic and we are devoting our time for it. But yes, we will take steps (to dislodge the government) at appropriate time,” he said. Sena MP and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said if the BJP tried to topple the government in Maharashtra, its tremors will be felt at the national level.While the MVA partners are elated with the result of elections in West Bengal and Tamil Nadu, closer home they received a setback with the defeat of MVA candidate and NCP leader Bhagirath Bhalke in Pandharpur bypolls. BJP’s Samadhan Autade defeated Bhalke by 3,733 votes. The defeat was more significant for MVA as it was a battle of three ruling parties against the BJP. It has also given a boost to the BJP in Maharashtra. NCP state chief Jayant Patil said, “Our candidate lost the seat by a narrow margin. We failed in proper coordination of workers and leaders in two tehsils, Pandharpur and Mangalvedha, and it resulted in the defeat.”Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole said, “We accept the mandate given by the electorate very politely. The defeat of the MVA candidate was a result of local issues and unpaid bills to farmers by Vitthal sugar factory.”Fadnavis said, “The mandate is against the corrupt, failed governance of the MVA government. Voters are upset as the government could not extend them any help during Covid-19 pandemic, electricity connections were rampantly disconnected for non-payment of bills. The ruling parties resorted to ill practices, despite of which the electorate stood by us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/west-bengal-tamil-nadu-poll-results-boost-morale-of-mva-101619981277865.html
03-05-2021||Other||Indian Navy launches ‘Samudra Setu-II’, deploys 7 ships to bring medical oxygen||The Indian Navy has launched ‘Operation Samudra Setu-II’ to meet the country’s oxygen requirement amid the surge in Covid-19 cases in the second wave and the acute shortage of liquid medical oxygen (LMO). As a part of the operation, the Navy has deployed INS (Indian Navy Ships) Kolkata, Kochi, Talwar, Tabar, Trikand, Jalashwa and Airavat for shipment of oxygen-filled cryogenic containers and associated medical equipment from various countries. The first batch of the ships, INS Kolkata and INS Talwar, deployed in Persian Gulf, were immediately diverted for the task, and entered the port of Manama, Bahrain, on April 30. INS Talwar is likely to reach India with 40 MT (metric tonnes) LMO on May 4. INS Kolkata has proceeded to Doha, Qatar, for medical supplies, and will head to Kuwait to bring liquid oxygen tanks, said naval spokesperson commander Mehul Karnik. Similarly on the eastern seaboard, INS Airavat, too, has been diverted for the task and will enter Singapore to bring liquid oxygen tanks. INS Jalashwa, the LPD (landing platform/dock) which played a key role during operation Samudra Setu last year, was pulled out of maintenance, prepared and is on stand-by in the region to embark medical stores at a short notice, the Navy has mentioned in its press release. The second batch of ships comprising INS Kochi, Trikand and Tabar, deployed in Arabian Sea, have also been diverted to join the national effort. From the Southern Naval Command, the landing ship tank, INS Shardul, is being readied to join the operation by Monday, commander Karnik added. Apart from this, Indian Air Force aircraft C-17 has carried out several sorties from within the country and abroad to supply oxygen tankers to different places to assist the civil administration dealing with oxygen shortage for Covid-19 patients. Three oxygen tankers were airlifted from Bangkok to Jamnagar on April 28, while one was lifted from Agra to Ranchi, and another from Chandigarh to Ranchi, said Karnik. Two oxygen tankers were airlifted by C-17 aircraft from Indore to Raipur and Bhopal to Surat last week. Operation Samudra Setu was launched last year by the Navy to rescue Indian citizens stranded in neighbouring countries amid the Covid-19 outbreak. Around 4,000 stranded citizens were successfully brought back to India, said commander Karnik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rindia-navy-launches-samudra-setu-ii-deploys-7-ships-to-bring-medical-oxygen-101619979297821.html
03-05-2021||Pune||2,325 beneficiaries aged 18 years+ get the jab as drive picks up pace in Pune on Sunday||PUNE Covid vaccinations for those aged 18 years and above picked up pace on Sunday since beginning from May 1.A total of 2,325 beneficiaries aged 18 years and above, were inoculated in the district.A total 46 such beneficiaries were inoculated in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits. A total of 1,342 beneficiaries were inoculated in the district on May 1, the first day of the drive. Dr Suryakant Deokar, immunisation officer, PMC, said that doses for everyone above the age of 18 years have been given to the centres.“As the turnout on day 1 was less, there were just 200 doses at Rajiv Gandhi Hospital. We can inoculate 350 beneficiaries every day at every centre as vaccine stock is available for the next seven days. Beneficiaries should schedule an appointment on the Co-WIN application,” said Dr Deokar.Ayush Prasad, CEO, Pune Zilla Parishad, said that efforts from local bodies helped with the turnout on Sunday.“The control rooms, war room, call centres of Pune rural and municipal corporation played a big role in ensuring good vaccination numbers by urging people to come to the vaccination centres,” said Prasad.PMC aims to reach at least 700 beneficiaries each day. Three centres in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) have a target of 200 beneficiaries each. Pune rural has 14 centres with 100 beneficiaries at each centre expected to take the jab.Rujuta Jalan, a beneficiary who was waiting in line at Rajiv Gandhi Hospital in Yerwada to take her first jab, said that there were three family members who wanted to take the dose, but the slots got filled quickly.“Until I booked my own slot, the appointments were full for May 2. I have been waiting at the centre for almost an hour as there is a huge line of beneficiaries to take the jab,” said Jalan.Dr Poonam More, medical officer (MO) at the Rajiv Gandhi Hospital, said that there are 200 doses with the hospital as of Sunday.“We received 200 doses and a list of 200 beneficiaries on Sunday. The turnout is good. By afternoon, we inoculated 100 beneficiaries. The beneficiaries who were expected to come on Saturday, but could not, will have to reschedule their vaccination for another day,” said Dr More.Rashmi Malpani, a 36-year old beneficiary at Kamla Nehru Hospital said that she tried to book a slot late on the night of May 1.“I booked the appointment around 10 pm and luckily got Kamla Nehru hospital. By the next afternoon I had taken the jab. Except for the registration and appointment scheduling, the whole process was smooth,” said Malpani.Dr Rajshree Patil, medical officer at Kamla Nehru Hospital, said that by Sunday afternoon the turnout for those aged 18 and above was good.“We have inoculated over 150 beneficiaries. We have 350 doses of Covishield and beneficiaries are expected to schedule an appointment and only then come. Till 2 pm, the turnout was good, unlike the May 1,” said Dr Patil.Vaccination for ages 18+ Pune district has targeted 2,700 vaccinations per dayMay 1PMC -- 46PCMC -- 552Pune Rural -- 744Pune district inoculated – 1,350Total centres -- 33May 2 PMC -- 380PCMC -- 589Pune Rural – 1,356Pune district inoculated – 2,325Total centres -- 19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/2325-beneficiaries-aged-18-years-get-the-jab-as-drive-picks-up-pace-on-sunday-101619968077315.html
03-05-2021||Pune||At 0.3 mn, Pune district records most cases in April||Pune district recorded its highest number of Covid-19 cases - 3,07,000, and fatalities – 1,263, in April 2021, since the pandemic broke out last year. According to state health department, areas under Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had 1,53,740 cases with 843 fatalities in April, which saw active cases in the district increase by 41,742. In 2020, when the Covid pandemic peaked in September, Pune district had 57,298 active cases. On April 30, 2021, the number of active cases in the district stood at 1,06,019. Dr Subhash Salunke, advisor to the Maharashtra government on Covid-19, says that this could be the peak of the second wave and by mid-May, urban parts of the district may see a downward trend.“This could be the highest growth. By third week of May, cases will go down in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, but they likely will not go down in the rural areas, which will take another fortnight to see the downward trend,” said Dr Salunke. Despite the spike in April, the positivity rate has been gradually decreasing, as per Rajesh Deshmukh, collector, Pune. “As the positivity rate has been going down, we can expect the curve to bend,” said Deshmukh. Salunke attributed the surge to a vulnerable population getting exposed to the virus and also to the increased transmissibility of it. “The virus now has been very efficiently transmitted. That is the reason why it is affecting all the family members. If one person is infected, then others are also getting easily infected,” Dr Salunke said. In Pune district, the highest number of cases have been recorded in PMC limits in April. Pune mayor Muralidhar Mohol said that PMC has been relentlessly working to increase bed capacity. “Only in April we have increased our strength of isolation beds, oxygen beds and ventilator beds. Every week we are adding to these numbers. Now the positivity rate has come down. Let’s be optimistic,” said Mohol.According to Ayush Prasad, CEO, Pune Zilla Parishad, cases in the second wave are almost six times higher than the first wave. “For rural areas, currently cases are higher because mass testing is taking place at hotspots. We are getting a positivity of 18-20 %. In each house one person is tested. Because of the testing, positive cases are being identified,” said Prasad. As the caseload has substantially increased, the demand for hospital beds, and especially for medical oxygen has increased. On January 22, the per day demand for medical oxygen in Pune district was 67.5 metric tonnes (MT). On April 22, the demand rose up to 386.1 MT and, on April 29, Pune recorded a demand of 420 MT of medical oxygen. Supply is low in proportion to the demand. On April 29, 353 MT was supplied to Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/april-2021-pune-district-records-highest-number-of-covid-cases-0-307-million-101619967057233.html
03-05-2021||Pune||Covid curbs see drop in Pune industrial production levels in April: MCCIA survey||PUNE Even as state government allowed industrial units to function during lockdown, stricter curbs have resulted in bringing production levels of firms, surveyed by the Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) in April, down.In its 13th survey, 150 companies from Pune district who participated in the exercise said that their current level of production has decreased from 83% in March to 69% in April, on an average. The production level had seen a dip of 2% in March from 85% in February, as the month had seen only partial restrictions, that too in some parts of the state. As Covid cases saw a massive spike across the state including Pune and Mumbai, the state government, on April 15, imposed a curfew and allowed only essential services apart from industrial units and the real estate sector, to function. Sudhir Mehta, president, MCCIA said, “Supply chains are once again disrupted and we are really concerned about the small, informal manufacturers and contact-based services. The government at the centre and state must front-load their allocations for MSMEs, industries and infrastructure development in FY 21-22.” Despite a drop in production, industrial firms managed to keep it above the level of April 2020, when the entire country was under lockdown and only units engaged production of essential items were allowed to function. “Given the heightened levels of restrictions, the drop was expected. Glad that the drop is not as bad as it was in April 2020. God forbid if there is any more contribution of restrictions, it needs to come along with an increased level of economic activities as impact on livelihoods for those who work at the bottom of the economic pyramid is unbearable,” said Prashant Girbane, director general, MCCIA. The units that participated in the survey said that on average, the number of employees working has decreased from 86% in March to 70% in April. The surveyed companies were also asked about when their production levels were expected to go back to pre-pandemic levels. Twenty-four per cent of the companies said their production was already at pre-Covid levels; 19% of the respondents now said that they expect their production levels to go back to pre-Covid levels in less than three months; and 35% of the respondents said they expect it to take between three and six months; while 22% said it would take more than six months. According to MCCIA, the profile organisations surveyed from micro, small, medium and large scale organisations was 14%, 34%, 21% and 32%, respectively. Also, 66% of the organisations surveyed were from the manufacturing sector, 14% from the services sector and the rest were involved in both manufacturing and services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/production-levels-drop-from-83-in-march-to-69-in-april-mccia-survey-13-101619965317161.html
03-05-2021||World||New York to end capacity restrictions; all-day subway services return||Most capacity restrictions will be lifted across New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, while all-day subway service will resume in New York City, as lower virus rates and higher vaccinations help move the region toward normalcy.“This is a major reopening of economic and social activity,” New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said Monday at a briefing.Round-the-clock subway operations in the city that never sleeps will resume May 17, while capacity restrictions on restaurants, theaters, stores and museums will end May 19, Cuomo said. The subway move will provide an essential service to restaurant and hospital staff and others who commute outside the traditional workday. It will also help transport more people as the MTA anticipates ridership will increase alongside an uptick in business activity and cultural events.“Workers are going to need to get back and forth,” Cuomo said. “Now you’ll have people working until 4 o’clock in the morning again.”New York, the most visited city in the U.S., was the early center of the nation’s Covid-19 outbreak. Cuomo shut down the city as the virus spread, and its restaurants, bars, stores and theaters have struggled to stay in business under capacity restrictions and curfews. The subways are the lifeblood of the city, providing more than 5 million rides a day in pre-pandemic times.Cleaning TimeIn May 2020, Cuomo ordered the state’s Metropolitan Transportation Authority, the largest mass-transit network in the U.S., to stop its subways for four overnight hours every day to clean and disinfect trains and stations. It cut that time to two hours in February.Elected officials and transportation advocacy groups had urged the MTA in recent days to return to the normal subway schedule.The pandemic decimated MTA’s ridership. Subway usage is still down 65% from pre-outbreak levels as people work from home. The agency will receive a combined $14.5 billion of federal aid to cover lost revenue.Even with the overnight subway shutdowns, there has been an increase in crime on the system. The MTA plans to install cameras at every station and platform, and will add a record number this year. While the city has sent more police officers to monitor the subway system, the MTA has asked for additional officers. Riders and MTA workers have experienced more harassment.According to a recent MTA survey, 72% of active customers are very concerned with crime and harassment on the system, surpassing worries about health and safety. And 36% who stopped riding on the public-transit system said they did so because of such concerns.“The city has to add more mental-health services, homeless outreach, and uniformed police officers to the system,” Transport Workers Union Local 100 President Tony Utano said in a statement following Cuomo’s announcement. “Too many transit workers and riders are being harassed and assaulted right now with the current hours of operation.”Repopulation DriveAbout 80,000 New York City workers returned to their offices Monday, and de Blasio said he hopes the private sector follows suit.The city Sunday posted a seven-day daily average of 1,370 confirmed and probable cases, down from a 28-day daily average of 2,361. Hospitalizations and deaths have also decreased, while nearly a third of city residents are fully vaccinated, data show.Across New York state, the positive-test rate has dropped by 50% in the past month, Cuomo said.In addition to ending the capacity limits, Cuomo said the outdoor food and beverage curfew will be lifted May 17, and the indoor curfew will be lifted May 31. The outdoor large stadium capacity will go to 33% in New York state on May 19.The state will keep the six-foot social distancing requirement for gatherings, pursuant to U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidance, Cuomo said. Events that can show proof that attendees have been fully vaccinated or have recent negative test results don’t have to follow that requirement, Cuomo said.Just as New York coordinated its shutdown with its neighbors, it is doing the same for its reopening, Cuomo said. New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy has scheduled a “major announcement on easing restrictions” for Monday afternoon, according to a Twitter post.“If you’re not coordinated, you’ll drive people from New Jersey to come to New York, or Connecticut to New York,” Cuomo said. “The coordination is important because you’re a mobile population.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-york-to-end-capacity-restrictions-all-day-subway-services-return-101620060955293.html
03-05-2021||World||Biden promotes $4 trillion plans in visit to Virginia schools||President Joe Biden traveled to coastal Virginia on Monday to promote how his proposals to spend $4 trillion for infrastructure and families will help the U.S. education system.Biden, joined by his wife, Jill Biden, a community college professor, bantered with a class of 5th-grade students at an elementary school in Yorktown. The students had shields in front of their desks as a guard against the virus.The president asked them what they wanted to do when they grow up and was given an array of examples, including a fashion designer, a chef and a hairstylist."You're very impressive," Biden told them.Later, he was to deliver remarks at Tidewater Community College in Norfolk, Virginia.The travel is part of Biden's "Getting America Back on Track" tour to promote his $2 trillion infrastructure plan and his $1.8 trillion "American Families Plan."Biden’s plan includes $1 trillion in spending on education and childcare over 10 years and $800 billion in tax credits aimed at middle- and low-income families.It also includes $200 billion for free, universal preschool and $109 billion for free community college regardless of income for two years, the White House said.Biden will travel to Lake Charles and New Orleans, Louisiana, on Thursday. Vice President Kamala Harris heads to Milwaukee on Tuesday.Biden has vowed to work with both Democratic and Republican lawmakers in a search for a bipartisan agreement. However, whether he will be able to persuade the opposition party to join in a plan that will raise taxes on the wealthy is far from clear.He is to meet with top Democratic and Republican lawmakers at the White House on May 12 to try to find common ground.Congress is polarized and Democrats hold only narrow majorities in the U.S. House of Representatives and the Senate.Biden had promised throughout the 2020 presidential campaign to work with Republicans, but his major legislative achievement, a $1.9 trillion pandemic relief plan, passed without a Republican vote.Republicans in Congress already have their eyes on making gains in the midterm congressional elections in 2022, and are aligning a divided party around opposing Biden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-promotes-4-trillion-plans-in-visit-to-virginia-schools-101620057070137.html
03-05-2021||World||Venezuela to begin clinical trials of Cuba's Abdala vaccine candidate||Venezuela this month will begin clinical trials of the Cuban coronavirus vaccine candidate Abdala, and plans to produce enough doses locally to vaccinate 4 million people, Health Minister Carlos Alvarado said on Monday.Cuba in March approved late-stage trials of Abdala, named after a poem by the 19th-century Cuban independence hero Jose Marti. The trials are to be completed in July and the first results published in August, according Cuban to state media."We will be starting a clinical study with this vaccine, but simultaneously, adapting our national vaccine laboratory to produce, if all goes well as we hope, doses for 4 million people," Alvarado told Venezuelan state television.Alvarado spoke at Venezuela's main airport, where he announced that the country had received another 50,000 Russian Sputnik V vaccines.Venezuela has now received a total of 1.48 million doses coronavirus vaccine doses, he said.The government of President Nicolas Maduro expects to begin receiving vaccines from the global COVAX vaccine program by July, he added, without saying which vaccines would be arriving.Venezuela in March said it would not allow the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine following reports of blood clotting.COVAX said in February that it had set aside up to 2.4 million AstraZeneca doses for Venezuela.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/venezuela-to-begin-clinical-trials-of-cuba-s-abdala-vaccine-candidate-101620055989094.html
03-05-2021||World||Singapore defers non-urgent surgeries amid worst Covid-19 flareup in months||Singapore’s Ministry of Health said it has asked hospitals to defer non-urgent surgeries and admissions until further notice, in a bid to increase potential capacity for handling Covid-19 patients.The capacity measures, which also include limiting emergency room visits only for life-threatening or other emergency conditions, and encouraging teleconsultations instead of in-person medical visits where possible, come amid a flareup of cases in a country that’s been one of the world’s most successful in containing the virus.The city-state saw its first fatality due to complications from Covid-19 in nearly two months over the weekend. An 88-year-old Singaporean woman with a history of cancer and cardiac failure passed away on Saturday after she was treated at Tan Tock Seng Hospital, where a cluster of more than three dozen cases has been identified since last week.The cluster is Singapore’s first in a hospital and raises concern that the city’s hard-won success is slipping, potentially threatening efforts to open up a long-awaited travel bubble with Hong Kong and host major upcoming summits including the World Economic Forum and Shangri-la Dialogue.“There will be many more” cases in the hospital as patients there are more susceptible given many hadn’t been vaccinated and were already sick with other illnesses, said Leong Hoe Nam, an infectious disease physician at Singapore’s Mount Elizabeth Hospital. “Unfortunately, they are easy targets for a Covid-19 super spreader, and in turn patients who have been infected can be new super spreaders,” he said, adding that he has no doubt the government will contain the cluster.‘Precautionary’ MovesSingapore’s Health ministry said no hospital is denying medical care to patients who need it, and described some of the measures it was taking as “precautionary.”Singapore is one of the more successful spots in the world in curbing the virus, similar to others in Asia that have largely halted the spread but where virtual elimination is being challenged by sporadic flareups. In a bid to stay at zero local cases, these places -- including New Zealand, Australia, Hong Kong and China -- react aggressively to small numbers of infections.Already, fewer people have been allowed at malls and large stores since Saturday and campsites were closed for two weeks. Singapore will also reduce the operating capacity of attractions to 50% from 65% for a week from May 7, and urged people to limit social gatherings to two per day and stay home where possible.While Singapore is also one the fastest in Asia on vaccination, it trails far behind leading countries globally including Israel, U.S. and U.K. -- which have administered 10.5 million (57.7%), 246 million (38.2%) and 49.8 million (37.3%) -- doses respectively, according to Bloomberg’s vaccination tracker. At 2.21 million doses given as of April 18, Singapore has inoculated just 19.4% of its population, with less than half having received both jabs.Shares of flag carrier Singapore Airlines Ltd. dropped as much as 3.2% on Monday, the most in about two weeks, with stock broker UOB Kay Hian Pte. saying the increase in cases threatened the reopening of the economy. The decline came even as the airline said it had raised about S$2 billion ($1.5 billion) to boost funds as it’s hit by pandemic-related restrictions.Hospital ClusterSingapore has had more than 61,200 total Covid-19 cases, more than 54,500 of them in people living in migrant worker dorms.The country registered 16 new cases of coronavirus in the local community on Thursday, its highest daily number since July 11, and 10 more infections on Monday, according to Ministry of Health data.Prior the latest spate of infections, Singapore had several months of low single-digit or no new cases thanks to strict measures that include mandatory mask-wearing, restricted travel and high testing and overall treatment capacity.All of the cases found on Monday were either patients or staff at Tan Tock Seng Hospital or close contacts who had already been placed on quarantine, according to the government. Prior to the new infections, several patients in the cluster have been linked to a 46-year-old Filipino nurse at the hospital, who was deployed at a general ward and had gotten her second vaccination dose on Feb. 18, authorities said.Tan Tock Seng Hospital has ceased admissions of new inpatient cases until further notice, the Health ministry said in a statement late Monday, and ambulance cases will be diverted to other public and private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-defers-non-urgent-surgeries-on-worst-covid-19-flareup-in-months-101620043714683.html
03-05-2021||World||Russia turns to China to make Sputnik shots to meet demand||Russia is turning to multiple Chinese firms to manufacture the Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine in an effort to speed up production as demand soars for its shot.Russia has announced three deals totaling 260 million doses with Chinese vaccine companies in recent weeks. It's a decision that could mean quicker access to a shot for countries in Latin America, the Middle East, and Africa that have ordered Russia's vaccine, as the U.S. and the European Union focus mainly on domestic vaccination needs.Earlier criticism about Russia's vaccine have been largely quieted by data published in the British medical journal The Lancet that said large-scale testing showed it to be safe, with an efficacy rate of 91%.Yet, experts have questioned whether Russia can fulfill its pledge to countries across the world. While pledging hundreds of millions of doses, it has only delivered a fraction.Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov has said demand for Sputnik V significantly exceeds Russia’s domestic production capacity.To boost production, the Russian Direct Investment Fund, which bankrolled Sputnik V, has signed agreements with multiple drug makers in other countries, such as India, South Korea, Brazil, Serbia, Turkey, Italy and others. There are few indications, however, that manufacturers abroad, except for those in Belarus and Kazakhstan, have made any large amounts of the vaccine so far.Airfinity, a London-based science analytics company, estimates Russia agreed to supply some 630 million doses of Sputnik V to over 100 countries, with only 11.5 million doses exported so far.RDIF declined to disclose how many doses are going to other countries. Through April 27, less than 27 million two-dose sets of Sputnik V have been reportedly produced in Russia.The Russian Direct Investment Fund, which has been in charge of international cooperation for Sputnik V, said in April it would produce 100 million doses in collaboration with Hualan Biological Bacterin Inc., in addition to an earlier deal announced in March for 60 million doses with Shenzhen Yuanxin Gene tech Co.The two deals are in addition to a deal announced last November with Tibet Rhodiola Pharmaceutical Holding Co, which had paid $9 million to manufacture and sell the Sputnik V vaccine in China. RDIF said in April the terms of the deal were for 100 million doses with a subsidiary company belonging to Tibet Rhodiola.Russia is “very ambitious and unlikely to meet their full targets,” said Rasmus Bech Hansen, founder and CEO of Airfinity. Working with China to produce Sputnik V could be a win-win situation for both Russia and China, he added.In recent years, Chinese vaccine companies have turned from largely making products for use domestically to supplying the global market, with individual firms gaining WHO preapproval for specific vaccines — seen as a seal of quality. With the pandemic, Chinese vaccine companies have exported hundreds of millions of doses abroad.Chinese vaccine makers have been quick to expand capacity and say they can meet China’s domestic need by the end of the year.“This is an acknowledgment of the Chinese vaccine manufacturers who can produce at volume,” said Helen Chen, head of pharmaceuticals LEK Consulting, strategy consultancy firm in Shanghai, in an email.However, none of the three Chinese companies have yet to start manufacturing Sputnik V.Tibet Rhodiola started constructing a factory in Shanghai at the end of last year and expects production to start in September, the company said at an annual meeting for investors last month. Tibet Rhodiola’s chairman Chen Dalin also said that after the successful technology transfer, they will start with an order of 80 million doses to sell back to Russia. An employee at the company declined to transfer a phone call request to the company's media department for comment.The timeline for the newest deals are also unclear. Hualan Bio was among the 10 largest vaccines manufacturers in China in 2019. Phone calls to Hualan Bio went unanswered.A spokeswoman for Shenzhen Yuanxing declined to say when the company will start production but said their order would not be for sale within China. RDIF had said the production will start this month.In spite of the delays, Russia’s vaccine diplomacy has made gains.From the outset, Russia, the first country to approve a coronavirus vaccine, aimed to distribute it globally. Within weeks of giving Sputnik V regulatory approval, RDIF started actively marketing it abroad, announcing multiple deals to supply the shot to other countries. It is so far winning the “public relations” battle, analysts said in a new report examining Russia and China's vaccine diplomacy from the Economist Intelligence Unit.“Russia has been able to build stronger diplomatic ties and in areas where it hasn’t been able to,” before, said Imogen Page-Jarrett, an analyst at EIU. “They have this window of opportunity while the US, E.U. and India are focusing on domestic and the rest of the world is crying out for a vaccine supply."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-turns-to-china-to-make-sputnik-shots-to-meet-demand-101620047984850.html
03-05-2021||World||US lawmakers applaud Prez Joe Biden for helping India to combat Covid-19 crisis||US lawmakers, including those from the opposition Republican party, on Monday praised President Joe Biden for his assistance to India to combat the coronavirus crisis.India is struggling with a second wave of the pandemic with more than 3,00,000 daily new coronavirus cases being reported in the past few days, and hospitals are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds.Biden over the past one week has galvanised his entire administration to help India, which is experiencing the worst outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic.“Glad to see the US providing lifesaving support to our friends and partners in India,” Congressman Michael McCaul said.“India stood by the US in our time of need, and can depend on us to do the same. Once we beat this virus, our two democracies will be even stronger partners,” the top Republican lawmaker said in a tweet.The first of several emergency Covid-19 relief shipments from the US arrived in India on Saturday.“Building on over 70 years of cooperation, the United States stands with India as we fight the Covid-19 pandemic together,” the US Embassy in India said.Since then the Department of Defence has sent several flights on a daily basis with live savings medical supplies, including oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders, M-95 masks, filters used in the manufacturing of vaccines and Remdesivir drug, which is used to treat people with coronavirus disease.American corporate sector has also come forward in an unprecedented way, so has the Indian American community. Both of them have raised and donated millions of dollars towards helping India and sending the assistance through available commercial lights or through organisations like FedEx.“My heart aches over the raging surge of Covid-19 cases in India. Deeply saddened by the loss of life and praying for all who are impacted. Critical for the US to provide needed assistance to our friend and ally,” Democratic Congresswoman Grace Meng said.According to Indian health ministry data, single day rise of 3,68,147 Covid-19 infections and 3,417 fatalities pushed the country's tally of cases to 1,99,25,604 and death toll to 2,18,959 on Monday.“It only takes one Covid-19 variant from India to reach US shores to disrupt our entire vaccine rollout process. It just takes one. So, I’m thankful that the White House heeded my request to supply aid to India,” Indian American Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-lawmakers-applaud-prez-joe-biden-for-helping-india-to-combat-covid-19-crisis-101620057570511.html
03-05-2021||World||Novavax starts Covid-19 vaccine trials on children||US biotech firm Novavax said Monday it had started clinical trials of its proposed Covid-19 vaccine on children, in a program that will involve up to 3,000 adolescents aged 12-17.Far fewer children have been sick with Covid-19 compared to adults, and most have mild to no symptoms, but they can be infected and spread the virus.Novavax said the trials would test "the efficacy (and) safety" of the vaccine, with participants receiving either the vaccine candidate or placebo in two doses, 21 days apart.Participants will be monitored for up to two years after their injections.The Novavax vaccine has not yet been authorized in any country, including for adults, but the company plans to file for emergency authorization in Britain "in the second quarter of 2021", followed by in the United States.Novavax announced at the end of January that clinical trials conducted in Britain involving 15,000 adults showed 89.3 percent efficacy.The Novavax vaccine, which uses different technology from the doses already widely licensed around the world, is a protein-based vaccine engineered from the genetic sequence of the first strain of the coronavirus.It can be stored at a temperature between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius (35 - 46.4 degrees Fahrenheit).Other vaccine companies including Moderna, Johnson & Johnson and Pfizer are also conducting trials in adolescents.Europe's medicines watchdog said Monday it had begun evaluating the use of Pfizer/BioNTech's vaccine for 12- to 15-year-olds, after a similar request in the United States.Vaccine authorization for children is seen as a crucial step towards achieving herd immunity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/novavax-starts-covid-19-vaccine-trials-on-children-101620056780152.html
03-05-2021||World||Iran set to feature in meeting of US's Blinken and UK's Raab||Issues related to Iran are set to feature in talks later Monday between U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and his host in London, British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab.The bilateral talks come a day ahead of the first face-to-face discussions in two years of foreign and development ministers from the Group of Seven leading industrial nations and other invited representatives. The U.K. holds this year's presidency of the G-7.Blinken's visit to London, his first since being appointed by President Joe Biden, comes amid mounting speculation of a prisoner exchange deal with Iran. Prisoner exchanges are not uncommon and were a feature of the 2015 nuclear accord between Iran and leading powers. Biden has indicated that he is looking to restart nuclear talks with Tehran after his predecessor, Donald Trump, pulled the U.S. out of the agreement.In Britain, there's particular interest in the wellbeing of British-Iranian woman Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe, who was last week sentenced to an additional year in prison on charges of spreading “propaganda against the system.”British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said his government is doing what it can amid reports in Iran that Britain would pay a 400 million-pound ($550 million) debt to secure Zaghari-Ratcliffe's release.“We of course make sure that we do everything we can to look after the interests of Nazanin and all the very difficult dual national cases we have in Tehran," he said.Earlier Monday, Blinken held bilateral talks with Japanese Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi on an array of subjects including the coronavirus pandemic and the climate crisis, as well as raising concerns over North Korea's nuclear and ballistic missile programs.On Tuesday, the full G-7 — Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the U.K. and the U.S. — will meet along with others, including representatives from other countries, including Australia, India and South Africa.Ahead of the gathering, German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas warned that “authoritarian states” around the world are “trying to play us against each other” and that breaches of international law have become commonplace.“It is important that we hold our values of democracy, state of law, human rights and a global order based on rules against them, united and credibly,” he said.Before the meeting, Britain's Foreign Office said the G-7 ministers will invest $15 billion in development finance over the next two years to help women in developing countries access jobs, build resilient businesses and recover from the coronavirus pandemic.They are also expected to sign up to new targets to get 40 million more girls into school, and 20 million more girls reading by the age of 10 in poorer nations by 2026.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-set-to-feature-in-meeting-of-us-s-blinken-and-uk-s-raab-101620048480965.html
03-05-2021||World||Indonesia finds 2 cases of Indian Covid-19 variant in Jakarta||Indonesia has recorded its first cases of a highly infectious Covid-19 variant first detected in India, the health minister said on Monday, as authorities implored people not to travel to their hometowns for the end of the Muslim fasting month.Indonesia, which has been trying to contain one of the worst Covid-19 outbreaks in Asia, stopped issuing visas last month for foreigners who had been in India in the previous 14 days.The two cases of the Indian variant, known as B.1.617, were found in Jakarta, while the minister said a variant first discovered in South Africa was also detected in Bali."We need to contain these cases, while there are still only a few of them," Budi Gunadi Sadikin told a virtual conference.Scientists are studying whether the B.1.617 variant is to blame for India's devastating second wave of infections.The variant has now reached at least 17 countries including Britain, Switzerland and Iran, prompting some governments to close their borders to people traveling from India.Authorities in Indonesia, which is the world's largest Muslim-majority country, have also banned the traditional mass exodus where people visit relatives for the Eid al-Fitr festival for a second year to curb Covid-19 transmission."Do not return to your hometown. Do not go on holiday in your hometown. Be patient," Doni Monardo, the chief of Indonesia's Covid-19 task force, told the same news conference.Indonesia has reported more than 1.67 million virus infections and 45,700 deaths since the start of the pandemic, though cases have been declining since peaking in January.Nonetheless, the positivity rate, or the percentage of people tested who are found to have the disease, was still hovering at more than 12% on average last month. The World Health Organization considers positivity rates above 5% to be of concern.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesia-finds-2-cases-of-indian-covid-19-variant-in-jakarta-101620032559409.html
03-05-2021||World||Germany cancels Oktoberfest for 2nd consecutive year due to Covid-19||Bavarian officials on Monday canceled Oktoberfest festivities for a second year in a row due to concerns over the spread of the coronavirus, saying that there are too many risks in hosting the celebrations, which traditionally bring in visitors from around the world, during a global pandemic.Bavarian Governor Markus Soeder said it was with “heavy hearts” that they decided to call off the festival for which the state is known globally, but that with coronavirus numbers still stubbornly high and hospitals already struggling, it had to be done.“Oktoberfest will be held again, and will be big again,” he pledged.Germany is currently in the middle of a lockdown that includes a ban on large gatherings, with an infection rate of 146.9 new weekly infections per 100,000 residents.Bavaria is slightly below the national average with 145.4 new weekly infections per 100,000, according to the country's disease control center, the Robert Koch Institute.Oktoberfest typically attracts about 6 million visitors from around the world and had been scheduled from Sept. 18 to Oct. 3.The combination of large tents full of people and the consumption of large quantities of alcohol, as well as the possibility for mutated varieties of the virus to be brought in from abroad, would have made it particularly hazardous to go ahead with the festival, Soeder said.After Oktoberfest was canceled last year, some 50 of the southern German city’s beer halls and other establishments hosted smaller parties under strict guidelines, and Mayor Dieter Reiter said the hope was that it again would be possible to have open-air beer gardens and patios open with certain restrictions.However difficult the decision to cancel Oktoberfest, it would have been worse if the city waited too long and had to call it off after preparations were already underway, he said.“For me, personally, it was no easy decision because it is a huge date in the calendar for the mayor,” he said. “Much more importantly, it's a huge shame for the millions of fans worldwide.”Under national “emergency brake” legislation passed last month, measures limiting personal contacts, closing leisure and sports facilities and shutting or restricting access to many stores kick in for areas where there are more than 100 weekly new cases per 100,000 residents for three consecutive days.Restrictions also include a 10 p.m.-5 a.m. curfew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-cancels-oktoberfest-for-2nd-consecutive-year-due-to-covid19-101620055103998.html
03-05-2021||World||US sets pandemic-era high for air travel, over 1.6 million||The United States set another record for the number of air travelers since the pandemic set in, although passenger numbers remain far below 2019 levels.Nearly 1.67 million people were screened at U.S. airport checkpoints on Sunday, according to the Transportation Security Administration. That was the highest number screened since March 12 of last year when air travel began to plummet.However, it was still 35% below the number of airport travelers reported on the comparable Sunday in 2019, according to TSA figures.Airlines started to see an increase in bookings around mid-February, and the TSA has screened at least 1 million people every day since March 11. Vacation destinations have been most popular — business travel, which is more profitable for airlines, remains drastically diminished.Airline executives are cautiously optimistic about summer travel as more Americans get vaccinated against Covid-19. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says it is safe for vaccinated people to travel within the United States, although it continues to warn against travel to most foreign countries.Last week, the TSA extended its requirement that airline passengers wear face masks. That rule was set to expire May 11, but TSA extended it through mid-September.Travelers should expect planes to be more full. Over the weekend, Delta Air Lines stopped blocking off middle seats. It was the last U.S. airline to limit seating as a safety precaution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-sets-pandemic-era-high-for-air-travel-over-1-6-million-101620054341711.html
03-05-2021||World||Malaysia makes AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine optional amid safety fears||Malaysia will begin a parallel Covid-19 innoculation programme this week for people who chose to receive the AstraZeneca vaccine, after it was removed from an ongoing rollout due to public fears over its safety, a minister said on Monday.Reports of possible links to very rare blood clots have dented confidence in the shot in Malaysia and elsewhere.AstraZeneca has pointed to regulator recommendations that the vaccine is safe and effective, though some countries have suspended its use due to rising unease or limited it to certain age groups.Malaysia, which received its first 268,000 AstraZeneca vaccine doses in April, said it would allow people to choose to receive the jab on a first-come, first-serve basis.The decision was made after around 8,000 people cancelled online vaccination registrations following the government's announcement that the shot would be part of the nationwide rollout, Science Minister Khairy Jamaludin told reporters.Data also showed increased vaccine hesitancy with some people not showing up to appointments after AstraZeneca was included, he said."The number of cancellations was rising, and this resulted in (authorities) deciding that we should carve out AstraZeneca from the mainstream national immunisation programme," Khairy said.Slots for 268,000 doses were filled in just three hours after bookings opened on Sunday, he said, adding the programme that starts on Wednesday would be expanded when more doses arrive.Malaysia is due to receive 12.8 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine, with the next shipment of 1.1 million doses expected to arrive this month.Khairy said authorities had also decided to limit the use of the vaccine developed by China's Sinovac Biotech to those aged 60 years or older.Malaysia is facing a spike in coronavirus cases, with more than 415,000 total infections reported.Separately, Health Minister Adham Baba noted a marked increase in COVID-19 patients suffering acute symptoms, possibly due to new strains.Malaysia on Sunday reported its first case of a variant first identified in India, which experts say may have mutations that would make it more transmissible, cause more severe disease or evade vaccine immunity.The government has also detected 48 cases of the South African variant and eight of the British variant as of May 1, Adham said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/malaysia-makes-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-optional-amid-safety-fears-101620032545296.html
03-05-2021||World||Denmark reportedly removes J&J Covid-19 vaccine from its inoculation program||Denmark won’t use Johnson & Johnson’s Covid-19 vaccine in its immunization program, after health authorities in the country judged the risk of blood clots unacceptable, according to local media including broadcaster TV2.The decision comes less than a month after Denmark became the first European Union member to drop AstraZeneca Plc for similar reasons.Denmark had pre-ordered about 7 million vaccine shots from J&J, more than from any other producer. The decision to drop the company from its inoculation program means the Danish government is unlikely to reach its target of immunizing the country’s adult population by early August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/denmark-reportedly-removes-j-j-covid-19-vaccine-from-its-inoculation-program-101620049075777.html
03-05-2021||World||Nepal sees record jump in daily coronavirus cases, deaths||Nepal on Monday reported an all-time high of 7,448 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the caseload to 343,418, while the death toll rose to 3,362 with 37 fatalities, the health ministry said.The total fatalities in the last 24 hours is also the highest number of people dying of Covid-19 in a single day in Nepal, it said.According to the ministry, recoveries mounted to 286,015 on Monday with 2,021 patients being discharged, leaving 54,041 active cases in the country.While 12 districts have over 500 active cases each, 21 others have more than 200 active cases each, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-sees-record-jump-in-daily-coronavirus-cases-deaths-101620048199473.html
03-05-2021||World||Facebook oversight board to announce decision on Trump ban on May 5||Facebook Inc's independent oversight board tweeted on Monday it would announce a decision May 5 on whether to uphold former U.S. President Donald Trump's indefinite suspension from the social media platform and Instagram.Facebook blocked Trump's access to his Facebook and Instagram accounts over concerns of further violent unrest following the Jan. 6 storming of the U.S. Capitol by his supporters. It later handed the case to the oversight board.The board, created by Facebook in response to criticism over its handling of problematic content, in mid-April said it had extended the public comment period on the case.The board had said then that the Trump case received over 9,000 comments, more than any other case. (Reporting by Shariq Khan in Bengaluru; Editing by Bernard Orr)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-oversight-board-to-announce-decision-on-trump-ban-on-may-5-101620046128841.html
03-05-2021||World||Taliban carries out 141 attacks in last 24 hours across Afghanistan, says report||Taliban have carried out 141 attacks over the last 24 hours in provinces all across the country, Tolo News reported on Sunday citing sources.In these attacks, at least 20 people were killed including Peramqul Ziaee, a commander of public uprising forces in Takhar, according to Tolo News.The country's Defence Ministry said that the Taliban's casualties were more than 100 in the last 24 hours. The Taliban rejected this figure.Data collected by TOLOnews shows that 438 members of Afghan forces and civilians were killed and more than 500 others were wounded in the last 30 days. The data shows that 190 bombings, targeted attacks and offensives happened in the last month.The attacks have intensified as the May 1 deadline for the United States to withdraw troops from Afghanistan has passed."Attacks have been intensified in Uruzgan over the last few days. There are clashes every day," said Amanullah Hotaki, head of the Uruzgan provincial council. "We witness blasts in Kunar every day. The government should prevent such attacks," said Nasir Kamawal, a member of the Kunar provincial council."Over the last 24 hours, attacks were carried out in Panjwai, Arghistan, Maiwand, Shah Wali Kot, Nesh, Mianshin and Takhta Pul districts and other outposts," said Jamal Barikzai, spokesman for the Kandahar police.The government forces said that all Taliban attacks were pushed back and they suffered heavy casualties.US President Joe Biden announced last month the decision to withdraw troops from the country starting on that May 1 deadline, with the aim of completely withdrawing from Afghanistan by September 11, which would mark the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks that sparked the war in Afghanistan, the longest conflict in American history.On Thursday, White House Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre said that the US has begun pulling out its forces from Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-carries-out-141-attacks-in-last-24-hours-across-afghanistan-says-report-101620046915498.html
03-05-2021||World||Bangladesh extends nationwide Covid-19 lockdown till May 16||Bangladesh on Monday extended ongoing nationwide lockdown till May 16 to contain the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic.Bangladesh clamped a week-long nationwide lockdown on April 5, suspending public transport and shutting markets to combat the surge in coronavirus cases in the country. The restrictions were later extended till April 28, then till May 5."The Cabinet has decided to further extend the lockdown till May 16," Cabinet Secretary Khandker Anwarul Islam told a media briefing here.Islam said inter-district bus, train and ferry services would remain suspended until that timeline but public transports would be allowed to operate within cities maintaining health guidelines after May 5, when the latest round of the lockdown was scheduled to end.At the same time, the government will also monitor shopping centres and malls for strict compliance to health safety guidelines, put in place to contain COVID-19 spread, he said.If a shopping place is found to be failing to strictly enforce the safety rules, it will be shut down if needed, Islam said.In face of growing demands, the government had granted permission for reopening shops and malls across the country from April 25, amid lockdown.On April 26, Bangladesh closed its border with India for two weeks in view of the sharp increase in the coronavirus cases in the neighbouring country.On Monday, Health Minister Zahid Maleque said that the borders would remain closed until further order.Health officials on Monday reported 65 COVID-19 deaths in the past 24 hours, taking the country’s toll to 11,644. At least 1,739 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of people infected with the virus to 7,63,682.A health ministry spokesman said that both the statistics suggested the infection rate to have come down slightly in the past few days but "we fear the situation could be worse again if the health guidelines are not strictly maintained ahead and during the Eid festival".Last week, Bangladesh recorded the lowest single-day death toll since April 6."There is no room for complacency...the bad situation can return anytime coinciding with the Eid festival later this month," Directorate of Health Services (DGHS) spokesman Dr Nazmul Islam told the media.According to the latest count, the COVID-19 infection rate stood at 8.95 per cent on Monday while the figure shot up to 23.40 per cent on April 5.The health minister said Bangladesh was expecting the arrival of 0.5 million doses of Chinese COVID-19 vaccines by May 10.DGHS officials said pharmaceutical company Renata Bangladesh Limited has sought government permission to bring US Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine to the country."Renata has submitted application seeking permission to bring Moderna vaccine while our Drug Administration is assessing if the company is capable of bringing it," DGHS Director General Abul Bashar Mohammad Khurshid Alam said.But experts said the Moderna vaccines needed minus temperature storage facility while only in Dhaka such facilities could be provided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bangladesh-extends-nationwide-covid-19-lockdown-till-may-16-101620046226316.html
03-05-2021||World||EU summons Russia's envoy for blacklisting its officials over Alexei Navalny sanctions||The European Union has summoned Russia’s ambassador after Moscow blacklisted eight EU officials in retaliation for the bloc’s decision to impose sanctions over the imprisonment of Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny.The Russian list announced Friday includes European Parliament President David Sassoli and Vera Jourova, a vice president of the European Commission whose brief includes rule of law issues and disinformation.European Commission spokesman Peter Stano said that Ambassador Vladimir Chizhov would meet in Brussels later Monday with senior EU officials who “will convey to him our strong condemnation and rejection of this decision.”Stano said the Russian-imposed travel bans are “obviously very politically motivated and lack any legal justification. They are groundless.” He said that “this all shows that Russia is determined to continue the hostile track of confrontation.”Russia’s foreign ministry has accused the EU of wanting to punish Moscow for its “independent foreign and domestic policies” and of trying to limit its development with “unlawful restrictions.”EU foreign ministers will discuss tensions with Russia when they meet on May 10. The 27-nation bloc’s heads of state and government will also take up the issue at their summit on May 25.The EU in March imposed sanctions on six Russian officials involved in the imprisonment of Navalny, who is Russian President Vladimir Putin’s most vociferous opponent.Navalny was arrested in January upon his return from Germany where he spent five months recovering from a nerve agent poisoning that he blames on the Kremlin — accusations that Russian officials reject. European labs have confirmed that Navalny was poisoned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-summons-russia-s-envoy-for-blacklisting-its-officials-over-alexei-navalny-sanctions-101620042323391.html
03-05-2021||World||Moderna to supply 500 million vaccine doses to Covax effort||Moderna Inc. agreed to provide as many as 500 million doses of its Covid-19 shot to the program known as Covax in a boost for the global vaccination effort, but most of the shipments won’t arrive until next year.Moderna is joining developers including AstraZeneca Plc, Pfizer Inc. and Johnson & Johnson in supplying Covax, which has faced setbacks in its bid to help lower-income nations. The vaccine last week was cleared for emergency use by the World Health Organization, making it eligible for Covax, according to Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, one of the partners in the initiative.Covax has encountered funding challenges, delivery delays and other hurdles in a high-stakes campaign to narrow the vaccine-access gap. As India confronts a devastating resurgence of the illness, concerns are rising for many countries around the world that have been left behind their wealthier counterparts.Rich countries last year snapped up doses of vaccines from Moderna and other drugmakers, and the U.S. alone has already administered more than 240 million doses. Covax meanwhile has shipped about 50 million doses to more than 120 countries and territories, based on data through late April.Supplies of Moderna’s mRNA vaccine to Covax are set to begin in the fourth quarter, with 34 million doses available in 2021, Gavi said Monday. The U.S. company will supply as many as 466 million doses in 2022 and potentially provide access to shots that are adapted to fight variants of the coronavirus in the future. The terms of the agreement with Gavi weren’t disclosed.Variant RisksThe doses will help broaden Covax’s portfolio at a crucial time. The program is heavily reliant on the shot from AstraZeneca, which is cheaper and easier to deploy but has faced worries about rare blood clots that have complicated immunization campaigns. Covax is also leaning on the Serum Institute of India Ltd. as a key supplier, but the country said in March it would slow down exports to focus on its own needs.“Having a diverse portfolio has always been a core goal for Covax, and to remain adaptable in the face of this continually evolving pandemic -- including the rising threat posed by new variants,” Gavi Chief Executive Officer Seth Berkley said in the statement.Gavi has said it’s seeking to raise $2 billion by June to secure additional doses to cover as much as 30% of the populations in 92 lower-income economies. Covax is led by Gavi, the WHO and the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, and works with organizations including UNICEF as well.Pfizer and BioNTech SE in January agreed to supply as many as 40 million doses to Covax, which is also due to receive up to 500 million doses of J&J’s single-shot vaccine.Moderna said last week it would produce as many as 3 billion doses of its vaccine next year as it makes new investments to bolster output, and CEO Stephane Bancel said he was deeply worried about variant-driven epidemics in places like South America and India.While AstraZeneca has pledged not to profit from its Covid shot during the pandemic and recorded $275 million in sales from the shot in the first quarter, Moderna has said it expects to bring in more than $18 billion in Covid vaccine sales this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-to-supply-500-million-vaccine-doses-to-covax-effort-101620037008492.html
03-05-2021||World||US' Blinken presents new North Korea approach as G7 meets in person||US Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Monday opened the Group of Seven's first in-person talks in two years by presenting the new administration's fresh approach on North Korea, which has already denounced it.With Covid raging in India but increasingly coming under control in the West, Britain welcomed foreign ministers of the club of wealthy democracies to London discuss a post-pandemic agenda and prepare for a G7 summit in southwest England next month.India, South Korea, South Africa and ASEAN bloc chair Brunei were invited as guests to the three days of talks, which will also address rising tensions with Russia and China as well as diplomacy to revive a nuclear accord with Iran.Amid stringent anti-Covid measures including restrictions on movements, Blinken met separately at his hotel with the foreign ministers of Japan and South Korea days after President Joe Biden completed a review on North Korea policy."We are grateful to have this opportunity to have in-depth discussions with the US after the conclusion of your policy review," South Korean Chung Eui-yong said, as he welcomed the "very positive and open message" by Biden in his address to Congress last week.The State Department said that Blinken and Japanese Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi "shared their concerns about North Korea's nuclear and ballistic missile programmes" in their meeting.They agreed to work together along with Japan's sometime rival South Korea "towards denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula," a statement said.- Middle path on North Korea -Biden ordered an assessment of North Korea policy after his predecessor Donald Trump's unusual, highly personalised diplomacy that featured three made-for-television meetings with the totalitarian state's young leader Kim Jong Un.The review proposed a middle ground by moving away from Trump's ambitious but ultimately unsuccessful bid to reach a far-reaching agreement that, after seven decades, could finally bring an official end to the Korean War.But the White House also said it would engage with North Korea, a shift from former president Barack Obama's policy of "strategic patience" -- or, keeping Pyongyang at arm's length until its behaviour changes."Our policy will not focus on achieving a grand bargain, nor will it rely on strategic patience," White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said Friday, while acknowledging that successive administrations have failed to achieve the goal of ending North Korea's nuclear programme.North Korea on Sunday denounced the Biden approach, saying he was keeping a "hostile policy" in place for more than half a century."The US-claimed 'diplomacy' is a spurious signboard for covering up its hostile acts, and 'deterrence' touted by it is just a means for posing nuclear threats to the DPRK," foreign ministry official Kwon Jong Gun said through state media, using the official name of North Korea.US officials largely expected a strident reaction from North Korea, which is known for its colourful statements, including in 2019 describing Biden as a "rabid dog" who "must be beaten to death with a stick".A welcoming dinner for the Group of Seven foreign ministers will address both North Korea and Iran.Both the United States and Britain have played down reports that Iran will release their respective nationals from captivity as diplomacy steps up.Britain said that talks were still continuing and denounced the "torture" of dual national Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe after Iranian state television said that she could be released from years of detention after London settles an old debt.After the G7, Blinken will head Wednesday to Ukraine in a show of support after Russia last month deployed but then pulled back some 100,000 troops along its border and in annexed Crimea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-blinken-presents-new-north-korea-approach-as-g7-meets-in-person-101620041840706.html
03-05-2021||World||Taiwan bars arrivals from India as Indonesia reports cases of Covid variant||Taiwan became the latest place to ban arrivals from coronavirus-stricken India on Monday, as it moves to prevent new infections, with more nations reporting cases of a variant first identified in the subcontinent.The variant, B.1.617, has reached at least 17 countries, from Britain and Iran to Switzerland, sparking global concern and spurring several to close their borders to people travelling from India.Scientists are studying whether the variant, resulting from two key mutations to the outer "spike" portion of the virus that attaches to human cells, is driving an unexpected explosion in cases in India.The south Asian nation's tally of infections was just shy of 20 million on Monday, after it reported more than 300,000 new coronavirus cases for a 12th straight day.Last month, Indonesia, which has been battling one of Asia's worst COVID-19 outbreaks, stopped issuing visas for foreigners who had been in India in the previous 14 days."We need to contain these cases, while there are still only a few of them," said Indonesian health minister Budi Gunadi Sadikin, after the first two cases of the variant reported in the southeast Asian nation on Monday.Neighbouring Malaysia said on Sunday it had detected its first case of the Indian variant, days after imposing a ban on flights from the country.On Monday, Taiwan said that except for its citizens, all those who had been in India in the 14 days prior would be barred from entering its territory, while returning Taiwanese face 14 days in centralised quarantine facilities. The move comes after Australia took a more drastic measure last week, banning the entry of residents and citizens who have been in India in the previous two weeks, threatening fines and jail for any who disobey.It was the first time Australia has branded citizens' return home a criminal offence.Australia defended the ban, which took effect on Monday, saying it had a "strong, clear and absolute" belief that the move was legal."It's a high-risk situation in India," Health Minister Greg Hunt told a televised news briefing."The strong, clear view is that there has been no doubt in any of the Commonwealth advice about this."Philippine officials warned that they could not rule out the possibility of an India-like COVID-19 crisis, saying last week's decision to ban entry of arrivals from India aimed to keep it from becoming a reality."It is possible for it to happen here if we don’t intensify responses," Health Undersecretary Rosario Vergeire said."When we look at what is happening in India, it is happening across the globe... What’s different is the intensity of it."The World Health Organisation designates the variant as being "of interest", suggesting it may have mutations that would make the virus more transmissible, cause more severe disease or evade vaccine immunity.Other strains with known risks, such as those first detected in the Brazil, Britain and South Africa, have been categorised as "variants of concern," a higher threat level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taiwan-bars-arrivals-from-india-as-indonesia-reports-cases-of-covid-variant-101620042150744.html
03-05-2021||World||Greece: Cafes, restaurants reopen for outdoor service in nearly 6 months||Cafes and restaurants reopened in Greece on Monday for sit-down service for the first time in nearly six months, as the country began easing coronavirus-related restrictions with a view to opening to the vital tourism industry in the summer.Cafes, restaurants and bars, which had been shut to all but takeout and delivery services when lockdown-type measures were imposed in early November, reopened for outdoor seated service only. Tables are set a certain distance apart to maintain social distancing, while standing customers and music aren't allowed.The reopening comes on a national holiday, the day after Orthodox Easter, and many people took advantage of the unseasonably warm weather to head to sidewalk cafes.A maximum of six customers are allowed per table, while staff must carry out compulsory coronavirus home self-tests. A nightly curfew that was in force from 9 p.m. is being pushed back to 11 p.m. as of Monday, with bars, restaurants and cafes allowed to remain open until 15 minutes before curfew.In recent weeks, the curfew had been largely ignored, with bars and cafes serving drinks for takeout, and crowds of customers forming outside, standing on sidewalks and in nearby apartment entrances.Greece has been gradually easing restrictions despite stubbornly high infection rates and hospitalizations that have strained its health system. The country of about 11 million people has seen nearly 10,500 deaths and 346,500 confirmed cases since the start of the pandemic, according to the latest figures available from Saturday.Tourism is a vital industry for the country, and tourism-related businesses and services are scheduled to reopen on May 15.Greece’s vaccination drive has been picking up pace, with the vaccine appointment booking system now open to all those ages 30 and over. So far, the country has administered just over 3 million vaccines, with just over 2 million of those being first doses and more than 944,000 people being fully vaccinated with both doses. As of Wednesday, Greece will also start administering the single-dose Johnson & Johnson vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/greece-cafes-restaurants-reopen-for-outdoor-service-in-nearly-6-months-101620039777326.html
03-05-2021||World||G-7 ministers set to hold first in-person talks in 2 years, to meet tomorrow||Foreign and development ministers from the Group of Seven leading industrial nations will be meeting in London this week in their first face-to-face discussions in two years, with U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken holding talks with British host Dominic Raab later Monday.Also Read | Jaishankar set for G7 ministers’ meeting in UKThe withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan and a post-Brexit trade deal are likely to feature in the discussions between Blinken and Raab. A possible prisoner exchange deal with Iran is also likely to feature in their talks.Speculation has mounted that the United States and the U.K. are in discussions with Iran over the release of prisoners, which could see the release of British-Iranian woman Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe.Early Monday, Blinken held bilateral talks Japanese Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi on an array of subjects including the coronavirus pandemic and the climate crisis as well as raising concerns over North Korea's nuclear and ballistic missile programs.On Tuesday, the full G-7 will meet. In addition to the other members of the G-7 — Canada, France, Germany, Italy the European Union — representatives from Australia, India, Japan, South Korea, and South Africa have also been invited.Before the meeting, Britain's Foreign Office said the G-7 ministers will invest $15 billion in development finance over the next two years to help women in developing countries access jobs, build resilient businesses and recover from the coronavirus pandemic.They are also expected to sign up to new targets to get 40 million more girls into school, and 20 million more girls reading by the age of 10 in poorer nations by 2026.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/g7-ministers-set-for-first-in-person-talks-in-2-years-101620039464861.html
03-05-2021||World||India and EU to seal connectivity agreement, revive negotiations on trade||India and European Union are all set to seal a connectivity agreement at the May 8 virtual summit at Lisbon apart from reviving the negotiations on the stalled trade and investment agreement.While Prime Minister Narendra Modi is keen to deepen cooperation at the summit with Charles Michel, President of European Council, and Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European Commission, the connectivity agreement will open a new chapter in relations with both the power blocks slated to create assets in third countries, particularly in the Indo-Pacific.Prime Minister Narendra Modi took to the Twitter on Monday to express his gratitude to the European Union for its support to India on its fight against the coronavirus disease.Spoke to President of the EU Commission @vonderleyen and thanked EU for support and assistance to India’s COVID response. We discussed India-EU Leaders’ Meeting on 8 May. I am confident that the Meeting will provide a new momentum to our Strategic Partnership.According to diplomatic sources in EU, the connectivity agreement will link India and EU in transport, energy, digital world and people to people contacts by creating assets and capacities in not only India and EU but also joint investment in third countries. The connectivity agreement will not only based on rules based order but also involve private sector to create assets in the Indo-Pacific region without burdening the third country with debt.“It is an India-EU answer to China’s Belt Road Initiative as the connectivity partnership will take to account environment and sustainable development and totally transparent processes…..it is akin to India-Japan bidding in Sri Lankan port project,” said an EU diplomat.The President of the European Union Commission, Ursula von der Leyen later wrote on Twitter, "There is clear momentum to strengthen our strategic relations on trade, digital, climate change & multilateralism. I'm encouraged by the prospect of intensifying our trade & investment relations. This would tap into a huge potential to the benefit of our businesses & citizens."There is clear momentum to strengthen our strategic relations on trade, digital, climate change & multilateralism. I'm encouraged by the prospect of intensifying our trade & investment relations. This would tap into a huge potential to the benefit of our businesses & citizensThe India-EU summit comes at a time when the latter has come up with its Indo-Pacific policy. Although many a experts have questioned that the EU Indo-Pacific policy only names India once, EU diplomats in their briefing have made it clear India is central to their policy along with US and Japan. “If the yardstick is naming a country, then US has not been named even once. With EU-China comprehensive trade and investment agreement on the back-burner, it is quite clear where the European consortium of nations is looking,” said an ambassador in Europe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-eu-to-seal-connectivity-agreement-revive-negotiations-on-trade-101620035652620.html
03-05-2021||World||Syria's top court accepts three candidates to run for president||Syria’s supreme constitutional court has accepted three applications out of 51 for candidacy for this month’s presidential elections in the war-torn country, state media reported Monday.The largely symbolic election is certain to be won by President Bashar Assad, who was chosen along with two other men, Abdullah Salloum Abdullah and Mahmoud Ahmad Marie, to run. Some 51 candidates, including seven women, had applied to be candidates. The Parliament later referred the names to the constitutional court.The presidential vote, Syria's second since civil war broke out in 2011, is scheduled to be held on May 26. Syrians abroad will vote on May 20.Mohamad Jihad Lahham, the president of the Supreme Constitutional Court, said the court accepted the three candidates and rejected the rest because they did not meet the constitutional and legal requirements.Lahham said that those whose candidacies have been rejected have the right to appeal before the court within three days.Assad won nearly 90% of the votes in the 2014 elections and is widely expected to win a fourth seven-year term. He has held power since 2000 when he took over after the death of his father, who ran the country for 30 years.Syria began allowing multi-candidate voting in the 2014 elections. Competition with Assad was symbolic and seen by opposition and Western countries as a sham designed to give the incumbent president the veneer of legitimacy.The international community is unlikely to recognize the legitimacy of the upcoming elections. According to the UN resolution for a political resolution of the conflict in Syria, a new constitution is supposed to be drafted and approved in a public referendum before UN-monitored presidential elections are to take place. But little progress has been made on the drafting committee and Assad continues to have the backing of Russia and Iran.In March, the Biden administration said it will not recognize the result of Syria’s presidential election unless the voting is free, fair, supervised by the United Nations, and represents all of Syrian society.Syria has been in the throes of civil war since 2011 when Arab Spring-inspired protests against the Assad family rule turned into an armed insurgence in response to a brutal military crackdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/syrias-top-court-accepts-three-candidates-to-run-for-president-101620033872923.html
03-05-2021||World||Biden to start reunifying migrant families separated by Trump-era border policy||The United States this week will reunite four migrant families separated at the US-Mexico border during the Trump administration, US officials said, a small step toward fulfilling a campaign promise by President Joe Biden.The families will be allowed to enter the United States through an emergency process known as "humanitarian parole," Michelle Brane, who heads a Biden-created task force that aims to reunite separated families, told a call with reporters on Sunday."In these cases that we're talking about this week, the children are in the United States and the parents are coming to join them," Brane said.The U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is considering whether they could be granted longer-term immigration status, she said.Lee Gelernt, lead attorney for the American Civil Liberties Union, which sued former President Donald Trump's administration over the separations policy, said his organization did not know how many children remain separated from parents but that the number was likely more than 1,000.The Biden administration has been grappling in recent months with a sharp rise in migrant crossings at the border, including unaccompanied minors and families with young children, mostly from Central America.The Trump administration, known for its hardline stance on immigration, adopted a blanket "zero-tolerance" policy of prosecuting all unauthorized border crossers in spring 2018, resulting in the mass separation of parents from their children.Trump reversed the policy that summer amid an international outcry, but advocates and government watchdogs found separations began before the policy and continued after it. In some cases, parents were deported and children remained in the United States with other relatives or sponsors.Biden has called family separations under Trump a "human tragedy."DHS Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas, who also participated in the call with reporters, declined to provide details about the families, citing privacy concerns, but noted that one is Honduran and another Mexican.Both have been separated since 2017, he said, adding that the reunifications this week would be "the first of many."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-to-start-reunifying-migrant-families-separated-by-trump-era-border-policy-101620032611349.html
03-05-2021||World||Singapore sees first death due to Covid-19 in nearly 2 months amid rise in cases||Singapore saw its first fatality due to complications from Covid-19 in nearly two months over the weekend, amid a flareup of cases in a country that’s been one of the world’s most successful in containing the virus.An 88-year-old Singaporean woman with a history of cancer and cardiac failure passed away on Saturday after she was treated at Tan Tock Seng Hospital, where a cluster of 37 cases has been identified since last week.The cluster is Singapore’s first in a hospital and raises concern that the city’s hard-won success is slipping, potentially threatening efforts to open up a long-awaited travel bubble with Hong Kong and host major upcoming summits including the World Economic Forum and Shangri-la Dialogue.“There will be many more” cases in the hospital as patients there are more susceptible given many hadn’t been vaccinated and were already sick with other illnesses, said Leong Hoe Nam, an infectious disease physician at Singapore’s Mount Elizabeth Hospital. “Unfortunately, they are easy targets for a Covid-19 super spreader, and in turn patients who have been infected can be new super spreaders,” he said, adding that he has no doubt the government will contain the cluster.Singapore is one of the more successful spots in the world in curbing the virus, similar to others in Asia that have largely halted the spread but where virtual elimination is being challenged by sporadic flareups. In a bid to stay at zero local cases, these places -- including New Zealand, Australia, Hong Kong and China -- react aggressively to small numbers of infections.Already, fewer people have been allowed at malls and large stores since Saturday and campsites were closed for two weeks. Singapore will also reduce the operating capacity of attractions to 50% from 65% for a week from May 7, and urged people to limit social gatherings to two per day and stay home where possible.While Singapore is also one the fastest in Asia on vaccination, it trails far behind leading countries globally including Israel, US and UK -- which have administered 10.5 million (57.7%), 246 million (38.2%) and 49.8 million (37.3%) -- doses respectively, according to Bloomberg’s vaccination tracker. At 2.21 million doses given as of April 18, Singapore has inoculated just 19.4% of its population, with less than half having received both jabs.Shares of flag carrier Singapore Airlines Ltd. dropped as much as 3.2% on Monday, the most in about two weeks, with stock broker UOB Kay Hian Pte. saying the increase in cases threatened the reopening of the economy. The decline came even as the airline said it had raised about S$2 billion ($1.5 billion) to boost funds as it’s hit by pandemic-related restrictions.Hospital clusterSingapore has had more than 61,200 total Covid-19 cases, more than 54,500 of them in people living in migrant worker dorms.The country registered 16 new cases of coronavirus in the local community on Thursday, its highest daily number since July 11, and 10 more infections on Monday, according to Ministry of Health data.Prior the latest spate of infections, Singapore had several months of low single-digit or no new cases thanks to strict measures that include mandatory mask-wearing, restricted travel and high testing and overall treatment capacity.All of the cases found on Monday were either patients or staff at Tan Tock Seng Hospital or close contacts who had already been placed on quarantine, according to the government. Prior to the new infections, several patients in the cluster have been linked to a 46-year-old Filipino nurse at the hospital, who was deployed at a general ward and had gotten her second vaccination dose on Feb. 18, authorities said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-sees-first-death-due-to-covid-19-in-nearly-2-months-amid-rise-in-cases-101620031371295.html
03-05-2021||World||Democrats seek narrow path to rein in cost of medicines||US president Joe Biden's call for authorising Medicare to negotiate lower prescription drug prices has energized Democrats on a politically popular idea they've been pushing for nearly 20 years only to encounter frustration.But they still lack a clear path to enact legislation. That's because a small number of Democrats remain uneasy over government price curbs on pharmaceutical companies.House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer will need every Democratic vote in a narrowly divided Congress.Otherwise Democrats may have to settle for a compromise that stops short of their goal.Or they could take the issue into the 2022 midterm elections.“There is a path,” said Rep. Peter Welch, D-Vt., one of Pelosi's lieutenants. “But there's also a challenge, and the challenge is we've got razor-thin margins.”“This is not a done deal,” continued Welch. “We've got a president and a speaker, but pharma' is very powerful.”Pharma is a nickname for the industry and for its main lobbying group, the Pharmaceutical Research, and Manufacturers of America, or PhRMA.The industry thwarted President Donald Trump's multi-pronged efforts to constrain its pricing power.Even though Trump came into office accusing drugmakers of “getting away with murder" and vowing he'd put a stop to it, the companies emerged from his term with just a few nicks and cuts.The industry lobbying group PhRMA is considered one of the most skilled operators in Washington. Its mission: to preserve a clause in the 2003 law that created Medicare's pharmacy benefit barring the government from interfering in price negotiations among drugmakers and insurers. That was enacted before $1,000 pills became old hat.PhRMA CEO Stephen Ubl served notice after Biden's speech to Congress last week that the industry stands ready to defend its prerogative.“Giving the government the power to arbitrarily determine the price of medicines is not the right approach,” he said in a statement arguing that it would stifle innovation. Such measured language belies the group's clout. It's usually among the top five spenders on Washington lobbying and networks with allied groups in the states.“I don't think anybody is fully prepared for the onslaught we expect from PhRMA,” said Margarida Jorge, campaign director for Lower Drug Prices Now, a coalition backing Medicare negotiations. “We are going to see a much bigger stepped-up game.”Pelosi put Medicare negotiations back in play with the reintroduction of an ambitious bill she powered through the House in 2019.Medicare would use an average of lower prices in other economically advanced countries to negotiate on top drugs. Companies that refused to deal would be hit with a steep tax. Drugmakers who hike prices above the rate of inflation would owe rebates to Medicare.Hundreds of billions of dollars potentially saved through the legislation would be plowed back into other health care programs. Private insurers covering working-age people would be able to secure Medicare's lower prices.In his speech to a joint session of Congress, Biden invited lawmakers to imagine the possibilities.“The money we save, which is billions of dollars, can go to strengthening the Affordable Care Act and expand Medicare benefits without costing taxpayers an additional penny,” the president said. “It is within our power to do it. Let's do it now. We've talked about it long enough.”But Republican Sen. Chuck Grassley of Iowa is urging Biden to lower his sights a bit.Grassley opposes negotiating authority for Medicare but supports requiring drugmakers to pay rebates for price hikes above the inflation rate — a potential compromise.“I hope the president reconsiders the liberal pipe dream in favour of the big bipartisan win,” said Grassley.Polls have consistently shown strong public support for authorizing Medicare to negotiate.“This is very high among the concerns of voters, and also heavily promised by Biden in the campaign,” said policy expert John Rother, a longtime advocate of drug price curbs. The House Energy and Commerce Committee will hold a hearing Tuesday on the issue.One option for Pelosi and Schumer would be to splice the Medicare legislation into a mammoth bill delivering Biden's “American Jobs Plan” promises on social programs and infrastructure.Such a vehicle would seem to offer the greatest chance to pass drug pricing curbs. But the political dynamics are different in each chamber. What might work in the House may get nowhere in the Senate.With its 50-50 split, the Senate is looking like the choke point. The overwhelming majority of Democrats are in favour of Medicare negotiations, but a few are undeclared.Among them is Sen. Bob Menendez of New Jersey, whose office says he believes "any drug pricing bill must deliver real savings for consumers at the pharmacy counter, not just achieve savings to the government or overall system.”“It's going to be a heavy lift,” said policy expert Rother. “But I don't think you know for sure until you try it."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/democrats-seek-narrow-path-to-rein-in-cost-of-medicines-101620027632014.html
03-05-2021||World||Russia lags behind other nations in Covid-19 vaccination drive||While at the Park House shopping mall in northern Moscow, Vladimir Makarov saw it was offering the coronavirus vaccine to customers, so he asked how long it would take.“It turned out it's simple here — 10 minutes,” he said of his experience last month.But Makarov, like many Muscovites, still decided to put off getting the Sputnik V shot.Russia boasted last year of being the first in the world to authorize a coronavirus vaccine, but it now finds itself lagging in getting its population immunized.That has cast doubt on whether authorities will reach their ambitious goal of vaccinating more than 30 million of the country's 146 million people by mid-June and nearly 69 million by August.The vaccine reluctance comes as shots are readily available in the capital to anyone 18 or older at more than 200 state and private clinics, shopping malls, food courts, hospitals — even a theater.As of mid-April, over 1 million of Moscow's 12.7 million residents, or about 8%, have received at least one shot, even though the campaign began in December.That percentage is similar for Russia as a whole. Through April 27, only 12.1 million people have gotten at least one shot, and only 7.7 million, or 5%, have been fully vaccinated. That puts Russia far behind the US, where 43% have gotten at least one shot and the European Union with nearly 27%.Data analyst Alexander Dragan, who tracks vaccinations across Russia, said last week the country was giving shots to 200,000-205,000 people a day. In order to hit the mid-June target, it needs to be nearly double that.“We need to start vaccinating 370,000 people a day, like, beginning tomorrow,” Dragan told The Associated Press.To boost demand, Moscow officials began offering coupons worth 1,000 rubles (USD 13) to those over 60 who get vaccinated — not a small sum for those receiving monthly pensions of about 20,000 rubles (USD 260).Still, it hasn't generated much enthusiasm. Some elderly Muscovites told AP it was difficult to register online for the coupons or find grocery stores that accepted them.Other regions also are offering incentives. Authorities in Chukotka, across the Bering Strait from Alaska, promised seniors 2,000 rubles for getting vaccinated, while the neighboring Magadan region offered 1,000 rubles. A theater in St. Petersburg offered discounted tickets for those presenting a vaccination certificate.Russia's lagging vaccination rates hinge on several factors, including supply. Russian drug makers have been slow to ramp up mass production, and there were shortages in March in many regions.So far, only 28 million two-dose sets of all three vaccines available in Russia have been produced, with Sputnik V accounting for most of them, and only 17.4 million have been released into circulation after undergoing quality control.Waiting lists for the shot remain long in places. In the Sverdlovsk region, the fifth most populous in Russia, 178,000 people were on a waitlist by mid-April, regional deputy health minister Yekaterina Yutyaeva told AP.On April 28, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said there are enough vaccines available in Russia, adding that demand was the defining factor in the country's vaccination rate.Another factor in Russians' reluctance over Sputnik V was the fact that it was rolled out even as large-scale testing to ensure its safety and efficacy was still ongoing. But a study published in February in the British medical journal The Lancet said the vaccine appeared safe and highly effective against Covid-19, according to a trial involving about 20,000 people in Russia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-lags-behind-other-nations-in-covid-19-vaccination-drive-101620027153383.html
03-05-2021||World||Apple faces grave legal threat, goes on trial over 'walled garden' app store||On Monday, Apple faces one of its most serious legal threats in recent years: A trial that threatens to upend its iron control over its app store, which brings in billions of dollars each year while feeding more than 1.6 billion iPhones, iPads, and other devices.The federal court case is being brought by Epic Games, maker of the popular video game Fortnite.Epic wants to topple the so-called “walled garden” of the app store, which Apple started building 13 years ago as part of a strategy masterminded by co-founder Steve Jobs.Epic charges that Apple has transformed a once-tiny digital storefront into an illegal monopoly that squeezes mobile apps for a significant slice of their earnings.Apple takes a commission of 15% to 30% on purchases made within apps, including everything from digital items in games to subscriptions. Apple denies Epic's claims.Apple's highly successful formula has helped turn the iPhone maker into one of the world's most profitable companies, one with a market value that now tops USD 2.2 trillion.Privately held Epic is puny by comparison, with an estimated market value of USD 30 billion. Its aspirations to get bigger hinge in part on its plan to offer an alternative app store on the iPhone.The North Carolina company also wants to break free of Apple's commissions. Epic says it forked over hundreds of millions of dollars to Apple before it expelled Fortnite from its app store last August after Epic added a payment system that bypassed Apple.Epic then sued Apple, prompting a courtroom drama that could shed new light on Apple's management of its app store. Both Apple CEO Tim Cook and Epic CEO Tim Sweeney will testify in an Oakland, California federal courtroom that will be set up to allow for social distancing and will require masks at all times.Neither side wanted a jury trial, leaving the decision to US District Judge Yvonne Gonzalez Rogers, who already seems to know her ruling will probably be appealed, given the stakes in the case.Much of the evidence will revolve around arcane but crucial arguments about market definitions.Epic contends the iPhone has become so ingrained in society that the device and its ecosystem have turned into a monopoly Apple can exploit to unfairly enrich itself and thwart competition.Apple claims it faces significant competition from various alternatives to video games on iPhones. For instance, it points out that about 2 billion other smartphones don't run iPhone software or work with its app store — primarily those relying on Google's Android system. Epic has filed a separate case against Google, accusing it of illegally gouging apps through its own app store for Android devices.Apple will also depict Epic as a desperate company hungry for sources of revenue beyond the aging Fortnite. It claims Epic merely wants to freeload off an iPhone ecosystem in which Apple has invested more than USD 100 billion over the past 15 years.Estimates of Apple's app store revenue range from USD 15 billion to USD 18 billion annually. Apple disputes those estimates, although it hasn't publicly disclosed its own figures. Instead, it has emphasized that it doesn't collect a cent from 85% of the apps in its store.The commissions it pockets, Apple says, are a reasonable way for the company to recoup its investment while financing an app review process it calls essential to preserving the security of apps and their users.About 40% of the roughly 100,000 apps submitted for review each week are rejected for some sort of problem, according to Kyle Andeer, Apple's chief compliance officer.Epic will try to prove that Apple uses the security issue to disguise its true motivation — maintaining a monopoly that wrings more profits from app makers who can't afford to be available on the iPhone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/apple-faces-grave-legal-threat-goes-on-trial-over-walled-garden-app-store-101620025489977.html
03-05-2021||World||New Zealand prime minister Jacinda Ardern takes tougher stance on China||New Zealand prime minister Jacinda Ardern took a tougher stance on China's human rights record Monday by saying it was getting harder to reconcile differences as China's role in the world grows.While Ardern's language remained moderate when compared with that of many other leaders, it still marked a significant shift for a country that relies on China as its largest trading partner. Ardern in past speeches has often avoided direct criticism of China.New Zealand has been trying to strike the right tone on China in recent weeks after finding itself on the defensive with its Five Eyes security allies by resisting speaking out in unison with them against China on certain human rights issues.New Zealand foreign minister Nanaia Mahuta caused a diplomatic stir last month when she discussed her reluctance to expand the role of the Five Eyes to include joint positions on human rights. The alliance among New Zealand, the US, the UK, Australia, and Canada has its origins in World War II cooperation.In her speech to the China Business Summit in Auckland on Monday, Ardern said New Zealand has raised “grave” concerns with China on human rights issues, including the situation of Uyghurs in the Xinjiang region and people who live in Hong Kong.“And it will not have escaped the attention of anyone here that as China’s role in the world grows and changes, the differences between our systems – and the interests and values that shape those systems – are becoming harder to reconcile,” Ardern told the audience.Stephen Noakes, the director of the China Studies Centre at the University of Auckland, said he wouldn't have expected to hear such language from New Zealand even a couple of years ago. He said some of it sounded like a wink to the Five Eyes to let them know that although New Zealand might have economic dependencies on China, it wasn't being soft.Noakes said that because China's relationships with both Australia and Canada have deteriorated so rapidly in the last few years, it has made New Zealand's rosier relationship stick out like a sore thumb.Still, Noakes said, he didn't expect the change in New Zealand's rhetoric to have any negative impact on its trade with China. And he said New Zealand's relatively moderate stance could make it a useful go-between in the future between China and other Five Eyes members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-prime-minister-jacinda-ardern-takes-tougher-stance-on-china-101620017818814.html
03-05-2021||World||World Press Freedom Day: US slams internet shutdowns, seeks accountability for crimes against journalists||Ahead of the World Press Freedom Day, the United States condemned the use of government-imposed internet shutdowns to prevent the exercise of freedom of expression online and urged governments to investigate and seek accountability for all crimes against journalists and media workers.In a press statement, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said: "Tomorrow, the United States joins the international community in celebrating World Press Freedom Day. Information and knowledge are powerful tools, and a free and independent press is the core institution connecting publics to the information they need to advocate for themselves, make informed decisions, and hold government officials accountable."Stressing that the US advocates for press freedom online and offline and for the safety of journalists and media workers worldwide, Blinken also mentioned the implementation of the 'Khashoggi Ban' - in wake of the murder of Saudi Arabian journalist Jamal Khashoggi - to help deter threatening behaviour against media.Citing the Committee to Protect Journalists report in 2020, the top US diplomat further said that Mexico and Afghanistan had seen the largest number of journalists killed in retaliation for their reporting, while China, Turkey, and Egypt imprisoned the most reporters last year."Unfortunately, the pandemic has provided a pretext for repressive governments to intensify pressure on independent media. It is exactly in that kind of hostile environment that the exercise of freedom of expression, especially by members of the press, becomes even more crucial in alerting the public to abuses and corruption and in countering dangerous misinformation and disinformation. We call on all governments to ensure media safety and protect journalists' ability to do their jobs without fear of violence, threats, or unjust detention," he said.Blinken further expressed concern with the governments' increased efforts to deprive the public of information and knowledge by controlling Internet access and censoring content, including through the widespread use of network restrictions - some as long as 18 months - that makes it impossible for journalists to conduct independent reporting.He noted that the governments must not shut down, block, throttle, censor, or filter services, as these actions undermine and unduly restrict the rights of peaceful assembly and freedoms of association and expression, disrupt access to essential services, and negatively impact the economy."The United States condemns the use of partial or complete government-imposed Internet shutdowns, among other tactics, to prevent the exercise of freedom of expression online and restrict the ability of independent journalists to serve the public. We urge governments to investigate and seek accountability for all crimes against journalists and media workers," he remarked."The United States is committed to working in partnership with members of the media, the private sector, non-governmental organizations, and other concerned governments to support access to information and defend freedom of expression and the brave journalists who face intimidation, harassment, arrest, and violence in exercising their rights," Blinken added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-press-freedom-day-us-slams-internet-shutdowns-asks-for-accountability-101620012121389.html
03-05-2021||World||One in two people globally lost income due to the pandemic: Report||One in two people worldwide saw their earnings drop due to the coronavirus, with people in low-income countries particularly hard hit by job losses or cuts to their working hours, research showed on Monday.US-based polling company Gallup, which surveyed 300,000 people across 117 countries, found that half of those with jobs earned less because of Covid-19 pandemic disruptions. This translated to 1.6 billion adults globally, it said."Worldwide, these percentages ranged from a high of 76% in Thailand to a low of 10% in Switzerland," said researchers in a statement.In Bolivia, Myanmar, Kenya, Uganda, Indonesia, Honduras and Ecuador, more than 70% people polled said they took home less than before global health crisis. In the United States, this figure dropped to 34%.The Covid-19 crisis has hit workers across the world, particularly women, who are over-represented in low-paid precarious sectors such as retail, tourism and food services.A study by the international charity Oxfam on Thursday said the pandemic had cost women around the world $800 billion in lost income.The Gallup poll found that more than half of those surveyed said they temporarily stopped working at their job or business - translating to about 1.7 billion adults globally.In 57 countries including India, Zimbabwe, the Philippines, Kenya, Bangladesh, El Salvador, more than 65% of respondents said they stopped working for a time.Countries where people were least likely to say they stopped working were predominantly developed, high-income countries.Fewer than one in 10 of those who had jobs in Austria, Switzerland and Germany said they had stopped working temporarily. In the US, the figure was 39%, research showed.The poll also showed that one in three people surveyed lost their job or business due to the pandemic - translating into just over one billion people globally.These figures also varied across nations with lower income countries such as the Philippines, Kenya and Zimbabwe showing more than 60% of respondents lost their jobs or businesses, compared to 3% in Switzerland and 13% in the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/one-in-two-people-globally-lost-income-due-to-the-pandemic-report-101620015316511.html
03-05-2021||World||'Harder to reconcile': Jacinda Ardern on New Zealand's differences with China||New Zealand's differences with China on human rights are becoming "harder to reconcile", Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said Monday, after Wellington faced criticism for failing to challenge its largest trading partner.Ardern's government has taken flak over its meek criticisms of China's rights record, leading to accusations New Zealand is a weak link in the US-led Five Eyes intelligence network.In a speech at a China Business Summit in Auckland, Ardern said New Zealand had already raised "grave concerns" with China about the treatment of Uyghurs in Xinjiang province and spoken out about the erosion of democratic freedoms in Hong Kong.But the centre-left leader said Wellington had an independent foreign policy and was free to choose whether it flagged such issues publicly or during private discussions with Chinese officials.Regardless of how the human rights concerns were dealt with, Ardern admitted there were some issues upon which China and New Zealand would never agree."It will not have escaped the attention of anyone here that as China's role in the world grows and changes, the differences between our systems -- and the interests and values that shape those systems -- are becoming harder to reconcile," she said."This is a challenge that we, and many other countries across the Indo-Pacific region, but also in Europe and other regions, are also grappling with."Ardern said pointing out areas of difference with Beijing was "part and parcel of New Zealand staying true to who we are as a nation"."We need to acknowledge that there are some things on which China and New Zealand do not, cannot, and will not agree," she said."This need not derail our relationship, it is simply a reality."- 'Swimming in New Zealand's lane' -New Zealand's Foreign Minister Nanaia Mahuta expressed unease last month about the decades-old Five Eyes alliance -- comprised of the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Australia and New Zealand -- for moving beyond its remit of intelligence-sharing between member nations.It came just months after Trade Minister Damien O'Connor urged Australia to show more "respect" to Beijing in the wake of New Zealand signing an upgraded free trade deal with China.New Zealand officials have also been careful not to directly criticise China's expanding influence in the Pacific, unlike their US and Australian counterparts.In contrast, Canberra's robust criticism of Beijing on issues such as Hong Kong and the need to investigate the origins of Covid-19 has spurred punitive levies on more than a dozen Australian imports, including wine and barley.Ardern said it was in China's own interests to act in a way that was consistent with its international responsibilities."As a significant power, the way that China treats its partners is important for us," she added.While Ardern's remarks may reassure other Five Eyes nations that New Zealand shares their concerns on China, she made it clear Wellington would continue to chart its own course and not feel obliged to make joint statements."I'm often asked which lane are we swimming in -- we swim in New Zealand's lane," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/harder-to-reconcile-jacinda-ardern-on-new-zealand-s-differences-with-china-101620005951192.html
03-05-2021||World||PM Modi, Boris Johnson to hold virtual summit, UK to ship 1000 more ventilators to India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his British counterpart Boris Johnson will launch a “comprehensive roadmap 2030” to expand and deepen bilateral cooperation over the next decade when they hold a virtual summit on May 4. The roadmap will focus on enhancing cooperation in five areas – trade and prosperity, defence and security, climate action, healthcare and people-to-people relations, the external affairs ministry said on Sunday. “The summit will be an important opportunity to elevate our multi-faceted strategic ties and enhance cooperation on regional and global issues of mutual interest. Both leaders will also discuss Covid-19 cooperation and the global efforts to fight the pandemic,” the ministry said. The British foreign office also said in a statement on Sunday that the UK will send 1,000 more ventilators from its surplus stocks to support India’s Covid-19 response in the face of a second wave of infections.The statement added that Johnson and Modi will agree on a “huge range of commitments” to deepen cooperation, including in fighting the pandemic, during their summit. “The terrible images we have seen in India in recent weeks are all the more powerful because of the close and enduring connection between the people of the UK and India,” Johnson said. “I am deeply moved by the surge of support the British people have provided to the people of India and am pleased the UK government has been able to play our part in providing life-saving assistance. The UK will always be there for India in its time of need.” Johnson has twice called off a planned visit to India this year because of the Covid-19 situation. Last month, he cancelled a trip that was to begin on April 25 following a surge in Coronavirus infections in India. Johnson cancelled a visit in January to be chief guest at the Republic Day celebrations in order to focus on his government’s response to a new Coronavirus variant that was spreading rapidly. The fresh assistance from Britain will be in addition to 200 ventilators, 495 oxygen concentrators and three large oxygen generation units the UK announced it would be sending to India last week. UK’s Chief Medical Officer Chris Whitty and Chief Scientific Adviser Patrick Vallance have spoken to their Indian counterparts to provide advice and expertise for the Indian healthcare system. The UK National Health Service is establishing a clinical advisory group led by Chief People Officer Prerana Isaar to support India’s Covid-19 response. The group will work with Indian institutions such as the All India Institute of Medical Services to share experience in managing Covid-19 outbreaks. The group will include researchers in public and global health, and nursing and other health professionals who have experience of the Indian healthcare system. Over the past week, British citizens, businesses and civil society have also responded to appeals for help and launched funding drives. This includes the British Asian Trust’s “Oxygen for India” emergency appeal, which is raising funds for oxygen concentrators to be rapidly deployed to Indian hospitals. The appeal, personally backed by the Prince of Wales, has raised more than £1.5 million. Virgin Atlantic flew 200 boxes of oxygen concentrators to New Delhi on Saturday after partnering with Khalsa Aid. More cargo space will be given free of charge on six flights to India in the next week, in association with The Red Cross.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pm-modi-boris-johnson-to-hold-virtual-summit-uk-to-ship-1000-more-ventilators-to-india-101619982178571.html
03-05-2021||World||US hints at 'way forward' on TRIPS proposal moved by India, South Africa||The Biden administration on Sunday indicated a “way forward” could be found in the coming days on a proposal moved by India and South Africa at the WTO to temporarily waive provisions of the agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) - such as patents - to Covid-19 vaccines and therapeutics to ensure equitable access to them around the world, especially in developing countries.The “way forward” could include, but may not be restricted to, requiring pharmaceutical companies to supply these Covid-19 related materials “at scale and at cost”.The Biden administration has been under mounting pressure from its own Democratic lawmakers in the House of Representatives and the Senate to “reverse” former president Donald Trump’s opposition to the proposal, which was moved by India and South Africa last October and support it.Globally, the proposal has acquired the support of 100 countries.“We believe that the pharmaceutical companies should be supplying at scale and at cost to the entire world so that there is no barrier to everyone getting vaccinated,” Jake Sullivan, national security adviser to President Joe Biden, told ABC news in an interview on Sunday.“We should have a way forward in the coming days,” he added, pointing to “intensive consultations” that US trade representative Katherine Tai has been engaged in at the WTO to “work through this issue”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-hints-at-way-forward-on-trips-proposal-moved-by-india-south-africa-101619970838259.html
03-05-2021||India||Delhi reports 18,043 new Covid-19 cases, positivity rate at 29.56%||Delhi recorded 18,043 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Monday and 448 deaths which pushed the total number of cases in the city to 1,212,989 and the death toll to 17,414. The positivity rate- the rate at which people getting tested for Covid-19 receive positive results- stood at 29.56 per cent, according to the state health bulletin. A total of 61,045 tests were conducted on Monday and the number of active cases in the city currently stands at 89,592.As many as 20,293 patients recovered from the virus during the period and the number of containment zones in the city rose to 44,052 from 42,098 the previous day, the bulletin showed.On Sunday, Delhi reported 20,394 new Covid-19 cases and 407 fatalities while the positivity rate stood at 28 per cent.Read more: Manish Sisodia writes to Rajnath Singh seeking Army's help to fight Covid-19 in DelhiDelhi is currently under lockdown till May 10 as the city’s health care infrastructure continues to remain overwhelmed. Hospitals in the city have been facing a dire shortage of medical oxygen, beds as well as medicines. During the period of the lockdown, only essential activities, including the sale and supply of food items, groceries, medicines, etc, are allowed. However, there are no restrictions on the movement of health care workers, frontline workers, government staff, judicial officials, journalists and those seeking medical attention.Read more: 25 flights, 300 tonnes cargo: How Delhi airport handled Covid relief over 5 daysIndia on Monday recorded 368,147 new Covid-19 cases which pushed the country's total infection tally to 19,925,604, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard at 8am. 3,417 related fatalities were reported in the same period which took the nationwide death toll to 218,959. The active coronavirus caseload in the country stood at 3,413,642 which accounts for 17.13% of the total confirmed Covid-19 cases in the country. As many as 300,732 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours and the total recoveries in the country stood at 16,293,003 and the recovery rate stood at 81.77%, the bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-reports-18-043-new-covid-19-cases-positivity-rate-at-29-56-101620050976261.html
03-05-2021||India||Ready to get to work in support of US-India partnership, says newly-appointed US envoy||Newly-appointed US Charge d'Affaires to India, Daniel B Smith on Monday said that he is ready to get to work in support of the US-India partnership.As India is facing the second wave of Covid-19, he stressed that just as India helped the US, the US will stand with India."Namaste, I'm Dan Smith, the new Charge d'Affaires at the US Mission in India. These are difficult times, but I'm ready to get to work in support of the #USIndia partnership. Just as India helped the US, the US will stand with India. I look forward to working with you all," Smith tweeted.Ambassador Daniel Smith, the former US acting Secretary of State, on Friday (local time) appointed as Charge d'Affaires at United States embassy in New Delhi.Earlier, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar spoke to US Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Covid-19 situation in India and reviewed the flow of equipment and material from the United States.US State Department spokesperson Ned Price also informed that the both leaders reaffirmed the strength of the US-India partnership in the face of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-to-get-to-work-in-support-of-us-india-partnership-says-newly-appointed-us-envoy-101620063662323.html
03-05-2021||India||Finance ministry clarifies no consignment of 3,000 oxygen concentrators lying with customs department pending clearance||The Union ministry of finance on Monday clarified that no consignment of 3,000 oxygen concentrators is pending clearance from the customs authorities. The ministry confirmed it after checking with its field formations and also sought information on the whereabouts of the consignment.In a press release, the ministry said, “The matter regarding a consignment of 3,000 Oxygen Concentrators lying with Customs Authorities came up in the Hon’ble Delhi High Court and the same was clarified by the Government Counsel that presently no such consignment is pending with Custom Authorities.”“However, the social media has been flooded with the news that 3,000 Oxygen Concentrators are lying with Customs. We have again checked with our field formations and there is no such consignment lying with the Customs. However, since a photograph has also been put on the twitter, if anybody has information as to where it is lying, the same may be informed to us and we will take immediate action,” it further added.The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) also tweeted along the same lines on Monday, echoing the ministry’s statement about the consignment lying uncleared with the customs department.Press Note regarding news reports about pendency of 3000 oxygen concentrators with Indian Customs. @PIB_India pic.twitter.com/WzMqCX0Z7YDemand for oxygen concentrators ballooned during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic due to the increasing number of patients in the hospitals. Many countries have sent the critical equipment as part of their relief packages to support India’s efforts against the coronavirus disease. The concentrators are also one among the list of equipment exempted from basic customs duty and health cess by the central government.Earlier in the day, the finance ministry also announced that Covid-19 relief materials imported free of cost from outside India would be exempted from the integrated goods and services taxes (IGST). The exemption will be valid till June 30, 2021, and all such goods lying uncleared as of date would also be covered by the exemption, the ministry noted.The ministry also directed the state governments to appoint a nodal officer for availing the exemption. "The Nodal authority so appointed shall authorise any entity, relief agency or statutory body, for free distribution of such Covid-relief material," the ministry noted in its order.In the latest development, the CBIC has tweeted a clarification to a news report saying "consignment shown in image was found to be import of 842 packets from Hong Kong by Indigo flight on 30.04.2021 which includes 300 oxygen concentrators & cleared by @Delhicustoms within hours. Any other pending COVID19 supplies may be brought to notice"With reference to news item, consignment shown in image was found to be import of 842 packets from Hong Kong by Indigo flight on 30.04.2021 which includes 300 oxygen concentrators & cleared by @Delhicustoms within hours. Any other pending COVID19 supplies may be brought to notice https://t.co/xv4hRne1giEarlier on May 1, the centre has revised the Foreign Trade Policy, 2015-2020 and permitted the import of oxygen concentrators for personal use amid a massive surge in Covid-19 cases in the country. The oxygen concentrators have been added to the list of exempted categories, where customs clearance is sought as ''gifts". However, the exemption is allowed till July 31, 2021, for personal use, according to a notification of the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) issued on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/finance-ministry-clarifies-no-consignment-of-3-000-oxygen-concentrators-lying-with-customs-department-pending-clearance-101620061418089.html
03-05-2021||India||Oxygen SOS: How states are tackling crippling crisis amid Covid-19 surge||Various state governments continue to send emergency help messages to the Union health ministry for medical oxygen as hospitals report running at capacity, unable to tackle the surge in Covid-19 patients, officials said.The Central health ministry increased the allocation of liquid medical oxygen to several states in the past week since the demand for the life-saving gas spiked in most states due to the increase in Covid-19 cases. Some states said the quota of oxygen provided to them was not enough.In Meerut, family members of patients went on a rampage, damaging furniture, monitors, at Nutema hospital on Sunday after five Covid-19 affected patients allegedly died due to low pressure of oxygen during the treatment."We have formed a committee to investigate the matter and action would be initiated on the findings of the committee," said district magistrate K Balaji, adding that the administration was providing oxygen cylinders to the hospitals.Dr Manisha Tyagi, secretary of district unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), said it was the third hospital where family members went on a rampage after their patients were denied admission due to heavy load in the hospital or some died due to paucity of oxygen.In Agra also, family members of patients thrashed hospital staff when the supply of oxygen got disrupted. Reports of oxygen shortage were received from several other districts in Uttar Pradesh such as Noida, Lucknow, Bareilly, Agra and Varanasi but the officials said there was no panic.In Haryana, there were reports of oxygen shortage from some hospitals in Gurugram, Rohtak and Karnal but districts did not report any shortage. The state's quota has been increased from 162 million tonnes per day to 257 million tonnes, however, the state government is demanding 300 MT every day. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khatter said all districts were being provided oxygen as per their requirement.According to locals, patients in Rohtak were struggling to find oxygen and ICU beds at the Post-graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, and at various private hospitals in Rohtak, Jhajjar, Sonepat, Hisar, Rewari and other parts of the region.Neeraj Kumar, a resident of Kathura village in Sonepat, said he tried to get an oxygen bed for his father, a retired army personnel, for three days. “Despite all efforts, we did not get a bed in Rohtak, Jhajjar and Sonepat. Finally, my father’s friends helped in getting a bed at the army hospital, Ambala, where he is undergoing treatment,” he added. A functionary at the PGIMS said all oxygen and ICU beds are occupied and they are unable to admit new patients.In Bihar, the state government has approved Oxygen Production Policy 2021 providing financial assistance for establishing oxygen manufacturing plants as several hospitals continued to report a shortage of the crucial gas. Bihar has been allotted 194 MT of medical oxygen every day which was increased to 214 MT on May 2. Out of this, 34 MT is to be obtained from the Air Separation Units (ASU) functional in the state whereas the rest is to come from industrial units in neighbouring Jharkhand and West Bengal.The West Bengal government did not report any shortage of oxygen. "There is no shortage of oxygen in hospitals in West Bengal. Around 105 hospitals up to the sub-division level have been equipped with piped oxygen. We have 12,500 such beds where patients can receive round the clock oxygen supply," said West Bengal health secretary NS Nigam.Seven districts in Jharkhand had informed the state government about the oxygen shortage. In Ranchi, some private hospitals stopped taking patients as very little oxygen was left. In Jamshedpur, hospitals stopped admission of new patients despite having vacant Covid-19 beds for want of oxygen, officials said.In Rajasthan, several hospitals reported a shortage of oxygen including Sania Hospital, the biggest private hospital in Alwar. On Monday, the hospital put a notice asking patients to arrange for oxygen themselves as they did not receive the supply.Behror resident Ved Prakash Gupta, whose brother Hitesh Gupta is admitted to the hospital, said the hospital administration told them that the hospital has no medical oxygen left, hence they should take the patients to some other hospital. Another person, Sachin Sharma, came all the way from Uttar Pradesh to get his sister-in-law treated at the hospital.Sania Hospital's CEO, Dr Tayyab Khan said the hospital has received 10 oxygen cylinders from the district administration as against the requirement of 150 every day. Behroro MLA, Sanjay Sharma they were trying to get oxygen for the hospital.The Madhya Pradesh government officials said the state requires about 700 MT oxygen but was getting 564 MT. In absence of enough oxygen, officials said, they are not able to increase the number of oxygen beds in high Covid influx cities such as Bhopal, Gwalior, Indore, Ujjain and Jabalpur. Many private hospitals are not admitting new patients as there is no certainty about the oxygen supply.State health commissioner Akash Tripathi said the private hospitals have been told to do a daily audit of oxygen consumption and inform the district administration about the shortage of oxygen at least 6 hours in advance so that necessary arrangements can be made on time. As per reports, close to 60 Covid 19 infected patients admitted to hospitals died due to a shortage of oxygen in the past week.There were reports of no oxygen shortage from hospitals in Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal and Uttarakhand. Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday said more oxygen tankers would be available to the state by Tuesday to transport oxygen supplies from other states. Punjab has a 195 MT allocation from various plants in other states but the actual supply over the past 7 days has been around 110-120 MT daily, which has also been erratic, the CM said during a Covid-19 review meeting.J&K LG Manoj Sinha on Sunday directed officials to conduct an oxygen audit in every hospital of the UT. Himachal Pradesh government has ordered installation plants at the primary hospitals of the state even though the state has 62 MT of oxygen as against the demand of 22 MT, said state health secretary Amitabh Awasthi, adding that the state was facing a shortage of empty oxygen cylinders.Uttarakhand health secretary Amit Negi said six oxygen plants are operating and nine more will be set up soon.Chhattisgarh has not witnessed any shortage of oxygen in the state till now. As per health department officials, the state produces 380 MT of oxygen per day and the demand of the state is around 170-175 MT daily. The state is supplying around 230 MT to other states including Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxygen-sos-how-states-are-tackling-crippling-crisis-amid-covid-19-surge-101620058543226.html
03-05-2021||India||Know if you need to get hospitalised for Covid-19. Health ministry lists symptoms, warning signs||The Union ministry of health and family welfare on Monday listed the warning signs and symptoms of when a patient who tested positive for coronavirus disease needs to be hospitalised.The ministry said that a patient in home isolation needs to be hospitalised if their oxygen level is falling or if they are having chest pain.“Falling oxygen saturation (below 93), excessive fatigue or chest pain are warning signs indicating that a patient in home isolation may need hospitalisation. Thus, such patients should stay in touch with a doctor and high-risk group people having comorbidities also need to take special care,” news agency PTI quoted director of All India Institute of Medical Science (Aiims) Dr Randeep Guleria as explaining.Dr Guleria’s comments came at a time when many hospitals in the country are tackling a high number of Covid-19 patients and reporting non-availability of ICU and oxygen beds.Also read | '1 CT scan is equivalent to 300 chest X-rays', Guleria warns against cancer riskEarlier, on April 28, the Union health ministry released the revised guidelines regarding the home isolation of mild and asymptomatic cases of the coronavirus infection. The ministry had asked the mildly infected patients to confine themselves to self-isolation and to constantly monitor their health and important parameters such as temperature, heart rate, SpO2 per cent and breathing.On Monday, the ministry in a series of tweets explained the varying severity of the disease and the symptoms exhibited for seeking immediate medical attention.The ministry advised those with mild disease to seek immediate medical attention if difficulty in breathing is experienced or if a high-grade fever or severe cough persists for more than five days. It also asked such patients to stay in contact with physicians treating them for the disease.Meanwhile, patients with moderate infection having respiratory rate greater than 24 per minute, breathlessness and oxygen saturation level between 90 and 92 per cent have been advised for an admission in a medical ward.Patients with severe infection having respiratory rate greater than 30 per minute, breathlessness and oxygen saturation level less than 90 per cent have been advised to be admitted in ICU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/know-if-you-need-to-get-hospitalised-for-covid-19-health-ministry-lists-symptoms-warning-signs-101620057425357.html
03-05-2021||India||Gujarat records 12,820 fresh Covid-19 cases; caseload climbs to 607,422||The number of Covid-19 cases in Gujarat reached 607,422 on Monday after 12,820 people were detected with the infection, while the day also saw 140 deaths and 11,999 people getting discharged, an official said.The state's toll stands at 7,648 and the recovery count is 452,275, the official said, pointing out that the daily addition of cases and deaths were on the decline, while the number of people getting discharged was rising.The state's active caseload is 147,499, of which 747 are on ventilator support."Ahmedabad reported 4,671 cases, Surat 1,656, Vadodara 936, Jamnagar 712, Bhavnagar 571, Rajkot 524, Gandhinagar 317, and Junagadh 280. Ahmedabad also led in the number of deaths with 26, followed by 16 in Rajkot, 14 in Vadodara and 13 in Surat," the official said.A release said 12,573,211 Covid-19 vaccination doses had been administered so far, with 26,31,820 patients being given the second dose as well.The number of people covered in the 18-44 segment on Monday was 27,272, it added.In neighbouring Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, the Covid-19 tally rose to 8,139 with 119 new cases, while the recovery count increased by 226 to touch 6,312.The UT has seen four deaths from the infection so far and has an active caseload of 1,829, an official said.Gujarat's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 607,422, new cases 12,820, death toll 7,648, discharged 4,52,275, active cases 147,499, people tested so far - figures not released.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-records-12-820-fresh-covid-19-cases-caseload-climbs-to-607422-101620056591212.html
03-05-2021||India||Tanzanian mission's defence adviser dies of Covid-19 in Delhi||The defence advisor at the high commission of Tanzania has died of Covid-19, the first death within the diplomatic community in New Delhi amid the devastating second wave of Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections sweeping across the country.Col Moses Beatus Mlula was taken to a leading private hospital of New Delhi in a serious condition on April 27 but it declined to admit him, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The Tanzanian mission reached out to the Indian Army, which rushed Mlula to the Base Hospital at Delhi Cantonment, currently a Covid-19 facility catering to military personnel, veterans and their dependents.Mlula died at the Base Hospital in the afternoon of April 28, the people said. The Tanzanian mission acknowledged his death in a message circulated among foreign missions, UN agencies and international organisations. The mission also opened an online condolence book for messages that will be open till May 3.The people cited above said there were reports of Indian staff and junior diplomats testing positive at several foreign missions, including those of the Philippines, New Zealand, Thailand, Vietnam, Palestine, the US and Afghanistan. Some of those who tested positive were self-isolating at home while a handful had been admitted to hospitals.There was no official word from Indian officials on these developments.The foreign missions too are tight-lipped on issues such as whether the treatment of those who have tested positive has been affected by the shortage of oxygen and hospital beds for Covid-19 cases, especially after a spat between the government and the opposition Congress over Youth Congress volunteers delivering oxygen cylinders to the Philippines embassy and the New Zealand high commission.After the Youth Congress posted videos of its members delivering cylinders to both missions, external affairs minister S Jaishankar tweeted that the opposition party was indulging in “cheap publicity”. He contended there were no Covid-19 cases at the Philippines embassy and the delivery of oxygen cylinders amounted to “unsolicited supply”.The New Zealand mission deleted a tweet that tagged the Youth Congress and asked for help in obtaining oxygen cylinders. The mission apologised in a subsequent tweet and said it had been “trying all sources to arrange for oxygen cylinders urgently”.When New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern was asked in a television interview whether it was proper for the mission to approach an opposition party, she said the high commission should have used “normal channels and protocols” but acknowledged that oxygen was needed for an Indian staff member who was "very unwell".“There are channels that they can and should be going through for such matters, but I should recognise that we do have a local staff member who’s within the compound, who has been very unwell. That was the basis on which that call was made,” Ardern said.The people cited above acknowledged that some missions had faced difficulties in accessing both medicines and hospital beds but pointed out that this should be seen in the overall context of healthcare facilities in Delhi and the National Capital Region being swamped by the sudden surge in Covid-19 infections.Some missions have come together to create informal WhatsApp groups to exchange the latest information on the availability of ICU beds and medicines such as the antiviral medication Remdesivir, the people said.External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said on Sunday that the ministry’s chief of protocol and heads of regional divisions are in touch with all foreign missions to respond to their medical demands related to Covid-19. “This includes facilitating their hospital treatment,” he had said....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tanzanian-mission-s-defence-adviser-dies-of-covid-19-in-delhi-101620057348415.html
03-05-2021||India||Navy chief lists initiatives against Covid-19 during PM meet; to open up its hospitals for civilians||As India struggles against the fatal second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) the armed forces have also stepped up their measures to manage the situation. The Indian Navy is opening up its naval hospitals for use of civilians in various cities, Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh informed Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday.Admiral Singh also apprised the Prime Minister of other initiatives being undertaken by the Navy to better handle the devastating Covid-19 situation in the country as the massive leap in the number of infections has brought the healthcare infrastructure to its knees.Also read: Delhi to receive 205 tonnes of liquid oxygen in Railways’ biggest single-day loadTo assist the country in such unprecedented times, the Navy has redeployed medical personnel at various locations to manage Covid duties, Admiral Singh briefed PM Modi. The Navy is also providing aid to increase oxygen availability in Lakshadweep as well as in the Andaman & Nicobar Islands, he added, according to a statement from the Prime Minister's office.The Navy is also transporting oxygen containers as well as other supplies from Bahrain, Qatar, Kuwait and Singapore to India, Singh briefed the Prime Minister. "Indian Navy has reached out to all state administrations and have offered help in terms of hospital beds, transportation and other such things," Admiral Singh told PM Modi as per the statement.The Indian Air Force is already at the task of transporting oxygen containers from different parts of the world to the country to boost the supply of the life-saving gas. The IAF's heavy-lift transport aircraft on Monday airlifted four empty cryogenic oxygen containers from Frankfurt in Germany and landed in Hindon base in New Delhi.The forces have also rolled out an operation called ‘CO-JEET’ towards its efforts towards fighting coronavirus by boosting medical infrastructure and oxygen supply chains.Also read: 600 doctors of forces set to join Covid-19 fight, says Rajnath SinghUnder ‘CO-JEET’ the personnel of the three wings of the armed forces – the Army, the Air Force and the Navy – have been pressed into service to help restore oxygen supply chains, set up Covid beds and provide help to the civilian administration in its fight to control the pandemic," PTI quoted Deputy Chief of Integrated Defence Staff (Medical) Lieutenant General Dr Madhuri Kanitkar, as saying.More than 368,000 new Covid-19 cases pushed the active cases tally to over 3.4 million on Monday. With a fatality rate of 1.1%, the country lost 3,417 lives due to the viral disease in the last 24 hours, as per the Union health ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navy-chief-lists-initiatives-against-covid-19-during-pm-meet-to-open-up-its-hospitals-for-civilians-101620051944661.html
03-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi to get 205 tonnes of oxygen in Railways' biggest one-day load and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi to receive 205 tonnes of liquid oxygen in Railways’ biggest single-day loadDelhi is scheduled to receive around 205 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen on Tuesday morning as the Union ministry of railways has deployed 10 tankers onboard two Oxygen Express trains. Read more'Blood on your hands, how dare you': Michael Slater slams Australian PM for ban on citizens returning from IndiaFormer Australia cricketer on Monday took to Twitter to slam Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and his government for slapping a ban on Australian citizens returning from India after the culmination of the ongoing IPL 2021 season. Read morePriyanka Chopra champions Sonu Sood's appeal for kids who lost parents to Covid-19, calls him 'visionary philanthropist'Actor Priyanka Chopra has shared a recent video message posted by Sonu Sood on social media. In it, Sonu had appealed to the Indian government to make all education free for any child who has lost their parents to Covid-19. Read more‘I may be murdered…’: Mamata reads out Nandigram poll officer’s alleged messageMamata Banerjee continued to cry foul over the election result of Nandigram where she lost to BJP’S Suvendu Adhikari by under 2000 votes. Mamata alleged that the returning officer of Nandigram was threatened against recounting of votes. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-to-get-205-tonnes-of-oxygen-in-railways-biggest-one-day-load-and-all-the-latest-news-101620054642830.html
03-05-2021||India||Chhattisgarh CM urges finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman for assistance to small, medium businesses||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday urged Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to provide financial assistance for the small and medium businessmen across state.On request of the Chhattisgarh Chamber of Commerce and Industries, Baghel has written a letter to Union Minister and demanded to postpone the due date of filing various kinds of returns in April and May for two months. In addition, Baghel also requested Union Minister to consider the extension of the deadline for principal and interest installments against business loans by at least three months, considering their problems due to the state being a 'containment zone'.As a final and effective measure to contain the second and more fatal wave of Covid pandemic in Chhattisgarh, all the districts of the state including Raipur have been declared as containment zones from April 9 to May 6 morning. Subsequently, the economic and business activities have been withheld in the state. As a result, small and medium category businessmen of the state are facing a financial crisis.Chhattisgarh Chamber of Commerce and Industries has demanded certain immediate relief to help them overcome this crisis.Baghel has stated in the letter that as April is the first month of the financial year 2021-22, the due date for obligations under TDS and And TDS Act is scheduled for this month. However, the economic activities in the state have been suspended for Covid-19 containment, because of which the businessmen are finding it difficult to tally their accounts and file returns in the given time period before the due date.The employees in their offices, establishments such as accountants, data entry operators, management staff are either home-isolated or in hospital due to Covid infection. Likewise, various advisors of the businessmen such as Chartered Accountant, Company Secretary, Tax Advisor are also suffering from Covid-19 and unable to provide their services. Considering the aforementioned situation, Chamber has requested for postponement of the last dates to file various returns by two months.Chief Minister has mentioned that the cash flow of businesses and industries in the state has got adversely affected due to the suspension of economic and business activities in the state at present. Hence, considering the time it may take for the current situation to improve, businessmen are having an extremely tough time returning the principal and interest amount against the business loans taken from various banks and financial institutions. Chamber has demanded a moratorium period of at least three months to pay the installments of the principal amount and the interest against the business loans. State Government completely agrees with both the demands of Chhattisgarh Chamber of Commerce and both the subjects are related to the jurisdiction of your ministry, stated Chief Minister in the letter.He requested the Union Minister to sympathetically consider the problems of small and medium businessmen of the state in this critical time of the disaster, and take urgent positive steps on these justified demands. These measures would prove quite helpful in providing the desired relief to the businessmen of the state in the current financial year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-urges-finance-minister-nirmala-sitharaman-for-assistance-to-small-medium-businesses-101620048450018.html
03-05-2021||India||Delhi to get 205 tonnes of liquid oxygen in Railways’ biggest single-day load||Delhi is scheduled to receive around 205 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen on Tuesday morning as the Union ministry of railways has deployed 10 tankers onboard two Oxygen Express trains. This is railways’ biggest single-day load since the special operation to ferry oxygen tankers began amid the shortage, the ministry said.¨Railways is set to deliver its biggest single-day load of nearly 205 tonnes to Delhi by tomorrow morning,” the ministry said in a statement on Monday. One train from Durgapur, West Bengal ferrying 120 tonnes of liquid oxygen is scheduled to reach the national capital’s Tughlakabad railway station on Tuesday at 9:30 am while another, ferrying 85 tonnes of liquid oxygen, will reach Gurugram via Hapa, Gujarat, the ministry said.The train from Hapa will halt at Gurgaon and the LMO will be transferred to trucks of the Delhi government and taken to the city, officials clarified.The move is expected to give a breather to the national capital which is struggling with an acute shortage of oxygen supply for the past few weeks. Several hospitals in Delhi sent out desperate calls to authorities to replenish their oxygen supplies when they dropped precariously, threatening lives as the health infrastructure was crumbling under the pressure of an unprecedented rise in the number of Covid-19 patients requiring oxygen or ICU support.Till Sunday, Delhi received 454 MT of oxygen against its increased quota of 590 MT. The Delhi government has demanded a total of 976 MT of medical oxygen to add 1,200 ICU and 15,000 oxygen beds. Till Monday, the national capital received 190 tonnes of liquid oxygen from Oxygen Express trains, with Tuesday's supply Delhi would have received 395 tonnes of LMO in total through the trains.The ministry also said one ‘Oxygen Express’, carrying 30.86 tonnes of LMO will arrive in Delhi from Angul in Odisha by Monday evening. But this lot is meant for supply in Haryana, it clarified.Last week, the central government directed states to ensure free movement of vehicles carrying liquid oxygen amid reports of some states diverting the vehicles for local use even as hospitals sent out frantic appeals for emergency supplies.“EG 2 group decides oxygen pipeline for states. The Empowered Group 2 (EG2, a group formed by the PMO and comprising officials from different ministries and experts), on Thursday, set the ball rolling for mapping the sources of medical oxygen and their production capacity to match the requirement of 12 high-burden states and developed a framework to guide them,” a railway ministry spokesperson said.“Oxygen pipeline is a railway operation term, it means Oxygen Express trains on hand with us for various destinations (states) of the country. We have an online real-time monitoring system to monitor the movement (pipeline) of Oxygen Express trains. EG 2 group is already working for long and is closely monitoring the situation in the country. Officials of our ministry are also part of it,” he explained.The national transporter has delivered around 1125 tonnes of LMO in 76 tankers to various states, thus far. “Seven Oxygen Express trains are on the run currently with 422 MT LMO in 27 tankers. Haryana will receive its fourth and fifth trains carrying nearly 72 MT of liquid medical oxygen from Angul and Rourkela in Odisha,” the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-railways-biggest-single-day-load-delhi-to-receive-205-tonnes-of-liquid-oxygen-101620049086804.html
03-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Tripura extends night curfew to many areas||With the surge in coronavirus cases in Tripura, the state government on Monday decided to extend night curfew to all local and urban bodies and nagar panchayat areas as well as the number of hours under it, officials said.Tripura chief secretary, Manoj Kumar on Monday passed the order which said that the night curfew will be in force indefinitely from Tuesday.The government on Monday decided to clamp the night curfew in all civic body areas of the state from 6 pm to 5 am the next day. Earlier, night curfew was clamped in Agartala Municipal Corporation areas from 10 pm to 5 amEmergency services like medical services and the media have been exempted from the purview of the night curfew, the order said.Law Minister Ratan lal Nath, who is also the cabinet spokesperson said though the coronavirus situation in Tripura was better than any other states in the country, the number of virus infected patients was increasing day by day."We have observed that the cases are mostly found in the municipal council, nagar panchayats and in Agartala Municipal Corporation areas. It prompted us to extend the time of night curfew in all urban bodies, Nath told reporters.He said government offices will function from 10 AM till 4 PM with 50 per cent attendance of employees but all gazetted officers will have to be present in the offices.The government has also decided to conduct Covid tests in all government offices and shops in Agartala Municipal Corporation areas soon, he said.Public gatherings related to social, political, academic, cultural, festival, sports, entertainment have been restricted in the state, officials said.Maximum 100 persons have been allowed to attend weddings or any social functions. A maximum 20 persons are allowed to attend funerals, they said.Cinema halls and multiplexes have been allowed 50 per cent capacity and use of face masks, sanitizers and maintaining physical distance are mandatory, the officials said.The state government has already postponed all examinations for recruitment in the government offices, offline classes in schools, colleges and universities, while all gymnasiums and recreation clubs have been closed indefinitely.Violators of the order will be charged under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and Section 188 of Indian Penal Code (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) including other applicable legal provisions, officials said.Meanwhile, at least 134 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Tripura on Monday, pushing the tally in the state to 35723, a health department official said.The toll in the killer disease has risen to 396 with two more patients succumbing to the infection, he said.Tripura currently has 1408 active coronavirus cases, while 33725 people have recovered from the disease, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-tripura-extends-night-curfew-to-many-areas-101620046413165.html
03-05-2021||India||India has administered about 157mn Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered almost 157 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Sunday. On Day 2 of phase 3 of the nationwide vaccination drive, which includes the 18-44 year age group as well, over 86,000 beneficiaries in this age group were vaccinated. The Centre has also rubbished media reports that suggest that it has not order fresh stocks of vaccines since March this year.In all, 156,816,031 vaccine doses have been given in the country by Sunday, 7am. This includes 9,428,490 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 6,265,397 who have got their second dose as well. As many as 12,757,529 frontline workers have had their first dose while 6,922,093 have got their second dose too.In the 45-59-year age group 53,280,976 people have got their first dose and another 4,008,078 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 52,618,135 people have been administered their first dose while 11,449,310 have had their second dose as well.Also Read | Some states showing early signs of plateauing in daily Covid cases: CentreAs many as 1,648,192 vaccine doses were given by Sunday morning. Of this, 989,700 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 658,492 beneficiaries received their second dose as well.Meanwhile, the newly added category of 18-44 year age group saw 86,023 people vaccinated by Sunday morning.On Monday, in a statement, the Union health ministry said, “There have been some media reports alleging that the Centre has not placed any fresh order for Covid-19 vaccines. The news reports suggest that the last order placed with the two vaccine makers (100 million doses with SII and 20 million doses with Bharat Biotech) was in March 2021. These media reports are completely incorrect, and are not based on facts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-about-157mn-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101620047046472.html
03-05-2021||India||'1 CT scan is equivalent to 300 chest X-rays', Guleria warns against risk of cancer||AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria on Monday warned of the misuse of CT scans and biomarkers by patients having mild Covid-19 symptoms and said that the overuse of CT scans increases exposure to radiation that in turn escalates the risk of cancer."No point in conducting CT scans for mild cases; one may find patches in CT scan even if he/she is asymptomatic but may get cured easily 1 #CTScan = 300-400 Chest X-rays! With frequent CTs, risk of cancer in later life increases, for youngsters," Guleria warned, saying that the data by the international atomic energy commission for radiation protection and medicine have shown an increased risk of cancer in later life due to frequent CT scans, especially if done at a young age.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Guleria addressed the misuse of diagnosis, which he said is not required in case of mild symptoms. "A lot of people are getting CT scans done and deems it important to get CT scans done if their Covid tests turn out to be positive," he said. He cited a study that has shown patches in the CT scan of around 30-40 per cent of asymptomatic Covid-19 patients, which got cleared without any treatment. He used the study to make it clear that in case of mild infection, under home isolation with no problem or decline in saturation there is no use of a CT scan as some patches will appear.Additionally, he said biomarkers like CRP, D-Dimer, LDH, Ferritin etc are also not of any use in case of mild symptoms and normal saturation levels as it only leads to panic reactions. "All these biomarkers are acute phase reactants, which means if there is any kind of inflammation in the body these markers will soar. If you get acne or zit, injury, infection in your teeth then also these biomarkers will increase because it's your body's inflammatory response. So, it fails to accurately show if the viral disease has increased," the AIIMS chief said.Also read | ‘I cried’: A young Delhi doctor looks back at her stint in a Covid-19 ICUUnnecessary reliance on biomarkers can end up in over-treatment which may adversely affect the body. "Do biomarkers only when you have moderate illness and on the advice of your doctors," Guleria suggested.India on Monday reported more than 368,000 fresh Covid-19 infections and 3417 fatalities in the last 24 hours, as per the Union health ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-ct-scan-is-equivalent-to-300-chest-x-rays-guleria-warns-against-risk-of-cancer-101620041702134.html
03-05-2021||India||Some states showing early signs of plateauing in daily Covid cases: Centre||The Union health ministry said on Monday that some states including Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh are showing early signs of plateauing or decrease in their daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Maharashtra, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh have till now been the worst-hit states from the pandemic across India and have been contributing the most towards daily cases and deaths.Addressing a briefing on the prevailing Covid situation in the country, Union health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said, “It has been noted there is a decrease in the daily cases in some states. In Chhattisgarh, where the daily cases were around 15,500, they have now come down to 14,900. In Delhi, the daily cases have gone down to 24,253 from 25,294. The cases in Madhya Pradesh have come down to 12,800 from 13,000. And in Maharashtra, the peak of 65,000 Covid cases has reduced to around 62,000. Similar trends are seen in Telangana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand.”Agarwal, however, pointed out these are very early signals and containment efforts should continue at the district and state level to ensure the number of cases can be reduced further.Also Read| "1 CT scan is equivalent to 300 chest X-rays", Guleria warns against cancer riskOther states such as Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chandigarh, Kerala and West Bengal etc are still seeing an increasing trend in infections, Agarwal said and urged them to take precautionary steps and pay attention towards containment efforts. It is important that a micro-level analysis should be done in states which are seeing a rise in infections, the health ministry joint secretary added.India has till now recorded nearly 20 million Covid-19 disease cases and 218,959 related deaths as it is currently facing a deadlier wave of the pandemic. The daily tally reached the peak at 401,993 cases on Saturday. However, on Sunday, the country saw a marginal dip in daily cases at 392,488 and on Monday it further went down to 368,147.The active cases, meanwhile, have climbed to 3,413,642 and account for 17.13 per cent of the caseload. Agarwal told reporters on Monday there are 17 states which have less than 50,000 active cases, seven states which have 50,000-100,000 active cases and 12 states which have over 100,000 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-states-showing-early-signs-of-plateauing-in-daily-covid-cases-centre-101620045933505.html
03-05-2021||India||Cong seeks details of Covid aid coming in, hospitals getting it||The Congress on Monday demanded that the Centre shared details of the Covid-19 aid received and the states and hospitals getting it as it stressed the need for transparency.Addressing the media, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said, “On behalf of every Indian, we request and demand Mr. Modi to ensure there is transparency in the supply of aid awe are receiving and where it is being sent.”Questioning the need for continuing with the Central Vista project amid the pandemic, he asked, “ How the Central Vista essential, but vaccines which have the potential to save live will be available only in June? Is this a joke?”Also Watch | Sisodia seeks Army’s help; speaks on oxygen shortageHitting back at external affairs minister S Jaishankar for lashing out at the Indian Youth Congress while alleging that oxygen supply provided to some foreign embassies was “unsolicited”, Khare called the minister’s accusations “shameful” and asked him to enquire where his own government went wrong instead. Khare had also tweeted on Sunday with screenshots of tweets of Jaishankar, Youth Congress and the Philippines Embassy. Khare also questioned Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on how India can boast of the world’s largest vaccination drive when several states have flagged vaccine shortage and have shut down vaccination centres.The Congress press conference comes after the deadliest week yet of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country. Last week, India reported more than 2.6million new cases and 23,800 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-seeks-details-of-covid-aid-coming-in-hospitals-getting-it-101620044766283.html
03-05-2021||India||‘I cried’: A young Delhi doctor looks back at her stint in a Covid-19 ICU||For a fleeting moment, Dr Saandhra Sebastian could hear herself complaining: “Why wasn’t there anyone older from the family who she could speak with. Why am I having to explain everything to someone so young.” The doctor, all of 26 years, had to break the news of the police officer’s death to his 25-year-old son. She knew how this would go; she had done it far too many times ever since she was assigned to the hospital’s intensive care unit for Covid-19 patients.He started crying uncontrollably before she could finish.The young man has an elder brother and a mother. But the brother was also down with coronavirus disease and admitted to another hospital. His mother was a cancer patient; confined to the bed at home. His father had been going from one hospital to another to see if she could get her chemotherapy. It was during one of these hospital visits that his father must have contracted the infection, he told her, tears streaming down his cheeks.Also Read: 'Mortality much higher', says doctor who highlighted horrors of 2nd Covid waveDr Sebastian, a first-year resident at a government hospital in Delhi, got the answer to the question she never asked. She felt worse. Miserable.It was just another day at work, said the doctor who last month put out a moving account of her experiences at the hospital on her Instagram handle to nudge people to mask up. The young doctor’s widely circulated note made it to newspapers and websites as well. Why did she write it? “It was just one of those days,” she responds, wryly. She was angry that people weren’t being careful enough.As the more “lethal” second wave of the pandemic struck India, she had seen too many people dying from far too close.Dr Sebastian, and healthcare professionals like her, always knew that they were going to deal with people dying in front of them. But she wasn’t prepared for so many.“I was a very timid kid. In the first year of medical college, they teach you to dissect bodies. Every year, when students are taken to the dissection hall for the first time and shown how to dissect bodies, at least three people in the room faint. I always used to think I would be one of those people,” said the daughter of an official who served in the army.But she recognises that her patients suffer a lot more than she has. “If you ask each person, the kind of stories they have behind them have so much sadness because of Covid-19,” she said. “There has always been someone in much more pain than I am”.Besides, she doesn’t have a choice. “We are the people equipped to do this (treatment). If we don’t do it, who will,” she said, adding that her only problem is that she might catch the virus but that’s in the future. “...but when you think of what the patients and their relatives are actually undergoing... they are actually the ones experiencing the pain. I am just a bystander. I'm just a spectator. When you look at them, your problems seem much smaller.”But it is traumatising. Dr Sebastian said healthcare professionals don’t have the luxury of time to think about it when they are working. But at the end of the day, or overnight shift in personal protection equipment (PPE) “when I come back home if something really bad happened in my shift, I cry”.Towards the end of her 14-day Covid duty, she started crying for no reason. “Anything that I could put up with in the beginning, I couldn't by the end, I had become so frazzled by the end of it,” she added.Understandable, because even the happiest memory has a tragedy weaved into it. Like the time when a colleague from the emergency ward came to check if there was a bed available for a 24-year-old who had come. His oxygen level was really low. She wanted to take a look but couldn’t get herself to walk up to the emergency room. The ICU didn’t have a bed for him. “There’s no point of going and leaving him after seeing him heave and gasp for breath.”The 24-year-old got the bed all right and a second chance at life, when an elderly patient died soon after. He was unlike many other patients, she reminisced. “We receive most patients in such a bad condition. They have lost their will to live. They take out their masks, any kind of support, take out their handlers, do not let us give them medicine. But this guy, he was desperate. He cooperated, did what we told him.”He made it out. After a week or 10 days, he got a lot better and was moved out of intensive care. “So I'm very happy. I think I had a role to play. I am very happy seeing him get better,” Dr Sebastian said, underlining that people should realise how dangerous the second Covid-19 wave is. “But they must not give up the will to recover”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/-i-cried-a-young-delhi-doctor-looks-back-at-her-stint-in-a-covid-19-icu-101620035886075.html
03-05-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir declares Srinagar district as Covid-19 Red Zone||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has declared Srinagar district a Red Zone after the summer capital recorded 1,126 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday. All other 19 districts have been declared as orange zones.Srinagar and Jammu districts reported 1,126 and 486 fresh Covid-19 cases respectively on Sunday, taking the tally of active cases in the two districts to 9,554 and 6,478. Srinagar’s classification as a Red Zone will likely result in stricter containment measures to slow down the spread of the disease.Srinagar and three other districts are under curfew till Thursday and government officials say it could be extended further if the cases continue to rise, especially in the Red Zone. The health experts have been advocating for extended curfew to bring down the number of cases. Besides Srinagar, Lakhanpur and Jawahar tunnel containment zones—covered by a 500 metre radius-- have also been declared Red Zones.Areas with high caseload and doubling rate are classified as Red Zones or Hotspot districts In contrast, a green zone has zero confirmed cases of coronavirus in the last 21 days.Currently no district in J&K falls under the Green Zone as per the government notification issued on Sunday night after a review meeting of the State Executive Committee of the Department of Disaster Management, Relief, Rehabilitation and Reconstruction. The meeting was headed by J&K chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam.“The categorization will [help in] implementation of permitted activities in such areas notified by the committee,” said a senior government official.Meanwhile the government has already constituted a five member Crisis Management Group (CMG) headed by chief secretary to monitor the rapidly evolving Covid-19 situation and take preventive, controlling and mitigating measures.“The CMG will be meeting daily, and more often if necessary, to review the rapidly evolving Covid-19 [situation] in terms of cases, testing rates, positivity, mortality, recovery, hospital occupancy and other parameters,” said the J&K government spokesman.The group will also review the oxygen and medicine requirements and availability at all health institutions and manage the availability of resources, the spokesperson added. He said the group will also keep a close watch on vaccine rollout in the Union Territory.J&K recorded 45,123 infections and 289 deaths in April this year—the highest so far, taking the number of active cases to 32,421, officials said. Most of these cases have been added since February 9, when the UT had the lowest active case tally of 593.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-declares-srinagar-district-as-covid-19-red-zone-101620043626675.html
03-05-2021||India||Italy sends oxygen generation plant for ITBP hospital, team of medical specialists||A special flight from Italy brought in an oxygen generation plant and a team of specialists on Monday to support India’s response to a massive surge in Coronavirus infections that has stretched the resources of healthcare facilities in many cities. The oxygen production plant, capable of supplying an entire hospital, will be deployed at the ITBP hospital in Greater Noida, the Italian embassy said in a statement. The Italian support package also includes 20 ventilators. The specialists who arrived on the flight include a team from the Maxiemergenza 118 emergency service of Piedmont region, a doctor from Lombardy region and a representative of the Italian health ministry. Italian ambassador Vincenzo De Luca and European Union (EU) Ambassador Ugo Astuto greeted the medical delegation at the New Delhi airport. De Luca said, “Italy stands with India in the fight against Coronavirus. This is a global challenge that we must tackle together. The medical team and equipment provided by Italy will contribute to saving lives in these terrible moments.” The Italian support package is part of the EU’s coordinated response to the Covid-19 situation in India. Italy is the third country, after France and Germany, to include an oxygen generation plant in its support package. A severe shortage of oxygen has been listed by experts as one of the biggest constraints in providing specialised care to Covid-19 patients in New Delhi and other cities. Twelve patients, including a senior doctor, died at the intensive care unit of Delhi’s Batra Hospital due to an 80-minute disruption in oxygen supply on Saturday. Also Read | Taiwan, Uzbekistan send support for India’s Covid-19 responseThe Italian support mission was coordinated by the EU’s Civil Protection Mechanism, which was recently activated to respond to the crisis in India. The oxygen production plant was made available by Italy’s Piedmont region and the ventilators were donated by the Extraordinary Commissioner for the Coronavirus Emergency. The materials and personnel were brought in by an Italian Air Force C-130 military transport aircraft as part of the Italian defence ministry’s support for combating the pandemic. So far, several EU member states have sent support packages to India. France airlifted eight large oxygen generating plants, each of which can make a hospital autonomous in oxygen supply for more than 10 years, and 28 ventilators, while Ireland donated more than 1,200 oxygen concentrators, one oxygen generator and more than 400 ventilators. Finland has provided 318 oxygen cylinders, Austria has sent 5,521 vials of the antiviral medication Remdesivir, 238 oxygen cylinders and 1,900 oxygen cannulas, and Belgium has provided 9,000 doses of Remdesivir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/italy-sends-oxygen-generation-plant-for-itbp-hospital-team-of-medical-specialists-101620042607152.html
03-05-2021||India||Centre exempts imported Covid-19 relief material from IGST till June 30 for free distribution||The Centre on Monday announced the temporary exemption of certain relief materials related to fighting the coronavirus pandemic from attracting the integrated goods and services taxes (IGST). The exemption has been provided until June 30, 2021.✅Ad hoc Exemption from IGST on imports of specified COVID-19 relief material donated from abroad✅As customs duty is already exempt , these imports will not attract any customs duty or IGST
03-05-2021||India||Journalists are Covid warriors, says Mamata Banerjee||Journalists are Covid warriors, Bengal’s outgoing chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday, hours after Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan made a similar announcement, declaring journalists “frontline workers”.Click here for complete coverage of West Bengal assembly election“Journalists have taken risk and worked on the field all these days like other Covid warriors. I declare you Covid warriors too. Let the Chief Secretary note this down. I am still the chief minister since I have not resigned as per rules before taking oath again,” said Banerjee.Banerjee left for the Trinamool Congress (TMC) office on Eastern Metropolitan Bypass in the afternoon where the party’s newly elected assembly poll candidates were called for a meeting. Her announcement came barely two hours Chouhan declared that journalists in his state will be treated as “frontline workers” and the state will take care of them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/journalists-are-covid-warriors-says-mamata-banerjee-101620041167306.html
03-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: India, EU to revive negotiations on trade, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India and EU to seal connectivity agreement, revive negotiations on tradeIndia and European Union are all set to seal a connectivity agreement at the May 8 virtual summit at Lisbon apart from reviving the negotiations on the stalled trade and investment agreement. Read moreReports claiming fresh vaccine orders not placed are incorrect, says CentreThe Centre on Monday rubbished allegations that the government has not placed any fresh orders for the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccines for its nationwide immunisation programme. Read moreUP’s Sonbhadra battles virus with 1 Covid hospital, villagers rely on quacksSonbhadra district in eastern Uttar Pradesh is rich in minerals but poor in health infrastructure and some villagers from the district’s remote pockets say they have no option but to approach quacks even when facing life-threatening diseases such as Covid-19. Read moreGovt to rope in medical interns, final yr MBBS students to fight new Covid waveIn a bid to further augment the manpower to fight the pandemic, the government said services of final year MBBS students can be utilised for providing services like tele-consultation and monitoring of mild Covid cases after due orientation by faculty. Read moreIPL 2021: Covid-19 scare in Chennai Super Kings camp?The shadow of Covid-19 is looming large over IPL 2021 now as reports suggest that three members of the Chennai Super Kings franchise had tested positive after results came in for tests done on Sunday. Read moreMini Mathur gives it back to Twitter troll who asked if husband Kabir Khan is bankrupt after investing in 83Actor and former VJ Mini Mathur has asked a Twitter troll to utilise their time more productively. After Mini shared a message seeking medicines for a person, a troll commented on it, asking her about the financial condition of her husband, filmmaker Kabir Khan. Read moreMahindra to halt production amid Covid surge, prepones 'scheduled maintenance'Indian vehicle manufacturer Mahindra and Mahindra has announced that it has decided to prepone the scheduled maintenance of its facilities from June to this month. The decision has been taken due to the evolving Covid situation in the country. Read moreStart your day with this heartening clip of woman teaching puppies to pray before a mealThere are several ways doggos can brighten up one’s day. This video of two puppies waiting patiently before having their meal is an adorable example of those ways. Read moreWatch: Indian Air Force airlifts 4 cryogenic oxygen containers from Germany||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-eu-to-revive-negotiations-on-trade-and-all-the-latest-news-101620039213640.html
03-05-2021||India||UP’s Sonbhadra battles virus with 1 Covid hospital, villagers rely on quacks||Sonbhadra district in eastern Uttar Pradesh is rich in minerals but poor in health infrastructure and some villagers from the district’s remote pockets say they have no option but to approach quacks even when facing life-threatening diseases such as Covid-19.Ramashankar, a tribal from the district’s Faripan village, located in the Myorpur development block, couldn’t get a Covid-19 test done when he developed cough, cold and fever around 10 days ago as the nearest community health centre (CHC) at Myorpur was about 30 kilometres away. Jagat Vishwakarma, another resident of the same village, too, could not get his test done due to lack of healthcare facilities in the area.Sonbhadra has a population in access of 18 lakhs, mostly spread across its 1,441 villages in an area of 6,788 square kilometres, yet, it has just nine community health centres and only one Covid hospital at the district headquarters in Robertsganj, about 90 km from Faripan village, Ramashankar’s home. He says he was left with no alternative but to consult a quack.“I wanted a corona test, but it could not be done due to lack of a hospital equipped with a pathology lab near my village. No health department team reached the village for testing. As I had fever, I couldn’t travel 30 km by bike to CHC Myorpur. I consulted a quack instead, he gave me some medicines...,” Vishwakarma says. “I am okay now but there is still some weakness,” he adds.He says many others who were recently suffering from fever—one of the symptoms of Covid-19 infection, also consulted quacks as they had no other option. A social worker by profession, Vishwakarma says most in remote villages don’t even know about the symptoms of the disease.“Many people in villages like Sangabodh and Deohar were suffering from fever and cold but they usually consulted quacks in the vicinity, instead of travelling 30 km to the Myorpur CHC,” he said. Balwant Gond, a resident of Purvi Deohar village in Myorpur, and Laxmi Gond, resident of Mahuria in Dudhi area, echoed similar views.Scheduled Tribes (STs) constitute 20.7% of Sonbhadra’s population. It shares borders with Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh and its villages are situated in tough terrain, lacking proper connecting roads. In case of serious ailments, people hire a private tempo or jeep to take the patient to hospital. The district’s lone Covid hospital at Robertsganj has only six beds equipped with ventilators.“Sonbhadra has a 300 bed L-2 hospital at the district headquarters. Out of 300, only six beds are equipped with ventilators and 69 beds with oxygen facility. At present, 112 beds are occupied,” said Dr Radhagovind Yadav, acting chief medical officer of the district.Last week Friday, the district reported 369 new Covid-19 cases, including 181 from different villages of Myorpur, taking the number of active cases to 3,600, according to official data. In the last one year, Sonbhadra has reported a total of 12,453 Covid cases including 143 deaths.Dr Yadav says though nine private hospitals have been listed as Covid hospitals in the district, these have not started functioning yet. He also said 35 teams are deployed for Covid tests in remote pockets. The teams generally visit villages with several symptomatic people and conduct tests there, he adds. Apart from these, there are twenty mobile health teams to follow-up on Covid patients who have been in home isolation for over 10 days, he said.“A Covid testing team is sent to a village as soon as we come to know that people have Covid symptoms, including fever, cough, cold and headache,” he adds. “After sampling and testing, the teams go and give medicines to those who test positive.”Adesh Kumar Pandey, manager (HR) at National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) Singrauli, said, “Soon, NTPC is going to create a 10-bed Covid ward in its 100-bed hospital at NTPC Singrauli. Preparation for the same is underway.”Banwasi Seva Ashram at Govindpur area of Myorpur block is involved in welfare work for the tribals and has trained several ‘Swasthya Mitras’ for imparting basic healthcare to the locals."In case any local or locals take ill, they have to consult the quacks due to insufficient health care facilities in the remote villages. For the locals in these villages, the quacks are their only support for getting treatment for fever, cold, cough and other common ailments," said Shubha, a member of the ashram.She suggests that quacks are trained for administering basic medicines used to treat common fever, cough and cold to sustain a patient before he is taken to a government run health centre. “They should be told the dos and don'ts while providing basic health care to the patients,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ups-sonbhadra-battles-virus-with-1-covid-hospital-villagers-rely-on-quacks-101620039905589.html
03-05-2021||India||Govt to rope in medical interns, final yr MBBS students to fight new Covid wave||A review committee chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday decided to deploy medical interns on Covid management duties under the supervision of their faculty, as part of their internship. The committee also decided to vaccinate medical students and professionals engaged in such duties.Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the growing need for adequate human resource in responding to the pandemic and took a slew of decisions that will boost the availability of medical personnel.The review meeting also decided to postpone NEET-PG for at least four months; the committee said the exam will not be held before August 31. Candidates will be given at least a month’s notice before the exams are held. This decision has been taken in the hope that this will make available a large number of qualified doctors for Covid duties.Also Read | Covid-19 vaccine status in ten states, UTs. Check hereIn a bid to further augment the manpower to fight the pandemic, the government said services of final year MBBS students can be utilised for providing services like tele-consultation and monitoring of mild Covid cases after due orientation by faculty. “This will reduce the workload on existing doctors engaged in Covid duty and provide boost to efforts of triaging,” a statement released by the Prime Minister’s Office said.Along with this, BSc/GNM qualified nurses to be utilised in full-time Covid nursing duties under the supervision of senior doctors and nurses.The committee also said that all health professionals who are engaged in Covid-related duties will be covered under the Insurance Scheme of Government for health workers.Those medical personnel completing 100 days of Covid duties will be given the Prime Minister’s Distinguished Covid National Service Samman from the Government of India and will also be given priority in forthcoming regular government recruitments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-rope-in-medical-interns-final-yr-mbbs-students-on-covid-duty-101620039305815.html
03-05-2021||India||Winning hearts: Bhopal auto driver converts his vehicle into a 24x7 free ambulance||Not all superheroes wear capes, and one such brave man, Javed Khan, an auto-rickshaw driver from Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh is winning the Internet and, of course our hearts with his compassionate move. The 34-year old has transformed his three-wheeler into a 24×7 ambulance service equipped with an oxygen cylinder, hand-sanitiser, PPE kit and oximeter.Khan, who has been providing free-of-cost service to patients for over 20 days now wanted to help those in distress amid the second wave of Covid-19. “Ambulance 2-5km ka ₹5,000 maang rahe hai aaj kal. Humse dekha nahi jaa raha tha aise haal logo ka,” says Khan who sold his wife Kishwar Khan’s gold jewellery to be able to make arrangements for the conversion of the vehicle. “Biwi ne manna nahi kiya bechne se aur support kiya,” he says adding that his wife was with him in his decision after he showed her videos of patients being taken to hospital, crying and pleading for support. He spends four to six hours a day getting the cylinder refilled, and for his safety the driver has put up a plastic barricade in the vehicle to maintain safe distance from the passenger. ”Main theek rahunga tabhi toh dusron ki help kar paonga,” he says.Khan, who has three children – two daughters (12 and 10) and a son (9), has received immense love and appreciation from not only on the Internet but also from his family members for this awe-inspiring gesture. “Ghar pe sab bohot khush hai. Mummy papa hai nahi duniya mein toh bas baaki aise sab ki madat ho jaye,” he says.He also reveals that he has been getting plenty of calls from all over the country for contributions as well. “Agar aisa support milta raha toh bohot lamba continue karunga ye service kyunki auto toh loan pe hi hai,” he adds. He urges citizens to stay at home, and help people in these tough times. “Jo ghar ke bahar nahi nikal paa rahe madad karne, woh corona kaal ke heroes ko ghar beth ke hi support karien,” he concludes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/winning-hearts-bhopal-auto-driver-converts-his-vehicle-into-a-24x7-free-ambulance-101620038705598.html
03-05-2021||India||Puducherry's Covid-19 caseload climbs to 62,160; 799 new cases added||The union territory of Puducherry logged 799 new Covid-19 cases during the last 24 hours pushing up overall tally to 62,160, a senior official of the Directorate of Health and Family Welfare Services said on Monday.Fifteen more patients succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours ending 10 AM Monday raising the death toll to 848, Director of Health and Family Welfare services S Mohan Kumar said.While 12 of the dead were men, the rest were women.He said that while 12 patients died in Puducherry, two succumbed in Yanam and one in Karaikal. Most of the patients had comorbidities and the deceased were in the age group ranging between 39 and 85 years.The number of active cases crossed 10,000 and stood at 10,614 including 8,748 in home isolation, he added.Mohan Kumar said 790 patients were discharged from hospitals during the last 24 hours.Of the 799 fresh cases, 650 from Puducherry followed by Karaikal (51), Yanam (73) and Mahe (25).The test positivity rate was 23.9 percent in Puducherry, he said.The Health department Director said that 50,698 patients were discharged after recovery so far.The fatality and recovery rates were 1.36 percent and 81.5 6 percent respectively.He said that 32,361 healthcare workers and 18,952 frontline workers have been vaccinated so far.He said 1.5 lakh people coming under the age group of 60 years and above or those above 45 years with comorbidities have been vaccinated since March 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puducherrys-covid-19-caseload-climbs-to-62-160-799-new-cases-added-101620037808408.html
03-05-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine status in ten states, UTs. Check here||Several states and Union territories (UT) across the country are facing a severe crunch in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccines. The central government decided to launch the third phase of the largest vaccination drive on May 1, but many states and UTs could not begin the drive in a full-fledged manner due to the continued shortage.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The Centre said that it has provided more than 165 million vaccine doses to states and UTs for free and of this, the total consumption including wastage amounts to nearly 159 million doses, as of Monday morning.More than 1.35 crore total Covid-19 vaccine doses are available as of Monday, the health ministry's data showed. The available doses include doses in balance and in the pipeline. Nearly 6 million vaccine doses will be supplied to the states and UTs within the next three days, the government said on Monday.Here is the vaccine status of ten states that accounted for more than 73 per cent of new infections in the last 24 hours:Uttar Pradesh has the maximum doses available with over 14.25 lakh in balance and 150,000 doses are in pipeline.Maharashtra, which is the worst-hit state has merely more than 23,000 doses in balance currently and 10.5 lakh doses are in pipeline.Delhi, which has a positivity rate of 28 per cent as of Sunday, will be getting 75,000 vaccine doses and currently has 3.87 lakh in balance.Karnataka contributed the second-highest number of new cases in the last 24 hours. The state has 17,900 doses in balance and 5.79 lakh are in pipeline.Kerala will be getting around 4.75 lakh vaccine doses in the next three days.Tamil Nadu currently has nearly 1.98 lakh doses and will be getting around 2.75 lakh vaccine doses.West Bengal has a balance of over 1.64 lakh vaccine doses and has 500,000 in the pipeline.Andhra Pradesh will be getting 5.75 lakh vaccine doses.Rajasthan has over 3.68 lakh vaccine doses and will get 1.75 lakh doses in the future.Also read| 25 flights, 300 tonnes cargo: How Delhi airport handled Covid relief over 5 daysBihar presently has over 8.6 lakh vaccine doses and will be supplied with 50,000 additional doses.The country on Monday reported over 368,000 fresh infections and 3417 deaths in the last 24 hours. The government has started the liberalized and accelerated phase 3 of vaccination as part of the five-point strategy to contain the spread of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-status-of-ten-states-uts-check-here-101620032384576.html
03-05-2021||India||Centre 'policy paralysed', can't secure victory over coronavirus: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday accused the central government of being "policy paralysed" and said that it cannot secure victory over coronavirus.In a tweet, the Congress leader said, "A policy paralysed GOI cannot secure victory over the virus. Face it. Don't fake it."A policy paralysed GOI cannot secure victory over the virus. Face it. Don’t fake it. pic.twitter.com/JuWTDwOeznEarlier on April 28, Gandhi had hit out at the central government stating that a large amount of public money was spent on the companies that make the coronavirus vaccine, and now the same vaccine is being sold to the public at higher prices.He had said that no other country in the world had such high-cost vaccines and criticised prime minister Modi-led government for robbing people of his friends."People's money was given to vaccine companies to develop Covid vaccines. Now, GOI will make the same people pay the highest price in the world for these vaccines. Once again, the failed 'system' fails our citizens for Modi-mitrs' profit," Gandhi had tweeted.Before this, Gandhi had said that the Centre is not allowing the actual data about coronavirus to reach the people.Taking to Twitter, he had said that the PM Narendra Modi-led government is controlling the facts of the data related to the pandemic."Like employment and development, the Central government is not allowing the actual data about corona to reach the people. They may have not been able to control the pandemic but managed to control the truth about the pandemic," his tweet read.India has been witnessing a surge in COVID-19 amid the devastating second wave. On Sunday, the country registered 3,68,147 new coronavirus infections and 3,417 related deaths, informed the union health ministry on Monday morning. With this, the cumulative count of the cases has gone up to 1,99,25,604.The daily spike had reached its peak of over four lakh cases on May 1 but came down to 392,488 cases yesterday.The cumulative death toll has mounted to 2,18,959. Currently, there are 34,13,642 active cases of COVID-19 in the country, as per the government data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-policy-paralysed-can-t-secure-victory-over-coronavirus-rahul-gandhi-101620036877617.html
03-05-2021||India||Govt's biggest Serum Covid-19 vaccine order covered just 4% of population||The Narendra Modi-led federal government hasn’t placed an order larger than 110 million doses from the biggest local maker since sales started in December, according to a person familiar with the matter -- enough for just 4% of its population of 1.4 billion people.The lack of a larger central stockpile, coupled with a devastating second wave in the country -- it saw a one-day surge of over 400,000 cases on Saturday -- is now making local state governments scramble and compete with one another in placing orders with manufacturers after the federal government turned over the responsibility of procuring vaccines to them last month.Serum Institute of India Ltd., the world’s largest vaccine maker and the country’s main supplier of Covid-19 shots, is racing to keep up with states’ orders but its production facilities can produce only 60 to 70 million doses a month and can ramp up to 100 million by July, said the person who declined to be identified as the information is private.India, with the world’s fastest-growing coronavirus outbreak, is seeing its health care system collapse as it runs short of everything from hospital beds to oxygen cylinders. Though the nation is one of the world’s biggest vaccine makers, supply locally has run dry amid an expansion of access to everyone aged 18 and above, leading to a game of pass-the-buck among manufacturers and government officials.Menacing ThreatsTensions have escalated to the point that Serum’s flamboyant chairman, Adar Poonawalla, fled to London partly to escape menacing threats from people desperate to get vaccines, he said in an interview to the U.K.’s The Times over the weekend.The country is likely to face shortages of Covid-19 vaccines through July, Poonawalla told the Financial Times in an interview Sunday, as Serum ramps up capacity.“Everybody really felt that India had started to turn the tide on the pandemic,” Poonawalla told the U.K. based news daily. “There were no orders, we did not think we needed to make more than 1 billion doses a year.”A spokesperson for Serum declined to comment on its Covid vaccine order book.The devolution of responsibility to state governments to procure urgent medical supplies resembles what former U.S. President Donald Trump’s administration did last year when the world’s biggest economy faced an explosive outbreak: states were forced to bid against one another for crucial equipment like ventilators and masks.Prolonging MiseryThe sluggishness in vaccine procurement risks prolonging the misery in the world’s second-worst hit nation that is seeing its Covid-related death toll rise to unprecedented levels, overwhelming hospitals and crematoriums alike. Vaccines can prevent severe infections that cause hospitalization and deaths, thus alleviating the pressure on the health-care system.Opening the vaccination program for everyone above the age of 18 years -- without a stockpile in place -- has exacerbated the shortages, with many state governments stopping inoculation citing the vaccine shortage. Online registrations opened late last month only for servers to crash as tens of thousands of Indians tried to get a spot.Serum is licensed to manufacture Covid shots from AstraZeneca Plc. and Novavax Inc. Of the two, Indian government has approved only AstraZeneca’s Covishield vaccine for use. Bharat Biotech International Ltd.’s Covaxin is also approved in India, as is Russia’s Sputnik V.Serum Institute was “maligned by politicians and critics over the vaccine shortages,” Poonawalla said in the FT report, pointing out that the government, not the company, was responsible for policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biggest-serum-covid-19-vaccine-order-covered-just-4-of-population-101620036599947.html
03-05-2021||India||‘No other option left’: Haryana minister Anil Vij on imposing week-long lockdown in state||Haryana home minister Anil Vij said on Monday the state government did not want to impose a lockdown but despite their efforts, people were not adhering to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) norms in the way they were supposed to. “Due to this (non-adherence of norms), Covid-19 cases have rapidly increased. We had to impose a lockdown as there was no other option left,” Vij, who is also the state’s health minister, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.On Monday, Vij also made an appeal to the state’s residents in order to ensure the lockdown is successful. “Stay at home, stay safe and defeat Covid-19,” the minister’s tweet, roughly translated from Hindi read.The Haryana government on Sunday announced a week-long lockdown in the state beginning from May 3 till May 9, prompted by a sharp spike in the Covid-19 disease cases. The announcement came two days after a weekend curfew was announced in nine districts including Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat from Friday 10pm till Monday 5am.Also Read| Haryana police struggles to enforce fresh Covid-19 lockdown on Day 1According to the state government’s order, malls, shopping complexes, salons, movie theatres, educational institutions, places of worship will be closed. Dine-in is not allowed in hotels and restaurants but home deliveries are allowed till 10pm. Social gatherings, parties will only be held as per the permission given by the deputy commissioners.Only those weddings for which prior permission has been taken from the Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM) are allowed during the lockdown with not more than 30 people indoors and 50 people outdoors.All essential services including health, law and order, fire and other emergency services have been exempted from the lockdown. Information Technology (IT) and IT-enabled services are allowed to operate with 50 per cent workforce. Shops selling groceries, dairy and milk booths, medicines are allowed to be kept open. There are no restrictions placed on industries engaged in the production of essential goods.Haryana on Sunday recorded the highest single day jump in Covid-19 deaths at 145, while 13,322 more people tested positive, according to the state health department’s bulletin. The infection count in Haryana has now climbed to 514,888 including 4,486 deaths, 105,270 active cases and 405,132 recoveries, the bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-other-option-left-anil-vij-on-imposing-week-long-lockdown-in-state-101620035419132.html
03-05-2021||India||PM Modi reviews availability of medical personnel to tackle Covid-19||Amid rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday authorised key decisions to boost the availability of medical personnel to fight the deadly virus, according to a statement released by Prime Minister's office (PMO)."The Prime Minister reviewed the growing need of adequate human resources for responding to the Covid-19 pandemic in the country today," the statement read.With the aim to increase the number of doctors, nurses and allied professionals for better management during the ongoing second wave of the pandemic, a decision to allow deployment of medical interns in Covid Management duties under the supervision of their faculty was taken. This will be part of the internship rotation and final year MBBS students will be made a part of services like tele-consultation and monitoring of mild Covid cases. Additionally, B.Sc./GNM qualified nurses will be deployed in full-time Covid-19 nursing duties under the supervision of senior doctors and nurses.Read more: Reports on Centre not placing new order for Covid-19 jabs 'baseless', says govt"This will reduce the workload on existing doctors engaged in Covid duty and provide boost to efforts of triaging," the statement read.All the medical students as well as professionals who will thus be engaged in Covid related work, will be vaccinated and covered under the insurance scheme of government for health workers. Moreover, professionals who sign up for minimum 100 days of Covid related duty will also be given the Prime Minister’s Distinguished Covid National Service Samman, the statement added.NEET-PG exam has also been decided to be postponed for at least 4 months and students will be given at least one month of time after announcement of exam before it is conducted.These decisions come as India reported as many as 368,147 new Covid-19 cases on Monday which pushed the country's total infection tally close to 19,925,604, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard at 8am. 3,417 new coronavirus-related fatalities were also recorded in the same period which took the nationwide death toll to 218,959. The number of active cases in the country currently stands at 3,413,642 which comprises 17.13 per cent of the total confirmed Covid-19 cases in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reviews-availability-of-medical-personnel-to-tackle-covid19-101620034879431.html
03-05-2021||India||Reports on Centre not placing new order for Covid-19 jabs 'baseless', says govt||The government on Monday claimed as ‘incorrect’ the news report by a section of media alleging that the Centre has not placed any fresh order for Covid-19 vaccines.“The news reports suggest that the last order placed with the two vaccine makers (100 million doses with SII and 20 million doses with Bharat Biotech) was in March 2021. These media reports are completely incorrect, and are not based on facts.,” a press statement by the Union ministry of health and family welfare said.The report that first appeared on a business daily and eventually picked up a few others said the Centre has not yet placed fresh orders with the two Indian vaccine manufacturers – Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech – even as several vaccination centres across the country reported shortages.Media reports alleging that Centre has not placed any fresh order for #COVID19 vaccines are incorrect and not based on facts#LargestVaccineDrive #IndiaFightsCoronaRead: https://t.co/k8RUM40Ord pic.twitter.com/Gm1bT0yx9E“The last order placed with the two vaccine makers — 100 million doses with SII and 20 million doses with Bharat Biotech — was in March. Industry sources revealed that the final tranche of deliveries of this order will be completed within the next few days,” the report claimed.However, the Centre rebutted the report to claim that a 100% advance of ₹1,732.50 crore was released to Serum Institute of India on April 28 for 11 crore doses of Covishield vaccine during May, June and July“As on date, against the last order of 10 crore doses for supplies of Covishield vaccine, 8.744 crore doses have been delivered till 03.05.2021,” the Centre said in the statement.“Additionally, 100% advance of ₹787.5 crore (after TDS Rs. 772.50 crore) was released on 28.04.2021 to Bharat Biotech India Ltd for 5 crore Covaxin doses during May, June and July, and was received by them on 28.04.2021. As on date against the last order of 2 crore doses for supplies of Covaxin vaccine, 0.8813 crore doses have been delivered till 03.05.2021,” it further read.Soon after the government issued a statement, SII posted from its official Twitter handle that the company endorses the authenticity of the information and is also working closely with the Centre to ramp up vaccine production.We endorse this statement, & the authenticity of the information. We have been working closely with the Government of India for the past year & thank it for its support. We remain committed to ramping up our vaccine production to save every life we can. https://t.co/tLVPjOMp51The development comes close on the heels of SII CEO Adar Poonawalla recently warning in an interview to Financial Times that India is likely to face vaccine shortages till July.When Poonawalla was asked as to why he did not expand the manufacturing capacity of Covishield vaccine earlier, he noted that there were no additional orders from the government, and his company did not think it needed to make more than 1 billion doses a year.The CEO of the world's biggest vaccine manufacturer also said that the authorities did not expect to face a second wave of coronavirus infection when the number of cases started to dip earlier this year. “Everybody really felt that India had started to turn the tide on the pandemic,” he said.ALSO READ: Shortage hits Phase 3 of Covid-19 vaccination driveIndia had administered over 156 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Saturday. On Day 1 of the phase 3 of the nationwide vaccination drive, which includes those in the age group of 18 to 44, over 84,000 beneficiaries in this age group were vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reports-on-centre-not-placing-new-order-for-covid-19-jabs-baseless-says-govt-101620033230808.html
03-05-2021||India||'Minor' oxygen leakage at Vadodara hospital, patients safe: Report||A "minor" leakage of medical oxygen took place in the SSG Hospital at Vadodara in Gujarat on Monday morning after a pipe carrying the life-saving gas for Covid-19 patients got punctured, an official said.Nearly 600 Covid-19 patients are on oxygen support at the government-run hospital, but the supply was not hindered as the leakage was plugged within 20 minutes, Dr Ranjan Aiyer, the medical superintendent of the facility, told PTI.The leakage took place in the 'New Surgical Block' premises of the Sir Sayajirao General (SSG) Hospital when the copper pipe, which transports oxygen from the main tank to different wards, got damaged."It was a minor leakage as the copper pipe got punctured at one place. A small amount of oxygen leaked. The issue was resolved by our staff within 20 minutes," Dr Aiyer said.Of the total 766 Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment at the hospital, around 600 are on oxygen support, the official said."The leakage had no impact on the oxygen supply to our patients. They didn't even get to know that such a thing had happened," he said.On April 21, 22 Covid-19 patients suffocated to death when their oxygen supply stopped suddenly because of a malfunction in the main storage at a civic-run hospital in Nashik city of Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minor-oxygen-leakage-at-vadodara-hospital-patients-safe-report-101620032054187.html
03-05-2021||India||BJP keeps vision of saffron Tamil Nadu alive; will share power in Puducherry||After a gap of twenty years, the BJP will return to the Tamil Nadu assembly after winning four seats in April 6 elections. The party also opened its account in neighbouring Puducherry with victory on six seats and will now be part of the first NDA government in the Union Territory.BJP contested 20 seats as part of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) led alliance in Tamil Nadu and won in Tirunelveli, Nagercoil, Modakurichi apart from a nail-biting contest in Coimbatore South.The national party has been trying to get a foothold into the Dravidian heartland after the demise of former chief ministers J Jayalalithaa in December 2016 and M Karunanidhi in august 2018. While it is evident that the Dravidian parties still hold sway in TN with the DMK winning a majority and the AIADMK finishing second with 66 seats, the BJP’s modest performance has kept its ambition of becoming a dominant force in the state by 2026, alive. The BJP had last won four seats in Tamil Nadu in 2001 in alliance with the DMK.“The wins have laid a solid foundation for the growth of our party,” said BJP national president and Tamil Nadu election in-charge, C T Ravi.To shed its image of a north-Indian party, mainly representing the Hindi speaking populace, the BJP revamped its TN unit, which is headed by a Dalit L Murugan. It also took out Vetrivel Yatra in November 2020 in honour of Tamil deity Lord Muruga, who is worshipped widely by the locals, in its attempt to consolidate Hindu votes. But it didn’t garner the response expected by the party though its national leaders evoking it in their rallies. Prime Minister Narendra Modi started his political rallies in the state with a loud call to “vetrivel” (victorious sear) and the crowd would respond “veeravel” (courageous spear). On the ground, the BJP also strengthened its booth committees, activating more than 48,000 of them.“Their pro-Hindu rhetoric worked to some extent,” says political analyst Raveendran Duraisamy. “But it was the AIADMK that contributed to their wins, especially in Modakurichi for C Saraswathi.” She upset former DMK minister Subbulakshmi Jegadeesan. Duraisamy says in Nagercoil, BJP’s M R Gandhi surprised three-time DMK MLA N Suresh Rajan because of a Hindu consolidation and in Tirunelveli, former AIADMK man Nainar Nagendran earned victory for the BJP with the solid backing of Mukkalathurs and Devendrakula Vellalars caste groups. Modi won the support of the latter after he accepted their long-standing demand to group seven sub castes together.Coimbatore south was a seesaw battle with Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) chief Kamal Haasan leading through the day but finally losing to Srinivasan, the BJP’s national women’s wing president, by 1,540 votes. “It was her individual work, she has been working in the constituency for more than three years which helped her reach the masses,” says Duraisamy.In Puducherry, which is currently under the governor’s rule, N Rangasamy of the All Indian NR Congress (AINRC) led the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) to a convincing victory in the 30-seat assembly. AINRC won 10, BJP swept six but ally AIADMK drew a blank. The Congress party was trounced with victory on only two seats. Party’s ally, the DMK, did much better with six victories.From a single MLA in 2001 and three nominated members between 2016 and 2021, the BJP has come a long way in Puducherry. Besides the gains accrued from Rangasamy’s support base and due to anti-incumbency against the Congress, the shifting of political heavyweights such as former minister A Namassivayam and A John Kumar from the Congress, also helped the BJP. “BJP poached powerful individuals in Puducherry who helped them win,” says Duraisamy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjpkeeps-vision-of-saffron-tamil-nadu-alive-will-share-power-in-puducherry-101620032161077.html
03-05-2021||India||EC plea on media 'too far fetched', it can't be restrained from reporting court discussions, says Supreme Court||The Supreme Court Monday termed as “too far fetched” the poll panel's plea for restraining media from reporting remarks in court proceedings and came out in support of high courts saying it does not want to demoralise them as they are vital pillars of democracy.A bench of Justice D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah assured the Election Commission that the high court's remarks were not meant to “run down” the poll panel and it will try to balance the rights of two constitutional bodies - the HC and the EC - in its order.The apex court reserved the order on the appeal of the Election Commission against Madras High Court's “critical” remarks holding it responsible for the surge in Covid-19 cases in the country and fastening its responsible officials with the murder charges.The bench said it would pronounce the order "expeditiously".“Media should be able to report everything also to create accountability and the dialogue in court is often to create an umbrella of discussion,” the bench said in a hearing conducted via video conferencing.The media is an important and powerful watchdog in democracy and it cannot be stopped from reporting discussions in higher courts, it said.Senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi, appearing for the poll panel, submitted that Covid-19 management does not come under the EC's purview and after 20 days of polls in Tamil Nadu, the high court said it should be charged with murder.There was a continuous debate in media over the high court remarks on murder charges against the poll panel, he said, adding that somewhere a line has to drawn.The apex court, however, asked EC to take the observations of the high court in the right spirit and said, "You have done a good job"."We will take into account EC's grievance and to the best of our abilities, try to balance between rights of the poll panel and high courts," the bench said.The top court told Dwivedi that Madras High Court's effort was not to run down the EC as an institution.The Election Commission had moved the top court on Saturday challenging the critical observations made by the Madras High Court holding it responsible for a surge in Covid-19 cases in the country, saying the remarks were "uncalled for, blatant and disparaging".The high court had, on April 26, castigated the EC for the surge in Covid-19 cases during the second wave of the pandemic, holding it "singularly" responsible for the spread of the viral disease, called it the "the most irresponsible institution" and even said its officials may be booked under murder charges.The poll panel allowing political parties to take out rallies and organise meetings had led to the surge in Covid cases, the court had observed.The EC's appeal against these remarks was trashed by the division bench of the high court on April 30, leading the poll watchdog to approach the top court.The division bench of the high court, on April 26, made the stinging observation on a plea moved by Tamil Nadu's Transport Minister MR Vijayabaskar, who was the AIADMK candidate from Karur in the April 6 Assembly polls, seeking a direction to the authorities concerned to ensure a fair counting of votes on May 2 in his constituency by taking effective steps and ensuring proper arrangements while following the Covid-19 protocols.Since a total of 77 candidates were in the fray in Karur, it would be very difficult to accommodate their agents in the counting hall. It may affect the observance of the protocols, the petitioner had alleged.When the EC's counsel told the judges that all necessary steps were being taken, the bench shot back, saying by allowing the political parties to take out rallies and organise meetings, it (commission) had paved the way for a resurgence of the deadly virus.Irked over the submission made by the EC's counsel that all precautionary measures would be taken at the counting centres, the chief justice replied that the poll panel must be "singularly" held responsible for the sudden surge in the number of coronavirus cases in the country.The bench had even said that EC officials may be booked under murder charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-plea-on-media-too-far-fetched-it-can-t-be-restrained-from-reporting-court-discussions-says-supreme-court-101620026508469.html
03-05-2021||India||SBI allocates ₹71 crore for fight against Covid-19||The State Bank of India (SBI) has allocated ₹71 crore to help combat the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country. The bank has also dedicated ₹30 crore to set up 1,000-bed makeshift hospitals, 250 bed ICU facilities and 1,000-bed isolation facilities in some of the worst-hit states, news agency ANI quoted SBI as saying on Monday."We are committed to contribute funds, resources and reach out to the citizens of India and also join in the government's efforts in fighting the virus. I urge everyone to offer their support in any form to the people in need and contribute towards making the country Covid-19 free," SBI Chairman Dinesh Khara said, ANI reported.The largest lender in the country is undertaking such support measures as part of its CSR initiative. The ministry of corporate affairs last month permitted the treatment of makeshift hospitals and temporary Covid care facilities as Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activity.Also read| Will try to keep soft interest rate regime as long as possible: SBI chiefThe second wave of Covid-19 has tremendously impacted India and its infrastructure as patients and hospitals suffer from a shortage of essential medical supplies.More than 368,000 fresh infections reported on Monday in the last 24 hours took the tally closer to the 20-million mark. The active caseload in the country reached over 3.4 million, as per the Union health ministry data.SBI Chairman Dinesh Khara in an interview with PTI had said that the bank is also collaborating with hospitals and NGOs to provide oxygen concentrators for the patients.For its employees, the lender has collaborated with hospitals across the country to facilitate the treatment of those who have been infected on a priority basis. The bank has also decided to bear the cost of vaccination of its employees and their dependent family members, Khara added.Last year, the public lender had contributed 0.25 per cent of its annual profit to Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund and donated ₹11 crore to support the vaccination drive.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sbi-allocates-rs-71-crore-for-fight-against-covid19-101620027808149.html
03-05-2021||India||Adar Poonawalla must disclose who are threatening him, say Maharashtra leaders||Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole on Monday said Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla must disclose the names of the leaders who have been threatening him. Congress will take full responsibility, Patole said. Maharashtra minister of state for home Shambhurah Desai said, "If someone is threatening Adar Poonawalla, he can file a written complaint with the police department. We will probe.""No one will do any harm to him in this country. The Congress will be with him. But it must come to light who are the big leaders who he says are threatening him," Patole said.In April, the Serum Institute of India sought additional security for CEO Adar Poonawalla as he was receiving threats over the vaccine. After the ministry of home affairs provided him with Y category security, Adar flew to London to be with his wife and children. In an interview with The Times, he talked about receiving aggressive calls from "some of the most powerful people in India", demanding the supply of vaccines.'Everything falls on my shoulders': Adar Poonawalla on vaccine pressure in India"Everything falls on my shoulders but I can't do it alone...I don’t want to be in a situation where you are just trying to do your job, and just because you can’t supply the needs of X, Y or Z you really don’t want to guess what they are going to do," Poonawalla said.“The level of expectation and aggression is really unprecedented. It’s overwhelming. Everyone feels they should get the vaccine. They can’t understand why anyone else should get it before them,” Poonawalla said.In his interview, Poonawalla also disclosed that he is planning to start vaccine production in other countries. Seru Institute of India is the world's largest vaccine maker by the volume of doses produced yearly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adar-poonawalla-must-disclose-who-is-threatening-him-says-maharashtra-leaders-101620027047301.html
03-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Pakistan breaches renewed ceasefire deal, opens fire along Jammu border and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Pakistan breaches renewed ceasefire deal, opens fire along Jammu borderAfter a break of little over two months, Pakistan on Monday again breached the ceasefire agreement with unprovoked fire at the Border Security Force (BSF) along the 200 km long international border in Ramgarh sector of Jammu’s Samba district, said a BSF officer. Read moreCentral Vista: V-P, PM residences to be ready by 2022The Vice President’s, and Prime Minister’s new residence are scheduled to be completed by May and December 2022, respectively, according to Central Public Works Department (CPWD), the nodal agency for the Central Vista Project, as the environment ministry’s expert appraisal committee (EAC) has granted the necessary clearance for the rest of the buildings under the plan. Read more'Don't heckle those who are helping,' Jairam Ramesh says to Jaishankar as spat over oxygen SOS continuesThe spat between foreign minister S Jaishankar and senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Twitter continues as the Congress leader on Monday accused the foreign ministry of heckling those who are helping the needy. Read moreCanadian province to gift 3,000 ventilators to IndiaWhile the Canadian government is in the process of identifying equipment from its emergency stockpile that can quickly be dispatched to India to assist in battling the Covid-19 crisis, the province of Ontario is gifting a consignment of ventilators worth ₹144 crore. Read moreMonday's IPL match between KKR and RCB rescheduled after 2 KKR members test positive for Covid-19Monday's IPL match between Kolkata Knight Riders and Royal Challengers Bangalore in Ahmedabad has been rescheduled after two members of the KKR contingent tested positive for Covid-19, a BCCI source told PTI. Read moreKangana Ranaut protests 'forcefully' taking oxygen from environment as new oxygen plants get built: 'We learnt nothing'With thousands of people struggling to get life-saving oxygen amid the coronavirus pandemic, many hospitals and governments are installing new oxygen plants to keep up with the rising demand. However, actor Kangana Ranaut doesn't seem to be on board with the idea. Read moreMilind Soman restores shoulder posture with mugdar, gets ready to donate plasmaRegularly updating fans about his recovery journey, ever since he contracted Covid-19 last month, Milind Soman has kept fitness enthusiasts on their toes with his workout motivations amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. Read moreStay parked. Stay safe: Carmakers urge people to stay indoors amid Covid surgeAs lockdown-like restrictions have returned in India amid a massive surge of Covid-19 cases, carmakers in India are back to offering help in the fight to break the chain. Read moreWhy Nandigram loss is good for Mamata, Bengal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pakistan-breaches-renewed-ceasefire-deal-opens-fire-along-jammu-border-and-all-the-latest-news-101620024885281.html
03-05-2021||India||West Tripura DM relieved from post following allegations of misconduct||West Tripura District’s collector Shailesh Kumar Yadav’s request to be relieved from office following an inquiry into his alleged misconduct while enforcing Covid-19 guidelines in the state has been accepted.“...In the interest of an impartial enquiry, I request for relinquishment of my charge as DM (district magistrate) & Collector West Tripura District”, Yadav wrote to chief secretary Manoj Kumar on Sunday.Law minister Ratan Lal Nath said the government had accepted his request and given Ravel Hamendra Kumar, director of Industries and Commerce department, additional charge of the West District for the time being.Tripura government has constituted a high level enquiry into allegations that Yadav was guilty of gross misconduct while intervening to stop marriage ceremonies being held in violation of Corona night curfew at Manikya Court & Golap Bagan venues in Agartala on the night of April 26th. With the increase in Covid-19 cases in the second wave, the state government had imposed seven hours night curfew starting 10pm.Yadav reportedly stopped the marriage midway, insulted the bridegroom and forced him to vacate the wedding venue and even slapped the priest. He was also accused of misbehaving with the guests; the video of the incident went viral on social media, inviting criticism and drawing the government’s attention.Soon after the incident, the chief minister asked the chief secretary to submit a report on the incident; accordingly, a committee comprising two IAS (Indian Administrative Services) officers was constituted to probe the matter.Though Yadav apologised initially for his conduct, he later told the committee that he had performed his duty by enforcing law and order to prevent the spread of coronavirus and that he stands by his deeds.Meanwhile, the Tripura government has extended the duration and hours of night curfew, which was in force in Agartala Municipal Corporation areas between 10pm till 5am since April 22, to all local urban bodies and it will come into force from 6pm and stay till 5am the next morning till May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-tripura-dm-relieved-from-post-following-allegations-of-misconduct-101620026341821.html
03-05-2021||India||Pfizer donates USD 70 million worth Covid-19 treatment drugs to India||Global pharma major Pfizer is sending its medicines worth USD 70 million (over ₹510 crore), from its distribution centres in the US, Europe and Asia, that have been identified as part of India's Covid-19 treatment protocol, the company's Chairman and CEO Albert Bourla said on Monday."We are deeply concerned by the critical Covid-19 situation in India, and our hearts go out to you, your loved ones and all the people of India," he said in a mail sent to Pfizer India employees that he has shared on his linked.in post."We are committed to being a partner in India's fight against this disease and are quickly working to mobilize the largest humanitarian relief effort in our company's history," Bourla said.Right now, Pfizer colleagues at distribution centres in the US, Europe and Asia are hard at work rushing shipments of Pfizer medicines that the Government of India has identified as part of its Covid-19 treatment protocol, he added."We are donating these medicines to help make sure that every Covid-19 patient in every public hospital across the country can have access to the Pfizer medicines they need free of charge," Bourla said.These medicines, valued at more than USD 70 million, will be made available immediately, and "we will work closely with the government and our NGO partners to get them to where they are needed most," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pfizer-donates-usd-70-million-worth-covid-19-treatment-drugs-to-india-101620025879774.html
03-05-2021||India||Australia's PM Scott Morrison defends ban on citizens returning from India; says it’s in ‘best interests’||Australia’s Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Monday defended his government's decision to ban and impose a jail term and a penalty for Australians trying to return from India, saying it is in the country’s “best interests” and to prevent a third wave of infections.The Australian government, for the first time in history, recently imposed a ban on its citizens from returning home, if they have spent time in India up to 14 days before flying back.The government threatened to prosecute them with a possibility of five years of jail term or a penalty of 66,000 Australian dollars (USD 50,899).Morrison said this is a temporary arrangement and a very difficult decision.“It has been put in place to ensure that we do not get a third wave here in Australia and that our quarantine system can remain strong,” he said, adding that it is in the country’s “best interests”.He said that he feels terribly for the Indian community.''We've seen a seven-fold increase in the rate of infection of those in our Howard Springs facility coming back from India.“It's important that we ensure that we have a temporary pause here to strengthen those arrangements in those quarantine facilities, get stronger testing arrangements, both when leaving India but also on people coming from third countries,” Morrison said.He said that he wants to get those repatriation flights running safely again.“These are the things we have to do to ensure I can do that, so I can. We've already brought home some 20,000 people from India through supported flights and facilitated flights, and they were just those who are registered. And so that has been a big effort to get people home,'' the Prime Minister told 2GB radio channel.“We’ve had the Biosecurity Act in place now for over a year and no one’s gone to jail… there hasn’t been any irresponsible use of those powers,” he said.Morrison said that there was clear advice from the chief medical officer that it was a decision that was supported and should be taken.The Prime Minister was criticised by Opposition leader Anthony Albanese for abandoning Australians in India and threatening the travellers with a penalty and a jail term.“Australia has obligations to our citizens, to people who are Australians – not just to abandon them overseas but then to threaten them is quite an extraordinary action,” Albanese was quoted by media reports here on Sunday.Deputy Nationals leader Matt Canavan tweeted on Monday about the government's decision stating, “We should be helping Aussies in India return, not jailing them.''Morrison said that the ban was under a continual review and “this only needs to be there in place for as long as it needs to be there to keep Australians safe.''Meanwhile, Chief Medical Officer Professor Paul Kelly has said the expert health advice group, the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee, told the government the risk coming from India had reached a “benchmark of concern”.On Monday, the daily Covid-19 cases in India showed a slight dip with 3,68,147 new coronavirus infections, taking the total tally of cases to 1,99,25,604, according to the Union Health Ministry.The death toll increased to 2,18,959 with 3,417 daily new fatalities.While the country recorded 4,01,993 new cases on May 1, it had registered 3,92,488 fresh cases on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/australias-pm-scott-morrison-defends-ban-on-citizens-returning-from-india-says-it-s-in-best-interests-101620024334432.html
03-05-2021||India||Pakistan breaches renewed ceasefire deal, opens fire along Jammu border||After a break of little over two months, Pakistan on Monday again breached the ceasefire agreement with unprovoked fire at the Border Security Force (BSF) along the 200 km long international border in Ramgarh sector of Jammu’s Samba district, said a BSF officer.“At around 6.15 am, Pak Rangers opened unprovoked small arms fire at BSF personnel in Ramgarh sector. They were doing maintenance work at the border fence when Rangers opened small arms fire,” said the BSF officer.“The BSF patrol on maintenance work escaped unhurt,” he added.An intelligence official said, “Today at about 0635 hrs (6.35 am) Pakistani posts Tipu and Hussain being manned by 10 wing of Chenab Rangers, fired four bursts of about 20 rounds of small weapons at the BSF’s working party of border outpost Majra near mound number 8/36 and pillar number 81 which is being manned by176 battalion”.The BSF exercised restraint and there was no retaliation from our side, he added.This is the first instance of violation after India and Pakistan renewed their mutually brokered ceasefire agreement on February 25 this year.The director generals (DGs) of Military Operations from both sides had committed to abide by the truce deal that was first signed in November 2003.The offer to renew the truce deal had come from Pakistan.Indian security forces have maintained that Pakistan has used ceasefire violations to provide cover for infiltration of terrorists from across the LoC and IB over the years.During a flare up along the 200 km long international border and 744 km long Line of Control (LoC), farmers living on the boundary bear the maximum brunt of Pak firing and shelling.Following the renewal of the ceasefire agreement, farmers in Hiranagar sector of Kathua and Jammu district were able to harvest wheat crop near the border fence after 18 years. The relentless firing and shelling by Pakistani forces had scared them away all these years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-breaches-renewed-ceasefire-deal-opens-fire-along-jammu-border-101620020400770.html
03-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Extended by 4hrs, Tripura’s night curfew from 6pm-5am now||With a daily surge in coronavirus cases, Tripura government on Sunday extended night curfew to all local urban bodies and nagar panchayats, increasing its timings by four more hours.The restrictions, which were in force in Agartala Municipal Corporation areas between 10pm and 5am since April 22, would now be in force in all local urban bodies from 6pm to 5am the next day, the government said. “Though the Covid situation in Tripura is better than many other states in the country, the number of positive cases is increasing. We have observed the cases are mostly found in the municipal councils, nagar panchayats and Agartala Municipal Corporation. That’s why, we have taken the decision,” said Law minister Ratan Lal Nath in Agartala. Also Read | ‘Unprecedented health crisis’: Manish Sisodia seeks Army’s help to fight CovidHe added that government offices will function from 10am to 4pm with 50% attendances of employees. All the gazetted officers would be present in the offices. “ We have also decided to start Covid test in all government offices and shops in Agartala Municipal Corporation area soon,” said Nath. Essential services, including medical emergency, police, security, and media, are allowed during the curfew. Public gatherings related to social, political, academic, cultural, festival, sports, entertainment have been restricted. There’s a cap of 100 persons in marriage or any social functions and 20 persons in funerals.Cinema or multiplexes will work at 50% capacity. The state government has already postponed all government jobs examinations, offline classes in schools, colleges, and all gymnasiums, recreation clubs are also closed for an indefinite period of time.As many as 46,311 persons have been fined in the state for violating Covid-19 norms since the outbreak of the pandemic last year. Over Rs. 88.69 lakh has been collected from these violators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-extended-by-4hrs-tripura-s-night-curfew-from-6pm-5am-now-101620020160945.html
03-05-2021||India||Manish Sisodia writes to Rajnath Singh seeking Army's help to fight Covid-19 in Delhi||Delhi has sought the help of the Army to set up, operationalise and run some Covid-19 health facilities with about 10,000 oxygenated non-ICU beds and 1,000 ICU beds, as the Capital is grappling with the increase in the number of fresh infections, daily deaths, while people are running from pillar to post in search of oxygen and other medical essentials. "Since the entire health infrastructure machinery is overwhelmed with the management of the existing hospitals and the upcoming Covid hospitals, it will be a timely help to the people of Delhi if the ministry of defence, with the considerable resources at its command, is tasked with the responsibility to provide and man the additional Covid health facilities as per the current projections," Sisodia wrote, requesting the defence ministry to arrange for the supply for medical oxygen for the Covid health facilities to be set up.At present, the Capitals has 16,272 non-ICU oxygen beds and 4,866 ICU beds and the Delhi government is creating an additional 15,000 oxygenated non-ICU beds and 1,200 ICU beds, which will be operational in the next 10 days. But as Delhi is recording over 25,000 new cases every day and about 10 per cent of these new cases require some form of hospitalisation, the additional health infrastructure will soon be at its capacity, Sisodia wrote.India registers 368,147 new Covid-19 cases, infection tally nears 20 millionThanking the Centre for augmenting Delhi's oxygen supply and all the work that DRDO, ITBP are doing, Sisodia urged the ministry to provide cryogenic tankers for the transport of Liquid Medical Oxygen. The government of Delhi with necessary help from the government of India and other state governments is augmenting the transport infrastructure by sourcing cryogenic tankers even from abroad, the deputy CM said.Delhi also needs the Army's help in procuring about 40,000 D Type medical oxygen cylinders, the deputy CM wrote requesting the ministry to provide medical and paramedical teams to supplement the medical manpower of Delhi."The operational details can be mutually worked out after receipt of in-principle approval from the defence ministry," Sisodia said.The crisis in Delhi worsened in April with the infection spreading at an unprecedented rate. The trouble compounded by the scarcity of oxygen and as all healthcare facilities are at full capacity, people are dying without getting beds. About 12 people at Delhi's Batra hospital died on Saturday after the hospital ran out of oxygen supply for 1.5 hours.The Supreme Court on Sunday issued an order asking the Centre to address Delhi's oxygen issue by Monday midnight. The apex court has also asked the Centre to create a buffer stock of oxygen that can be used by all states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unprecedented-health-crisis-manish-sisodia-seeks-army-s-help-to-fight-covid-101620019493407.html
03-05-2021||India||'Don't heckle those who are helping,' Jairam Ramesh says to Jaishankar as spat over oxygen SOS continues||The spat between foreign minister S Jaishankar and senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Twitter continues as the Congress leader on Monday accused the foreign ministry of heckling those who are helping the needy. The bickering started on Saturday after Indian Youth Congress president BV Srinivas posted a video of the Youth Congress members delivering oxygen to the Philippines Embassy.Terming the act as a stunt for "cheap publicity", external affairs minister S Jaishankar said the ministry had checked with the Philipines Embassy and as the embassy has no Covid cases, the supply was unsolicited. "Giving away cylinders like this when there are people in desperate need of oxygen is simply appalling," Jaishankar tweeted.Actions speak louder than words, Mr. Minister. No amount of “image management” can hide the reality of people gasping for oxygen. Please do your job instead of heckling at those who help the needy. The @IYC is showing the way, and we are proud of them. @DrSJaishankar https://t.co/XCa4k9qkp4I’d say don’t waste oxygen, literally or metaphorically. From a MEA that never sleeps - good night. https://t.co/6TDX2r6nTpWe got a request for an urgent requirement of Oxygen Cylinders for 2 Covid patients in Philippines EmbassyThe Cylinders were delivered at the embassy on a much solicited requestPost delivery embassy thanked us on Facebook. All screenshots attached with names and number masked pic.twitter.com/0sZb5ihnFGFollowing this, the external affairs ministry issued a statement urging all embassies to not hoard essential supplies like oxygen.Replying to Jaishankar's "unsolicited supply" jibe, BV Srinivas clarified the Indian Youth Congress received a request from the embassy. He also attached the screenshot of messages that he received asking for oxygen.Replying to that, Jaishankar tweeted early on Monday morning, "I'd say don't waste oxygen, literally or metaphorically. From MEA that never sleeps-- good night."On Sunday, the New Zealand high commission too tweeted for oxygen tagging Youth Congress, which was deleted later. “We are trying all sources to arrange for oxygen cylinders urgently and our appeal has unfortunately been misinterpreted, for which we are sorry," it wrote clarifying the deleted tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-heckle-those-who-are-helping-jairam-ramesh-s-jaishankar-spat-over-oxygen-sos-continues-101620018478642.html
03-05-2021||India||Assembly elections 2021: What it means for key leaders||The outcome of elections in four states — West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Kerala — and the Union Territory of Puducherry will have an impact on the political fortunes of both national and state leaders. Here is a snapshot of what it means for India’s key politicians. Narendra ModiFor Narendra Modi, West Bengal was the key prize among all states in his second term, just as Uttar Pradesh was in his first term. The PM campaigned extensively in the state, even at a time of the pandemic; challenged chief minister (CM) Mamata Banerjee; and promised a golden Bengal if the Bharatiya Janata Party won. The party made the election a contest between the PM and the CM. While it would be a mistake to see the result as a defeat of the PM — state elections are fought on a range of local issues and the PM’s popularity nationally remains high — this is definitely a political setback for him, especially at a time when the Centre is also being criticised for its Covid management. Narendra Modi has shown he can never be underestimated, but for once, despite the party’s win in Assam, the overall outcome of these elections will leave him with greater political challenges in the months ahead. Amit ShahWhen he first took over as party president, Amit Shah’s core goal for the BJP was to preserve its bastions in the north and the west and expand in the south and east. While the party has undoubtedly expanded, the outcome in Bengal — where the home minister invested tremendous political energy, predicted over 200 seats for the BJP, and along with party chief, JP Nadda, ran the campaign — is a political blow. Neither did the agenda of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, associated closely with the home minister, work in the state. While Shah will be satisfied at the party’s continued hold over Northeast’s most important political state, Assam, and the Congress’s defeat, the party’s southern and eastern expansion plans have become more challenging. Click here for complete coverage of West Bengal assembly electionMamata BanerjeeThere is little doubt that the star of this round of state elections is West Bengal’s chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The only woman CM in India at the moment, Banerjee has also become the only leader who has now fought all three major national political streams — she first fought the Left for decades, ousting it from power in 2011; she fought the BJP, defeating its well oiled machinery in 2021; and she fought the Congress and walked out in the 1990s. Banerjee will emerge from this elections as one of India’s most powerful regional leaders and a possible glue for unity, especially among all the non-Congress and non-BJP political forces. But a new, and more formidable, challenge begins now, with West Bengal witnessing a steady spike in Covid cases and deaths. Rahul GandhiIf there is one leader who should be the most disappointed with the election results on Sunday, it is Rahul Gandhi. The Congress may satisfy itself with the fact that the results have undermined the BJP’s goals — but this does not take away from the fact that the Congress lost Assam, Kerala (where history and the performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha was on its side) and Puducherry, was reduced to a non-entity in Bengal, and only won in Tamil Nadu as a junior partner of an alliance. This is bound to trigger greater uncertainty about the question of leadership in the party — where Rahul Gandhi is not officially president but has been in charge of all major decisions. The party is currently focused on critiquing the Centre for its Covid management, but at some point, now or in the future, voices of disquiet will once again emerge, challenging the continued dominance of the Nehru-Gandhi family and questioning its ability to revive the party’s electoral prospects. MK StalinTamil Nadu lost two of its biggest leaders , J Jayalalithaa and M Karunanidhi, in the past five years, leaving behind a political vacuum. The answer as to who will fill this may well be provided by this assembly poll. MK Stalin, Karunanidhi’s son, who has waited for over four decades for his opportunity to claim political leadership, will finally be the chief minister of one of India’s most important states (in terms of size, political strength, social development indicators, and economic resources). Stalin’s quiet leadership style, smart alliance management, and consistent organisational work has paid off. But in a sign that the electorate remains divided, chief minister EK Palaniswami put up a credible performance, on the back of a better than average governance record. Like Banerjee, Stalin, too will have to tackle the state’s Covid challenge as soon as he takes over. Click here for complete coverage of Tamil Nadu assembly electionPinarayi VijayanCommunist chief ministers are devoted to the party organisation. But only those communist chief ministers who also build up a distinctive leadership style and connect with citizens beyond the party machine have succeeded in India. While this was most obviously true of Jyoti Basu, it is now becoming more representative of Kerala’s chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan — who has succeeded in breaking what many regarded as an almost inviolable rule of state politics, where the Left and Congress replaced each other every five years. The CM led the Left to a victory largely because his government was perceived to have handled both public health (Covid and Nipah) crises and natural disasters (floods) well; he also expanded the party’s social base. As the only one with a proven ability to win elections in his party, Vijayan is arguably now the Left’s most important leader in India. Himanta Biswa SarmaThe former Congress leader who switched to the BJP in the run up to the 2016 elections in Assam, Himanta Biswa Sarma has not only played a critical role in expanding the party in the Northeast but also emerged as a key trouble shooter with formidable election management skills. When the Citizenship (Amendment) Act was being fiercely opposed on Assam’s streets, and it appeared that this issue would defeat the BJP, Sarma worked with the Centre and local administration to neutralise the anger. He also became the most vocal critic of the Opposition alliance, particularly hitting out at Badruddin Ajmal. While Sarma’s unacceptable remarks that there was no Covid in Assam — during the election campaign, to justify the non adherence to public health protocols — will remain a black mark, politically his biggest challenge now is internal. Sarma wants a bigger political role as the state’s chief minister — but will face resistance from the incumbent, Sarbananda Sonowal. Which way the party leadership swings will determine Sarma’s future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assembly-elections-2021-what-it-means-for-key-leaders-101620017520481.html
03-05-2021||India||India registers 368,147 new Covid-19 cases, infection tally nears 20 million||India on Monday reported as many as 368,147 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the preceding 24 hours, pushing the country's total infection tally close to 20 million cases. To be precise, the country's cumulative case count has now reached 19,925,604, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard at 9:15am. As many as 3,417 new coronavirus-related fatalities were also recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the nationwide death toll to 218,959. India is currently dealing with a deadlier, more infectious second Covid-19 wave that sweeps through the nation, crushing its health infrastructure and overburdened frontline medical workers.Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe active coronavirus caseload, which crossed the three-million-mark last Thursday, currently stands at 3,413,642. This accounts for 17.13% of the total confirmed Covid-19 cases in the country. As many as 300,732 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours and so far, and 16,293,003 people in total have recovered from the viral disease, the health ministry’s dashboard displayed. With this, the country’s recovery rate stands at 81.77%, the government said.Monday's Covid-19 numbers, however grim, carry one silver lining -- India's daily coronavirus case surge has been showing a dip, albeit marginal, for two days in a row. The daily spike reached its peak of over four lakh cases on May 1, but came down to 392,488 cases yesterday, and lower still on Monday. However, the rate of new coronavirus infections continues hovering at alarming levels, with newspapers and websites littered with anecdotal reports over the past few weeks suggesting deaths and infections are being widely underreported.Also Read: Maharashtra sees slight dip, records 56,647 fresh Covid casesHospitals treating Covid-19 patients have filled to capacity, medical oxygen supplies have run short and morgues and crematoriums, even in the national capital Delhi, have been swamped. At least 11 states and union territories have imposed some form of coronavirus-necessitated restrictions. A nationwide lockdown on part of the central government, though, still remains out of consideration for now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-registers-368-147-new-covid-19-cases-infection-tally-nears-20-million-101620012274873.html
03-05-2021||India||Maharashtra sees slight dip, records 56,647 fresh Covid cases||Maharashtra witnessed a slight dip in Covid-19 cases on Sunday with 56,647 cases, pushing the tally to 4,722,401. The state had been seeing over 60,000 daily cases in the preceding five days. At 22.01%, the state’s test positivity rate (TPR) on Sunday was higher than that of Saturday (21.9%). The number of tests on Sunday was 257,370, compared to 289,006 on Saturday. Friday’s TPR was 21.68% and the number of tests was 290,207.The state’s Covid death toll is at 70,284 with the addition of 669 deaths on the day.The curve of the Covid-19 cases in the state appears to be stabilising as the daily average of cases dropped to 61,053 in the last one week from April 26 to May 2. The previous week, April 19-April 25, reported a total of 460,689 new Covid-19 cases with a daily average of 65,812 cases.Also Read | DU to postpone final-year examsAccording to the state authorities, the fewer numbers have helped reduce the load on the health infrastructure such as hospital beds, oxygen cylinders, ventilators as well as various medicines which were scarce for the last couple of week.Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research, said that cases have come down this week. “We have seen the new cases stabilising in 19 districts across the state. The numbers will come down further in the next 15 days. The stabilisation will be replicated across the other districts too in the coming days,” he added. “This trend has reduced the load on our medical infrastructure also. There is no problem now with the oxygen supply and people are the hospital beds are available to patients,” said Lahane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-sees-slight-dip-records-56-647-fresh-covid-cases-101620012780075.html
03-05-2021||India||Rain, thunderstorms likely over east, peninsular India for 3-4 days||Widespread rain and thunderstorms are likely over east and Peninsular India for the next 3-4 days, according to the India Meteorological Department.There is likely to be light rain and thunderstorms over the Western Himalayan and adjoining northwest India for the next 3-4 days due to Western Disturbances which are now moving away and strong easterly winds, IMD officials said.A cyclonic circulation is lying over northwest Madhya Pradesh and neighbourhood and a trough (area of low pressure) is running from the circulation to Manipur at lower levels. A trough in westerlies is likely to persist over east India during the next 4-5 days. Under its influence, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall or thunderstorm activity is likely over sub Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim, Assam and Meghalaya and scattered to fairly widespread rest parts of east and northeast India during the next five days.Also Read | Environment ministry eases norms for industry expansionUnder the influence of cyclonic circulation over south Tamil Nadu and neighbourhood and north-south trough/wind discontinuity over south Peninsula at lower levels, light or moderate widespread rain or thunder is also likely over Kerala and Mahe, Lakshadweep, Karnataka; and isolated rain/thundershower over rest of south Peninsular India during next 5 days. Isolated heavy rainfall is also likely over Kerala & Mahe on May 5 and 6 and South Interior Karnataka from May 4 to 6 and over coastal Karnataka on May 5.No heat wave is likely over any part of the country during the next 5 days. Due to high swell waves, sea condition is likely to be rough along and off the west coast Andaman and Nicobar Islands (from ten degree channel to Coco channel) and along and off the coastal areas of south Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Lakshadweep. Fishermen are advised to be cautious while venturing into these areas. Heat waves are unlikely anywhere in the country for five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-thunderstorms-likely-over-east-peninsular-india-for-3-4-days-101620010919848.html
03-05-2021||NA||Covid-19 LIVE updates: Punjab reports 6,798 new cases, 157 deaths in last 24 hrs||As India battles the deadlier, more infectious second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the rate of new infections continues hovering at alarming levels. On Monday, the country recorded as many as 368,147 new cases in 24 hours, pushing the total infection tally close to the 20-million mark, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. Although grim, Monday's daily spike indicates a sharp decline from the nearly four lakh new cases recorded a day ago. Daily deaths, too, came down to 3,417 from the record 3,689 new fatalities recorded on Sunday. With this, the nationwide death toll has now reached 218,959.Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayHospitals treating Covid-19 patients have filled to capacity, medical oxygen supplies have run short and morgues and crematoriums have been swamped. At least 11 states and union territories have imposed some form of coronavirus-necessitated restrictions. A nationwide lockdown on part of the central government, however, still remains out of consideration for now.On the other hand, several countries including the United States have shipped in critical oxygen equipment, therapeutics, and raw materials for Covid-19 vaccine production to help India tide over the current coronavirus crisis.Covid-19 dashboard:Total cases: 19,925,604Active cases: 3,413,642Discharged patients: 16,293,003Deaths: 218,959Total vaccinations: 157,198,207Recovery rate: 81.77%Catch all the latest news and updates on Monday (May 3, 2021) related to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) developments in India and the world, on this portal at the Hindustan Times.Follow all the updates here:Assam reports 4,489 new Covid-19 cases, 29 deathsAssam reports 4,489 new #COVID19 cases, 2,534 discharges and 29 deaths.Active cases: 26,477Death toll: 1,347 pic.twitter.com/IxZ4cuu8TFAssam reported 4,489 new Covid-19 cases and 29 deaths (death toll reached 1,347). Active caseload reached 26,477, reports ANI.BMC releases list of Covid-19 vaccination centres for second doseDear 45 +s, healthcare & frontline workers Here’s a list of centres where you you can walk-in tomorrow for your second doseDo check the vaccines available at the respective centres. Please carry your first dose certificate/SMS too#MyBMCVaccinationUpdate#WeShallOvercome pic.twitter.com/4RaNERH9ROThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) released list of Covid-19 vaccination centres administering second doses for people over 45 years of age, healthcare and frontline workers.Chhattisgarh reports 15,274 new Covid-19 cases, 266 deaths in last 24 hoursChhattisgarh reports 15,274 new #COVD19 cases, 1,088 recoveries and 266 deaths in the last 24 hoursActive cases: 1,20,977Death toll: 9,275 pic.twitter.com/DMr8yCsyLfWith 15,274 new Covid-19 cases and 266 deaths, Chhattisgarh's death toll reached 9,275, reports ANI.J&K reports over 3,700 new Covid-19 cases, 51 deathsJammu and Kashmir records 3,733 fresh COVID-19 cases, 51 deaths, say officialsJammu and Kashmir reported 3,733 new Covid-19 cases and 51 deaths, reports PTI citing officials.Madhya Pradesh reports 12,062 cases, 93 deaths; active caseload reaches 85,750Madhya Pradesh reports 12062 new #COVID19 cases, 13408 recoveries, and 93 deaths today. Total cases: 6,00,430Death toll: 5,905Active cases: 85,750 pic.twitter.com/qP4J2pHqKRMadhya Pradesh reported 12,062 new Covid-19 cases and 93 deaths taking the cases tally to 600,430 and death toll to 5,905, reports ANI.Punjab logs 6,798 new Covid-19 cases, 157 deaths in last 24 hoursPunjab reports 6,798 fresh COVID-19 cases, 6,016 discharges, and 157 deaths in the last 24 hoursActive cases: 60,709Total discharges: 3,21,861Death toll: 9,472 pic.twitter.com/l6nH2pCk20Punjab reported 6,798 new Covid-19 cases and 157 deaths in last 24 hours. Active cases in the state stands at 60,709, reports ANI.Himachal Pradesh reports 2,630 new Covid-19 cases, 43 deaths in last 24 hoursCOVID19 | Himachal Pradesh reports 2630 new cases, 1526 recoveries and 43 deaths during the past 24 hours in the state pic.twitter.com/FDWxZOJ30jHimachal Pradesh reported 2,630 new Covid-19 cases and 43 deaths in the last 24 hours. Also, 1,526 people recovered from the disease in the time period, reports ANI.More cases of Covid-19 reported globally in past 2 weeks than in first 6 months of pandemic, says WHO chief"More cases of #COVID19 have been reported globally in the past two weeks than during the first six months of the pandemic."-@DrTedrosDirector-General of the world health organization (WHO) Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said that more cases of Covid-19 have been reported in the world in the past two weeks than in the first six months of the pandemic.TN reports over 20,000 new Covid-19 cases, 122 deaths in last 24 hoursTamil Nadu reports 20,952 new COVID-19 cases, 18,016 recoveries, and 122 deaths in the last 24 hours Active cases: 1,23,258Total recoveries: 10,90,338Death toll: 14,468 pic.twitter.com/hHwto6GG61Tamil Nadu reported 20,952 new Covid-19 cases and 122 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the state's tally to 1,228,064 cases and death toll tol 14,468, reports ANI.Manipur reports 362 new Covid-19 cases, 7 deaths in last 24 hoursManipur reports 362 new COVID positive cases, 7 deaths and 107 recoveries in the last 24 hours. Total cases at 32,523 and active cases at 2,071 pic.twitter.com/lJ7coDqqRfWith 362 new Covid-19 cases and seven deaths in the last 24 hours, Manipur's tally reached 32,523, reports ANI. The state currently has 2,071 active cases.Maharashtra logs 48,621 new cases; 2,624 cases reported in MumbaiWith 48,621 new Covid-19 cases and 567 deaths, Maharashtra's tally reached 4,771,022 cases and death toll climbed to 70,851.Mumbai saw 2,624 new cases of the disease and 78 fatalities which took the city's tally to 658,621 cases and death toll to 13,372.Karnataka logs 44,438 new Covid-19 cases, 239 deathsToday's Media Bulletin 03/05/2021Please click on the link below to view bulletin.https://t.co/QH7bgISgpo @CMofKarnataka @BSYBJP @mla_sudhakar @drashwathcn @RAshokaBJP @BSBommai @CPBlr @PIBBengaluru @KarnatakaVarthe @PIBBengaluru @BBMPCOMM @BlrCityPolice @blrcitytraffic pic.twitter.com/3SLjIkIRbKKarnataka recorded 44,438 new Covid-19 cases and 239 deaths as the state's tally reached 1,646,303 cases and the death toll climbed to 16,250, a bulletin from the state health department showed.Andhra Pradesh reports 18,792 new Covid-19 cases, 71 deaths in last 24 hoursAndhra Pradesh reports 18,972 new COVID19 cases, 71 deaths in the last 24 hours; Total positive cases in the state now 11,63,994 with 1,51,852 active cases pic.twitter.com/SMTmK1w2JYWith 18,792 new Covid-19 cases and 71 deaths in the last 24 hours, Andhra Pradesh's tally reached 1,163,994 and death toll climbed to 8,207, reports ANI.Rajasthan reports over 17,000 new cases, 154 deaths in last 24 hoursRajasthan reports 17,296 new COVID-19 cases, 11,949 recoveries, and 154 deaths in the last 24 hours Active cases: 1,94,371Total recoveries: 4,52,164Death toll: 4,712 pic.twitter.com/OMdRaEJBdYRajasthan's Covid-19 tally reached 651,247 cases and death toll climbed to 4,712 after the state reported 17,296 new cases and 154 deaths in the last 24 hours, reports ANI.Chandigarh's Covid-19 tally crosses 45,000-mark with 890 new casesWith 890 new Covid-19 cases, Chandigarh's cases tally went past the 45,000-mark and currently stands at 45,196, reports ANI.More supplies to come, focus on oxygen, related equipment: EU ambassador to IndiaWe expect more supplies to come in the days to come. We are in touch with the Indian government, as of now we are focusing on Oxygen and drugs: Ugo Astuto, Ambassador of European Union to IndiaEuropean Union's ambassador to India Ugo Astuto said that more supplies are expected to arrive in India and the focus is on oxygen and related equipment, reports ANI.12 states now jabbing people in 18-44 years age group, says govtTwelve states have started COVID19 vaccination for those in the age group of 18-44 years from May 1: Lav Agarwal, Union Health Ministry Joint Secretary pic.twitter.com/2G6FMmtyiMTwelve states have started the Covid-19 vaccination for people in the 18 to 44 years age group, Lav Agarwal, joint secretary of the Union health ministry said, reports ANI.12 states have over 100,000 active Covid-19 cases: Centre#IndiaFightsCorona:📍 India snapshot - State wise #ActiveCases as on 3rd May, 2021.- Joint Secretary, @MoHFW_INDIA #Unite2FightCorona #StaySafe pic.twitter.com/OzCYIl4bAtThe Union health ministry said that 12 states have more than 100,000 active Covid-19 cases while seven states have 50,000 to 100,0000 active case. Also, 17 states have less than 50,000 active cases.Mamatam Banerjee declares journalists as Covid-19 warriorsI declare all journalists as COVID warriors: West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee pic.twitter.com/pxNN7mlnKwWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee declared all journalists as Covid-19 warriors, reports ANI.UP government extends 'corona curfew' by 2 more days, effective until 7am on Thursday nowThe Uttar Pradesh state government ordered the extension of the ongoing partial corona curfew by two more days until 7am on Thursday.PM Modi thanks EU Commission leader for support, assistance to India's efforts against Covid-19Spoke to President of the EU Commission @vonderleyen and thanked EU for support and assistance to India’s COVID response. We discussed India-EU Leaders’ Meeting on 8 May. I am confident that the Meeting will provide a new momentum to our Strategic Partnership.Prime Minister Narendra Modi thanked EU Commission president Ursula von der Leyen for Europe's support and assistance to India's efforts against Covid-19.Govt data shows states with maximum consumption, availability of Covid-19 vaccinesGlance through the latest stats of the #COVIDVaccine consumption & availability as on 3rd May 2021. Visit: https://t.co/CKhgW2LA7d for latest updates on #COVID19. #IndiaFightsCorona #Unite2FightCorona#LargestVaccinationDrive pic.twitter.com/6IXhD2iUWaThe central government released data showing the consumption so far and the availability of Covid-19 vaccines with each state.25 flights, 300 tonnes cargo: How Delhi airport handled Covid relief over 5 daysThe Delhi international airport handled 25 flights carrying 300 tonnes of Covid-19 relief cargo in the last five days, its operator, DIAL, said on Monday. The airport has set up a 3,500 square meter dedicated logistics facility, called 'Jeevoday warehouse', for interim storage and distribution of the relief materials, the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) said in a statement. Read MoreThird 'Oxygen Express' to reach Delhi tomorrowThe third 'Oxygen Express' train for Delhi with 120 tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) is scheduled to reach the national capital on Tuesday morning.Pfizer donates USD 70 million to India as coronavirus aidAmerican pharmaceutical corporation Pfizer has donated $70 million worth of medicines to India as coronavirus aid in view of the recent surge in Covid-19 cases in the country, said company CEO Albert BourlaDelhi CM to chair meeting on home isolationDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will on Monday chair a meeting of government officers regarding Covid-19 necessitated home isolation. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and the chief secretary are also supposed to be present, reported ANI.24 dead at Karnataka hospital due to oxygen shortage: ReportThe incident took place at the Chamarajanagar district hospital in Karnataka. Many of the patients who died reportedly due to a lack of oxygen and other reasons were undergoing treatment for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at the hospital.'Corona curfew' in UP extended till 7am on May 6Partial 'corona curfew' imposed in Uttar Pradesh extended till 7 am on May 6: ACS Information Navneet Sehgal(file photo) pic.twitter.com/ntXSQESTYBThe partial 'corona curfew', that was imposed in Uttar Pradesh, has now been extended till 7am on May 6, said assistant chief secretary (Information) Navneet Sehgal on Monday.Oxygen plant set up at Covid-19 health centre in DelhiDelhi: Oxygen plant set up at COVID-19 Health Centre in Commonwealth Games Village Sports Complex. "This plant can supply oxygen to 18-20 patients simultaneously. The plant has been donated by HCL Foundation," says Dr Anurag Mishra. pic.twitter.com/PdQvwhjhZzAn oxygen plant has been set up at a Covid-19 health centre in the Commonwealth Games Village Sports Complex. "This plant can supply oxygen to 18-20 patients simultaneously. The plant has been donated by HCL Foundation," said Dr Anurag Mishra.People aged 18 years or above queue up outside a Covid-19 vaccination centre in DelhiDelhi: People above 18 years of age queue up outside a vaccination centre in Ashok Nagar area pic.twitter.com/fVGl6Xt1lcPeople above 18 years of age were seen on Monday queuing up outside a Covid-19 vaccination centre in Delhi's Ashok Nagar area.Railways says it has deployed nearly 4,000 isolation coaches across IndiaThe Union ministry of railways on Monday said that the Indian Railways has deployed nearly 4,000 isolation coaches with almost 64,000 beds across the country.India registers 368,147 new Covid-19 cases, infection tally nears 20 millionIndia on Monday reported as many as 368,147 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the preceding 24 hours, pushing the country's total infection tally close to 20 million cases. To be precise, the country's cumulative case count has now reached 19,925,604, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard. As many as 3,417 new coronavirus-related fatalities were also recorded, taking the nationwide death toll to 218,959. Read MoreDRDO hands over 50 oxygen cylinders to Telangana hospitalThe Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has handed over 50 oxygen cylinders to the Gandhi Hospital in Telangana's Secunderabad, the department of defence informed on Monday. Union minister Kishan Reddy was present during the handing over of the cylinders on Sunday, it added.Notably, these oxygen cylinders are of 46.7 liters water capacity each and can be pressurised up to 150 bars, the DRDO said.Delhi L-G seeks action plan on shortage of beds, oxygen amid Covid-19 surgeThe lieutenant governor of Delhi, Anil Baijal, on Sunday asked concerned departments and agencies to submit an action plan with regard to the availability of hospital beds, medicines, medical oxygen as well as increasing the capacity of crematoriums and graveyards amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in the national capital. Read More(Reporting by ANI)How many dead are there, really?Delhi’s crematoriums running out of wood, underreported deaths from Bihar and Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh — newspapers and websites (including HT) have been peppered with anecdotal reports over the past few weeks that show that many states are under-reporting the number of coronavirus disease or Covid-19 deaths.Is it twice the reported number, five times, thirty? Read MoreOpposition parties ask Centre to launch mass vaccination drive free-of-chargeLeaders of 13 opposition parties in a joint statement asked the Central government to launch a free mass vaccination drive across the country in view of the unprecedented surge in #COVID19 cases. pic.twitter.com/By4y0gaA5DThe leaders of 13 opposition parties in India have penned a joint statement, asking the central government to launch a free mass vaccination drive across India in view of the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases. It was recommended that a budgetary allocation of ₹35,000 be utilised for this purpose.Among the signatories included the leaders of a number of regional parties in states, such as Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee, Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, and Samajwadi Party head Akhilesh Yadav. Congress chief Sonia Gandhi also signed the joint statement. Indian Air Force C-17s airlift cryogenic oxygen containers to meet critical demandIndian Air Force C-17s are airlifting 4 cryogenic oxygen containers from Frankfurt in Germany to Hindon airbase in Delhi and 450 oxygen cylinders from Brize Norton in the UK to the Chennai airbase in Tamil Nadu: Indian Air Force pic.twitter.com/BCcAL3SPmIThe Indian Air Force, on Monday morning, said that its C-17 aircraft is bringing four cryogenic oxygen containers from Germany's Frankfurt to the Hindon airbase in Delhi. 450 oxygen cylinders are also being airlifted from Brize Norton in the United Kingdom to the Chennai airbase in Tamil Nadu, it said.On a more domestic basis, the C-17 aircrafts are also carrying oxygen containers from one state to another. On Sunday, the IAF C-17 airlifted two cryogenic oxygen containers from Chandigarh to Bhubaneswar, two from Jodhpur to Jamnagar, two from Hindan to Ranchi, two from Indore to Jamnagar, and two more from Hindon to Bhubaneswar, the air force said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-covid-19-india-world-death-toll-may-3-2021-latest-news-live-updates-101620006746122.html
03-05-2021||India||India's richest banker urges curtailing economic activity to stop Covid-19||India’s wealthiest banker, Uday Kotak, implored authorities to consider curbing economic activity in a bid to counter the coronavirus crisis.The South Asian nation is suffering the world’s worst Covid-19 outbreak, with a daily infection rate surpassing 400,000 and more than 3,000 deaths every day. India’s struggling to secure supplies from abroad after its hospitals became overwhelmed and oxygen ran out in some parts of the country.“At this critical juncture when toll of lives is rising, CII urges the strongest national steps including curtailing economic activity to reduce suffering,” Kotak, president of the Confederation of Indian Industry and chief executive of Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd., India’s third-largest lender by market value, said in a tweet.The advice is a shift for the CII, whose members had in April indicated through a survey that they were against lockdowns. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who last year imposed a strict lockdown on short notice, has also asked states to avoid shutting businesses this time around. Since his speech to the nation, though, India’s daily official death toll has increased by more than 1,000 and millions more have been sickened.Other CII suggestions included:“Our maxim should be ‘no one is safe, unless everyone is safe,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-richest-banker-urges-curtailing-economic-activity-to-stop-covid19-101620005978383.html
03-05-2021||India||Covid is neither first nor last health disaster we’ll experience||We have entered yet another Covid-19 year, worse than we imagined. Clearly, home will be the workplace of the future. Work-from-home has been the reality of millions of home-based workers, but now, as the middle class faces this reality, let’s amplify the need for greener, safer housing.Covid-19 is neither the first nor the last health disaster we will experience. Climate change will present Indians with heat stress and freak weather events. More of us will have to stay home for reasons beyond our control. How should housing adapt to that?In slums, where about 40% of the urban poor live, we need isolation facilities because it’s impossible at home. Community centres, currently in pathetic state where they exist, are essential for people to take shelter, meet and children to study.Alternative cooling, whether solar powered or an architectural innovation, will become lifelines. Villages must similarly reorganise and adapt, using local knowledge. Growing some food at least is essential for a sliver of food security.Housing for the haves must follow similar concepts but community spaces are even more important to counter modern isolation. All spaces must collectively accommodate local sewage treatment, waste and even off-grid electricity.Future crises may paralyse city infrastructure. Decentralization of some pollution control can reduce the risks to our health.There is no place for NIMBY going ahead. The time to show off the very limited green LEED ratings is over. Let’s build and retrofit in a way that is genuinely green for our uncertain future.The author is the founder and director of Chintan Environmental Research and Action Group||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-is-neither-first-nor-last-health-disaster-we-ll-experience-101619999109611.html
03-05-2021||India||Supreme Court pulls up Central govt over differential Covid-19 vaccine pricing||The current vaccination policy would “result in a detriment to the right to public health,” said the Supreme Court as it put the central government in the dock over differential pricing of the vaccines between the Centre and states.A bench, headed by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, maintained that “there are several aspects of the vaccine pricing policy adopted by the Central government which require that policy be revisited,” in particular the rationale behind letting the manufacturers determine the vaccine prices for states and other private entities.“All vaccines, whether in the quantity of 50% purchased by the Central government or the remaining 50%, are to be used for vaccinating citizens. The end use is the same,” noted the bench, adding that to compel the states to negotiate with manufacturers on the ground of promoting competition and making it attractive for new vaccine manufactures will result in a serious detriment to those in the age group of 18 to 44 years, who will be vaccinated by the state governments.The bench, which included justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, further underscored that the social strata of this age group comprised persons who are Bahujans or belong to other under privileged and marginalised groups.The court asserted that vaccinations being provided to citizens constitute a valuable public good and thus, discrimination cannot be made between different classes of citizens who are similarly circumstanced on the ground that while the Centre will carry the burden of providing free vaccines for the 45 years and above population, the state governments will discharge the responsibility of the 18 to 44 age group on such commercial terms as they may negotiate.“While we are not passing a conclusive determination on the constitutionality of the current policy, the manner in which the current policy has been framed would prima facie result in a detriment to the right to public health which is an integral element of Article 21 (right to life) of the Constitution. Therefore, we believe that the Central government should consider revisiting its current vaccine policy to ensure that it withstands the scrutiny of Articles 14 (equality) and Article 21 of the Constitution,” said the bench, in its order which was released on Sunday evening.The bench asked the Union government to consider procuring vaccines for all the states at the same price, which will then be liable to lift the allocated quantities, and respond by May 10, the next date of hearing.In its order, the top court has also directed the Centre and states to ensure that they immediately cease any direct or indirect threats of prosecution and arrest to citizens who air grievances or those that are attempting to help fellow citizens receive medical aid, failing which the court shall resort to contempt proceedings.Preventing clampdowns on sharing of information on online platforms, it said, is not just in the interest of individuals sharing the information, but the larger democratic structures of our nation.“Without the ready availability of such information, it is entirely possible that the Covid-19 pandemic may turn into a tragedy worse than what it already is,” noted the bench.Clamping down on such information, the order added, “will attract a coercive exercise of jurisdiction by this court”.Calling the Covid situation in Delhi “heart rending”, the court also directed the Central government to ensure the national capital gets the increased demand of 700 metric ton of medical oxygen per day before the Monday midnight.It underscored that 490 MT of oxygen was apparently not adequate for Delhi in view of the city government’s repeated demands for more quantity.The bench rejected a submission of solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who said on behalf of the Centre that no revised projection had been received from the Delhi government nor had it been able to offtake the allocated quantity of oxygen from the supply point due to its own logistical problems.It further noted that there is no national policy on admissions to hospitals while getting a bed has become one of the biggest challenges being faced by most individuals during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We direct the Central government to frame a policy in this regard, in exercise of its statutory powers under the Disaster Management Aact, which will be followed nationally. The presence of such a policy shall ensure that no one in need is turned away from a hospital, due to no fault of their own,” it said.Till the time a policy is in place, the court said the Centre must issue guidelines on admission to policies, and directed all states and union territories to follow these guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-pulls-up-central-govt-over-differential-covid-19-vaccine-pricing-101619997534079.html
03-05-2021||India||Uttarakhand adds 5606 fresh Covid-19 cases, 71 people succumb to infection||Uttarakhand on Sunday reported 5606 fresh cases taking the state’s tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,91,620. The state also reported the death of 71 Covid-19 positive patients, taking the total death toll to 2802. Out of 1,91,620, a total of 1,31,114 people have recovered successfully, taking the recovery rate in the state to 68.44%. According to the health bulletin released by the state health department on Sunday evening, Uttarakhand added 5606 cases including a maximum of 2580 cases from Dehradun followed by 628 from Haridwar district. Dehradun district has reported the maximum 66,902 Covid-19 cases so far followed by Haridwar (33,658 ) and Nainital (23,786). The positivity rate in the state has now reached 4.99%. The active cases in the state have now surged to 53,612. The state has so far tested over 38.41 lakh samples of which results of over 23,000 are awaited. Uttarakhand currently has currently 282 containment zones in 12 districts including the maximum 71 in Dehradun, 7 in Haridwar and 43 in Nainital district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-adds-5606-fresh-covid-19-cases-71-people-succumb-to-infection-101619988959040.html
03-05-2021||India||Siddaramaiah slams Centre over surge in Covid cases||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah must take responsibility for Covid-19 deaths after holding several election rallies in West Bengal, former Karnataka chief minister and leader of opposition Siddaramaiah said on Sunday. In a series of tweets, Siddaramaiah said: “@narendramodi & @AmitShah should take responsibility for the loss in West Bengal and also for the death of many innocent people due to #Covid19.” “@BJP4India ignored all expert warnings related to #Covid19 & went ahead by pressurising ECI to conduct elections in West Bengal. It is their selfish motive that led to the rise in #Covid19 cases,” he added.All political parties have come under harsh criticism for organising various poll rallies amid the Covid-19 surge. Daily coronavirus infections have zoomed 75 times in Bengal ever since the Election Commission of India (ECI) announced assembly elections on February 26, Hindustan Times had reported earlier. Siddaramaiah’s remarks also came on a day when the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress registered a landslide victory to retain power in Bengal. In Tamil Nadu too, the saffron party which was in alliance with the All India Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, was defeated by the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK). Meanwhile, the saffron party won two out of three bypoll seats in Karnataka. Polling for these seats was held on April 17.The B S Yediyurappa-led BJP won a hard fought battle in Belagavi where its earlier margins of around 400,000 in the 2019 polls was reduced to just over 5,000 against the Congress.In Basavakalyan, the party secured a comfortable victory after Sharanu Salagar defeated Mala B Narayanrao of the Congress. However, the party lost the Maski seat after Partapgouda Patil was defeated by Congress’ Basanagouda Turvihal.Patil was one of the 17 legislators who defected from the Congress and helped Yediyurappa ride to power in 2019.“I thank the people of Karnataka, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand for blessing the BJP in various by-polls. Our party will keep working for people’s welfare. Gratitude to the BJP Karyakartas for their untiring determination,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/siddaramaiah-slams-centre-over-surge-in-covid-cases-101619986138088.html
03-05-2021||India||Once Mamata Banerjee’s victory ground against Left, Nandigram welcomes BJP||Kolkata: East Midnapore district’s Nandigram — where chief minister Mamata Banerjee contested against her protégé-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari — emerged as the biggest head-turner among all the assembly seats in Bengal on Sunday, after Banerjee was defeated by 1,956 votes. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) challenged the verdict and demanded a recount, a request that the Election Commission had not accepted, as of 9pm. “We accept the people’s verdict, but we will move the court against the EC as there were many irregularities during the counting of votes. They (EC) made contradictory announcements, in between which, the EC’s server went down. The verdict does not match the voting pattern in adjacent constituencies and the rest of Bengal. How can there be so much of mismatch?” Banerjee told the media at her south Kolkata residence. Adhikari was not available for comment but Jay Prakash Majumdar, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) state vice-president said, “Adhikari put up a brave fight. We congratulate him. We will learn from our mistakes but this election will remain as a milestone as the BJP has become the main opposition party in Bengal.” Nandigram went to the polls on April 1 and emerged as epicentre of the battle between the TMC and BJP. On the day the constituency went to the polls, Banerjee alleged that votes were being rigged, visited a booth and stayed there for around two hours. The contest was marked by high-pitch drama even before the election schedule was announced on February 26. Making a move that political observers described as masterstroke, Banerjee, while addressing a rally at Nandigram on January 19, announced that she would contest from there against Adhikari. Adhikari, who resigned from the Nandigram seat and joined the BJP in the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah on December 19, accepted the challenge while addressing a rally in south Kolkata, close to the chief minister’s home. “Write this down and mention the date and time. I will leave politics if I cannot defeat her by half lakh (50,000) votes,” he said. Banerjee took on the BJP from a wheelchair because of a left foot injury she suffered in Nandigram on March 10, hours after filing her nomination papers. After the incident, she alleged that some people intentionally closed the door of her SUV while she was standing on the footboard. The EC, after conducting an inquiry, dismissed the allegation but pulled up several officers and transferred those who were in charge of Banerjee’s security. With about 27% of the 2,57,299 Nandigram voters being Muslims, religion was seen by the BJP as the deciding factor. The assembly segment’s total population is 3,56,382. The seat was in control of the Marxists from 1969 to 2009 with the only exception being the 1977 polls when the Janata Party emerged victorious. Adhikari, who underwent training at Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) camps in his youth, was conscious of the political and demographic equations and repeatedly referred to the chief minister as “begum” (Muslim empress) in all his speeches and accused her of appeasing Muslims. In the 2016 assembly election, Adhikari secured 67% votes in Nandigram while the BJP got only around 5% but the latter made deep inroads in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and won 29% votes in this assembly segment, nibbling primarily into the Left’s vote share. The BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats that year. On Sunday, Minakshi Mukherjee, the young CPI(M) candidate, ended third in the race. “Adhikari won because he was only BJP candidate who managed to polarize Hindu votes against the TMC. This did not happen elsewhere,” said columnist and political analyst Suvashis Maitra. The saffron camp left no stone unturned to keep Banerjee under pressure. “If Mamata Didi is defeated by a mammoth margin in Nandigram, the Bengal polls are won. That is the easiest way to usher ‘asol paribartan’ (real change) in Bengal,” union minister Amit Shah said after leading a colourful roadshow in the rural seat on March 30. Actor Mithun Chakraborty, the BJP’s star campaigner, followed Shah with a second roadshow on the same day. Banerjee, while addressing a rally on the last day of campaigning, accused the BJP of “bringing in ruffians from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.” She also targeted Adhikari, repeatedly calling him a “gaddar” (traitor). Banerjee alleged that Adhikari’s men were planning to create communal disturbance in Nandigram and policemen from BJP-ruled states were “terrorizing” voters and “distributing money from the PM Cares fund.” A long resistance against the erstwhile Marxist government’s futile bid to acquire farmland for a chemical hub helped Banerjee come to power. Whether it is the gunning down of 14 villagers by the police on March 14, 2007, or, pitched battles that continued for three years between members of the Bhoomi Uchched Protirodh Committee (BUPC) and Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI (M), cadres, Banerjee remained in the limelight by supporting the farmers. During the campaign, Adhikari claimed it was he who stayed with the agitators while Banerjee made occasional trips from Kolkata. Banerjee told voters that Adhikari was lying. She even alleged that Adhikari and his father had a role in the killing of the 14 villagers on March 14, 2007. Her statement triggered a fresh debate with Adhikari questioning the TMC chief’s decision to induct retired police officer Satyajit Bandopadhyay who was among the officers sent to Nandigram on the day the villagers were killed. For Adhikari, a son of the soil, the election was an acid test. His brother Dibyendu, the TMC Lok Sabha member from Tamluk, was seen at BJP rallies. Soumendu, the youngest sibling, switched sides in December last year. Their father Sisir Adhikari, the octogenarian Lok Sabha member from East Midnapore’s Contai, joined the BJP on March 21. Nandigram is part of the Tamluk Lok Sabha seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/once-mamata-banerjee-s-victory-ground-against-left-nandigram-welcomes-bjp-101619986079524.html
03-05-2021||India||How Didi can remain CM despite losing Nandigram||New Delhi: Even as Mamata Banerjee has lost the assembly election in Nandigram to BJP’s Suvendu AdhikarI -- a loss her party has said she will challenge — she can easily remain the chief minister of West Bengal. Article 164 of the Indian Constitution lays down the conditions of taking oath as a minister. Article 164(4) says, “A Minister who for any period of six consecutive months is not a member of the Legislature of the State shall at the expiration of that period cease to be a Minister.” In other words, Banerjee will get six months to get elected from any Bengal constituency in a by-poll to hold on to the CM’s chair. In 2011, when Banerjee took oath as the CM for the first time, she was a member of Parliament as she didn’t contest the assembly elections. After a few months, she got elected from Bhabanipur. Congress leader and legal expert Abhishek Singhvi said, “Constitutionally, legally and morally, no one can or should object to Mamata Banerjee becoming the CM and getting elected within six months. If anyone objects, it would not only be churlish but would also betray a lack of knowledge of the Indian constitution.” The TMC’s win is its third successive one in the state and tightens Banerjee’s hold over West Bengal, something that seemed tenuous just a few weeks ago. It also strengthens her standing in the national scheme of things in a non-BJP, non-Congress grouping. The fact that she held off the challenge from a pantheon of national leaders including Prime Minister Narendra Modi -- it was truly a PM vs CM battle -- is certain to add to her image as a fighter. An emphasis on welfare schemes (especially those targetting women), and a campaign focused on portraying Banerjee as “Bengal’s daughter” helped overcome anti-incumbency, and a spate of defections engineered by the BJP, including of her one-time protege Adhikari, who went on to defeat her from Nandigram. Much like for state assemblies, a similar provision of becoming minister first and getting elected later also exists in Parliament. Article 75 (5) of the Constitution said, A Minister who for any period of six consecutive months is not a member of either House of Parliament shall at the expiration of that period cease to be a Minister.” In 2004, BJP’s Smriti Irani became the union minister even after losing the election. Earlier during the UPA, Shivraj Patil had become the union minister after losing in the Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-didi-can-remain-cm-despite-losing-nandigram-101619986018021.html
03-05-2021||India||Covid norms flouted at UP counting centres||Despite restrictions in place to prevent the spread of Covid-19, large gatherings of candidates and their supporters were witnessed at most of the 829 centres where the counting of votes for the three-tier panchayat polls was underway in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday.Police personnel were seen having a tough time managing the crowd, even as the State Election Commission (SEC) on Sunday said the final results were expected to be available after Monday noon.“As per the information available till now, as many as 16,510 village pradhans, 112,358 village ward members and 35,812 kshetra panchayat members have been declared elected so far,” a spokesman for the commission said in a written statement on Sunday evening.An SEC official said, “The counting of votes has begun at all the centres after preparing bundles of ballot papers.” He said that all measures were being taken to enforce the Covid-19 protocols.As per the order issued earlier, candidates and their agents were allowed to enter the counting centres only if they have tested negative for Covid-19 in the 48 hours prior to the commencement of the counting process or taken both doses of the vaccine.However, physical distancing norms were flouted at most of the counting centres in Agra, Kasganj, Etah, Firozabad and Aligarh on Sunday. In Etah, supporters of two candidates came to blows as the situation escalated and it was brought under control by the police, who disallowed victory processions. The Supreme Court on Saturday had refused to stay the counting process. In a special urgent hearing, a bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and Hrishikesh Roy passed the order after taking note of several notifications and assurances of the SEC that the Covid-19 protocols will be followed.The SEC official cited above said that only the overall results would be declared, and no party-wise results would be made available.“In UP, panchayat polls are not fought on party lines even though many political parties do back candidates and claim their victory accordingly,” he said. The counting will determine the fate of over 1.2 million candidates who were in the fray for the posts of village pradhans, village ward members, kshetra panchayat ward members and zila panchayat ward members. Around 120 million rural voters participated in the four-phase voting exercise that ended on April 29. Voting for all the posts was held by ballot papers across 203,050 polling booths, comprising more than 80,000 polling centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-norms-flouted-at-up-counting-centres-101619985898576.html
03-05-2021||India||Jaishankar set for G7 ministers’ meeting in UK||External affairs minister S Jaishankar will on Monday begin a four-day visit to the United Kingdom to participate in the G7 foreign ministers’ meeting and to hold bilateral meetings with British interlocutors. The UK is hosting the first in-person G7 foreign ministers meeting in two years, in London, from May 3 to 5. India, Australia, South Korea, South Africa and the chair and secretary general of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) have been invited as guests. Jaishankar will “thereafter undertake a bilateral visit to the UK”, the external affairs ministry said. This will be Jaishankar’s first visit abroad since India was hit by a second wave of coronavirus infections. It will come ahead of a virtual meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his British counterpart Boris Johnson on Tuesday. The G7 foreign ministers’ meeting will focus on geopolitical priorities, such as Russia, China and Iran, the British foreign office said in a tweet. It will also take up global challenges, including climate change, the Covid-19 pandemic and famine. “It will also draw on broader experience with guest delegates from the Indo-Pacific region,” the foreign office added. British authorities have put in place strict Covid-secure measures for the meeting. There will be daily Covid-19 tests throughout the meeting, including self-test kits and an on-site testing facility, strict guidelines on social distancing, with limitations on the size of delegations. The delegates will be separated by perspex screens. The meeting is a “crucial opportunity to revitalise in-person diplomacy and will look to establish a shared approach among the world’s leading democracies on equitable vaccine access, to agree global girls’ education targets, rigorous goals on climate finance and new measures to prevent famine and food insecurity”, the foreign office said. The last G7 foreign ministers meeting was held at Dinard and Saint-Malo in France in April 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-set-for-g7-ministers-meeting-in-uk-101619985898021.html
03-05-2021||India||Centre, Cong spar over O2 supply to embassies||New Delhi: The government and the Congress were embroiled in a spat on Sunday over the supply of oxygen to two foreign missions in New Delhi, with external affairs minister S Jaishankar accusing the main opposition party of indulging in “cheap publicity”.The war of words erupted after posts on social media on the supply of oxygen cylinders to the Philippines embassy on Saturday and the New Zealand high commission on Sunday. The Youth Congress, which has played a key role in responding to urgent requests for oxygen, posted videos of its members delivering oxygen cylinders to both missions.Jaishankar said the external affairs ministry ascertained that there are no Covid-19 cases in the Philippines embassy and the matter was tantamount to “unsolicited supply”. “MEA checked with the Philippines Embassy. This was an unsolicited supply as they had no Covid cases. Clearly for cheap publicity by you know who. Giving away cylinders like this when there are people in desperate need of oxygen is simply appalling,” he tweeted.Jaishankar was responding to a post by senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh, who tweeted: “While I thank @IYC for its stellar efforts, as an Indian citizen I’m stunned that the youth wing of the opposition party is attending to SOS calls from foreign embassies. Is the MEA sleeping @DrSJaishankar ?” The minister added in another tweet: “Jairamji, MEA never sleeps; our people know across the world. MEA also never fakes; we know who does.” External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi, in a statement, indicated that there should be no hoarding of essential supplies such as oxygen by foreign missions. Bagchi said the chief of protocol and heads of regional divisions in the ministry are in “continuous touch” with high commissions and embassies, and the ministry is “responding to their medical demands, especially those related to Covid”. “This includes facilitating their hospital treatment. Given the pandemic situation, all are urged not to hoard essential supplies, including oxygen,” he added.It was not immediately clear whether any mission had approached the external affairs ministry for oxygen or assistance in obtaining hospital beds. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that some foreign missions had faced problems in recent days in arranging hospital beds in Delhi and Gurugram for local staffers who tested positive for Covid-19. The people added there were instances of some missions facing problems in procuring medicines such as Remdesivir and having to buy them for more than ₹30,000 a dose. The price of different versions of Remdesivir ranges from ₹900 to about ₹3,500. Meanwhile, Indian Youth Congress president BV Srinivas told reporters that a volunteer had been contacted by someone acting on behalf of the Philippines embassy for the supply of oxygen cylinders. The person said oxygen was needed for two people in the embassy.Though there was reportedly a need for 10 small cylinders, the Youth Congress posted a video on Twitter that showed two large cylinders being delivered to the Philippines embassy. The Youth Congress also tweeted what it said were screenshots of phone call records and exchange of messages with the person from the Philippines embassy regarding the supply of oxygen.The Youth Congress posted a separate video of its volunteers delivering oxygen cylinders to the New Zealand mission. Srinivas tweeted the mission opened its gates, accepted the cylinders and thanked the Youth Congress team “for this quick relief as patient inside embassy was critically ill”.Earlier, the New Zealand high commission purportedly deleted a tweet tagging the Youth Congress and Srinivas that said, “Could you please help with oxygen cylinder urgently at the New Zealand High Commission? Thank you.” Screenshots of this tweet were widely shared on social media.The New Zealand mission said in a subsequent tweet: “We are trying all sources to arrange for oxygen cylinders urgently and our appeal has unfortunately been misinterpreted, for which we are sorry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-cong-spar-over-o2-supply-to-embassies-101619985777996.html
03-05-2021||India||UP Panchayat polls: Covid-19 norms flouted at counting centres||Despite restrictions in place to prevent the spread of Covid-19, large gatherings of candidates and their supporters were witnessed at most of the 829 centres where the counting of votes for the three-tier panchayat polls was underway in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday.Police personnel were seen having a tough time managing the crowd, even as the State Election Commission (SEC) on Sunday said the final results were expected to be available after Monday noon.“As per the information available till now, as many as 16,510 village pradhans, 112,358 village ward members and 35,812 kshetra panchayat members have been declared elected so far,” a spokesman for the commission said in a written statement on Sunday evening.An SEC official said, “The counting of votes has begun at all the centres after preparing bundles of ballot papers.” He said that all measures were being taken to enforce the Covid-19 protocols.As per the order issued earlier, candidates and their agents were allowed to enter the counting centres only if they have tested negative for Covid-19 in the 48 hours prior to the commencement of the counting process or taken both doses of the vaccine.However, physical distancing norms were flouted at most of the counting centres in Agra, Kasganj, Etah, Firozabad and Aligarh on Sunday.In Etah, supporters of two candidates came to blows as the situation escalated and it was brought under control by the police, who disallowed victory processions.The Supreme Court on Saturday had refused to stay the counting process. In a special urgent hearing, a bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and Hrishikesh Roy passed the order after taking note of several notifications and assurances of the SEC that the Covid-19 protocols will be followed.The SEC official cited above said that only the overall results would be declared, and no party-wise results would be made available. “In UP, panchayat polls are not fought on party lines even though many political parties do back candidates and claim their victory accordingly,” he said.The counting will determine the fate of over 1.2 million candidates who were in the fray for the posts of village pradhans, village ward members, kshetra panchayat ward members and zila panchayat ward members. Around 120 million rural voters participated in the four-phase voting exercise that ended on April 29. Voting for all the posts was held by ballot papers across 203,050 polling booths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-panchayat-polls-large-crowds-seen-during-vote-count-101619982777877.html
03-05-2021||India||S Jaishankar set for G7 ministers’ meeting in UK||External affairs minister S Jaishankar will on Monday begin a four-day visit to the United Kingdom to participate in the G7 foreign ministers’ meeting and to hold bilateral meetings with British interlocutors.The UK is hosting the first in-person G7 foreign ministers meeting in two years, in London, from May 3 to 5. India, Australia, South Korea, South Africa and the chair and secretary general of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) have been invited as guests.The visit will come ahead of a virtual meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his British counterpart Boris Johnson on Tuesday.The G7 foreign ministers’ meeting will focus on geopolitical priorities, such as Russia, China and Iran, the British foreign office said in a tweet. It will also take up global challenges, including climate change, the Covid-19 pandemic and famine.The meeting is a “crucial opportunity to revitalise in-person diplomacy and will look to establish a shared approach among the world’s leading democracies on equitable vaccine access, to agree global girls’ education targets, rigorous goals on climate finance and new measures to prevent famine and food insecurity,” the foreign office said.The last G7 foreign ministers meeting was held at Dinard and Saint-Malo in France in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/s-jaishankar-set-for-g7-ministers-meeting-in-uk-101619972528499.html
03-05-2021||India||PM Modi chairs meeting to review tapping of oxygen supply for medical use||As India continues to witness a shortage of medical oxygen amid rising Covid-19 cases, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday chaired a meeting to review the usage of oxygen in the country that can be tapped for medical use. At the meeting, the PM also reviewed the feasibility of converting the existing nitrogen plants in the country to produce oxygen for medical use.“Many industries using rich combustion processes and power plants have oxygen plants which produce gaseous oxygen which can be tapped for medical use. A strategy has been put in place to identify such industrial units which are closer to demand centres and establish temporary Covid care centres with oxygenated beds near that source. A pilot for five such facilities had already been initiated,” the PM was informed, according to a statement released by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO).The meeting was attended by principal secretary PK Mishra, cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba and home secretary Ajay Bhalla.The statement added that it is expected that around 10,000 oxygenated beds will be made available shortly by making temporary hospitals near oxygen plants.With regard to the conversion of nitrogen plants to produce oxygen for medical use, the PMO said that conversion of nitrogen plants to produce medical oxygen is under progress at 14 industries.The PMO, in its statement, said that 37 more nitrogen plants have also been identified with the help of industry associations.“Such a modified nitrogen plant can be either shifted to a nearby hospital or, in case it is not feasible to shift the plant, it can be used for on-site production of oxygen, which can be transported to hospital through specialized vessels/cylinders,” the PM was informed.India on Sunday reported 392,488 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, down from the high of over 400,000 cases a day ago, taking the cumulative count of the cases to 19,557,457, the Union health ministry said.According to the data, as many as 3,689 people succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours, taking the toll in the country to 215,542.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-chairs-meeting-to-review-tapping-of-oxygen-supply-for-medical-use-101619955777395.html
03-05-2021||India||MEA, Congress spat over oxygen delivery to 2 foreign missions||The government and the Congress were embroiled in a spat on Sunday over the supply of oxygen to two foreign missions in New Delhi, with external affairs minister S Jaishankar accusing the main opposition party of indulging in “cheap publicity”.The war of words erupted after posts on social media on the supply of oxygen cylinders to the Philippines embassy on Saturday and the New Zealand high commission on Sunday. The Youth Congress, which has played a key role in responding to urgent requests for oxygen, posted videos of its members delivering oxygen cylinders to both missions.Jaishankar said the external affairs ministry ascertained that there are no Covid-19 cases in the Philippines embassy and the matter was tantamount to “unsolicited supply”.“MEA checked with the Philippines Embassy. This was an unsolicited supply as they had no Covid cases. Clearly for cheap publicity by you know who. Giving away cylinders like this when there are people in desperate need of oxygen is simply appalling,” he tweeted.Jaishankar was responding to a post by senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh, who tweeted: “While I thank @IYC for its stellar efforts, as an Indian citizen I’m stunned that the youth wing of the opposition party is attending to SOS calls from foreign embassies. Is the MEA sleeping @DrSJaishankar ?”External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the chief of protocol and heads of regional divisions in the ministry are in “continuous touch” with high commissions and embassies, and the ministry is “responding to their medical demands, especially those related to Covid”.It was not immediately clear whether any mission had approached the external affairs ministry for oxygen or assistance in obtaining hospital beds.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that some foreign missions had faced problems in recent days in arranging hospital beds for local staffers who tested positive for Covid-19.Meanwhile, Indian Youth Congress president BV Srinivas told reporters that a volunteer had been contacted by someone acting on behalf of the Philippines embassy. The Youth Congress tweeted what it said were screenshots of phone call records and exchange of messages with the person from the Philippines embassy.Earlier, the New Zealand high commission purportedly deleted a tweet tagging the Youth Congress that sought help with oxygen supply. Screenshots of this tweet were widely shared on social media.The New Zealand mission said in a subsequent tweet: “We are trying all sources to arrange for oxygen cylinders urgently and our appeal has unfortunately been misinterpreted, for which we are sorry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mea-congress-spar-over-oxygen-supplies-for-foreign-missions-101619953437240.html
03-05-2021||India||Good Samaritans offer hope as Covid crisis grips Bengaluru||With Bengaluru struggling to cope up with rising Covid cases, good Samaritans in the city have rolled up their sleeves to extend a helping hand to those in need. Volunteers from various backgrounds such as software industry, business, life sciences, administration and several other sectors are giving it their all in Bengaluru, which has been one of the most impacted cities in the country during the second wave of infections.On March 22, Rohan Menezes, a graphic designer was desperately looking for beds for his aunt, who had tested positive for the Covid-19. “We had contacted the BBMP but there was no response for hours. Then I put out a request on Twitter and in no time, I received several calls and messages informing me about where I could find a bed. They found my number on Twitter and within a couple of hours, some volunteers were able to get me a bed in a private hospital in Marathahalli,” he said.The efforts of volunteers, both organised and individuals, had become the key link for dissemination of information, supply of food and other essentials and even helping ferry the large number of migrants who left Bengaluru back to their home states fearing the uncertainty.Nagendra M was one of the many volunteers who is involved in helping find beds. Nagendra, who works with the civil defence network said that they have been receiving several calls in the past couple of weeks. “The last few days we are getting calls for arranging ventilator beds, oxygen and procurement of drugs like Remdesivir. We also arranged for ambulances and coordinated with our network in other localities for moving people to hospitals and sometimes even for cremation,” he said.The rapid rise in cases has added to the strain on the inadequate healthcare infrastructure that was left unprepared by the government, who was warned of an imminent second wave in the state in November last year. With the piling up of dead bodies outside crematoriums and families running from hospital to hospital to get admission, volunteers have stepped in to help those in dire need.In the past few months several NGOs, private groups and individuals came together to form an umbrella group – the Mercy Mission.“It all started during the first wave with the mercy angels. In the initial days, there was a lot of stigma around burying bodies of Covid patients, so some volunteers came forwards to provide people with an honourable burial. In the second wave, this has expanded with multiple verticals like oxygen supply, providing medicines, arranging ambulances and providing food etc. We also have a call centre now which gets around 5,000 calls a day,” said Syed Tousif Masood, a volunteer with Mercy Mission.Apart from Mercy Mission, there are several others who help patients, like Sneha Vachhaney who has created a platform for home chefs providing food for those in need. “In the initial days, I was cooking around 50 meals a day to distribute around the area I lived in. Soon, I realised that there was a large demand for meals for those who are in quarantine. Then we put out a call for home chefs and so far around 200 of them have responded,” said Sneha.Sneha who comes from a corporate background said soon she realised that just cooking meals won’t be enough and her expertise could be used for scaling this process. “With help of my friends, we have created a platform where home chefs can join, and this process is streamlined. We also contacted food delivery companies like Swiggy and Dunzo for our deliveries as the numbers increased,” she said; adding that Bengaluru’s tech background came to help after all.At the same time, several technology experts and volunteers are trying to help build chatbots and other solutions to streamline the system to ease the pressure on existing infrastructure. A qualified group of persons from Bengaluru among other places like Hyderabad and Coimbatore have created a WhatsApp bot and other technological interventions to complement the existing voice call-based support system for dissemination of Covid-19 information and to reduce the stress on the already overstretched resources.The team, which comprises Artificial Intelligence (AI) and other software solutions startups, are using their technical expertise to streamline a volume of requests in Bengaluru by collating information and providing a platform to integrate both government and volunteer-driven efforts in order to gain a grip on the pandemic, people aware with the developments said.“Last time around, there were multiple people trying to solve a problem. Chatbots hadn’t percolated as much but most of the chats happened via WhatsApp as people forwarded everything through the platform. We learnt from that and decided to use WhatsApp as a chatbot-based system. There is no soiling of information, everything is put into a google sheet which every non-profit or CSO (central statistics office) sector person knows how to use,” Gautam Prakash, co-founder and chief problem solver at Reap Benefit, a startup that devises community-based solutions, said.The WhatsApp bot, which is expected to be rolled out anytime soon, aims to reduce the burden on call centres that have witnessed a three-fold increase in traffic since the beginning of March, as reported by Hindustan Times earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/good-samaritans-offer-hope-as-covid-crisis-grips-bluru-101619893493990.html
03-05-2021||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||How many dead are there, really?Delhi’s crematoriums running out of wood, underreported deaths from Bihar and Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh — newspapers and websites (including HT) have been peppered with anecdotal reports over the past few weeks that show that many states are under-reporting the number of coronavirus disease or Covid-19 deaths. In the absence of reliable, timely, and comprehensive death records, at the local level, aggregating up to the national — and the problem is on all three fronts, reliability, timeliness, and comprehensiveness — there has been a lot of speculation, and scientific exploration, some reasoned, others not-so, on the actual number of deaths. Is it twice the reported number, five times, thirty?This instalment of my column will try and answer that. It’s a question I have sought to answer time and again, over the past 14 months in this column, but never in as much detail as I do here.There are two parts to the exercise and both involve assumptions.The first is the actual number of Covid-19 infections in the country. There’s been quite a bit of research on this — in the US, France, Austria, and several other countries. Most suggest that the cases are likely underreported by 75-90%. Or, at the upper bound, the number of actual infections is 10 times the reported number of cases. India reported 18.75 million cases of Covid-19 till Thursday night. That translates into 187.5 million overall infections. What if the multiple is 15? After all, India is a large country, with a huge rural population, and with very poor testing infrastructure in many predominantly rural states. Then the number of infections is 281.25 million.The second is the infection fatality rate for Covid-19. Again, there is a lot of research on this, including by Murad Banaji (on the pre print server medRxiv, and the paper is yet to be peer reviewed, but it looks solid) on the infection fatality rate in Mumbai. He arrives at a number of 0.23% (median). Interestingly, this number is exactly the same arrived at by a meta-study of data from 51 regions carried out by John P A Ioannidis at Stanford University’s Meta-Research Innovation Centre (and published in a bulletin of WHO). Sure, Ioannidis’s research may be unrepresentative because it was carried out at a time when the world was still learning how to treat Covid-19 (progressive case fatality rates have become better, which implies that progressive infection fatality rates also might have). So, it’s possible that the actual infection fatality rate is lower, say 0.115%.Now, assuming these two sets of numbers, it’s possible to calculate the actual number of dead in India.With only one in 10 cases reported, and a 0.115% infection fatality rate, this is 215,625 deaths.With one in 10 cases reported, and a 0.23% infection fatality rate, this is 430,675.With one in 15 cases reported and a 0.115% infection fatality rate, this is 323,438.And with one in 15 cases reported and a 0.23% infection fatality rate, this is 646,875.That gives us a range of 215,625 to 646,875 overall deaths. My own estimate is that the real number will likely be around the midpoint of this range — 431,250.India ended Thursday with 208,332 recorded deaths.This would suggest that around half the deaths in India are unreported, which is plausible. That would also take India’s case fatality rate to 2.3%, which is definitely more believable than the current number.Reports suggesting the actual number of deaths is 5x or 10x or maybe even more are likely exaggerations and over-exaggerations, although even the 2x number I have arrived at above is worrying — but not surprising.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-what-you-need-to-know-today-101619821191125.html
03-05-2021||Today's||Covid-19: As the State fails, society rises||“I can’t do it… Everyone is dying… I don’t have medicines… It’s reaching saturation… I’m not able to eat… I can’t wear a PPE kit while running from here to there… Now I am running around wearing a gown.”These are the anguished words of a young doctor in the intensive care unit (ICU) of a well-known Delhi hospital while speaking to her family members.Notwithstanding the Panglossian view of those in high places, the reality is that the pandemic is spinning out of control. India, till recently, thought it had beaten the virus but has now been crushed by its renewed onslaught. Witnessing our plight, even our smaller neighbours are now offering help.When the political powers fail so drastically, society starts fighting hard for its survival. And, faced with this disaster, many people have decided to confront the situation head-on. These are the people whose names may not be recorded by history but future generations will own them a huge debt of gratitude. Let me introduce you to some of them.Mithilesh Singh of Lakhimpur Kheri lost his young son to the pandemic. It was a terrible blow, but it did not break Singh. Instead, he decided to save the children infected with the virus in the neighbourhood. Although the government has failed to deliver oxygen to every patient, Singh keeps the information about how much oxygen is available at all times and his mission is to make sure it reaches wherever it is required.You must have heard about how some hospitals and rogue medical personnel are selling medicines in the black market. A well-known neurosurgeon from Ghaziabad was arrested last week on charges of illegally selling remdesivir. He and his accomplices were raking in at least ₹36 lakh every day from this. Did he not stop to think of how he was violating all the tenets of his profession? But, one bad apple does not mean the whole barrel is spoilt — for there have been so many selfless acts by doctors and medical personnel during this pandemic.The phone numbers of seven doctors from Haldwani have been circulating on almost all WhatsApp groups in the area. These doctors arrange for medical support for critical Covid-19 patients. They are in possession of all the details about the availability of oxygen, beds and medicines. This group of enthusiastic doctors has saved about 100 lives so far. Not just this, if required, they make sure food reaches patients at their homes. Almost half of them have not gone home for a year now. That is dedication.Religious organisations have also chipped in. A gurudwara in Ghaziabad has started an oxygen-langar. If you come by car, oxygen will be supplied in the vehicle. Others can avail of oxygen on the premises of the gurudwara. The story of the Jama Masjid of Secunderabad in Bulandshahr district is somewhat different. When the imam felt the situation was worsening, he requested the administration to build a Covid-19 hospital on a vacant area on the premises of the masjid. There are many such places of worship that have pitched in to help. Will those who divide in the name of religion learn some lesson from them?The horror visited on us by the virus has had a terrible impact on school and college students. A recent study by Aligarh Muslim University found that the lockdown last year had a deep and negative impact on the psyche of 44% of the students surveyed. Most have become victims of anxiety. In such a situation, the question is, how can we save our younger generation?Instead of looking for a theoretical answer to this question, a retired State Bank of India additional general manager, BB Sharma, decided to do something about it. He went from one residential area to another and started teaching children. Children now know him as the “car-waale masterji”. Today, he is teaching online so that social distancing norms can be followed.Last year, during the lockdown, we saw how a large number of people started leaving the cities for their homes in villages. They were treated with cruelty in their own villages. This time, the villagers have learnt a lesson. Now resources are being mobilised to fight the disease with the necessary protocols in place. The villagers of Rampur, Lakshmipur, Tighara and Gola of Pipiganj in Gorakhpur district have set up a quarantine centre on their own. People who come from outside first spend 14 days in this centre before going home. All expenses are shared among the villagers.When there is so much tragedy and desperation all around, these examples should encourage all of us to do our bit. The characters in these stories are like those little lamps which know that they can’t illuminate the earth but still have the courage to fight the dark and fearful night. Let us honour these people who have gone beyond the call of duty to lend a helping hand to the needy in these trying times.Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief, HindustanThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/covid19as-the-state-fails-society-rises-101620052757563.html
03-05-2021||Today's||In India’s Covid-19 challenge, China’s hopes and anxieties||The second wave of Covid-19 in India has been among the biggest international stories being covered across the Chinese media. The coverage reflects a sense of anxiety and opportunity.In terms of the former, there is concern about the spread of the so-called double mutant, or B.1.617 strain of the virus across the region and into China. A fresh wave of domestic outbreaks would be deeply damaging for the Communist Party, which declared victory against the virus last year, and would take a toll on China’s economic recovery. Likewise, a massive public health crisis across the Indian subcontinent, at the minimum, would hurt Chinese commercial interests and investments. At worst, it could result in a humanitarian catastrophe with the potential to stoke socio-political instability along China’s periphery.At the same time, the situation in India presents opportunities for Beijing. At the bare minimum, there is a commercial opportunity, given the shortage of emergency supplies, equipment and therapeutics. But, at a deeper level, there are geopolitical opportunities. This is reflected in the Chinese media’s critical coverage of the delayed response by the Joe Biden administration, the emphasis on China’s manufacturing prowess and its centrality to key supply chains, and foreign minister Wang Yi’s summit with his South Asian counterparts, which focused on health supplies and vaccines.Both these elements of concern and opportunity are driving the substantial outreach by Beijing towards New Delhi over the past two weeks. The first statement of solidarity from the Chinese side came in the form of a comment by the foreign ministry’s Wang Wenbin on April 22. The following day, Wang’s colleague Zhao Lijian added that China was “ready to provide support and help according to India’s need”. Since then, there has been a concerted effort by Beijing to indicate its willingness to aid the Indian government.During the summit meeting with foreign ministers from South Asia, Wang Yi made it a point to talk about the invitation to India and express solidarity, again offering to assist as per India’s needs. He repeated this in a subsequent letter to his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar. This was followed by President Xi Jinping writing to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, expressing sympathies and pledging support. Soon after, Wang called Jaishankar, promising to speed up production of medical supplies, facilitate customs clearance and transportation of goods and organise exchanges between experts on both sides.In addition, the Chinese embassy in Delhi has been prompt to highlight data about supplies, which are commercial deliveries, being flown from China, and respond to concerns about freight air routes being disrupted. This was evident in the case of Sichuan Airlines suspending flights to India and then retracting the decision, as it was when actor Sonu Sood highlighted consignments from China being blocked.Chinese public diplomacy indicates that there is a desire to play a greater role in supporting the Indian side to deal with the second wave. The outreach, in fact, suggests that the Chinese leadership would be willing to do much more than just facilitate commercial deals. The repeated emphasis on supporting India as per its needs in official comments indicates that Beijing would like to offer support at the government level. This, if agreed, would flow faster than commercial deliveries.It is not altruism but interests that animate States, and this willingness by Beijing is driven by self-interest. These range from containing the virus’ threat away from its borders to reshaping perceptions and making deeper inroads into the Indian subcontinent.None of this should be of primary concern to policymakers today. With the daily caseload in the country hitting record numbers, the crisis India faces is not likely to abate in the near-term. The longer it takes to address the immediate challenges, the higher will be the individual, social, economic and reputational costs, diminishing India’s national power in the long-term. Therefore, any supplies that help in augmenting capacity should be welcomed, irrespective of where they come from. This is in India’s strategic interests.Manoj Kewalramani is fellow, China Studies, at the Takshashila Institution The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-india-s-covid-19-challenge-china-s-hopes-and-anxieties-101620052747521.html
03-05-2021||Today's||Vaccines: Prepare for the worst case||There is an ongoing debate in India around vaccine prices. Should vaccines be provided free or should they be minimally priced, ensuring only a normal profit? Alternatively, should vaccine producers be allowed to earn more than normal profits by fixing high prices? A number of views have emerged on these questions.There are actually two different issues here. The first — how much should citizens pay to get themselves vaccinated? The second — how much should vaccine producers charge for the vaccines? It is useful to adopt a two-pronged approach to address these issues separately.Let’s start with the first, the amount citizens should have to pay to get vaccinated. Here, three factors are important to note.First, the majority of Indians have very low income levels, making it difficult for them to afford two paid shots of a vaccine. Second, a policy of vaccination can have a massive impact on controlling the pandemic, reviving economic growth and boosting tax revenue for the government. Third, even if the governments — either the Centre or states — have to pay the higher prices that vaccines manufacturers are now asking for, the total cost to them will be a small part of their budgeted annual expenditures.Clearly, it makes complete sense to provide vaccines for free, with the governments — either the Centre or states, but preferably the former — picking up the tab. The more contentious part of the debate is about the price that vaccine producers should get from the government. In particular, there is concern about whether high prices that help the producers make super-normal profits are justified in the middle of an enormous humanitarian crisis. It is relevant to note here that the transactions are between governments — Centre or states — and the private sector. This means that a price ensuring super-normal profits is equivalent to covering the costs of production, plus an additional subsidy from the government. So the question is, are there grounds for providing such a subsidy to vaccine producers?To answer this, it is important here to start with a clear description of our policy objectives at this point. The biggest lesson from the devastating second wave in India, and from countries such as Brazil that are already experiencing a third wave, is that we need to plan for possible worst-case scenarios. This is what India did not do in 2020, for which it is paying a price.What could such scenarios be? First, while the science is not yet fully clear on this, there are reports that immunity from the current vaccinations may last only for a limited period, perhaps less than a year. This means we may need to be vaccinated more than once a year, for multiple years. Given that the adult Indian population is close to a billion, for two initial shots of the vaccine, followed by perhaps one or two additional shots later on in the year, we will need about three to four billion shots per year.If, with newer mutations of the virus, our younger population — those below 18 years — also become vulnerable and science suggests that they can be vaccinated, we will need close to five billion or more vaccines per year. Can this policy objective be fulfilled without the government subsidising producers? Given the current capacity of vaccine makers, and their current plans to scale up based on support from the government, this objective cannot be fulfilled without additional capacity, over and above that which is planned for now. And remember, at the moment, the support is only in terms of advance supplier credit against deliveries and not grants. Will vaccine producers create this additional capacity without any subsidisation? We cannot be sure. And under the current circumstances, we need to be sure. So the only way to do this is through a subsidy regime that supports capacity creation. Of course, the producers may just take the subsidy but not deliver on capacity creation. To prevent this, the government will need to maintain pressure on producers to ensure that the subsidy is indeed used productively. This can be done in two ways. First, the governments should agree to price contracts — including the subsidies — for a specific period, with the possibility of renegotiation after that. These renegotiations should be based on the fulfilment of additional capacity creation.Second, the central government should also additionally create capacity in public sector firms that specialise in vaccine production. This will take some time but help keep the private sector firms competitive.There have been suggestions that an alternative way by which capacity creation can be ensured is through the government providing additional grants to vaccine makers. Is this a better option than higher prices? Actually, it is not a different option at all. As long as the money is paid by the government to the producers, whether through a higher price or through a grant, the implication is the same.It is subsidisation of vaccine production by the government. Thus, whether through a grant or through a higher price, the government will have to subsidise vaccine producers, in order to make sure that we do not allow a crushing third wave of the pandemic in India. India can’t afford to make more mistakes and must do all it can to protect citizens through a smart vaccine policy.Sabyasachi Kar is RBI chair professor, National Institute of Public Finance and Policy (NIPFP)The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/vaccines-prepare-for-the-worst-case-101620051967387.html
03-05-2021||Today's||From the south, expect stronger opposition to the central government||With its resounding success, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in Kerala has overcome the four-decade-old phenomenon of no ruling party returning to office in the state, which, in turn, had led to a system of rotational power-sharing between the Left and the Congress. The credit for this remarkable success should be attributed to the strong leadership of Pinarayi Vijayan and the cadre- based organisational strength of the Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPM).The Left government’s focused management of the Kerala floods and the Covid-19 crisis also led to a vote for stability and continuity.The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) failed to meet popular expectations. Its state leaders appeared tired or reluctant or both, often mired in internal factional battles. The presence of Rahul Gandhi as a parliamentarian from the state, and as an active campaigner, was not enough to provide confidence to voters that the party could deliver. Its social alliance frayed, and it could not capitalise on its 2019 (Lok Sabha) success in the state. The Kerala election was also marked by the growing vote share and the expanding political space of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) — because of its socio-religious agenda and communal articulation of politics in a state that is home to two large minorities, Muslims and Christians. Given the overall decline of the Congress at the national level, coupled with the absence of a strong state leadership, there is a possibility of a more direct Left-BJP battle in the future.The core message from Kerala is that quality of leadership, cadre strength, political conviction, and the nature of governance are important factors that influence voter choices. Voters are willing to accord priority to competent performance and good governance, and reward incumbents for it, irrespective of past electoral patterns.In Tamil Nadu, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK)-led alliance will return to power after a decade. This victory is particularly significant for the party, for it is the first state election since DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi passed away. The DMK-led alliance won 38 out of 39 seats in the parliamentary elections in 2019, and success in the assembly polls has firmly established MK Stalin’s leadership credentials. The son has, finally, risen.But there is another dimension to the choice in Tamil Nadu — it is consistent with the tradition of issue-based politics and advocacy of the rights of the state vis-à-vis the Centre. At a time when Delhi is seen as overbearing and encroaching on federal rights, this message acquires significance. The DMK’s success also reaffirms the role and influence of multiculturalism in national politics at a time when the ideas of secular, multicultural and plural India are under an organised challenge.But while both pre-poll analysts and exit poll results predicted a landslide for the DMK and its allies, this did not happen. There is a message in the moderate electoral success of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK)-led alliance — voters have acknowledged its performance in managing the Covid-19 crisis and implementing welfare measures during this difficult period.The AIADMK has also seen both a crisis of leadership since the death of J Jayalalithaa, and a degree of fragmentation, including the formation of TTV Dhinakaran’s Amma Makkal Munnetra Katchi and VK Sasikala’s challenge, before she decided to sit out this election. But the AIADMK’s performance means that the outgoing chief minister, E Palaniswami’s claim of leadership remains strong, especially in coalition with the BJP. It also means that there is a potential for strong opposition in the state legislature that Stalin cannot ignore.At the national level, the success of the DMK in Tamil Nadu and the LDF in Kerala (and of the Trinamool in West Bengal) provides a ray of hope for the Opposition — at a time when the Congress is still reeling under a crisis of leadership. The results may also mark the beginning of the shift in the axis of Indian politics, with enhanced coordination of opposition parties across the country.Ramu Manivannan is professor and head of the department of politics and public administration, University of Madras The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/from-the-south-expect-stronger-opposition-to-the-central-government-101619972527258.html
03-05-2021||Editorials||Election results: Why 2021 is not 2024||The results of assembly elections to West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala — where the Trinamool Congress (TMC), the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) won respectively — have resulted in instant analysis of what this means for 2024. The conventional view is that this marks the beginning of a possible third front challenge to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), where regional leaders — especially Mamata Banerjee — will play a critical role. After all, the West Bengal chief minister has shown the model to defeat an aggressive BJP.There can be no doubt that Ms Banerjee, as well as MK Stalin and Pinarayi Vijayan, have performed impressively. There can also be no doubt that the BJP stares at a stiff political challenge because of its management of the second wave of Covid-19. But it would be premature, on the basis of specific state elections in 2021, to speak of possibilities in 2024.Three years is a long time in politics — and the BJP may well recover some of its lost political momentum in Uttar Pradesh next year if it wins the state polls. But more importantly, the third front experiment has always confronted two challenges. There is rarely a consensus on who should be the leader of such a front, and taking on Narendra Modi in presidential style elections without a leader is a hard task. Any third front idea also instantly collides with the Congress’s ambitions of being the primary opposition force — and till an understanding is developed first among regional parties and then between the regional parties and the Congress, a concerted challenge is unlikely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/election-results-why-2021-is-not-2024-101620053527890.html
03-05-2021||Editorials||The right to breathe||The oxygen crisis in India’s national capital has now entered its third week. On a daily basis, hospitals are left to wonder whether or not their next replenishments will arrive on time, with some even asking patients to keep personal back-ups ready. Hundreds gather outside gurudwaras, reach out to charitable organisations or call fly-by-night black marketers in the hope of refilling their cylinders. The desperation is visible on social media, where pleas for help, particularly for hospital beds, oxygen and medicines, have exploded since mid-April. Dozens have died due to oxygen shortage. Courts have weighed in, issued orders, and even threats, but there is little improvement in the situation compared to April 20, when the crisis first came into focus.Depending on whom you ask, the blame lies on an unending list of problems — inadequate production, lack of transport, bad coordination and political partisanship. The culpability, going by recent statements and court submissions by the Centre, Delhi government and neighbouring states, at once lies on all of them and none of them. But it is the people who are paying the price. The Union government has said Delhi did not make adequate logistical arrangements in time; the city’s administration has said the allocation itself was too little, and Delhi’s neighbours — accused of impeding the quota the Capital is due — have simply sought to deny, deflect or discredit any talk of their culpability. Officials may indeed be working to mitigate the crisis, but as long as leaders devote more time to controlling the narrative, the best of efforts are unlikely to address the scale of the problem.None of the factors contributing to the crisis are insurmountable. For example, after the Delhi High Court threatened the Union government with contempt proceedings if it did not dispatch the full share of Delhi’s 490MT of liquid oxygen by midnight on Saturday, the Capital received 445MT — the highest it has ever received in a day since the crisis began. There is a possibility that this shipment may have been at the cost of deliveries to another state, but it demonstrates the ability of governments to deliver once the stakes are raised. In this context, a series of directions issued by the Supreme Court in an order uploaded late on Sunday may finally lead to more decisive steps to alleviate the oxygen shortage. But for that, politicians — especially those in the central government — have to prioritise Delhi’s right to breathe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-right-to-breathe-101620053167593.html
