07-05-2021||News||Vaccines: The Centre and states should divide tasks||The second wave of Covid-19 is overwhelming India. The official death toll is already inching towards 250,000, but this is almost surely a vast underestimate, as the virus sweeps through rural India and kills many whose deaths will never be captured in official data or in media reports. A rapid and universal vaccination programme is essential to control a surge of this magnitude and time is of the essence — for the virus is not standing still.At this time, the blunt truth is that India has an inadequacy of vaccines. In December, one of us, in an article published in The New York Times, warned that the approval of vaccines may not be the beginning of the end, but the beginning of an endless wait. Unfortunately, the warning has materialised, with tragic consequences.Vaccine procurement and ramping up of production are essential. Unfortunately, this cannot be “left to the market”. Price signals cannot elicit a rapid supply response in the short-run due to capacity constraints on the one hand, and high barriers to entry on the other. Vaccines are being produced today under exclusive vendor licensing and the market is a seller’s market. What is needed, therefore, is to alter this situation.One step forward would be to use the flexibility that the World Trade Organization provides, and issue compulsory licences for vaccines. While that will be helpful, to allow for additional capacity to be built, more needs to be done. For vaccine production, after intellectual property rights considerations, there are other additional technological and regulatory complexities that India should be working hard to resolve.Also Read | 414,188 new Covid cases recorded in India in biggest daily spike, 3,915 deathsFor a complex problem of this size, we may need a combination of old-fashioned planning, newer regulatory economics and an institutional policy structure to effectively coordinate between different units of the government.Starting with the central government, because we are dealing with vaccine manufacturers with marketing power, it is best to have a single negotiator exercising countervailing monopsony power. The negotiations can involve several dimensions including price, quantity, schedule of delivery and so on. The Union government is best positioned to handle the production- and procurement-related leg of vaccines.A reasonable price could be agreed upon — enough to meet production needs without too much concern immediately about fiscal cost, again a luxury afforded to the Union government (in any case, the fiscal cost from a fragmented state/Union strategy will likely be higher). As regulators, central institutions can also inspect the manufacturing facilities of these companies and identify bottlenecks.In addition, the central government should continue to lobby foreign governments to relax Intellectual Property (IP) provisions and share technology. There has been some positive momentum on this front — with the United States and France backing IP suspension — but it will need to be taken to its diplomatic conclusion. Even if building new capacity takes a few months, we will need vaccines for the foreseeable future (to deal with variants and boosters). Again, it is the central government which has the diplomatic heft to carry out negotiations in this respect.While the Union government has the clear advantage in facilitating production and procurement, it is state governments who hold the key at the distribution end. The states have localised information about vaccine requirements. They provide boots on the grounds. Since the federal units have complementary strengths and weaknesses, they should assume a division of labour that facilitates the most efficient production and distribution of vaccines.Pandemic management will also have to overcome the knotty issue of political economy. The blame game between the Union and state governments over an essential commodity such as oxygen is visible in court proceedings. We need a transparent mechanism that is perceived to be fair and trusted by all the stakeholders. Apart from dealing with the allocation of vaccines and other essential medical supplies such as oxygen, this body could suggest the financing pattern for sharing the expenditure on Covid management, including vaccine procurement.Also Read | PM, Scott Morrison agree on importance of equitable access to Covid-19 vaccinesTo some extent, the Supreme Court is already playing this role. However, what is required is a standing mechanism, probably with a fixed sunset clause, that is trusted by all, and has the authority to arbitrate the claims of the powerful units and possesses the ability to process and understand scientific and medical knowledge.Unfortunately, the current vaccination plan leaves much to be desired. Under this arrangement, states will struggle to procure vaccines and the Centre will struggle to efficiently distribute its share of vaccines. Emerging disputes would need to be settled in an ad-hoc manner.The number of multiple purchasers, in theory, gives the producer a bargaining advantage. Consequently, some states will either be priced out of the market, or the supplier will be faced with the difficult task of managing the “queue”, which will distract from the main task of maximising production. Recent statements by the Serum Institute of India indicate that this is already happening.Far too many lives have been lost to Covid. But as a challenge to India (and to humanity), it is certainly not an impossible task to manage the pandemic. But this can only happen effectively with cooperation, coordination, empathy, humility and scientific knowledge. It is not too late.Arjun Jayadev and Avinash Tripathi teach economics at Azim Premji University, Bengaluru The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/vaccines-the-centre-and-states-should-divide-tasks-101620391680004.html
07-05-2021||Other||Ambala’s home-isolation model to be scaled up across Haryana||The home Isolation android app and dashboard developed by the Ambala administration and the health department in September last year, will now be scaled up by the National Health Mission across Haryana, officials said on Friday.The initiative was commended by state health minister Anil Vij. He said that the innovation is first of its kind and should be replicated by all districts in state.Ambala CMGGA Utsav Shah said the model will now be taken up to actively monitor the health of Covid positive patients under home isolation for the entire state.“There are over 72 teams deputed on home isolation duty in Ambala who visit patients every alternate say, starting Day 2 until Day 11 of the patient’s home isolation. Vitals of the patients - SPO2, temperature, blood pressure, pulse and respiratory rate are recorded on every visit through the app, in addition to complete personal details of the patient, will be filled during initial registration,” a statement reads.“Submission of the vitals of every patient are geo-tagged to ensure that the vitals are recorded at the isolation facility or home of the patient and not elsewhere and a dashboard projects the status of every patient based on their vitals and colour codes them based on severity of the patient,” it adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ambalas-home-isolation-model-to-be-scaled-up-across-haryana-101620411361771.html
07-05-2021||Other||450 jail inmates test Covid positive in Haryana||As many as 450 inmates from 11 jails in Haryana who tested positive have been shifted to a special section of Rewari jail dedicated to Covid inmates, prison officials said.Inmates from Haryana jails have been shifted here for isolation after they tested positive. This jail is under construction and 20% of its work is yet to be completed.BS Yadav, assistant superintendent of special section of Rewari jail, said 450 inmates have been shifted here in the last 10 days.“We are adhering to social distancing and following the guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs. A team of doctors, including a medical officer, nurses and other staff are deployed here for 24-hours to check the health status of inmates,” he said.“The inmates are stable and some of them are suffering from fever, cough and cold. If any inmate in Haryana tests positive, he will be shifted here,” Yadav added.As many as 284 inmates of 512 (60%) tested positive at Nasibpur jail in Mahendergarh on May 5 and 6.“The situation is being monitored closely,” Mahendergarh deputy commissioner Ajay Kumar said.VACCINATION NOT GIVEN TO INMATESA senior health official, pleading anonymity, said jails are overcrowded and it is a difficult task to maintain social distancing among inmates.“Even the jails are overcrowded and there are chances of further spread of the virus. We are surprised as to why vaccination drive was not carried out for inmates even as many are aged or suffering from health complications,” the official added.Haryana jail minister Ranjit Singh Chautala said rise in inmates testing positive is reported in the second wave.“In the first wave, we did not have to set up a dedicated jail for Covid inmates but this time we have decided to provide isolation facility to Covid inmates at Rewari jail, which is under construction. If the cases among inmates increase, we will think of setting up another jail,” he added.“I will talk to the health department to inoculate the staff of power and jail staff, besides giving jabs to inmates,” Chautala said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/450-jail-inmates-test-covid-positive-in-haryana-101620411181766.html
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||Oxygen plants should be handled by armed forces: Vij||Haryana health and home minister Anil Vij on Friday said that administration and arrangement of oxygen plants should be handed over to military and paramilitary forces for their safe and smooth functioning.Vij added that this step should be taken to deal with oxygen-related problems being faced at present. Such a step will be immensely helpful as even if one plant stops, it may adversely affect the health of Covid patients.He said that the state government is continuously making efforts to distribute oxygen as per requirement at all hospitals in state. With the assistance of the central government, 60 oxygen plants will be set up in state at different government hospitals.Vij said the work is on to set up six oxygen plants at government hospitals. After Ambala, oxygen plants will soon start functioning in Panchkula, Faridabad and Hisar.He said production at oxygen plants installed in Karnal and Sonepat has already started.NOW, OXYGEN SUPPLY AT DOORSTEPMeanwhile, it has been decided that door-to-door oxygen cylinder refill facility will be provided to citizens in Haryana. Patients or their families will have to apply online to for this.Additional principal secretary to chief minister Dr Amit Agrawal said many Covid-19 patients are getting treated in home isolation. In addition, many patients with other diseases continue to require oxygen.With the introduction of the facility of refilling oxygen cylinders at home, such patients will be benefited. This will curb black marketing of cylinders. He said application request can be made through the portal - http://oxygenhry.in/As soon as a patient registers on this portal, the application will be reflected in the NGO and the Red Cross Society. If any of them accepts the request, the information will be conveyed via a text message on mobile number of the applicant.The applicant will have to upload photo of the oxygen level in oximeter and aadhaar number while applying. In addition, it will be mandatory to write the age and address of the patient. An application can be made only once a day from a mobile number. This facility will start from May 9.Dr Agrawal directed officials to discuss with deputy commissioners for refilling cylinders and set a location. For this, he directed them to fix minimum price (if needed) at their level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/oxygen-plants-should-be-handled-by-armed-forces-vij-101620411121692.html
07-05-2021||Other||Dushyant cancels Jind event after farmers’ protest||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala had to cancel a programme scheduled at Jind on Friday after farmers, led by women, started a march towards the city even after facing a tough time with the police.In the last five months, Dushyant has tried to visit Jind the second time and on both occasions, his visit was cancelled after farmers’ protest.Dushyant is the only minister in the BJP-JJP coalition government who has failed to enter his home constituency Uchana, in Jind, since the farmers’ protest started in November last year.Earlier in the day, Dushyant inspected the site of a temporary hospital in Hisar and announced that the 500-bedded hospital will be started by May 16.“The equipment will be airlifted by May 14 and the hospital facility will be functional from May 16. It will benefit patients coming from Hisar, Jind, Bhiwani and Fatehabad,” he added.The women protesters who were sitting in front of tractors led the march on Friday and removed barricades. Police tried to stop the protesters but due to the large gathering it failed. The protesters reached the PWD resthouse where Chautala was scheduled to chair the meeting and raised slogans against him, besides burning his effigy.BKU district president Azad Palwan said Dushyant had made plans to enter Jind even after knowing that farmers here are unhappy with him.“He failed to extend support to our protest against Centre’s three farm laws. We had announced a boycott of BJP-JJP leaders supporting the Haryana government in our villages and will show them black flags if they try to enter,” he said.“Last month, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had entered Jind because officials landed his helicopter in the cantonment zone. Dushyant tried to follow Khattar’s footsteps but the farmers foiled his bi,” he added.“We don’t want to see his face. We are not concerned with him as he failed to support us in the farm agitation,” the protesters said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dushyant-cancels-jind-event-after-farmers-protest-101620411064135.html
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||13,867 new Covid cases detected in Haryana||While 13,867 new Covid-19 cases were detected in Haryana on Friday, 13,584 patients recovered in the past 24 hours and 162 people succumbed to the infection, as per the health bulletin.On Friday, over one lakh people were vaccinated, increasing the cumulative coverage of vaccination to 42.29 lakh.Of total 162 fatalities, 22 deaths were recorded in Hisar, 21 in Panipat, 18 in Fatehabad, 17 inn Gurugram, 12 in Bhiwani and 11 in Jind.Among districts with maximum number of new cases were Gurugram with 3,588 cases, Faridabad 1,587, Sonepat 1,075 and Hisar 1,143.Health teams in Haryana collected 52,514 samples in the last 24 hours to detect the virus. There were 1,15,963 active patients in state on Friday when the day’s positivity rate came down to 26.27% from Thursday’s 29.92%.FREE MEDICAL KIT FOR COVID PATIENTS IN HOME ISOLATIONHaryana health minister Anil Vij on Friday released a home isolation kit to be distributed among Covid patients in home isolation across state. There are 98,000 patients undergoing treatment at their houses.Vij said the kit prepared by health and AYUSH department contains 15 items including allopathic and ayurvedic medicines, pulse oximeter, digital thermometer, steamer, three-layer mask, ayush kwath, giloy ghanvati, anu oil, ORS, and a booklet with information related to Covid-19.Vij said the cost of this kit is around ₹5,000, but this kit will be made available free of cost to all patients in home isolation. The booklet included in the kit contains information regarding Covid and its treatment.The health department will make door-to-door visits to deliver the kit.KARNAL ADMN OPENS HOME CARE SUPPORT CENTREFaced with shortage of hospital beds, the Karnal district administration has set up a temporary home care support centre for Covid patients.Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the support centre will have a capacity of 20 oxygen beds and the capacity will be increased to 100 beds by the end of this week.The support centre has been set up for mild and moderate home-isolated patients who just need oxygen support.He said that the centre has availability of doctors and paramedical staff round-the-clock and patients will be provided hygienic food.He said 200 MBBS students from Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College have been engaged to call all home-isolated patients twice a day and record parameters on an online portal and home isolation kits are being distributed to these patients.These MBBS students will recommend admission of these patients to the support centre, if required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/13867-new-covid-cases-detected-in-haryana-101620411010238.html
07-05-2021||Other||Fake e-passes: Police lodge FIR after ‘Donald Trump’, ‘Amitabh Bachchan’ seek entry into Shimla||In a peculiar case of fake e-pass registration, Himachal government’s online portal showed former US President Donald Trump and Bollywood actor Amitabh Bachchan seeking entry into the state — both trying to come from Chandigarh to Shimla.Soon after, the Shimla police registered an FIR under provisions of the Indian Penal Code and IT Act against the person who made the dubious e-pass registrations in the names the prominent personalities.The Covid e-portal was recently reactivated after the state government introduced the curbs in the wake of steep spike in virus cases.As per police, the miscreant had applied under the name of “Donald Trumph” on May 7, with the father’s name mentioned as Mark Jones and place as Sector 17, Chandigarh. The registration form also mentioned that the person would be travelling in a light motor vehicle with Chandigarh registration number and category was mentioned as essential service provider.The second registration was done in the name of “Amitabh Bachhan”, son of “Harbans Rai Bachhan”, who would be travelling from Sector 17, Chandigarh, to Himachal to meet Rajiv Sehjal.Interestingly, the Aadhaar and mobile numbers for both the passes were same.As soon as copies of the two passes went viral on social media, netizens started highlighting the callous attitude of the authorities and pointed out the glitches in the pass verification system.Opposition leaders also questioned the government’s working while sharing the snapshots of the e-passes.During the first wave of Covid-19 last year, the e-passes were verified by the deputy commissioners or sub-divisional magistrates of the areas concerned.However, this time the authorities enabled auto-approval on the online portal to save people from inconvenience and delays.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fake-e-passes-police-lodge-fir-after-donald-trump-amitabh-bachchan-seek-entry-into-shimla-101620410106016.html
07-05-2021||Other||Don’t take steroids without consultation, says Jammu medico||At a time when unregulated social media portals continue to spread panic around coronavirus, senior resident doctor of the department of internal medicine at Government Medical College and Hospital, Dr Rajesh Minia on Friday talked about the “do’s and dont’s” of Covid care and advised people to stay calm.“Most of the Covid patients fall under mild category and they do not need oxygen support at all. Regular check of oxygen saturation levels and taking appropriate medicines are enough for such patients to recover”, he said while dispelling the panic and urge to hoard oxygen cylinders by public.Explaining the types of Covid patients, Dr Minia said, “They are of three types — mild, moderate and severe. While most of the patients are of mild category and can recover easily, it is only the moderate and severe cases which need special care and treatment.”Dr Minia advised all patients to regularly check their oxygen saturation levels and not be alarmed unless it goes below 93.“If such level is reached, patients should contact a doctor immediately,” he added.The senior resident doctor also urged the public, especially the mild category patients not to take steroids unnecessarily and without doctor’s advice.“Only a doctor can judge correctly what medicine should be given to a patient, especially in the case that a patient has other diseases in addition to Covid infection”, he cautioned.Dr Minia also requested the patients to take doctors’ advice seriously, follow Covid-preventive protocols and make way for severe patients by not occupying Covid-care beds against doctors’ advice.He informed that a round-the-clock divisional control room has been established to address all medical advice and queries and can be reached at 0191-2520982, 2549676, 2674444, 2674115, 2674908.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dont-take-steroids-without-consultation-says-jammu-medico-101620410103869.html
07-05-2021||Other||Himachal hits new grim peak with 4,190 cases||Himachal Pradesh hit new peak on Friday recording 4,190 fresh Covid-19 infections, the highest single-day spike since the outbreak for the second consecutive day, taking the state’s total caseload to 1,22,906. It was also the deadliest day as the state recorded 56 fatalities due to the contagion. The total death count shot up to 1,784. Of the new cases, highest 1,605 were reported in Kangra alone, highest single-day spike in any district since the outbreak. Mandi was second on the list with 518 new infections, followed by Sirmaur where 482 people have been detected positive. Bilaspur recorded 317 new infections, Hamirpur 300, Shimla 281, Chamba 267, Solan 230, Una 119, Kullu 42, Lahaul-Spiti 16 and Kinnaur 13 respectively. Highest 21 deaths were reported in Kangra, nine in Sirmaur, eight in Solan, Six in Mandi, four in Shimla, three each in Bilaspur and Una and two in Hamirpur. Kangra accounts for 20% disease burdenKangra, the most populous district in Himachal, accounts for around 20% of the total caseload. The four worst-hit district Kangra, Shimla, Mandi and Solan share 60% of the disease burden. In terms of fatalities also, Kangra is on the top of the chart with 483 deaths—27% of the total deaths in the state. It is followed by 380 deaths in Shimla and 207 in Mandi. Meanwhile, active cases have shot up to 29,513 while recoveries reached 91,573 after 2,363 people recuperated—highest in a single day. Kangra has the highest 8,237 active cases as well as highest 15,631 recoveries. In terms of total cases also Kangra is the worst hit with 24,353 cases followed by Shimla where 17,044 people have been detected positive and Mandi recording 17,007 infections to date. Solan’s caseload has climbed to 15,540, Sirmaur 9,467, Hamirpur 8,148, Una 7,979, Bilaspur 7,295, , Kullu 6,334, Chamba 5,551, Lahaul-Spiti 2,134 and Kinnaur 1,954.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-hits-new-grim-peak-with-4-190-cases-101620410102681.html
07-05-2021||Other||Hapur DM deputes magistrates to three private hospitals||Hapur district magistrate Anuj Singh has deputed static magistrates to three private hospitals to ensure hassle-free treatment to Covid-19 patients, the district administration said. The step comes amid growing complaints against private hospitals.“Magistrates have been deputed to three medical facilities to keep a watch on the requirements of patients and hospitals as well as ensuring hassle-free treatment,” the district magistrate said.The magistrates would be available round the clock at Saraswati Institute of Medical Sciences, G S Medical College and Rama Medical College in Hapur to help patients and their attendants. These officials would also coordinate between hospitals and the administration to deal with the availability of oxygen and other requirements.Earlier, a 23-year-old Covid patient died during treatment at a private hospital in Hapur on Tuesday night. The hospital allegedly insisted that his family members clear the bill of ₹54,000 before releasing the body. The matter was reported to the subdivisional magistrate and the Hapur DM, who directed the hospital to release the body immediately.The DM said the family members were unable to pay the amount and the hospital gave them the body immediately after he enquired about it.“I did not intervene, just enquired from the hospital about the issue. Within 10 minutes, they handed over the body after completing the formalities,” said Singh.The district magistrate also said the medical facilities were overwhelmed in the district due to the increasing number of patients and he was ensuring that no one should return without treatment.He said over 800 patients from Hapur, Meerut, Delhi, Ghaziabad and other places were undergoing treatment in six medical facilities of Hapur district.Currently, Hapur district has 1,632 active cases of Covid-19 and 363 new cases were detected on Thursday. Two patients died during treatment.Doctors associated with the Indian Medical Association (IMA) in Meerut have also demanded similar arrangements for deputing magistrates to the hospitals of Meerut and other districts of the western UP region to facilitate hassle-free treatment of patients and ensure the availability of oxygen and medicines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hapur-dm-deputes-magistrates-to-three-private-hospitals-101620408300895.html
07-05-2021||Lucknow||Lion tests positive for Covid-19 at Etawah Safari Park||A lion at the Etawah Safari Park has tested positive for COVID-19 and another was suspected to have caught the infection, days after eight Asiatic lions in Hyderabad were found infected with the virus."Sixteen samples of 14 Asiatic lions at the Etawah Safari Park had been sent to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) for RT-PCR tests for COVID-19. On Thursday, one lion tested positive for the virus, while another was considered as a suspected case. The remaining 12 lions have tested negative," IVRI Joint Director Dr KP Singh said.He said the sample of a lion was also received from the Delhi zoo and its report came out negative on Friday.He said the report of the samples of the lions is being sent to the government besides the safari park management.The chain of transmission of the virus could have taken place through any asymptomatic human carrier, probably caretakers, working at the park, Dr Singh said. He said the safari park authorities have been advised to shift the infected animals in isolation.The safari park has already been shut for public.The CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology had on Tuesday said eight Asiatic lions in the Hyderabad zoo have tested positive for COVID-19.It had said these animals must have got infected through zoo-keeping staff.The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change had said the infected animals were behaving normally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lion-tests-positive-for-covid-19-at-etawah-safari-park-101620407160990.html
07-05-2021||Lucknow||Two former UP ministers succumb to Covid||Former Uttar Pradesh ministers Dal Bahadur Kori and Vinod Kumar Singh aka Pandit Singh died due to Covid-19 complications in private hospitals in Lucknow on Friday. While Kori was a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA from Salon assembly constituency in Rae Bareli district, Vinod Kumar Singh was a Samajwadi Party (SP) leader.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has expressed grief over the deaths of Kori and Singh. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav has condoled the death of Singh.Kori is the fourth BJP MLA to have lost the battle to Covid in 15 days. Before him, Ramesh Chandra Diwakar (Auraiya) died on April 22, Suresh Kumar Srivastava (Lucknow West) on April 23 and Kesar Singh Gangwar (Nawabganj in Bareilly) on April 28.Since the start of the Covid pandemic in March 2020, eight Uttar Pradesh MLAs have died due to Covid-19. They include Kamal Rani Varun, Chetan Chauhan, Janmejay Singh, Parasnath Yadav, Suresh Kumar Srivsatava, Ramesh Chandra Diwakar, Kesar Singh Gangwar and Dal Bahadur Kori. Chetan Chauhan and Kamal Rani Varun were ministers in the BJP government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/two-former-up-ministers-succumb-to-covid-101620407761874.html
07-05-2021||Pune||Call centre team leader booked for molesting junior||The Yerawada police have booked a team leader of a prominent call centre company for allegedly molesting a woman staffer. According to the complaint lodged by the victim, the accused stalked her, passed lewd comments and molested her. The company management did not take any action against the accused, the victim in her complaint stated. According to the police, the team leader who has been working since 2020 with the staffer and allegedly molested her and passed vulgar comments on her clothes. The woman bore the brunt for a while as he was his senior and later lodged a complaint with the management, but no action was taken. Yerawada police station in charge Yunus Shaikh said, “We have lodged a case and the investigation is on.” Tech company spokesperson, said, “The company has a zero-tolerance policy against sexual harassment at the workplace and has developed governance structures, practices and procedures to ensure that ethical conduct at all levels is promoted across our value chain. We would like to reiterate that the complainant is still a company associate, and the charges have been strictly investigated and resolved through an independent sitting by the POSH committee, that included a third-party representative recommended by the complainant herself. The corporate ombudsman also conducted an investigation on this matter, and the case closure report was submitted to the complainant. All the relevant documents will be shared with the investigating authority to resolve the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/call-centre-team-leader-booked-for-molesting-junior-101620406860749.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records dip of more than 8,000 Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours||Maharashtra recorded 54,022 fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Friday reporting a dip of nearly 8,172 cases recorded on Thursday taking the total tally to 4,996,758. The state also reported 898 deaths taking the death toll to 74,413. The decrease in number of cases amid a drop in the number of tests. Maharashtra tested 268,912 people in the last 24 hours compared to the 277,086 tests conducted between May 5 and May 6, according to a health bulletin released by the state government.Pune and Nagpur were among the worst affected districts along with Mumbai as they reported high active caseload. Pune with 120,512 active cases has the highest number of active cases in the state followed by Nagpur which has 61,680 active cases. Mumbai (54,162) and Nashik (40,434) also reported a high number of active cases. Maharashtra currently has 654,788 active Covid-19 cases.Mumbai also saw a dip in the number of active cases. The financial hub recorded 3,040 new cases which took its tally to 671,125. The death toll in Mumbai reached 13,651 with 71 fresh fatalities. The recovery rate stood at 85.36% as the state discharged 37,386 people pushing the tally of recovered people to 4,265,326.Maharashtra is among the top 10 states which has reported a large number of cases as well as deaths. The state has requested the Centre for more medical oxygen, remdesivir and Covid-19 vaccines in order to tackle the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-dip-of-more-than-8-000-covid-19-cases-in-last-24-hours-101620406279831.html
07-05-2021||Ranchi||Hemant takes swipe at PM; Oppn lashes out||Senior leaders of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the main opposition party in the state, hit out at chief minister Hemant Soren for his swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi after the latter called him to take stock of the Covid-19 situation in the state. PM Modi on Thursday night spoke to Soren, besides chief ministers of few other states. After the conversation, Soren took to social media platform Twitter and said PM Modi only did his “Mann ki Baat” during the conversation. “It would have been better had he listened to, and spoken on important matters,” the Jharkhand chief minister tweeted.Hitting back, BJP legislature party leader Babulal Marandi termed Soren as a “failed CM”. “Hemant Soren is a failed CM. Failure in governance. Failure in tackling Covid in the state. Failure to assist people. To hide his failures, he demeans the office he holds. Wake up and work, Mr Soren. The clock is ticking,” Marandi said on Twitter. Several other BJP leaders, including former chief minister Raghubar Das, Union tribal minister Arjun Munda, and state BJP chief and Rajya Sabha member Deepak Prakash hit out at the incumbent CM, many of them reminding Soren about the “failure” of his own government in handling the crisis in the state. Reacting to Soren’s statement, Union health minister Dr Harshvardhan advised him to “fight Corona and not the Prime Minister”, as it’s time to take on the pandemic together. However, leaders of other parties, including those from Congress and Shiv Sena, came out in support of the Jharkhand CM. “This tweet tells us everything about #CovidCrisisinIndia. Our Prime Minister only talks. He does not listen - not even to chief ministers (sic.),” said Congress’ national spokesperson Pawan Khera.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/hemant-takes-swipe-at-pm-oppn-lashes-out-101620404100438.html
07-05-2021||Ranchi||Oxygen supply disrupted in Ranchi hosp, 5 Covid patients dead||At least five critically ill Covid-19 patients admitted to Ranchi’s Sadar Hospital allegedly died after a snag developed in manifold room, leading to disruption in oxygen supply in the wee hours of Thursday. However, hospital authorities on Friday said the deaths occurred due to critical illness.Following the incident, health minister Banna Gupta on Friday set up a probe into the matter. “This is a grave issue. I discussed it with chief minister Hemant Soren. The health department’s principal secretary has been asked to conduct a detailed probe into the matter. Some technical snag could have developed in the system but it is important to find out if it was due to deliberate lapses on the part of staff on duty or someone else,” Gupta said.According to available information, the technical snag occurred around 4.45 am due to leakage in MOX regulator in the manifold room. This led to a sudden disruption in the smooth supply of oxygen, as its flow dropped to 12 from 50 level.It was alleged that soon after this, two critically ill patients, who were on ventilator support and high flow nasal cannula (HFNC), died. Three other patients also died in quick intervals even after the oxygen supply was restored within an hour through different manifold system.The sudden disruption led to chaos in the hospital’s intensive care unit (ICU), where around 50 patients were surviving either on ventilators or HFNCs. “The unit, however, had a jumbo oxygen cylinder but that could not be made functional. The oxygen flow level dipped to 12 from 50, causing much unease to patients. Attendants of many patients used small size cylinders attached with the beds for the time being but some patients didn’t have this facility too. Soon after, two-three patients died,” claimed a patient’s attendant.Speaking to media persons on Friday, Ranchi’s in-charge civil surgeon Dr Vinod said, “Not a single death occurred due to disruption in oxygen supply. Those who died were critically ill. These deaths occurred at different points of time. The snag that developed in the manifold system was rectified and oxygen supply was restored within half an hour.”Earlier on Tuesday, as many as 17 Covid-19 patients also died at Ranchi’s Sadar Hospital at different points of time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/oxygen-supply-disrupted-in-ranchi-hosp-5-covid-patients-dead-101620404040394.html
07-05-2021||Other||Patna hospitals still battle oxygen crisis||PATNAPatna continued to add the maximum number of new Covid-19 cases, reporting 2,410 cases and 19 deaths in the last 24 hours on Friday, as Bihar logged 13,466 new cases and 62 deaths during this period, taking the cumulative Covid cases to 5,67,269 and deaths to 3,139. On Friday, there were 1,15,066 active cases across the state, with Patna contributing 22,330. The state also showed a marginal improvement in recovery of patients, up from 78.65% on Thursday to 79.16% on Friday. Meanwhile, hospitals in Patna continue to face oxygen crisis, necessary in management of Covid-19 patients, forcing some to reduce oxygen pressure to patients, while also refusing admission to new patients. The Ruban Hospital, accredited to the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH), is one of the prominent facilities in Patna which is grappling with oxygen scarcity and has had to curtail admission of new Covid-19 patients. “Our oxygen requirement is 600 cylinders (1 cylinder is 340 litres) per day, but we are able to get a maximum of 400-450 cylinders only in a day. When there is a delay in refilling of oxygen cylinders, we even have to temporarily reduce oxygen pressure by 15-30 minutes to patients so that they do not run out of life saving gas,” said a spokesperson of Ruban hospital. “We maintain pressure enough not to harm a patient, but at the same time also not run out of gas,” the spokesperson said when asked if reducing oxygen pressure did not put patient life at risk. He said the hospital had up to 230 beds for Covid-19 patients, but was unable to admit as many patients. “We have had to restrict admission to 170-190 patients only because of oxygen scarcity. Nearly 40% of our 170 Covid-19 patients are under critical care, requiring high oxygen up to 15-30 litres per minute. We cannot admit more patients unless the government assures us full oxygen,” he said. Almost similar is the condition at most other hospitals too. The Sahyog Hospital in New Patliputra Colony, which has 30 beds for Covid-19 patients, has a daily demand of 30-40 D-type jumbo oxygen cylinders (each having up to 7,000 litres oxygen), but gets up to 25 cylinders per day. “We have a shortage of up to 15-18 cylinders every day. As such, we admit only mild to moderate patients, while refusing the severe to critical cases, requiring more oxygen support,” said the spokesperson of Sahyog hospital. The Mediversal Hospital at Doctors Colony in Kankerbagh has 40 beds for Covid-19, but it had to stop admission of patients due to shortage of oxygen a few days back, said Partha Dey, its general manager, facility. “We require 200 cylinders but get only up to 160-170 cylinders, leading to oxygen shortage. However, we try that our patients do not suffer,” he said. The oxygen requirement of AIIMS-Patna had gone up more than four times from 2,000 kilo litres a day to 9,000 kilo litres since February, said its superintendent Dr CM Singh. It was, however, able to meet the requirement as it had a 30,000 kilo litre oxygen tank and got its supply of oxygen from Kolkata. Similarly, the oxygen demand of Paras-HMRI, too, had also doubled from 900 litres to 1.8-2 kilo litres in about a month, said its superintendent Dr Syed Asif Rahman. He, however, said oxygen supply was sufficient as it had a 20 kilo litre oxygen tank. The Centre has allocated Bihar a daily quota of 214 metric tonnes of medical oxygen, but it was able to lift only 167 metric tonnes because of logistic issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/patna-hospitals-still-battle-oxygen-crisis-101620403980374.html
07-05-2021||Other||‘Don’t rush to adopt children orphaned due to Covid’||PATNABihar’s social welfare department has cautioned people against rushing to adopt children orphaned due to the Covid-19 epidemic, saying adoptions without permission from agencies concerned would be an illegal act.The department has also asked district magistrates and district child protection units to keep a watch on such children and either hand them over to their relatives or take them to the government care institutions. “We were getting reports of children losing their parents due to Covid-19 infections and it was being suggested to adopt these children to provide them foster care. We saw such messages on social media,” said Rajkumar, social welfare director who handles government care institutions and adoption centres. “This is alarming. Adoption without the permission of the CARA (Central Adoption Resource Authority) and SARA (state adoption resource authority) is quite illegal. Those who want to adopt a child will have to follow the adoption process,” he said. “People are also advised to inform DM and the child protection unit in case they find such cases in their neighbourhood or the in the village. Their identity will not revealed if they so wish,” he said. Rajkumar said though all government care institutions and adoption centres in the state have remained shut for the outsiders since March this year to avoid Covid-19 infections, things will be managed if a child needs government care.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dont-rush-to-adopt-children-orphaned-due-to-covid-101620403980887.html
07-05-2021||Other||Man held in Rohtas with 129 oxy cylinders||PATNAThe police on Friday arrested a man in Rohtas and seized 129 oxygen cylinders he had hoarded to sell in the black market.The accused, Bikash Kumar, a resident of Adarsh Nagar under Dehri police station of Rohtas district, was selling jumbo oxygen cylinders, which have a capacity of 47 litres, for ₹35,000 a piece, five times higher the actual price.“He was trying to sell the cylinders illegally in the black market for an exorbitant price,” said a statement from Rohtas superintendent of police (SP) Ashish Bharti. “Posing as a relative of a Covid patient, a police officer on Friday noon approached Bikash to negotiate the price of an oxygen cylinder. After bargaining, he agreed to give a cylinder for ₹35,000. Thereafter, the police raided the accused’s shop on station road and seized 129 oxygen cylinders, a gauge and other equipment,” the SP said. “We have booked Bikash under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Act,” Bharti said. During interrogation, the accused confessed he procured oxygen cylinders from West Bengal.As many as 25 people have been arrested for black marketing of oxygen cylinders, life-saving medicines, injections and oximeters across the state, according to the Bihar Police headquarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-held-in-rohtas-with-129-oxy-cylinders-101620403920326.html
07-05-2021||Other||CM’s appeal for putting off weddings has few takers||ARA /PATNAChief minister Nitish Kumar’s appeal to defer marriages to prevent spread of the coronavirus in the midst of lockdown seems to be having few takers, especially in semi-urban areas. In Bhojpur district, 1,600 applications have been submitted till Friday afternoon in different police stations of the district regarding information about marriages. The state government, while announcing the lockdown, had made it mandatory for people to inform their respective police stations three days in advance if they wished to hold marriage ceremonies. The state had capped the number of wedding guests at 50. Though curfew timings has been relaxed till 10 pm for marriages,orchestras and processions have been prohibited altogether.However, a day after announcing the lockdown, the CM had appealed to people to defer marriages “if they can.”Bihar has enforced lockdown from May 5 till May 15 following an unprecedented surge in Covid cases. Many a family expressed their helplessness. “My son’s marriage was fixed last year but was deferred due to the pandemic. Now that the pandemic has returned this year, we decided that the marriage ceremony will be held with fewer people,” said Chatthu Prasad of Ganauli whose son’s “tilak” ceremony is on May 14. He has submitted his application in the police station concerned. In Purnia district, 161 applications have been submitted, giving information about marriages. District officials in East and West Chamapran pleaded ignorance about the number of wedding scheduled during the lockdown and said only the in-charges of police stations could tell.“We have already received around 20 applications for weddings,” said Rohit, station house officer (SHO), Mufassil police station, Motihari. Ugranath Jha, SHO, Mufassil police station, Bettiah, put the number of applications at two to three in the areas within his jurisdiction.Meanwhile, Sanjay Kumar, subdivisional police officer of Chakiya in East Champaran, said one person had been arrested and two firearms seized in connection with celebratory firing at a wedding, a video of which had gone viral on social media.In Patna, however, there is a rush to cancel weddings. “There were a number of auspicious dates between May 5 and 15, but most of the bookings have been cancelled,” said a marriage hall employee, wishing anonymity.Kumud Sharma, the manager of the luxury Panache hotel in Patna, told PTI that almost 90 per of the advance bookings for weddings have been postponed.“A few people, for whom shifting the date was unavoidable, are going ahead with a simple wedding. Only a handful of guests will be present and there would be no band- baajaa-baaraat,” he said.The situation has left decorators and ‘band parties’ or orchestra groups staring at losses.“We had four-five bookings per day during this period but all of them have been cancelled,” said Mohd Tajuddin, the proprietor of the famous Patna Bachcha Band.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cms-appeal-for-putting-off-weddings-has-few-takers-101620403860992.html
07-05-2021||Other||Bihar to set up experts’ panel to fight Covid crisis||PATNAThe Patna High Court on Friday asked the Bihar government to constitute an eight-member committee of experts it had once proposed to tide over the Covid-19 situation. The committee, to be headed by Patna AIIMS director, would suggest and advise the government. The HC asked state’s advocate general Lalit Kihsore to inform the court about the committee on Monday. Meanwhile, the Bihar government submitted its affidavit, as asked by the HC on Thursday, outlining steps being taken with the cooperation of the Centre to ensure full lifting of the quota of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) allocated to the state. The affidavit said the initial phase of uncertainty for oxygen was over and the government was constantly working with the Centre to augment supply. “Within a week, the state will be in a position to lift the entire quota, as additional tankers have been deployed for the purpose. In the beginning, oxygen supply was too little in view of sudden surge in demand, but things have improved significantly and it would improve further. The oxygen supply is being monitored round the clock. Even oxygen cylinders are being transported with police escort,” said Bihar government’s counsel Vikas Singh.The court had earlier sought to know steps being taken to lift the allocated quota of oxygen from the Centre and ensure supply of essential medicines. Justice Shivaji Pandey, who was in the bench with chief justice Sanjay Karol, wanted to know how the state proposed to fulfil the oxygen needs of a large number of Covid patients, who are encouraged to live in home isolation. Justice Pandey, who retired on Friday, also asked about the ways of determining oxygen requirement for hospitals. The HC has been hearing the matter related to management of Covid situation and shortage of oxygen supply in Bihar since April 15 on a regular basis.The next hearing is scheduled for Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-to-set-up-experts-panel-to-fight-covid-crisis-101620403860356.html
07-05-2021||Pune||Tadiwala gang booked under MCOCA||The city police have booked nine members of a Tadiwala -based gang under stringent provisions of Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA). The gang had planned to kill another rival in the area. The police in their report stated that the accused computed to kill a 14-year-old youth in the area and attacked him with swords, choppers and iron rods. It is the 30th case in Pune where the city police have taken action aimed at neutralisation of crime syndicates in the city. The accused booked have been identified as Vinod alias Vilya, Sunil Waghmare, Sahil alias Sonya Raju Waghmare, Shyam Kishore Kale , Shubham Anil Dhiwar , Ramnath alias Papa Sonwane , Sagar alias Soggy Kishore Gaikwad , Aniket Khandare, Atul Mhasekar and gang leader Tipya latif Shaikh. According to the police, all the accused except Tipya have been arrested and sent to jail. The proposal regarding booking the accused under MCOCA was taken after the local police station prepared a report on the dangerous activities of the gang. The report mentions that the criminals were found trying to spread fear in the area amongst the citizens. After the arrest of Gajanan Marne alias Maharaj, the city police had lodged as many as eight criminal cases against him. Earlier, there were 23 cases lodged against him at different police stations. He was later booked under MCOCA. At the same time, in the first week of April, the Pune police had booked gangster Shubham Kamthe of Hadapsar, along with eight other gang members under the provisions of the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA). The accused were booked after the orders for a crackdown on the crime syndicates were issued by Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/tadiwala-gang-booked-under-mcoca-101620402600281.html
07-05-2021||Pune||Pune Police save online beer buyer ₹1.5 lakh||A Pune resident had to pay a heavy price for his beer craving as he fell prey to a cyber fraud. A total of ₹1.5 lakh was siphoned off from a 55-year-old’s account while ordering beer online during lockdown. However, the quick reporting by the complainant generated hope as officials expressed possibility of the recovery of the funds after the Pune police cyber cell managed to freeze the funds that had gone into one of the accounts of an e-commerce site and would be returned to the victim’s account in a week time.According to officials, the fraudsters duped the gullible customers ordering liquor online by sending remote device control apps and taking control of the victim’s smartphone and siphoned the money from the accounts.Ravindra Gawari, police sub inspector, cyber cell, Pune police, said, “As no wine or liquor shops are open due to the restriction, a man in the city browsed for a number to purchase beer online. During his search, he found one number and called; the person asked him to pay ₹10 as some charges and sent him a link to download an app.”He added that unsuspecting, the complainant downloaded the app, presuming that it could a portal through which he needed to order the beer online.“However, the link which was sent by the man was nothing but remote device control app link through which he gained the access of the complainant’s smartphone and while asking him to transfer ₹10 as some charges, the fraudster stole the bank credentials such as id and password and transferred ₹1,50,900 lakh from his account,” said Gawari.After the transaction of the amount, the complainant immediately called one of his retired police officer friends who advised him to approach the cyber cell without wasting time.“The man came to the police station with the complaint. We immediately verified the transaction message and found a mention of an e-commerce firm. We then approached the nodal officials of the e-commerce site and appraised them about the dubious transaction and requested them to freeze the payment,” said Gawari.Gawari said that at the pan India level, there is a group called “Stop Banking Fraud’ which comprises police officers from various states, nodal officers of all the banks, nodal officers from payment gateway firms, and e-commerce sites.“So, if we receive such complaint, without wasting time, information about the dubious transaction is shared on that group and the concerned nodal officer helps to freeze the payment and stops it from going to the fraudster’s account,” said Gawari.He added that in the present case, the nodal officer has stopped the payment, and now the legal process to bring the funds into the complainant’s account is on and the funds will be returned to his accounts in a week’s time.“The fraudsters might have tried to purchase something through the e-commerce site and made the transaction by transferring the funds from the complainant’s account,” said Gawari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-save-online-beer-buyer-rs-1-5-lakh-101620402540277.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||No responsibility towards themselves or family: Court asks citizens to mask up||The Aurangabad bench of Bombay High Court on Friday said it was unfortunate that people have to be penalised to get them to wear masks.A division bench of Justices R V Ghuge and B U Debadwar, hearing a bunch of petitions related to the COVID-19 pandemic, said the problem with citizens was that they were unable to discipline themselves.The bench noted that people wear masks below their chin leaving the nose and mouth open."It is unfortunate people have to be advised to protect themselves and, at times, have to be penalised so as to make it compulsory for them to protect themselves, as if they have no responsibility towards themselves and their family members," the court said.The court said, despite this, each citizen likes to blame the police and administration for the rise in COVID-19 cases."It is quite shameful that we are unable to discipline ourselves and find it very easy to blame the administration," it said.The court said it was compelled to pass orders making the use of masks and helmets (for two wheelers) compulsory as if it is only the government's duty to protect citizens and that citizens owe no duty towards themselves or their family members.The court directed the administration, including the police, to strictly implement COVID-19 instructions and ensure that any person found in public streets not wearing a mask is penalised.The bench also took note of media reports of a former mayor of Aurangabad, Nandkumar Ghodele, celebrating his birthday by violating restrictions and said the photographs published in newspapers show the mayor being fed with sweets by several persons who were not wearing masks.The court was informed by the chief public prosecutor D R Kale that an offence was registered in this connection.Kale said a case was also registered against MLA Sanjay Shirsath for organising a 'bhoomi pujan'."We are surprised that people's representatives, who are expected to lead from the front and should aspire to become ideal leaders and role models, are taking pride in celebrating bhoomi pujan and their birthdays publicly by violating COVID-19 restrictions," the court said.It posted the matter for further hearing on May 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/people-unable-to-discipline-themselves-bombay-hc-on-masks-101620401229642.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Kejriwal instructs officials to ensure availability of beds, oxygen supply||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday instructed officers to ensure that there is no shortage of beds, now that the oxygen supply situation is coming under control, reported news agency ANI. In a high-level meeting to review the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in Delhi, Kejriwal also instructed that no life should be lost due to the shortage of medical oxygen and the vaccination drive should be complete in three months, reported the news agency.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Earlier in the day, the Delhi government passed an order directing MS/MD/directors of all hospitals and nursing homes to update the bed availability status on the Delhi Corona app/portal frequently, but no later than two hours. The order was aimed to help prevent hardships faced by the public due to the non-availability of the beds.In an order issued today, the Delhi government has directed MS/MD/Directors to update bed status of all hospitals on Delhi Corona App/portal frequently, but not later than every 2 hours.This will help in preventing hardships faced by the public regarding availability of beds. pic.twitter.com/VQ3AaBSI60The Capital is among the worst hit by the second wave of Covid-19 and the healthcare system was caught underprepared during the destructive wave. Delhi witnessed an acute paucity of all essential medical supplies, like vaccines, drugs, oxygen and hospital beds required for Covid-19 treatment. Many lives were lost due to the shortage of oxygen in the hospitals.In the meeting, the chief minister also directed the district magistrates to visit two to three vaccination centres daily for inspection and to pay surprise visits to relief camps and old age homes, reported ANI.Also read | ‘Won’t let anyone die of oxygen shortage if…’: Kejriwal thanks Modi govtOn Thursday, Kejriwal said that the Aam Aadmi Party-led government will set up 48 oxygen plants, including 21 that are being imported from France, across Delhi to meet the demand for the life-saving gas that is on peak due to the rising number of infections.Delhi reported 19,832 new Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours, while 341 people lost their lives to the illness, according to the daily health bulletin. The positivity rate now stands at 24.92 per cent with an active caseload of over 91,000, the bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-kejriwal-instructs-officials-to-ensure-availability-of-beds-oxygen-supply-101620397434990.html
07-05-2021||Other||Back-to-back semster exams put SPPU students under pressure||PUNE Students affiliated to the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) are worried, as they are going to appear for two semester exams, back-to-back. Currently, the first semester exams of SPPU are going on, while the second semester exams are likely to start from next month. Also, colleges and university departments are continuing their online lectures for students, all creating a burden on students this year. “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic we are already delayed for this academic year. Now once this semester exams get over, from May 15 onwards forms for the second-semester exams will start. The next semester exams will hopefully start from mid-June and will go on till August,” said Mahesh Kakade, SPPU examination and evaluation department head. Rajendra Zunjarrao, principal, Modern College of Arts Science and Commerce, said, “This year has been tough not only for students, but also for teachers and college administration. Covering the syllabus for both semesters was tough, but most of the colleges have covered it well. It would have been better if both the semesters’ exams were held together.” Kapil Awate a first-year Science student said, “We just now finished the first semester exams and within a month we have to prepare for the next semester exams. All are tense due to Covid and most of the students don’t even have proper study material. The second semester exams should be held taken after two months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/backtoback-semster-exams-put-sppu-students-under-pressure-101620399600086.html
07-05-2021||Other||Pimpri-Chinchwad’s top cop poses as common man to test police staff||PUNE Disguised as a common man, Pimpri-Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash paid surprise visits to three police stations under his jurisdiction to check the promptness and efficiency of the personnel on duty there. At Hinjewadi, Prakash complained about some anti-social elements harassing them, while at Wakad, he told the police personnel that the gold chain of his wife was snatched by a motorcyclist. At Pimpri police station, he complained against the ambulance driver for demanding exorbitant charges for ferrying a patient.Prakash himself gave information about the sequence of events that unfolded during the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. As part of the exercise, he visited Hinjawadi, Wakad and Pimpri police stations. In order to change his appearance, the commissioner sported a fake beard and wore a Pathani dress as well as a skull cap. Assistant Commissioner of Police Prerna Katte also accompanied him by posing as a common citizen. Prakash said that instructions were issued to all the police stations to treat common citizens nicely and get their complaints lodged. “To test the ground reality, I along with ACP Katte disguised as common citizens visited three police stations and a couple of nakabandi points in the jurisdiction at night,” he said. “During the visits to Hinjawadi and Wakad police stations, we found that the staff on duty there were prompt in listening to our woes and were seen taking efforts in registering their complaints,” he said. During the visit to Pimpri Chinchwad police station, he found that the staff was seen evading their duties by asking them to go to a police chowky attached to the police station. “It was found that the staff there initially did not give the kind of treatment that was expected from them, although they treated well later. It might be because one of the duty officers recognised me,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pimprichinchwads-top-cop-poses-as-common-man-to-test-police-staff-101620398099869.html
07-05-2021||Other||Prashant Jagtap named NCP’s Pune city president||PUNE Former Pune Mayor Prashant Jagtap is the Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) new Pune city president. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar handed Jagtap, a corporator from Wanowrie, the appointment letter on Friday.Chetan Tupe, NCP’s member of the legislative assembly (MLA) from Hadapsar resigned as Pune city president last week, stating that he wanted more time to handle problems of his constituency.Prashant Jagtap was also director of the Pune Smart City Development Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prashant-jagtap-named-ncp-s-pune-city-president-101620397381661.html
07-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka imposes complete lockdown for 14 days starting May 10||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday announced lockdown in the state for two weeks in a bid to curb rising coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. The chief minister said that the decision is temporary and was taken after the state government saw a spike in fresh cases despite the Covid-19 curfew being imposed in the state."As Covid-19 cases are surging in the state we felt the Covid-19 curfew was not successful. Hence, we are imposing a complete lockdown starting May 10 from 6am to May 24 6am." chief minister BS Yediyurappa was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. "All hotels, pubs and bars will remain closed. All eateries, meat and vegetable shops can operate from 6am to 10am," he further added. The chief minister requested migrant labourers in the state to not leave and assured them that this is a temporary measure announced break the chain of transmission. Yediyurappa highlighted that after 10am no one will be allowed and said that police officials will take strigent actions against violators. "We took this decision seeing a continuous surge in number of cases as well as deaths," Yediyurappa said. The chief minister earlier had warned citizens that if people do not follow Covid-19 preventative measures then the government will be forced to implement a strict lockdown. The state reported 592 Covid-19 deaths on Friday, the highest single day count since the onset of the pandemic, and the current case fatality rate is 1.21%. Karnataka has been witnessing closes to 50,000 cases throughout the week. "If we have to break the chain of infection then we have to initiate result-oriented measures like a 14 day lockdown imposed last year at the start of the pandemic. The state has been witnessing a steep rise in Covid-19 cases with a daily caseload of about 50,000 and fatalities are also going up at an alarming proportion," health minister Dr K Sudhakar was quoted as saying by news agency PT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-imposes-complete-lockdown-for-14-days-starting-may-10-101620396897801.html
07-05-2021||Other||SPPU begins releasing results of first semester exams||PUNE The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has begun declaring the results of its first semester online examinations. The SPPU is planning to complete the result declaration process by the end of May.SPPU first semester exams cover 224 courses that began June 10, 2020. These examinations were held online for 50 marks with multiple-choice questions (MCQ). SPPU’s Edutech Foundation conducted the exam. So far, results of at least 10 courses have been declared by the university. “For around 71 courses there are internal marks given by the department and external exams are not going to happen. Results will be declared after both internal and practical marks are obtained from the colleges. We try to declare all results by this month-end. The first-semester exams will end by May 10,” said Mahesh Kakade, SPPU’s director of the board of examination and evaluation. Kirti Mundada, a commerce second-year student said, “After my exams got over within next couple of days I got my results online. This time the exams went on well and there was not much of an issue with the online system.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sppu-begins-releasing-results-of-first-semester-exams-101620396959727.html
07-05-2021||Other||PMC to call banks for meeting to push for 24x7 water project loan||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has received a lukewarm response to its loan applications from banks for the ₹2,550-crore 24x7 water project. The civic body has now decided to call a meeting of banks officials to discuss the issue. The civic body has, so far, spent ₹465 crore on the project. The administration raised ₹200 crore through bonds in June 2017. In March 2021, the PMC floated a tender for a loan of ₹200 crore. As per PMC officials, some of the banks approached the PMC, stating a “negotiable” interest rate but, avoiding being specific. Ulka Kalaskar, PMC’s chief account officer, said, “After floating tenders and calling for proposals we have not received much response from the banks, so far. We have decided to call the bank officials for a meeting and discuss the interest rates. At present, banks have only mentioned negotiable interest rates. We want exact interest rates to proceed on the loan.” Other senior officials of the PMC, requesting anonymity, said, “Due to Covid-19, most of the project works has been hampered. The deadline will be missed, and priorities have changed. Though PMC has a good credit rating (AA+), banks are over cautious about project completion. After all, it is a project loan. If it gets delayed or hampered, it will affect repayment of the loan.” He added, “At present, municipal bonds are not viable for PMC as interest rates by financial institutes are below 7 per cent.”In 2017, PMC raised ₹200 crore through municipal bonds at an interest rate of 7.59 per cent for 10 years. It also received one per cent concession from the central government for the municipal bonds. Hence, the PMC is paying ₹15 crore per year as interest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-to-call-banks-for-meeting-to-push-for-24x7-water-project-loan-101620396359642.html
07-05-2021||Bangalore||People named by BJP MP Tejasvi Surya not arrested: Report||Investigation into the scam pertaining to blocking beds in private hospitals for COVID patients has so far not revealed the involvement of those Muslims whose names were mentioned by Bengaluru South MP Tejasvi Surya on May 4 in a live programme, top police sources said on Friday. "Other than four-five people, we have not arrested anyone else though our investigations are on," a police officer probing the matter told PTI."We are not going by what's being circulated in the social media.We are limiting our investigation to what is there before us, that is, we are investigating only the bed blocking scam," the officer added. According to police, those who have been arrested in the 'bed blocking scam' are Nethravathi, Rohith, Venkat Subba Rao, Manjunath and Punith.Police said searches were carried out in the COVID war room on Thursday and technical data was obtained to check any irregularity.In addition to this, doctors, who are in charge of each zone war rooms, are being questioned.CCTV footage of all war rooms has already been collected and identification is being done about any unauthorised person in the war room and reasons for it, they said. BJP MP Tejasvi Surya had recently alleged that hospitals here 'blocked' beds in fake names to make money, at a time when COVID-19 cases were rising in Karnataka. Surya said officials of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike 'colluded' with private nursing homes and hospitals to block beds and reserve it for exorbitant fees.The Karnataka government has ordered reserving 80 per cent of the beds in the private hospitals for COVID patients.The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (city corporation-BBMP) was assigned to allot beds for the COVID patients seeking treatment in private hospitals.However, due to the alarming rise in COVID cases, most of the beds are fully occupied even as the demand is growing manifold.To deal with the demand, the BBMP has set up nine COVID War Rooms at its zonal level and entrusted an employment firm to deploy its workforce on a contract basis.A BBMP official said the War Rooms have 214 people and not just 16 as has been presented by the BJP MP.Hitting out at Surya, Chamarajpet Congress MLA B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan Khan said in a video message:"There were over 205 employees of Crystal Company, who were deployed in the COVID War Room on contract basis but you singled out only 16 Muslims.How fair is this?.. "Khan even claimed that only one person, Mohammed Zaid was assigned with the task of bed allotment while others were given different jobs.He even said the job of 16 people who were making a living with a salary of ₹13,000 is now at stake following the alleged scam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/people-named-by-bjp-mp-tejasvi-surya-not-arrested-report-101620394406232.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi records slight rise in new Covid-19 cases, deaths||The capital on Friday recorded 19,832 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases reporting a marginal spike compared to the 19,133 cases reported on Thursday. The positivity rate in the Capital also dropped to 24.92%. Delhi reported 341 deaths on Friday pushing the toll to 18,739, according to a medical bulletin released by the Delhi government. The total number of cases in Delhi reached 1,292,867 on Friday.Delhi had recorded 19,133 on Thursday, 20,960 cases on Wednesday, 19,953 on Tuesday, 18,043 on Monday, 20,394 cases on Sunday and 25,219 on Saturday. This is the fourth time this week that the Capital recorded less than 20,000 cases. The rise in the number of cases comes in the backdrop of increased testing. Delhi had conducted 78,780 tests between May 5 to May 6 while it conducted 79,593 tests between May 6 to May 7. The bulletin showed that out of the total number of tests 65,663 tests were RTPCR tests. The capital currently has 91,035 active cases of Covid-19.The case fatality rate in Delhi remained at 1.45%. The city saw a marginal spike in the number of deaths. Delhi reported 335 deaths on Wednesday, 311 deaths on Wednesday, 338 deaths on Tuesday, 448 deaths on Monday, the highest so far since the onset of the pandemic; 407 deaths on Sunday, 412 deaths on Saturday and 375 deaths on Friday.Delhi reported 19,085 recoveries which pushed the tally of recovered people to above 1.183 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-slight-rise-in-new-covid-19-cases-deaths-101620393006115.html
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh announces weekend lockdown again: Check out the new rules||The Chandigarh administration imposed a weekend coronavirus curfew on Friday and announced new measures to help residents avoid any trouble during this period. The Union Territory had imposed a weekend lockdown last week in a bid to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the city. The administration has also ordered the closure of shops selling non-essential items till May 11. The weekend lockdown will come into effect from 5am on Saturday and will continue till 5am on Monday.Chandigarh has recorded 47,552 cases of Covid-19 so far with 759 fresh cases recorded on Thursday. The death toll in the city rose to 541 following nine deaths. The city has 8,420 active cases. The administration has warned citizens that violators will be strictly punished. “No person will leave home or move on foot or by vehicle or travel or stand or roam around on any road or public place during the lockdown hours,” district magistrate Mandip Singh Brar said.Here is all you need to know regarding the weekend lockdown in Chandigarh -||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-announces-weekend-lockdown-again-check-out-the-new-rules-101620390469925.html
07-05-2021||Other||Oxygen Express reaches Kota, Rajasthan gets 39 MT O2||The first Oxygen Express carrying 39 metric tonnes (MT) of medical oxygen for Rajasthan arrived at the Kota railway station on Friday, officials said as the state faces a shortage of life-saving gas.The train brought oxygen from Reliance’s refinery-cum-petrochemical complex in Jamnagar (Gujarat) following Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla’s intervention. Birla, who is a member of Parliament from Kota, said the oxygen would help meet the oxygen needs of Covid-19 patients in Rajasthan. “The oxygen that came through the train and by road was in addition to the allocation by the Centre to the state,” he said. “Rajasthan will soon get 167,000 remdesivir injections, 250 oxygen concentrators and nearly 150 regulators for Covid-19 patients.”Also Read | 414,188 new Covid cases recorded in India in biggest daily spike, 3,915 deathsAn oxygen tanker carrying 28 MT oxygen reached Kota from Jamnagar by road on Thursday evening.Senior divisional commercial manager, Kota railway division, Ajay Kumar Pal, said three tankers on the Oxygen Express each contained 12 MT of oxygen and another tanker has 15 MT. “The Oxygen Express covered 920 km in 20 hours to reach Kota from Jamnagar.”Kota district collector Ujjawal Singh Rathore said the tanker containing 15 MT oxygen has been allocated to Kota. Two tankers each containing 12 MT oxygen have been sent to Jaipur and Jhalawar districts.“With the arrival of 15 MT medical-grade liquid oxygen through Oxygen Express and 28 MT by a tanker through road, Kota has got 43 MT liquid oxygen,” said Rathore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/oxygen-express-reaches-kota-rajasthan-gets-39-mt-o2-101620390959909.html
07-05-2021||Other||Collecting funds online for kids who lose parents to Covid-19 to be cognizable offence||Sharing picture and messages to collect funds, sponsorship and invite people for adoption of kids who lost one or both their parents due to Covid-19 will be a cognizable offence in Madhya Pradesh, officials said on Friday. Those found to be involved in such activities will be booked for selling and buying of kids under the Juvenile Justice Act 2016, said an officer of the Women and child development department. Child rights expert and lawyer Anant Kumar said, “Good intention is immaterial in these circumstances. Adopting children illegally and selling or purchasing them are serious crimes and are punishable with jail terms from 3 to 7 years. There should be a system to check the fake information and or any information which promotes illegal adoption and buying and selling of kids. Registering case against wrongdoers is a right step to stop such illegal activities”The department decided to take this step after messages, video appeals and photos of kids and bodies of their parents were shared by people to raise funds for the kids. When the officers of the department verified the authenticity of messages, many were found fake, said the officer quoted above. To prevent online fraud in name of adopting children, the Madhya Pradesh government will issue an order to all districts to book such persons under section 81 of the Juvenile Justice Act which has a provision of rigorous imprisonment of five years and a fine up to ₹1 lakh, said Suresh Tomar, joint director, women and child development department. Three days ago, a woman died of Covid-19 in Shivpuri district leaving behind her three kids. Different organisations started posting a video of the body of the woman to raise funds for her kids with a message that the kids lost their father two years ago and now they have lost their mother as well. A social media post claimed that the children are starving and locked inside their house. When a team of the WCD reached the spot, they found that the kids are staying with their paternal aunt and were doing fine, Tomar added. Officials said this was not the only case as there were many such viral messages seeking financial help for orphan kids who have lost one or both their parents due to Covid-19. Childline, Bhopal, director Archana Sahay said, “It is necessary to take strict steps to stop the illegal activities as Childline is flooding with such messages and mainly are fake ones. People are sharing pictures of kids with an appeal to adopt them. This is completely prohibited under JJ Act.” However, the department is also introducing a system to help the children in need. “We can’t trace every post on the social media so we have decided to take action against people, who are posting such messages. But to help children in need, we are introducing a helpline number for such kids and also putting district protection officers’ contact numbers. If anybody comes to know about orphaned kids, they can contact us for protection through child helpline,” said Swati Meena Naik, commissioner, WCD. “Child welfare committee will decide how to help these kids. First, we will search their relatives and if they agree to take care of the kids, we will provide them ₹2,000 per child as per Integrated Child Protection Scheme. If we don’t find any relatives, we will send them to shelter homes and initiate the process of adoption under CARA,” she added. The officer quoted above said the government will rope in NGOs and other genuine social organisations to help. “We are developing fit facilities in every district for children in need,” said the officer. Two days ago, National Commission for Protection of Child Rights chairperson, Priyank Kanungo, also cautioned state governments against social media posts to seek help or donations for orphaned children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/collecting-funds-online-for-kids-who-lose-parents-to-covid-19-to-be-cognizable-offence-101620390246545.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Resident doctors in Mumbai demand arrears, start social media campaign||Resident doctors at Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)-run hospitals in Mumbai have threatened to stop treating Covid-19 services if their arrears are not cleared soon. They have not received additional stipends for almost nine months. On Friday, #BMCbetrayedus and #BetrayedStillWorking trended on Twitter as resident doctors took to social media to register their protest against the non-payment of stipends and arrears.In a statement on Wednesday, the Mumbai chapter of the Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) said that doctors will shut down Covid services in the next seven days if the BMC does not release the stipends.“We do not want to stop our services to Covid-19 patients. We are hoping and trying that it does not come to that. We are putting up posters at the hospitals and making our voices heard as we continue our work,” said Arun Ghule, president, MARD, Mumbai.From May 2020 till January, over 3,000 resident doctors at the four BMC-run hospitals—KEM, Sion, Nair and Cooper—were paid ₹10,000 a month. It was then discontinued as Covid-19 cases started to go down. In September, the government announced an increase of ₹10,000 in the stipend for resident doctors. The BMC only released a circular regarding it in March.Also Read | War rooms, field hospitals helped Mumbai in battle of second wave: OfficialsWhen doctors demanded the arrears for the stipend increase, they said the BMC informed them that the arrears were adjusted against the ₹10,000 paid to them last year during the first Covid-19 wave. “This is unfair, especially since doctors have been working non-stop, risking their lives in the pandemic,” said Ghule.MARD said the arrears for each doctor amount to ₹1.2 lakh. Despite repeated attempts, Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, health, and TP Lahane, medical education director, were unavailable for comments.The Maharashtra State Association of Resident Doctors has also extended its support to the doctors in Mumbai. “This tragedy is greater than the pandemic Itself for the resident doctors. The government has finally found scapegoats to hide their failures in the resident doctors,” said the association in a statement on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/resident-doctors-in-mumbai-demand-arrears-start-social-media-campaign-101620390060989.html
07-05-2021||Other||Lockdown a partial success on Day 1 in Himachal||The lockdown imposed by the Himachal Pradesh government to contain the spread of Covid-19 pandemic left a partial impact on the first day as movement of people and most economic activities continued as usual.The state government has imposed a ‘corona curfew’ in the state till May 17, as part of which all offices will remain shut and only essential services will be allowed to operate.In Shimla, shops selling essential items remained open, but there were few buyers. There was no rush at the markets and people adhered to social distancing norms. The usually crowded Mall Road and The Ridge also wore a deserted look. All government and private institutions remained closed. Vehicles supplying essential goods and construction material also plied on the roads.Meanwhile, there were reports of liquor vends operating despite the ban during curfew in Rohru area of Shimla district.“We are asking the administration to fix timings for dhabas and restaurants too. What is the use of closing bars, if the eateries remain open? If people gather there, how the eateries will ensure adherence to social distancing norms in the absence of proper directions,” said president of Shimla Beopar Mandal Inderjeet Singh.Confusion over guidelines In Kangra district, the curfew evoked a mixed response. People moved freely in some parts while social distancing norms went for a toss in public and private transport.Most of the markets remained open as there was confusion due to the unclear guidelines.Atul Kumar, a shopkeeper in Kangra, said that the state government should have closed everything except daily needs shops.“However, almost everything is open except for cloth shops. The guidelines issued by the state and district authorities are not clear,” he said.There was also confusion related to weekend lockdown. As per the new guidelines, there will be no weekend lockdown. Kangra deputy commissioner (DC) Rakesh Prajapati said that Section 144 of the CrPC would be enforced in the state under which gathering of more than five persons is banned. People would be free to move out of their houses but cannot gather in groups of more than five. He clarified that weekend curfew will continue in the district.As per the state executive committee guidelines, hardware stores will remain open for uninterrupted construction activities. However, in Kangra, the stores were closed. The DC said the district authorities will take decision about the hardware stores soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lockdown-a-partial-success-on-day-1-in-himachal-101620389760911.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||1.84 lakh youth have got first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in 4 days: Sisodia||Delhi's Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Friday said that 1.84 lakh people between the age group of 18-44 years have been administered the first dose of Covid vaccine in the first four days of the start of third phase of the vaccination drive in the national capital.Sisodia made the remarks in response to tweet by a Delhi resident thanking the Delhi government for "smooth arrangements for vaccination of people under 45 in the Delhi government schools"."In Delhi 1.84 lakh youth have got the 1st dose of vaccine, in first 4 days of 18-45 years age group opening. In total 38.88 lakh people have got the vaccine in all age groups till yesterday evening," he said.The third phase of the vaccination drive commenced in the country on May 1 and began symbolically in the national capital also.The "large-scale vaccination drive" for the newly added category started on May 3 in the national capital. The Delhi government has allocated 77 government schools for administering vaccines to people between the age group 18-44 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/184-lakh-youth-administered-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-in-4-days-sisodia-101620388791055.html
07-05-2021||Lucknow||FIR against Lucknow hospital for complaining about oxygen shortage||A First Information Report (FIR) has been lodged against a Lucknow hospital for allegedly sharing a “fake message” about the shortage of oxygen and asking patients dependent on it to shift to other hospitals, officials said. Akhilesh Pandey, the Sun Hospital director, has been named in the FIR and accused of spreading false information and causing panic.An official said the FIR was filed on Wednesday under the Disaster Management Act, the Epidemic Diseases Act, and the Indian Penal Code’s Sections 188 (disobedience to government order) and 269 (negligent act that can lead to spreading of infection of any disease dangerous to life). The hospital authorities face imprisonment up to five years as well as fine if convicted.In the FIR, Suresh Pandey, the complainant, said the hospital authorities shared a notice on social media on May 3 claiming a shortage of oxygen and caused panic.Also Read | Oximeters, thermal scanners at UP’s ‘gaushalas’“During a detailed inquiry on May 5, the district administration team found eight jumbo oxygen cylinders and 2 B-type oxygen cylinders as well as oxygen concentrators at the hospital. The inquiry also suggested that as many as 20 patients on oxygen support were admitted to the hospital and there was no shortage of oxygen. It seems that the hospital authorities posted the notice to mount pressure on the district administration to procure more oxygen,” said the FIR, a copy of which HT has seen.As per the FIR, the hospital procured 26 jumbo cylinders on May 1 when 18 Covid positive patients were admitted. It also got 58 jumbo oxygen cylinders on May 2 when 17 Covid positive patients were admitted. The FIR has also accused the hospital authorities of violating Covid protocols.Akhikesh Pandey denied the allegations, hoped a police investigation will clear them, and added they would also move court if required.Deputy police commissioner Sanjiv Suman said sub-inspector Rajesh Kumar has been made the investigation officer in the case and further probe in the matter is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/firagainst-lucknow-hospital-for-complaining-about-oxygen-shortage-101620389339827.html
07-05-2021||Other||Rapid response team formed at Bihar’s Valmiki Tiger Reserve to keep eye on wildlife amid pandemic||Officials of Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) in Bihar’s West Champaran district have formed two rapid response team (RRT), headed by veterinary experts, to keep an eye on wildlife in two divisions of forest amid the second wave of the pandemic. Five personnel of the wildlife facility recently tested positive for the virus. HK Rai, wildlife conservator and field director, VTR, said the two rapid response team (RRT), headed by veterinary experts, have been deployed at both the divisions of VTR, spread over an area of 900 square kilometres. “The whole idea behind forming the rapid response team is to keep a tab on untoward behaviour of any wildlife amid the pandemic,” said Rai. The field wildlife conservator and field director, however, stated the situation normal. “There is no trace of any untoward behaviour among the animals. However, the RRT is set to collect excrete and vomiting residue to be investigated at Indian Veterinary Research Institute at Izatnagar, Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh,” Rai said. Operating with five to six guards, the team is equipped with tranquillizers and medicines among others. “If the situation warrants, suspected animals will be rescued and kept aside,” said a forest official, refusing to be identified. Meanwhile, five forest staff including two range officers attached with VTR have been tested positive. “The range officers have been asked to update the health conditions of all employees within their range every evening without a fail,” said Rai||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rapid-response-team-formed-at-bihar-s-valmiki-tiger-reserve-to-keep-eye-on-wildlife-amid-pandemic-101620389280026.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||I’m available 24X7 for anyone in distress: Ghritashri Bhuyan Narula||“My cousin brother in Delhi got coronavirus, and had to be hospitalised. It was then that I realised the extent of struggle that people are going through, for we faced a great difficulty in arranging a bed for him. That’s when I resolved to help others in need,” says Ghritashri Bhuyan Narula, the Delhi Police Northeast Representative (DPNER). Over the last fortnight, Narula has single-handedly helped many Delhiites find hospital beds, plasma, oxygen cylinders and more. “I get hundreds of queries, especially from people from the Northeast, and try to help everyone with right from arranging consultations with doctors to procuring medicines. I’m available 24X7 on calls for anyone in distress,” says Narula. As soon as she gets an enquiry, she starts making calls to all possible leads, verifying their authenticity amid the deluge of information circulating online, and then helps connect the people in need with the correct resources. “A big problem that I’m facing currently is the shortage of plasma donors. People aren’t coming out to donate, after recovering, for the fear of getting reinfected. I’m trying to convince more and more people to donate plasma, and have even managed to inspire a few.” The Delhi-based social worker is presently in talks with representatives in the Northeastern states to make essential medicines, including Remdesivir, available to the locals. “People from the Northeast who are based in Delhi, and need these medicines are calling me. But I can’t send medicines through someone because they may get lost en route... There is a nexus of black marketeers who are profiting from the current scenario, and I want to tell people to not to buy medicines from the black market as many are being duped. Only verified links should be approached,” she opines. It’s challenging to keep one going in such tough circumstances, but Narula says that when she sees recovery of people who she has helped, it gives her strength to carry on. She shares, “Recently, I got a call from a girl in Gurugram, who was Covid positive. Her oxygen level had dropped to 61. I had to make many calls to arrange for a cylinder and a mask, and also sent her medicines. After she was full recovered and I got to know about it, I felt how rewarding all this was. Happiness of patients like her makes every sleepless night worth it!” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/im-available-24x7-for-anyone-in-distress-ghritashri-bhuyan-narula-101620388680333.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||War rooms, field hospitals helped Mumbai in battle of second wave: Officials||A system of ward-level `war rooms' where hospital beds are allocated by civic officials and the decision not to dismantle field hospitals were key to Mumbai's success in tackling the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, officials believe.As much of the country is reeling under an unprecedented surge in cases, the "Mumbai model" has drawn appreciation even from the Supreme Court.Since May 1, Mumbai is reporting less than 4,000 cases every day, a significant fall from over 8,500 cases a day in the first week of April. On April 4, the city logged 11,163 cases, the highest so far. On May 6, it recorded 3,056 cases.To be sure, the financial capital of the country is still reporting more cases daily than the peak of 2,848 cases recorded on October 7 during the first wave last year.But there is no shortage of hospital beds and oxygen for patients, civic officials claimed.On Wednesday, the Supreme Court lauded the efforts of authorities to ensure adequate oxygen supply in Mumbai."Bombay Municipal Corporation is doing some great work, with no disrespect to Delhi. What they are doing, how they are managing, we can learn from them."I also understand that Maharashtra also produces oxygen which Delhi cannot do," said a bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud, hearing pleas on the dire situation in Delhi.As the second wave began, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation focused on testing, contact tracing and treatment besides ensuring that people followed guidelines.But the decision not to take down the infrastructure put in place during the first wave proved to be more crucial."There would have been chaos if we hadn't kept jumbo COVID centres (field hospitals), oxygen beds, ICU beds ready before the start of second wave," said Mayor Kishori Pednekar.Additional Municipal Commissioner Suresh Kakani, who insisted that jumbo centres should not be dismantled till March 31, said the BMC was ready for a new surge."The whole system -- oxygen, catering, house keeping, doctors and nurses -- was in place at jumbo centres," he said.The civic body continued to augment availability of oxygen and ICU beds and medicine stocks, he said."This is why the BMC had sufficient stock of Remdesivir when everywhere there was a shortage," Kakani said.The number of beds was doubled from around 12,000 to 24,000 within a month when cases began to rise in February. At present, Mumbai has 31,695 Covid-19 beds, including 12,754 oxygen beds and 2,929 ICU ones.There is no shortage of medical oxygen in the city now, but there were some scary moments when on the night of April 16-17 the BMC had to shift 168 Covid-19 patients from six civic hospitals as oxygen supply ran out.Learning a lesson, it started monitoring the movement of oxygen cylinders from plants to hospitals in real time."We have now deputed six officers at control rooms to ensure seamless supply of oxygen. There is also a monitoring committee headed by a deputy commissioner," Kakani added.During the first wave, the BMC set up a `war room' in each of the 24 wards to guide patients. Thanks to this system, people are not needed to run from one hospital to another in search of beds, as allocation of beds is done by war room officials.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said during a recent interview to the Indian Express that war rooms, dashboards for bed management, prohibition of release of test report directly to patients and the decision not to dismantle jumbo Covid facilities proved useful.The system is on "auto pilot" now, he said."When I joined, we did not have a dashboard, our control room operators used to check with individual hospitals if a bed is available," he said.After the April 17 incident when oxygen in six hospitals ran out, the BMC sought a protocol for oxygen consumption from the Maharashtra government's Covid-19 task force.It was decided that oxygen saturation level need not be maintained beyond 94 per cent, high-flow nasal oxygen should not be used indiscriminately, and there should be an oxygen consumption audit, Chahal said. The protocol was conveyed to all 176 hospitals in the city.Mayor Pednekar said the BMC also focused on setting up oxygen plants. "We didn't rely only on oxygen cylinders, but we set up liquid oxygen plants. Because of this, not a single person died due to lack of oxygen," she said.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's decision to enforce fresh lockdownalso helped, she noted.The civic body has already started preparing for the possible third wave of the pandemic, she said.The number of jumbo Covid facilities will be increased from nine to 15, including dedicated facilities for children and the disabled, Pednekar said."Jumbo centres, dashboard, oxygen supply and all other things worked effectively. Their effectiveness was visible in last three-four weeks. This infrastructure needs to be maintained because one can not predict if Covid-19 has run its course or not," said Dr Om Shrivastava,an infectious diseases expert who is a member of the state task force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/war-rooms-field-hospitals-helped-mumbai-in-battle-of-second-wave-officials-101620388210971.html
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||CM should take charge of HP’s Covid battle: Cong||Amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh, the opposition Congress on Friday demanded that chief minister Jai Ram Thakur take charge of the health department and take proactive steps to check the spread of coronavirus. “The health sector should get priority and Jai Ram Thakur needs to take control of the health department,” former Jubbal-Kotkhai legislator and chief parliamentary secretary Rohit Thakur said. Also read: Glimmer of hope: Covid care facility at Gurdwara Rakab Ganj SahibOn the first day of the 10-day curfew in the state that has been seeing 2,500 new Covid cases daily over the past week, the Congress leader said that the option of limited lockdown should be open in public interest. “Life and livelihood are both important. If there is a total lockdown, the government should give at least a 48-hour notice to people to prepare,” he said. He sought better management of health institutions and added that of the 15,306 posts of doctor and paramedical staff in the state, 5,984 posts were vacant. “These vacancies should be filled at the earliest. The AIIMS at Bilaspur, which is under construction for six years, should be made functional as soon as possible,” Rohit Thakur said. He said to prevent the situation from spiralling out of control as it happened in Delhi and other cities, oxygen plants should be made functional in all medical colleges and major hospitals. He urged the state government to provide help to the agriculture, horticulture and tourism sectors, which are the mainstays of Himachal Pradesh’s economy Vinay Kumar, the Congress MLA from Renuka and former chief parliamentary secretary, said the testing needs to be stepped up and community health centres should be equipped for it. He cited the shortage of oximeters and thermometers in the rural areas of his constituency. “Medicine supplies are also inadequate,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cm-should-take-charge-of-hp-s-covid-battle-cong-101620386519565.html
07-05-2021||Other||Odisha CM writes to finance minister seeking waiver of GST on Covid-19 vaccine purchase||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday requested the Central government to exempt Goods and Services Tax on purchase of Covid-19 vaccines while urging the Centre to share the additional resources raised through various cess and surcharges on petrol, diesel and liquor with the state, HT has learnt.In a letter to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Patnaik said that the states have been asked to purchase vaccines out of their own resources to cover the 18 to 45 years age group of the population. “These purchases attract 12 per cent GST making the vaccines costly for the states. Hence GST needs to be exempted completely,” Patnaik wrote.Last month, Patnaik had announced that Odisha would give free Covid vaccines to 1.93 crore people in the 18-44 age group that would cost it around ₹2,000 crore. A finance department official said though the state would get half the amount of 12 per cent GST imposed on the vaccines, even that amount would burden the state exchequer in the pandemic year.The chief minister has also sought financial assistance to states from cess and surcharges collected by the government of India.Patnaik in his letter said it was important that the states are supported so that the entire country fights as one. “Lack of finances should not affect any state as it might affect the entire country in turn. Hence, the additional resources raised through various cess and surcharges on petrol, diesel, liquor etc which are exclusively available to the Union government may be suitably shared with state governments at this critical juncture.“Sharing of financial assistance with states will strengthen the fight against the pandemic including the provision of vaccinations, free treatment, undertaking preventive measures and so on,” he wrote.Odisha and several other states have been demanding that the Centre should share a part of the revenue it is earning from fuel via excise duty, cess and surcharge as the central devolution to states has gone down by 20 per cent. Last year, the Centre earned over ₹3 lakh crore through cess and surcharge on fuel. The central government in March told the Parliament that since May 2020, it has been earning ₹33 per litre of petrol and ₹32 on a litre of diesel in form of central excise duty, including basic excise duty, cess and surcharge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-cm-writes-to-finance-minister-seeking-waiver-of-gst-on-covid-19-vaccine-purchase-101620386279421.html
07-05-2021||Other||Fuel prices in Pune reach new high, Petrol selling at ₹97.31 per litre||Petrol prices in Pune reached a record high on Friday at ₹97.31 per litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers.The petrol and diesel prices surged for the fourth consecutive day with the rate of petrol breaching the previous record on February 27, when it was ₹97.19 per litre.Besides petrol, the price of diesel also reached a record of ₹87.17 per litre, more than the previous high of ₹86.88 per litre. After the break in March and April, when prices had either stabilised or declined, they have started to soar from May 4.The transporters have expressed deep discontent over the price fuel price hike and especially the record prices of diesel.“Now passenger transport is completely closed and only goods transportation is going on. Most transportation is of the essential goods as the pandemic is raging. The hike in diesel price is a major blow to the transporters. The ultimate cost of these excessive prices will have to be sustained by transporters because traders won’t negotiate the transportation rates. How are we supposed to carry on? We are constantly writing to the central government to control the prices and give us some concessions,” said Baba Shinde, director (Maharashtra), All India Motor Transport Congress.Sagar Ghare, a delivery person associated with a food home delivery app in the city said that their profit margin is getting impacted because of the petrol price hike. “The companies already have reduced our per home delivery commission. In addition to this now fuel prices have started to increase again. There are restrictions imposed and we do not have any other opportunity but to continue with this to earn a livelihood. But it is becoming difficult now,” Sagar Ghare said.“The members across the board suggested that the government should be proactively engaged to address the concerns of the transport sector,” said Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fuel-prices-in-pune-reach-new-high-petrol-selling-at-rs-97-31-per-litre-101620386039347.html
07-05-2021||Other||Global village idiot: Future skill worries (s)killing the present… and all that jazz||Skills are very important, apparently. Very important. So much so that most of my acquaintances are talking about skills as much as they are talking about Covid-19. Apparently, it’s Covid-19 that’s got them worried about it in the first place. You see, the world is changing. “Do you know that 85 million jobs are likely to be displaced because of emerging technology?” “Where did you read that?” “I don’t remember where! I don’t have any of the skills required for all the new jobs! That’s what matters!” “But you already have a good job,” I pointed out. “But that job may not be there in the future, see?” Now all conversations are not so panic-stricken: “Can’t talk right now, am busy doing online courses,” “Which course?” “Many courses. Leadership, Design Thinking, Critical Thinking, Programming, Sustainability,” “But you are 12! Why aren’t you playing online games and being a kid?!” “The future is coming, without these new skills I won’t succeed.” So, I stopped to think. What skills do I have? What is success? And what is failure? And why haven’t I been thinking about it? In school I remember playing. And reading. And writing. And making and doing and talking. Oh yes, I remember talking a lot. In class. And therefore, kneeling in front of the classroom because talking in class wasn’t such a good thing when the teacher was teaching. And then, I remember talking across the classroom as I was serving my punishment (kneeling), and so I would be sent outside the classroom to kneel there so that everyone passing by would know I was punished. And there, in that lonely corridor, I would talk to teachers, and students and staff who happen to pass by. I think by the time I reached Grade 2, the whole school knew I was a talkative kid. I think I can put it down as a skill then. I got through school and college well enough. Not at the top, not near the bottom, not in the middle, but well enough. And I didn’t worry about getting a score, or fret about what would happen if I didn’t get a good enough score. I didn’t sit for competitive exams, didn’t aim to be an engineer or pilot or doctor, or anything actually. Through college and after, I took up many jobs and learned stuff and did stuff and wrote stuff and then, I discussed it with others, and then, I read and wrote and did and discussed some more, and so on. I held 11 jobs from age 18 through 24. I remember friends and family being worried about me all the time and telling me that I shouldn’t quit jobs so soon, because I wouldn’t be able to build a career. I didn’t stop to think about all that good advice because I was restless and obsessed with finding out who I am, what I could do, what I liked, didn’t like. Today, when I stop and give my back-trail a thought, I would say my life is a perpetual “work-in-progress”. I am just the same kid I was in school, in awe of all that is around me. Asking, running, doing, writing and talking - always talking still - and thrilled with the gift: How beautiful is life! Everything is in motion, occurring simultaneously, nothing is complete, not my work, not my learning, not my youth or middle age or childhood. I am father and child at the same time! Only at the end of my life, will it all be complete. So on the matter of skills, yes, there is a List of Future Skills. It comes from the World Economic Forum’s report on the Future of Jobs (it’s available free from the WEF site). Nasscom has one too, as does Pearson, and many other organisations. The long and short of it is that yes, there’re changes happening right now. There will always be changes in the world we live in. If you are in a job or looking for one, or changing one or studying to get a job soon, it is important to remember that the rules of figuring out how to make a living aren’t too complicated. Figure out what the world needs. Figure out what you are good at, what you are great at, and what you suck at. Then see if the world needs anything that you are good or great at. If not, then see if you can learn to become better at some of the stuff the world does need. If the world doesn’t need what you are good at, then you’ll just have to pick a range of jobs you can become efficient at, without losing your mind because you have to do it 8-10 hours a day. Then, do what you want the rest of the time. That’s what the gig economy’s all about anyway. Whichever way you go, there’s not much point fretting your way through it all.Mukherjee, author, learning-tech designer and management consultant, is founder of Mountain Walker and chief strategy advisor, Peak Pacific. He can be reached @ thebengali@icloud.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/global-village-idiot-future-skill-worries-s-killing-the-present-and-all-that-jazz-101620384362557.html
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||Over 125 lakh MT wheat procured in Punjab so far||Over 125 lakh metric tonne wheat has been procured in Punjab so far in the ongoing rabi marketing season.An amount of ₹21,472 crore has been paid to the farmers so far, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said on Friday.“I am happy to share that despite the challenge of #Covid-19, we have procured more than 125 Lakh MT wheat till date and paid ₹21,472 crore to our farmers,” Singh said in a tweet.He further said, “Our procurement agencies are working hard to ensure timely lifting and payment.”A few days ago, Punjab Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu had said the state government is expecting a total arrival of 130 lakh tonne of crop.Earlier, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had extended the cash credit limit (CCL) for Punjab for the ongoing wheat procurement season. The RBI had extended the CCL of ₹2,953.46 crore till the end of May.With this, the sanctioned limit of ₹21,658.73 crore had been enhanced to ₹24,612.19 crore, a state government statement had said here earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/over-125-lakh-mt-wheat-procured-in-punjab-so-far-101620383150510.html
07-05-2021||Lucknow||Mosques in Lucknow remain deserted on 'Alvida Jumma' amid Covid-19 restrictions||Mosques in Lucknow remained deserted on 'Alvida Juma' (last Friday of the month of Ramadan) here today due to the lockdown restrictions put in place amid the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic.After the Uttar Pradesh government extended curfew-like lockdown in the entire state till May 10, the city administration, as well as the religious leaders, had appealed to the people to offer prayers on 'Alvida Juma' at homes.Keeping in view of the restrictions, the Aishbagh Eidgah and other big mosques remained closed in the state capital.The restrictions were set to be lifted on Thursday morning, but it has been extended to tide over the Covid-19 crisis. All shops and establishments will now remain closed till Monday at 7 am.Uttar Pradesh currently has 259844 active Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mosques-in-lucknow-remain-deserted-on-alvida-jumma-amid-covid-19-restrictions-101620381864706.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||Battle for survival vs greed: Strict action demanded||The deadly second wave of Covid-19 pandemic has brought strangers together offline and online, trying to help each other in every way possible. Even the heartbreaking stories of death and bereavement have not stopped some from indulging in unethical and immoral practices such as black-marketing of medical life-saving necessities, hoarding and cheating in the name of Covid-19 medical supplies and charging exorbitant fees for ambulance service. The Delhi Police recently seized 419 oxygen concentrators after they raided a fine-dining restaurant, Nege & Ju in Lodhi Colony. These were being sold at an exorbitant price of ₹69,999 with fake MRP stickers pasted on them. And in the latest development, 96 oxygen concentrators were confiscated from Khan Chacha, a popular food joint in Khan Market. City’s eminent personalities call for strict actions against perpetrators of such illegal and inhuman activities when Delhi-NCR is reeling under the worst crisis ever. AD Singh, managing director, and co-founder, Olive Group of Restaurants, recalls being victim to a fraudulent incident. “In my own family, my mother in law was tested positive for Covid-19 ahead of a trip while the rest of us tested negative. Ten days later, we saw in the papers that a doctor at the lab and the collection agents involved were arrested for running a scam and giving random results and pocketing the tests fees,” he says. He feels lucky to have survived but believes that it was criminal behaviour.He adds, “There is a huge need for medical supplies in the city including oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders, and key medicines. Despicably this has led to a roaring black market and a huge number of scams making a very difficult situation for all of us even worse.”Model Sonalika Sahay feels that unprecedented times shows extreme behaviours of humans. “There are people like Sonu Sood working relentlessly and even auto-rickshaw drivers trying to save lives with no resources because they want to help people around. And on the other hand, some are trying to make a quick buck when people are losing their lives,” says Sahay who reiterates that this is not the time to make money but open hearts and come together.Resonating with Sahay’s view, designer Rahul Mishra too feels tough times shows true colours and real side of human beings as he elaborates, “It’s a privilege for many to be able to be at home protecting our loved ones while corona warriors are out there fighting and saving lives. But taking advantage of such a situation, becoming greedy of opportunities and hoarding and black marketing life saving drugs - people really need to introspect.” Mishra also feels, “When masses at large are scared and there is panic buying, it leads to giving big sharks opportunities to hoard and black-market.”Designer, JJ Valaya, feels that the pandemic has shaken India like never before is known to all, yet in the midst of all this and shockingly, greed thrives in the form of hoarders and black marketeers who are exploiting sickness for profits. He says, “They will be dealt the hand of fate when karma comes knocking but all of us too have a similar responsibility of not hoarding life-saving medicines and oxygen because of our fear ... our insecurities are costing needy patients their lives and we must do all we can to help, not hoard. Let’s all be an empathetic part of creating solutions and miracles will happen.”FDCI chairman, Sunil Sethi, too narrates an incident where they had to run from pillar to post in search of medicines but were fortunate to be able to manage at nominal price. He says, ”The problem is of 10 times the cost of medicines, scrupulous activities – which is neither acceptable to me, nor to the citizen of the country. However, when there’s a black marketer, there are good Samaritans who are coming forward to offer free of cost help. I am fortunate to be connected with them. My heart goes out to them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/struggle-for-survival-during-the-second-wave-of-covid-19-pandemic-hit-by-greed-strict-action-demanded-101620382499720.html
07-05-2021||Other||‘Make Covid-19 negative certificate mandatory to enter’: HC tells Goa govt||The Bombay High Court at Goa has directed the Goa government to make it mandatory for all people arriving in Goa to have tested negative for Covid-19 saying that there was “no justification … [for] not insisting upon a negativity certificate from persons who seek entry into Goa at this crucial juncture.”“We see no justification in the state of Goa not insisting upon a negativity certificate from persons who seek entry into Goa at this crucial juncture when reports indicate that the positivity rate in Goa is as high as 52%,” the Bombay High Court at Goa bench of Justices MS Sonak and MS Jawalkar said. Hearing a bunch of petitions filed by a group of lawyers, activists and volunteers, the High Court ruled that while making sure that no Covid-19 positive person enters the state, its directions were not meant as an order to ‘seal the state’s borders’ while also directing that essential supplies to the state were not hampered. Noting that the state government should have come up with restrictions on its own (without waiting for the intervention of the High Court), the High Court said that it was unfair to the state’s resident population that Goa being a tourist destination was being cited as a reason for not making it mandatory for a negative test on arrival. “Based on this unrestricted entry, Goa is touted as one of the few tourist destinations where all is well. This is neither fair to the populace in Goa already suffering from the overstretched medical infrastructure nor to the unsuspecting tourists who have to very often avail of the overstretched facilities at a great price,” the High Court observed.“By way of an interim order, we direct the state Administration to ensure that no persons are permitted entry into the state unless they possess a negativity certificate obtained within 72 hours from the time they seek entry into the state,” the High Court ruled.The High Court has, however, allowed the state government to seek a modification of its orders on Covid negative certification before entry into the state, provided the state government sets out its reasons in detail through an affidavit that should be filed by Monday. “Until modified, however, a negativity certificate will be a must for entry into the state of Goa,” the High Court said.The state Advocate General had argued against making it mandatory for people to either produce a Covid negative certificate or be tested upon arrival telling the court that “the decision as to whether a negativity certificate should be insisted upon or not is basically a policy decision.”“Goa has to rely on its neighbouring states for most of the essential supplies and the insistence of any such negative certificate will again impact supplies. Even the central government does not support sealing borders of any states during these times,” he told the court. The High Court, however, wasn’t convinced. “No doubt, some difficulties are bound to arise when it comes to essential supplies… For this, the state administration will have to come out with some adequate protocol to ensure that the essential supplies are not disturbed and at the same time, Covid positive persons are not granted easy entry into the state whose medical infrastructure is already overstretched… but citing such instances to justify wholesale waiver of restrictions in such critical times is not justifiable,” the High Court said.“This is only a case where steps are taken to ensure that the persons who are entering into Goa are not already tested as COVID positive so that they do not contribute to the spread of the epidemic and at the same time are cared for better in their own state,” the High Court said. The High Court has also asked the government to file a status report on the availability of oxygen, beds, crucial drugs as well as to make operational mechanism so that the people know how many beds are available, where and what type as well as to provide security to doctors performing their duties. Goa recorded 3,869 fresh cases of Covid-19 the highest single-day tally since the pandemic began while continuing to report a positivity rate of 51% for the second day in a row. 58 deaths were recorded in 24-hour period ending on Thursday taking the state’s toll to 1501, while nearly 30,000 people -- nearly 2% of the state’s population -- are currently active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/make-covid-19-negative-certificate-mandatory-to-enter-hc-tells-goa-govt-101620382319248.html
07-05-2021||Lucknow||Wrong candidates declared winners in UP panchayat poll||An FIR has been registered against a government official deputed as additional returning officer (ARO) in the Uttar Pradesh panchayat polls for allegedly giving winning certificates to candidates who lost, an official said on Friday.Additional returning officer (ARO) Virendra Kumar has been booked for cheating, forgery and fraud on a complaint from Returning Officer Sunil Kumar, a senior police official said.On Wednesday night, there were incident of arson in Nai Bazar police outpost by the supporters of the candidates who alleged that they was not declared winner due to fraud committed by the official.Police have arrested 18 people and lodged four separate FIRs in connection with vandalism and arson of the police outpost.After the counting of votes on Tuesday, Ravi Nishad, a candidate of district Panchayat ward number 60, and Kodai Nishad, of ward number 61, claimed they have won the election with over 2,000 votes, but the administration didn't give them certificate.On Wednesday morning, certificates of victory was given to Gopal Yadav for ward number 60 and Ramesh for ward number 61.The supporters of Ravi and Kodai held a demonstration at Nai Bazar crossing, pelted stones, and also set ablaze the police post there.Taking note of the incident, District Magistrate Vijyendra Pandiyan ordered matching of votes booth-wise and declared both Ravi and Kodai winners on Thursday."An FIR has been lodged against ARO Virendra Kumar, who is an executive engineer in the irrigation department. A a letter recommending action against him would be sent to the State Election Commission," the DM said.Police said, "Four cases under various IPC sections have been lodged against 60 named and 500 unidentified people in connection with the vandalism. Based on CCTV footage, we have arrested 18 people and are looking for others."SSP Dinesh P Kumar said strict action would be taken against those involved in the arson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/wrong-candidates-declared-winners-in-up-panchayat-poll-101620379911460.html
07-05-2021||Kolkata||Mamata writes to PM Modi for oxygen supply, says allocation increased for other states||In another appeal, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi regarding the supply of medical oxygen in the state. Banerjee, in the letter, requested PM Modi to issue instructions for an immediate allocation of at least 550 metric tonne per medical oxygen to the state.Also read: Bengal starts equipping rural hospitals as Covid-19 spreads to villagesReiterating the critical situation, Banerjee said due to Covid-19 positive cases rapidly increasing in the state, the demand for oxygen has gone up to 470 metric tonne per day in the last 24 hours and is expected to increase to 550 MT in the next seven to eight days."However, instead of allotting the same as per the requirement of West Bengal, Govt of India has increased allocation of MO to other states from the total production in West Bengal, during the last 10 days, from 230 MT to 360 MT, keeping the allocation for West Bengal constant at 308 MT per day, despite its requirement of 550 MT per day," Banerjee said, adding that the chief secretary of the state has already taken up the matter with Union health secretary and other officials on numerous occasions.The newly sworn chief minister mentioned that the daily production of medical oxygen in the state is 560 MT per day and requested an immediate allocation of at least 550 MT, preferably out of the total produced by the state.Also read| 'Look forward to Centre's sustained support': Mamata to PM ModiEarlier on Wednesday, Banerjee wrote to PM Modi requesting an adequate supply of vaccines, oxygen and essential drugs like Remdesivir and Tocilizumab."Consumption of medical oxygen has increased rapidly from 220 MT per day to 400 MT per day now, which is likely to rise to 500 MT per day in the next 7 days. Concerned authorities may kindly be advised to allocate at least 500 MT of medical oxygen per day out of total oxygen produced in Bengal on an urgent basis to prevent any shortage," the chief minister wrote in the previous letter.She also fired a new salvo on the BJP-led central government on Thursday for non-provision of funds for vaccines and constructing a new Parliament building with a huge budget amidst a national health crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-writes-to-pm-modi-for-oxygen-supply-says-allocation-increased-for-other-states-101620375986294.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi burial grounds out of space with Covid death toll high||Abdul Wahid, a resident of east Delhi’s Khichripur area, wanted to bury his 55-year-old woman neighbour, who had succumbed to Covid-19, at the nearby Mulla Colony burial ground on Monday. But he, like many others, were turned away by the burial ground for want of space, Wahid said.“We got her admitted to GTB Hospital on Sunday -- she had some lung infection. However, she succumbed to the virus on Monday. Hospital authorities told us we could choose one of three burial grounds -- at Mulla Colony, Shastri Park, or ITO-Delhi Gate. The first two refused to accommodate the body, leaving us in a fix,” said Wahid.The family then had to arrange for the burial at the ITO-Delhi Gate facility, which is already full, given the sharp rise in daily fatalities due to Covid. The second wave of Covid-19 across the country -- and the fourth in Delhi -- has turned out to be the deadliest one yet in terms of cases and deaths. Delhi is currently recording an average of 23,000 new Covid cases and 375 deaths over the past six days.Amid such high numbers, several smaller burial grounds have been facing a shortage of space and are having to turn away bodies.Also Read | Glimmer of hope: Covid care facility at Gurdwara Rakab Ganj SahibSuleiman Ali, who manages the one acre Shastri Park burial ground in north-east Delhi, said they have been turning away Covid bodies for 15 days now. “In April itself, we buried around 100 bodies, well beyond the capacity of 25 bodies a month. We had no space left and had to divert the bodies to other burial spaces. We have also asked our attached hospital [GTB hospital] to send bodies elsewhere.”Ali said the burial ground committee has decided to hold meetings with managements of nearby burial grounds to figure out a way to handle the crisis.East Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Nirmal Jain said apart from the two burial grounds designated for Covid burials -- Mulla Colony and Shastri Nagar -- they were also preparing burial facilities at Sunder Nagri. “We are currently in the process of preparing the Sunder Nagri burial ground to accommodate more bodies. We have also asked local burial grounds, including Mulla Colony and Shastri Park, to try and accommodate more bodies instead of sending them elsewhere.”The three civic bodies have allotted five burial grounds for Covid-19 deaths -- ITO-Delhi Gate, Mangolpuri, Mulla Colony, Shastri Park and Madanpur Khadar. Since the smaller burial grounds have refused to take in more bodies, the load falls on the ground at ITO-Delhi Gate, which is one of the largest burial grounds in the capital.Mohammad Shamim, supervisor at the ITO-Delhi Gate burial ground, said, “We have been facing a space crunch for about two weeks and have informed the Waqf board about it. We have been assured of another plot. But unless we get that, we have to struggle to accommodate all bodies and, sometimes, we are forced to divert them elsewhere.”Amanatullah Khan, chairman of the Delhi Waqf Board, which manages most burial grounds in the capital, said there are around 45 active burial grounds in the national capital of which five have been allocated for Covid burials.“The number of burials has dwindled in the past week and most burial grounds are receiving fewer than 10 bodies a day. The ITO kabristan received 10 bodies in the past two days. We have another burial ground near Indraprastha and have been in touch with the police to allow burials there as well,” he said.Last week, Khan also provided assistance to the Okhla burial ground to use the adjacent plot after they reported a shortage of space. “Due to the shortage of space and issues faced by burial grounds, we have also asked people to bury their dead by following Covid protocols in their localities itself,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-burial-grounds-out-of-space-with-covid-death-toll-high-101620377398591.html
07-05-2021||Bangalore||Lockdown could be inevitable in K'taka if people do not cooperate: Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday said a lockdown to curb the rise in Covid-19 cases could be inevitable if people do not cooperate."People are not following the Janata Curfew properly. They are not abiding by our warnings. Hence, lockdown could be inevitable," he told reporters near Annamma Devi Temple here ahead of a crucial meeting later Friday in view of the alarming rise in coronavirus cases.According to him, the government will finalise in a day or two about the stringent measures required to control Covid."If people wish that stringent measures should not be taken, then people should cooperate by wearing masks and maintaining social distancing," the Chief Minister said.Otherwise, strong measures will become necessary, he added.Regarding the oxygen crisis, Yediyurappa said he has been trying to resolve the issue honestly.To a question on Covid patients and their relatives coming to the CM's house and Vidhana Soudha seeking a hospital bed, he said this was improper and people should stop it."I won't say it is wrong to voice their woes. I understand their sufferings and I am trying to resolve their problems because we are pro-people," the Chief Minister said.He said people should avoid coming to CM House or Vidhana Soudha as the officials would get in touch with them.The Chief Minister hailed Bengaluru South MP Tejasvi Surya for exposing the hospital bed scam in which the beds reserved for Covid patients in private hospitals were blocked by a few people and allotted for a bribe."Tejasvi Surya had obtained the list (of scamsters) after much effort and brought the irregularities in allotment of bed to the Covid patients to the notice of the government," Yediyurappa said.He, however, took a dig at Congress MLA and former minister B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan for speaking ill of Tejasvi Surya.Yediyurappa was referring to the expose`by the young MP and BJP Yuva Morcha president Tejasvi Surya who claimed that 4,065 hospital beds were blocked and allotted for a bribe in the city.During the live expose, Surya read out the names of 17 Muslims, who were deployed at the Covid war room, seeking their credentials.The Basavanagudi BJP MLA Ravi Subramanya, who accompanied Surya, asked the officials whether they have converted the COVID War Room into a Madrassa.Taking strong exception to framing only Muslims, Khan said in a video message in social media as to why Surya did not see anyone else other than Muslims."There were 205 employees of Crystal Company, who were deployed in the Covid War Room on contract basis but you singled out only 16 Muslims. How fair is this? It shows how venomous you are, Tejasvi Surya," Khan said.Khan even claimed that only one person, Mohammed Zaid was assigned with the task of bed allotment while others were given different jobs.The Covid cases in Karnataka have increased at an alarming proportion.The state is reporting about 50,000 cases daily and has about 5.5 lakh active cases.The daily fatalities too were exceeding 300.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/lockdown-could-be-inevitable-in-k-taka-if-people-do-not-cooperate-yediyurappa-101620375300059.html
07-05-2021||Bangalore||After Tejasvi Surya’s comments, police quiz 16 Muslim Covid warriors: Official||Sixteen Muslim men, whose names were read out by Bengaluru south MP Tejasvi Surya, were questioned till 3 am on Wednesday after the WhatsApp chats alleged that they were “terrorists”. Even though these men were not mentioned in any of the FIRs registered by the Bengaluru police in connection with the “bribe for bed” scam, they were allegedly questioned after the MP raised questions about their qualifications, said an official of Jayanagar police station.Describing the events that followed Suraya’s remarks, a manager at the agency Shivu Naayak said soon after their names started coming on social media, they came to the office seeking help. “They were concerned because the messages that followed MP’s remarks called them terrorists. On Tuesday, Jayanagar police contacted us, and all the 16 employees and I were summoned to the police station,” he said.He added that all of them were questioned till 3 am and they were left off, with instruction that they should report police when required.Following the interrogation, all the men have been placed under suspension by the agency until the police investigation is over. “These 16 men are currently placed under suspension till the allegation against them is cleared. They will not be paid during their suspension; however, they have been told that they will get their jobs back once the enquiry is over,” Naik added.The manager dismissed the allegation that these men were involved in a bed booking scam. “WhatsApp messages are calling them terrorists, but except for one person, none of them was directly involved in bed booking. They were responsible for the helpline, home isolation, indexing, death and discharge. Even the person working in the bed allotment had joined recently,” he added.Talking about recruitment, he said that none of them was recruited together. They were among the many candidates who applied and got selected for the post.During the inspection on the centre as part of exposing the bribe for bed scam on Tuesday, Surya, who was accompanied by MLAs Satish Reddy and Ravi Subramanya, was seen reading out the names of the 16 Muslim employees at the centre and demanded the qualifications of these persons.Soon after the MP’s press conference about his inspection, a WhatsApp message titled “List of terrorists working in BBMP WAR ROOM killing thousands of Bengalurians” began doing rounds in Bengaluru. The message listed 16 of the 17 names mentioned by the Surya in his live stream. HT could not ascertain the origin of the WhatsApp message.On Thursday, workers of Karnataka Pradesh Congress filed a criminal complaint against Surya for making communal and inflammatory remarks during his visit to the BBMP south zone war room. Five different complaints have been filed against Surya by Congress leaders and workers across the city.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Harish Pandey denied that any person other than those relevant to the investigation has been called for interrogation. “The doctors who were in custody have given the names of a few people and we have questioned them. We are not following any particular list that has been doing rounds on social media. We are following police procedures. We have questioned only those who were relevant to the case,” he said.Meanwhile, the opposition Congress on Thursday alleged that MP Tejasvi Surya and a party MLA, were behind the scam involving blocking of hospital beds meant for Covid patients in the city. The Congress mounted the attack citing reports in a section of the media alleging BJP MLA Sathish Reddy’s involvement.“It’s like the pot calling the kettle black. The truth has come out now that the BJP leaders are behind the bed blocking scam. Arrest Satish Reddy who has been operating the bed booking scam with the help of his supporters, and the young MP (Tejasvi Surya) who accompanied him, and carry out a detailed investigation,” the Congress tweeted.Satish Reddy was not available for his comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/after-tejasvi-surya-s-comments-police-quiz-16-muslim-covid-warriors-official-101620372633145.html
07-05-2021||Other||BSF seizes 298 pulse oximeters smuggled in through Indo-Bangla border||The Border Security Force (BSF) has seized 298 oximeters while they were being smuggled from Bangladesh to West Bengal’s Nadia district.An official said an alleged smuggler has been arrested and that it was the first such seizure of pulse oximeters, which are in much demand as the second Covid-19 wave has triggered a shortage of medical equipment in India. Oximeters are used to measure oxygen levels.Also Read | MHA sends team to Bengal, seeks report from governor on violence“The oximeters were hidden in a plastic bag along with onions. The accused, a 19-year-old college student, got ₹300 for the delivery. The youth along with the seized items was handed over to the local police,” said the official.The India-Bangladesh border is porous and covers a significant portion of the riverine territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bsf-seizes-298-pulse-oximeters-smuggled-in-through-indo-bangla-border-101620372118224.html
07-05-2021||Other||Four arrested for trafficking pangolins in Maharashtra’s Alibag||Four persons were arrested in Alibag, Raigad district, on Thursday for attempting to illegally traffic protected wildlife. Two live pangolins, one adult female and a cub, were recovered from the accused who have been booked under relevant sections of the Wildlife Protection Act (1972) by the Maharashtra forest department.Pangolins are protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife Act, putting them in the same bracket as tigers, lions, rhinos and several other species. Smuggling or hunting of pangolins -- which are classified as endangered in the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s red list of threatened species -- attracts the highest penalties as per the law.Also Read | Wildlife board meeting raises concerns on ecotourism in forestsThursday’s arrest was made in Navghar region of the Sudhagad Pali forest reserve in Alibag. Officials said they acted on a tip-off and one of them posed as a customer interested in purchasing pangolins for their scales, which are in high demand in the international wildlife market. “We had been on the trail of the accused for three days,” said range forest officer Sameer Shinde, who also credited Alibaug’s deputy conservator of forests Ashish Thakre, and assistant conservator of forests Sanjay Kadam, for their role in the operation. The four accused have been booked under Sections 9 (prohibition of hunting), 39 (3) (possession of wild animals), 44 (1) (a) (dealing in captive animals), 48 (a) (illegal transportation of wildlife), 49 (purchase of wild animals) and Sections 50, 51, and 51 (a), which deals with arrests and penalties, of the Wildlife Protection Act (1972). They have been remanded to police custody.This is the third incident in Maharashtra this year where poachers have been arrested for smuggling of pangolins. In February, four people had been arrested from Ahmednagar district and then three persons were arrested from Raigad district in a similar case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-arrested-for-trafficking-pangolins-in-maharashtra-s-alibag-101620371698086.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||Glimmer of hope: Covid care facility at Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Sahib||Almost every imaginable medical facility — doctors, nurses, ambulance, oxygen cylinders and concentrators — alongside food for patients as well as doctors, will be available at the newly set-up Covid care facility at Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Sahib in the Capital. With a capacity of 250 oxygen beds, and all other services absolutely free of cost, this centre is nothing short of a glimmer of hope that one needs in such times of crisis, when the second wave of Covid is posing serious obstacles to those critical patients who are looking for hospital beds. Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president, Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee, says this facility will be “dedicated to humanity”. “Hospitals mein jagah nahin hain. People need oxygen, which is also not available. So many people have been calling us. Itni umeed se phone karte hain ki shayad unki jaan bach jaayegi,” says Sirsa, whose team has worked day and night to put in place the infrastructure at the facility, within a span of one week! The hall that has been converted into a Covid care facility has a capacity of 10,000 to 15,000 people. “It was earlier used for religious and social purposes... This is the place where Guru Tegh Bahadur was cremated. And this is the first instance when we are using it for medical purposes; considering Guru Sahib ki jagah hai, sab jaldi theek bhi ho jayenge!” says Sirsa, hopeful that the Omnipotent will heal and bless everyone. He adds: “The doctors will be staying here as well, and we’ll be providing every facility ranging from medicines to doctors and nurses. We’ve imported oxygen concentrators from New York and Singapore, and more are lined up. Today, we have 200 concentrators and 150 oxygen cylinders with us. So we can use both together. Plus we have 15 ambulances as well. In the next one week, we’re getting another 100 bedded hospital.” The facility, which will be operational from May 10, will also be connected to an ICU hospital in case of any emergencies. “Health minister Satyendar Jain has suggested that we run it as a 400 bed facility. He said that they will link it to one newly made special ICU hospital, and in case of emergency the patient could be transferred to the ICU as well,” informs Sirsa. A volunteer at this centre, Gurmeet Singh Tinku, says, “God has gifted us humanity. I’ll be helping here with langar, three times a day. Kayi sansthaye humare saath mil ke kaam kar rahi hain. Humari yehi koshish rehti hai ki jis patient ki need kahi aur poori nahin ho paa rahi, uski need yahan poori ho.”Jujhar Singh, another volunteer, who will be helping by providing milk, fruits and dry fruits to the patients, says, “Itna bada centre banana aasan kaam nahin tha. Aur ab jab ye banke almost tayyar hai toh hygienic and nutritious food is very important to provide, since a Covid patient needs it to recover soon. One patient needs 2,000+ calories, and we consider it as our responsibility to provide it!”Author tweets @Nainaaroa8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/glimmer-of-hope-covid-care-facility-at-gurdwara-rakab-ganj-sahib-101620371116595.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: NCB arrests drug peddler in Goa||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has arrested a drug peddler in Goa in connection with the drugs case linked to Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death, an official said on Friday.The accused, Hemal Shah, was nabbed by a team of the anti-drug agency, he said."Shah's alleged involvement came to light during the investigation of a drugs case linked to Sushant Singh Rajput's death," he said.Accordingly a trap was laid and Shah was apprehended in Goa, he said, adding that he will be produced before a court later in the day.The NCB had launched a probe into the alleged use of drugs in the film and entertainment industry after Rajput was found dead at his home in Mumbai in June last year.The central agency had earlier arrested Rajput's girlfriend, actor Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik and a few others under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.Rhea and some other accused are currently out on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-ncb-arrests-drug-peddler-in-goa-101620366664445.html
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||China’s PLA resumes building border post along Kaurik in HP||With snow melting in the high-altitude areas, China’s People Liberation Army has begun constructing a post along the Indian border in the sensitive Kaurik sector of Himachal Pradesh’s tribal Lahaul and Spiti district. Residents of border villages of Shaktot and Churup, who have started sowing crops, noticed that the PLA has operationalised its stone-crusher for raw material to build the post. An Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) recce team also reported seeing PLA officials inspecting the road and foot bridges across the Pareechu, a tributary of the Spiti river. Also read: Year after Gogra trespass, PLA dragging feet over restoring status quo antePareechu originates in Indian territory but meanders back in the mountains of China before reaching the confluence with Spiti. A glacial lake burst on the course of the Pareechu on the Chinese side in 2004 and damaged road bridges on the banks of the Spiti and its main Sutlej river, also known as the powerhouse of the Himalayas for its hydel potential. During the routine recce recently, the ITBP patrol reported seeing PLA soldiers, who had arrived in a vehicle, negotiating with the stone-crusher owner to supply construction material. The PLA is building more roads and buildings in the upper regions of Barangkali. A permanent army camp of China is located at Dunmur village close to the Indian border post at Lepcha. There has been no construction activity along the Indian border for the past one year. Himachal Pradesh shares a 260-km border with China in Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti districts. Of the total border length, 140km is in Kinnaur district, while 80km falls in Lahaul and Spiti district. Five battalions of the ITBP guard the border with China in the state. In all, there are 20 ITBP posts along the border and Kaurik is a sensitive one being the last village beyond Sumdoh. Last year, after the standoff between Indian and Chinese troops at Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh, China accelerated road construction at Tango and Yamrang, which are close to Chitkul and Charang villages on the Indian side. Both Yamrang and Tango are in China-controlled Tibetan Autonomous Region. China stepped up activity in the region after air incursions in Kaurik sector in April last year. Chinese helicopters violated Indian airspace twice in April 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chinas-pla-resumes-building-border-post-along-kaurik-in-hp-101620367078126.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: 2 held in Delhi for black marketing of medical equipment||The Delhi Police have arrested two persons from the Greater Kailash-1 area of the national capital for alleged black marketing of COVID-19 related medical equipment.The accused were arrested on May 5.The police also recovered 10 medical oxygen concentrators, 82 plastic pipes used in concentrators, 3486 digital thermometers, 263 digital gun thermometers, 684 oximeters and 10 nebulizers.The accused were identified as Saeed resident of Jamia Nagar and Muqueem resident of Shaheen Bagh, the police added.Both the accused disclosed that they were selling essential life-saving equipment at higher rates than the market rate, the police claimed.A case under Section 3/7 Essential Commodities Act, Section 3 of Epidemic Act has been registered.Further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-2-held-in-delhi-for-black-marketing-of-medical-equipment-101620364120310.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s north municipal corporation plans drive-in Covid vaccination centres||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation plans to start drive-in vaccination centres in its parking lots. The civic body is going to write to the Delhi government for permission to start these centres where people can get vaccinated while sitting in their cars.The corporation is inspired by the success of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s vaccination centre at a multi-level parking site in Dadar. North Corporation mayor Jai Prakash said, “We held a meeting to discuss this plan with our officials. To begin with, we plan to start the drive in our multilevel parking lots and then in surface-level parking sites. We will write to the government for permission soon.”The permission for the same will come from the Delhi government and the Delhi Disaster Management Authority.The drive, Jai Prakash said, will help speed up vaccination process, especially for the elderly and those with physical disabilities.Also Read | 414,188 new Covid cases recorded in India in biggest daily spike, 3,915 deaths“Our focus should be to ramp up the vaccination drive. This facility will allow people to get vaccinated while sitting in their cars,” he said. There are over 20 multi-level parking lots in the city in areas such as Hauz Khas, Connaught Place, Munirka, Rajouri Garden, Jangpura, Model town, Chandni Chowk, etc. The three civic bodies also manage surface parking lots.Jai Prakash said, “If we get the permission, we can start this facility in no time, as we have adequate staff available.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-north-municipal-corporation-plans-drive-in-covid-vaccination-centres-101620366897722.html
07-05-2021||Lucknow||Oximeters, thermal scanners at UP's 'gaushalas'||Amid the surge in coronavirus cases, the Uttar Pradesh government is providing oximeters and thermal scanners for cows housed in the state’s ‘gaushalas’.That is what a government press release said. But an official later clarified that the medical equipment was meant for people who work at the ‘gaushalas’.A recent press release from Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s office also said the state government has issued instructions to set up help desks in every district for the welfare of cows, taking forward its cow protection agenda.The government has issued instructions that all cowsheds must strictly follow the Covid-19 protocol, and made wearing masks and frequent thermal screening mandatory there.The press release on cowsheds said the ‘gaushalas’ will be “equipped with all the medical equipment such as oximeters and thermal scanners for cows and other animals as well”."In view of the current Covid situation, a total of 700 help desks for the welfare of cows have been set up across the districts of the state. With this, 51 oximeters and 341 thermal scanners have also been provided to ensure better animal care and testing," it said.The statement said stray cows in large numbers are being given shelter at the 'gaushalas' due to the efforts of the chief minister.The government is also rapidly increasing the number of the existing cow shelters to deal with the stray cattle menace, it said.Giving overall figures, it said 5,268 cow protection centres have ensured the well-being of 5,73,417 animals so far in the state. Apart from these, there are larger cow sanctuaries as well in the state.The statement also referred to “fodder banks”, set up during Adityanath’s tenure. There are 3,452 of them, feeding stray cattle.Under the "Mukhya Mantri Besahara Gauvansh Sahbhagita Yojana", the UP government gives ₹900 per month to farmers who take care of stray cattle.In 2020-21, the state government gave ₹38.98 crore to 130 cow shelters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/oximeters-thermal-scanners-at-up-s-gaushalas-101620363075111.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||What is the Mumbai 02 model and how it cracked the code||When the worst surge in infections amid the second Covid-19 wave triggered oxygen shortage across the country, Mumbai fell back upon 15 big and 11 smaller Liquid Medical Oxygen [LMO] tanks installed at six hospitals and as many jumbo Covid-19 centres between May and June last year. The tanks helped meet the daily demand for medical oxygen that went up from 210 metric tonnes (MT) in the first wave to 270 (MT) last month.“Building the additional LMO tanks helped us cope during the second wave,” additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu said.The success in coping prompted the Supreme Court on Wednesday to ask the Centre and the Delhi government to examine the “Mumbai model” of optimal utilisation of oxygen. It said the Delhi government should consider replicating this model as Mumbai has also made arrangements for buffer storage.Velrasu said the tanks, their construction, fitting, and piping, cost them over ₹14 crore. “At that point, we did not know if they would be utilised, but we still went ahead and created that infrastructure.”LMO tanks are highly pressurised and installed on reinforced concrete structures. They require certification by the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation under the ministry of commerce and industry, which has been overseeing the supply and distribution of oxygen during the crisis.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Mumbai’s civic body, plans to build 10 more LMOs in preparation for a possible third wave expected anytime between July and September.Also Read | 414,188 new Covid cases recorded in India in biggest daily spike, 3,915 deathsIn April, when the city’s daily average cases touched 7,786, many patients were shifted from one hospital to another due to a shortfall of oxygen. For instance, 168 patients were alone moved out of six government hospitals to jumbo centres on April 17 after oxygen supply was affected.The BMC has announced the appointment of six officials for coordination between oxygen suppliers, assistant municipal commissioners of the 24 civic wards, and the Food and Drug Administration. The officials will be responsible for maintaining the existing oxygen supplies and ensuring they are used sparingly.Civic officials said they have also ensured the safe transportation of oxygen cylinders. Only two BMC-run hospitals, Kasturba Hospital and HBT Trauma Care, have oxygen generation plants. Other big hospitals have LMO tanks, which are refilled at least once daily. Other hospitals rely on oxygen cylinders. All hospitals are mandated to keep cylinders as a backup. When the crisis hit, the civic body deployed six quick response vehicles to ferry cylinders and concentrators to hospitals in need.“Ward-level teams were formed to coordinate and move surplus oxygen from one site to another...,” said Krishna H Perekar, BMC’s chief engineer.Officials said a resource inventory of oxygen use and infrastructure at hospitals proved helpful. Oxygen was often supplied to suburbs such as Navi Mumbai and Thane. “Our inventory has micro-details like the number of jumbo oxygen cylinders, dura cylinders, and capacity of the LMO tanks at all hospitals. We also have exact details of the oxygen usage at each hospital,” Velrasu said. “We formed crack teams to ensure that the LMO tanks reach Mumbai smoothly. These teams were also deployed at the cylinder refilling plant at Navi Mumbai to ensure that Mumbai gets its quota of cylinders.”At the peak of the oxygen demand, Mumbai faced a shortfall of 15 to 20MT oxygen. This was managed by moving surplus stock from one place to another and seeking oxygen from Gujarat.Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force also recommended that doctors should stop the use of High Flow Nasal Cannula (HNFC) to deliver oxygen (up to 80 litres/min) when the demand increased last month. Hospitals were encouraged to use Bilevel Positive Airway Pressure (BiPAP) machines, which deliver oxygen either through a flowmeter (up to 15 litres/min) or a non-invasive ventilator (up to 30 litres/min), and with lower pressure.“Soon after the advisory, we completely stopped use of HNFC and alternatively started using non-invasive ventilation such as BiPAP,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of BMC-run Nair Hospital.Dr Gautam Bhansali of the Bombay Hospital said that they reduced the use of HNFC too. “It is hard to completely stop its use because most patients are comfortable with the nasal cannula. With the BiPAP, we have to use a face mask which some patients find uncomfortable.”The BMC plans to set up 16 oxygen generation plants at 12 hospitals to reduce the dependence on LMO and cylinders. “We may still require LMOs as they provide better pressure, mainly for patients in the Intensive Care Units,” said Velrasu. “But having oxygen plants at all facilities will reduce the dependency to a large extent.”On Thursday, the Bombay high court said BMC chief Iqbal Chahal should hold a video conference with other municipal bodies and explain how the city managed the second wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/whats-the-mumbai-model-sc-has-asked-delhi-to-emulate-to-deal-with-o2-crisis-101620362397320.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||Partly cloudy sky in Delhi today; AQI in moderate category||Delhi is likely to see a partly cloudy sky on Friday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature is likely to be 23 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to hover around 38°C. The minimum temperature on Thursday was 26.5°C and the maximum temperature was 39.7°C. Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Friday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 129. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI stood at 156 in the moderate category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.Also Read | States step up curbs as Covid-19 tightens gripAccording to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to remain in the moderate category on Friday and Saturday. Subsequently, the air quality is likely to remain largely in the moderate to poor category over the next five days.On Thursday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality is in the moderate category. Surface winds are moderate and Easterly. SAFAR Model forecast moderately faster wind speed for the next 24 hrs. Isolated thunderstorms are likely for the next two days. Isolated dust spike at few locations for one or two hours is likely. Hence, AQI is forecasted to stay improved in the moderate category for tomorrow, and the moderate to lower end of the poor category is forecasted for the next two days. Satellite shows rabi crop burning induced fire counts in north India are significantly reduced and its influence is negligible in Delhi air.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/partly-cloudy-sky-in-delhi-today-aqi-in-moderate-category-101620358196786.html
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||HP hikes pay for medicos on Covid duty from ₹3,000 to ₹10,000 a month||After drawing flak for roping in medical interns and MBBS final year students in the battle against Covid-19 by paying them a paltry sum of ₹3,000, the health department has increased the incentive for medicos to ₹10,000 a month to overcome the staff crunch. Two days ago, the government announced that final year MBBS and nursing students and contractual doctors shall be deployed in Covid hospitals till June 30. Also read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe health department fixed ₹3,000 a month as incentive for final year MBBS students, junior and senior residents and contractual doctors. It announced that nursing students, contractual laboratory staff and general nursing and midwifery (GNM) third-year students will be given ₹1,500 a month for working at Covid care facilities. In the fresh notification, the government raised the incentive for final year MBBS students, junior and senior residents and contractual doctors to ₹10,000 a month. BSc nursing and MSc third-year students will now be paid ₹6,000 a month and contractual laboratory staff will get ₹5,000 a month. Himachal Pradesh is reporting more than 2,500 Covid-19 cases daily for the past week. Kangra, Solan, Una, Mandi and Shimla districts are the worst hit. The state recorded 3,942 fresh Covid-19 infections on Thursday, the highest single-day spike since the outbreak for the second consecutive day, taking the state’s total caseload to 1,18,729. The death toll mounted to 1,707 after 45 more patients succumbed to the contagion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-hikes-pay-for-medicos-on-covid-duty-from-3-000-to-10-000-a-month-101620358077097.html
07-05-2021||Ranchi||It was PM's 'Mann ki Baat', Jharkhand CM on Modi's phone call to discuss Covid-19||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Thursday described Prime Minister Narendra Modi's phone call to him on the Covid-19 situation in the country as the PM's "Mann Ki Baat", instead of business.Soren's reaction came after Modi spoke to him and the chief ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, and Telangana about the Covid-19 situation on Thursday."Today the respected Prime Minister called. He only spoke his 'Mann Ki Baat'. It would have been better if he would have talked business and heard the issues," the Jharkhand chief minister said in a tweet.Official sources said Soren was unhappy as he was not allowed to present the issues concerning his state before Modi and instead, it was only the prime minister who talked about the Covid-19 situation.Jharkhand is among the 10 states and Union territories that are collectively accounting for over 75 per cent of daily Covid-19 deaths in the country, according to latest data. The others in the league are Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan.Jharkhand reported 133 Covid-19 fatalities on Thursday, taking the death toll due to the viral disease in the state to 3,479, while 6,974 cases pushed the state's infection tally to 2,70,089.The mortality rate in the state remains higher at 1.28 per cent against the national mortality rate of 1.10 per cent. According to a bulletin issued by the state health department, the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients is 76.26 per cent in Jharkhand as against the national average of 82 per cent.Soren digitally inaugurated a 528-bed makeshift Covid-19 hospital at Ranchi's Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) on Thursday.Of the 528 oxygenated beds, 327 were set up at the RIMS multi-storey parking lot, 73 at the oncology department and 128 at the old building of the institute.Soren said 108 more beds will be set up with the help of the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC), the country's largest energy conglomerate.On Wednesday, the chief minister had digitally inaugurated 250 beds at a dedicated Covid health centre at Koderma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/it-was-pm-s-mann-ki-baat-jharkhand-cm-on-modi-s-phone-call-to-discuss-covid19-101620356185383.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||Three sell drugs at inflated prices, held||The police have arrested two men, including a nurse at Fortis hospital, Shalimar Bagh, and recovered eight injection vials of the antiviral drug remdesivir from them. The injections were imported from Ukraine, and the three were allegedly trying to sell them at inflated prices in outer Delhi.In another case, police arrested a graphic designer for allegedly trying to sell dexamethasone injections, a corticosteroid used in the treatment of Covid-19. The injections, which cost ₹10 per vial, was being sold for ₹10,000 each, police said.Amid a sharp rise in Covid-19 hospitalisations, the Capital has been hit by a severe shortage of several drugs used to treat Covid-19 patients.When asked for a comment on the arrest of the nursing staff, a spokesperson for Fortis Hospital said, “At Fortis, all medicines are issued in the name of the admitted patients against an indent through the IT system, and the medication administration is recorded in the patient’s chart. As per the press release issued by the police, the seized drug appears to have been illegally imported from Ukraine and are not from our inventory. We have a zero-tolerance policy towards any malpractice and are committed to offer complete cooperation to the authorities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/three-sell-drugs-at-inflated-prices-held-101620350071803.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||O2 storage tanks to task force: Detailing the ‘Mumbai model’||In a span of 40 days between May and June last year, Mumbai civic body installed 15 Liquid Medical Oxygen [LMO] tanks with a capacity of 13 kilolitres each and 11 smaller tanks with a capacity of up to six kilolitres each in the city’s six civic-run hospitals and six jumbo Covid-19 centres. These oxygen storage tanks played a crucial role for Mumbai, which saw its daily demand for medical oxygen go up from 210 metric tonnes (MT) in the first wave to 270 (MT) in the past month alone.The “Mumbai model” has won praise from both the Supreme Court and the Bombay High Court. The apex court on Wednesday appreciated Mumbai’s efforts and recommended that the Centre and Delhi take a cue on how to handle oxygen supply in the face of the severe shortage that the Capital city has been facing for the past three weeks.So what did Mumbai do to control the crisis?“Building the additional LMO tanks helped us cope during the second wave,” additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu said.Also read | Air ambulance lands on belly in Mumbai as wheel falls off in NagpurIn April, the city’s daily average cases had touched 7,786 and this is when the oxygen crisis was felt most keenly. That’s when the BMC announced that it would appoint six civic officials to act as coordinators between oxygen suppliers, assistant municipal commissioners of the 24 civic wards and the Food and Drug Administration. The officials will be responsible for maintaining the existing oxygen supply and also ensuring that the same is used sparingly.Part of Mumbai’s oxygen supply model evolved to ensure the safe transportation of oxygen cylinders.“Ward-level teams were formed to coordinate and move surplus oxygen from one site to another where there was a shortfall,” said Krishna H Perekar, BMC’s chief engineer (Mechanical and Electrical).A resource inventory of oxygen use and infrastructure of the city’s public as well as private hospitals proved helpful, as Mumbai’s oxygen often needed to go to far-flung suburbs in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, like Navi Mumbai and Thane, which also faced severe shortage of supply.The civic body now plans to construct an oxygen generation plant at each hospital, so that the dependency of LMO and cylinders reduces. “We may still require LMO as they provide better pressure, mainly for patients in the Intensive Care Units,” said Velrasu. “But having oxygen plants at all facilities will reduce the dependency to a large extent,” he said. The BMC has announced that it would set up 16 oxygen generation plants in 12 hospitals across the city, each of which will produce an estimated 43MT of oxygen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/o2-storage-tanks-to-task-force-detailing-the-mumbai-model-101620339650048.html
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||Only 12% of Haryana population has received first dose of Covid vaccine, says official||Vaccination against Covid-19 is being conducted in full swing across all districts of Haryana as over 2.71 lakh people were given the jab in the past four days.The highest ever 91,098 people were vaccinated on Thursday - the highest ever in a single day since April 14.Maximum 12,027 people were vaccinated in Gurugram on Thursday, followed by 8,167 in Yamunanagar, 7,969 in Faridabad, 6,734 in Karnal, 4,686 in Sirsa and 4,524 in Sonepat.A senior officer monitoring the vaccination campaign in state said that people are coming out for vaccination as cases are rising. “According to figures, only 12% of the total population of 2.88 crore of Haryana has received the first dose and just 6.43 lakh people have received the second jab (2.23%),” he said.As per officials of the health department, youths are showing interest in getting vaccinated as 2.82 lakh people have vaccinated in state since the vaccination was rolled out for those above 18 years of age on May 2. Around 75% people vaccinated during this period have taken the first dose.Government has increased the number of vaccination centres to 1,192 including 64 at private hospitals and there is a huge response to the campaign as most centres are booked.As per figures from the Haryana health department, total 34.34 lakh people have been given the first dose and 6.37 the second dose so far.The figures revealed that people above 60 years of age have the biggest share of 15.49 lakh; followed by 14.18 lakh in 45 to 60 age group; 3.01 lakh in 30 to 45 age group; and 1.72 lakh in 18 to 30 age group.Haryana health minister Anil Vij said people are showing good response in protecting themselves from coronavirus. “Following the response, the number of vaccination centres was increased in state. It will be increased further as per availability of vaccine,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/only-12-of-haryana-population-has-received-first-dose-of-covid-vaccine-says-official-101620339656929.html
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||Three arrested for murder in Kaithal||Three people have been arrested in connection with a murder of a Kaithal resident on May 3, police said on Thursday. Kaithal DSP Ravinder Kumar said the accused have been identified as Om Prakash alias Bagri of Danoda Khurd village of Jind district, Mahender Singh of Bakal village (Kaithal) and his brother Joginder Singh. The trio is accused of murdering one Vijay Kumar of Bakal village by hitting him with an iron rod, said the DSO, adding that they later dumped his body in the fields near Pundri. The DSP said Om Prakash was already convicted in a murder case and was out on parole. During the police investigation, it was revealed that Vijay had an argument with the accused on May 2 and the next day the trio attacked him. The accused have been booked for murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-arrested-for-murder-in-kaithal-101620339475507.html
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s daily positivity rate rockets to 29.92%||The daily positivity rate in Haryana touched 29.92% on Thursday. It means that for every 100 people tested for Covid-19, nearly 30 were found positive. The cumulative positivity rate of the state stands at 7.48%, according to the health department bulletin. In past 24 hours, the state took 52,132 samples and detected 14,840 new cases while 177 people succumbed to the contagion. The state’s infection tally stands at 5,73,815. The number of active cases have gone up to 1,15,842, the bulletin added. The recovery rate saw marginal improvement as it rose to 78.92% from 78.82%. While 12,246 people recovered from the infection on Thursday, at least 97,618 people were vaccinated across the state. So far, 41.25 lakh people have received the jab in the state. Of the total 177 fatalities on Thursday, the districts with the highest number of casualties were Rohtak (23) followed by Hisar (22), Fatehabad (19), Gurugram (13), Bhiwani and Jind (11) and Sirsa (10). Nine people each died in Faridabad, Karnal and Kaithal. So far, 5,137 people have died due to the virus in the state. The districts that reported a big spike in new cases were Gurgaon (3,737), Faridabad (1,537), Sonipat (1,046), Hisar (1,193), Karnal (621), Sirsa (607), Panipat (792) and Mahendragarh (1,083). Nearly 60% inmates found positive at Nasibpur jail 
07-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A father’s pandemic||He calls himself “mayoos”, or disappointed.This is something.Ajit Singh Nivediya — Sudama to friends — isn’t one of those folks to be easily disappointed (his smile is infectious). But this year of the pandemic, and especially its current surge, along with the weeklong lockdown that started in Gurugram, where he lives, have finally taken their toll. The most crushing consequence —“I want my daughters to have a good education. I’m unable to give it to them.”“I’m helpless,” he says, chatting on the phone from his one-room home in Sheetla Colony. It’s seven in the morning, and Mr Nivediya woke up a while ago. A tailor, his wife and son died some years ago, leaving him alone to take care of his two girls. Every morning he rides a bicycle to his little establishment in Sector 31, but is obliged to stay at home due to the lockdown. “My earnings plummeted since the start of the bimari (disease), most customers stopped coming.”Some kind acquaintances, including long-time patrons in the apartments, have helped him survive this tough period, giving him cash and sometimes food rations.But that’s not enough to support the education of his daughters, he admits. The private school closest to home, he explains, is unaffordable for him, and the government school “is beyond a road where my girls might not be safe”. Until early last year, Harshita and Sonakshi were in another private school, with affordable fee, but it was only going till 8th standard, which the elder girl finished before the first lockdown.Yes, of course, the father is aware that schools have been doing online classes throughout this year, “but we have only one smartphone, which made it impossible for both the girls to attend their respective classes at the same time.”A few times the sisters downloaded educational apps on the phone, “but those apps charge money.”So, since last year, Mr Nivediya’s daughters spent most of their time indoors, doing the housework, such as cooking the meals. The father’s limitations have made them prematurely thrifty for “they no longer ask me to buy chips or fruits for them.”Until last year, Harshita, who was then in 9th standard, and Sonakshi, who was in 7th, longed to be an engineer and a doctor (the pic is from that year-old chat). But now? “I still want to be a doctor and didi still wants to be an engineer, but papa doesn’t have enough money,” explains Sonakshi. “Maybe things will improve by next year and we will go back to school,” she says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-father-s-pandemic-101620338207417.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi Bar busted for selling O2 device||The Delhi Police on Thursday said a bar and restaurant south Delhi’s Lodhi Colony was being used to hoard and black market oxygen concentrators. Police said they seized 419 concentrators, which were allegedly being sold at inflated rates, after an investigation.“To portray that the machines were being sold at a fair price, stickers carrying fake maximum retail prices were pasted on them,” said Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south) adding that the concentrators costing about ₹20,000 were sold for nearly ₹70,000.Also read | Water supply to Capital hit but Covid hospitals sparedPolice have arrested four people -- manager of the restaurant-cum-bar Nege & Ju and three employees of a private company, Matrix Cellular.Thakur said the private firm was used to import concentrators and store them at its godown in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur, from where the police recovered 387 concentrators. The remaining 32 concentrators were seized from the restaurant The private firm’s help was also sought in selling the equipment both offline as well as online.The DCP said the restaurant is owned by Navneet Kalra, who also runs other businesses in central Delhi. “Kalra’s role is being investigated,” he said. HT tried to contact Kalra, his restaurant, and Matrix Cellular for comments. However, none of them could be reached.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-bar-busted-for-selling-o2-device-101620337973885.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||Water supply to Capital hit but Covid hospitals spared||Water supply to several parts of the city was affected on Thursday after the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) alleged that Haryana was releasing less water into the Yamuna. The utility, however, assured people that the supply to Covid-19 hospitals and care centres was not impacted.In a statement released on Thursday, the DJB said the water production at the Wazirabad, Okhla and Chandrawal water treatment plants was hit because Haryana was not releasing the requisite amount of water to Delhi.“However, special attention is being paid to hospitals treating Covid-19 patients to ensure that there is no shortage of drinking water in hospitals. Area officials shall be in constant touch with hospital authorities to ensure that a sufficient quantity of drinking water is supplied,” DJB said.Officials added that apart from ensuring piped supply, water will also be provided to these hospitals through tankers.Also read | New quarantine rules for those from Andhra and Telangana“Delay in supply to Covid hospitals will be dealt with seriously,” the statement read.The supply from Wazirabad, Chandrawal and Okhla water treatment plants has been hit due to the reduction in the release of raw water into the river and a reduction in water level at Wazirabad pond.The worst hit areas were Civil Lines, Kamala Nagar, Shakti Nagar, Karol Bagh, Paharganj, Kalkaji, Patel Nagar, New Rajinder Nagar, Govindpuri, Tughlakabad, Sangam Vihar, and Ambedkar Nagar among others.On average, DJB supplies 900 MGD (million gallons daily) water, with demand peaking at 1,100 MGD in summer months.In a release, the DJB said on Wednesday that the depleting water levels in the Yamuna is leading to a shortage of drinking water in several parts of Delhi, and may also affect hospitals in the coming days. Chadha had urged urged Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar to release more raw water into the Yamuna so that sufficient drinking water is available in the national capital. The Haryana government did not respond to email and text messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/water-supply-to-capital-hit-but-covid-hospitals-spared-101620337718265.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi government caps rates of private ambulances||After putting a cap on RT-PCR tests and hospital beds, the Delhi government came out with an order on Thursday capping the price on private ambulance services and said overcharging will be punishable with cancellation of the driving licence of the ambulance driver, cancellation of the ambulance registration and impounding of the vehicle.“It has come to our notice that some private ambulance drivers or service providers are charging exorbitant rates in Delhi. It has therefore been decided by competent authority that maximum rates … shall be capped in Delhi,” read the order from special secretary (health) Sandeep Mishra.A patient transport ambulance, used to move stable patients from home to hospital or back, can charge a maximum of ₹1,500 for a 10km trip and an additional ₹100/km after that, read the order.Also read | Delhi govt asks hospitals to conduct more antigen testsA basic life support ambulance, for transporting non- critical patients and has monitoring equipment, medicines available, can charge ₹2,000 for the first 10km and ₹100/km after that.An advanced life support ambulance for transporting critical patients can charge ₹4,000 for the first 10km and ₹100/km after that, read the order.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal put out a tweet saying it has come to his notice that private ambulances were charging exorbitant rates and hence the government took the decision to cap rates.Meanwhile, in neighbouring Gurugram, ambulance operators called off their strike on Thursday after the district administration hiked the fares for private ambulances. Deputy commissioner Yash Garg said fixed charges of ₹500, ₹750 and ₹1,000 have been set for distances up to 3km, 3-7km and more than 7km, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-government-caps-rates-of-private-ambulances-101620337359403.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||New quarantine rules for those from Andhra and Telangana||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday said people who arrive in Delhi from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana by any mode of transport will have to quarantine themselves for 14 days either in a government centre or at a paid facility. This is only applicable if they arrive without a negative RT-PCR test report -- valid for up to 72 hours from the time of issue.If such travellers possess a negative RT-PCR report with the above-mentioned validity or even if they are fully vaccinated, they shall have to mandatorily home quarantine themselves for seven days.Also read | Delhi govt asks hospitals to conduct more antigen testsThe step was taken in the light of a severe spike in cases in the southern states, especially Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.The order from the DDMA said, “A virulent variant of Covid-19 has been reported to be found recently in the state(s) of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana and this new strain of Covid-19 has a shorter incubation period and high transmission rate and the progress of disease is much more rapid. Therefore additionally precautionary measures in respect of persons coming from the states of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana to Delhi via airlines, trains, buses, cars, trucks or any other mode of transportation are required to be taken in public interest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-quarantine-rules-for-those-from-andhra-and-telangana-101620337074275.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt asks hospitals to conduct more antigen tests||After a recent Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) testing advisory recommended that states increase the number of faster rapid antigen tests (RAT) amid a surge in cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Delhi government has directed all its hospitals to conduct the tests at their flu corners, fever clinics, and emergency departments round the clock.The tests will also be conducted on Sundays and other national holidays, according to an order by principal health secretary Dr Ashish Chandra Verma.Almost 80% of the tests conducted in Delhi over the past seven days were the more accurate RT-PCR tests.The RT-PCR test amplifies the genetic material of the virus to detect an infection, and hence is more accurate than the rapid antigen test, which detects the presence of viral proteins on the swab sample without any amplification.Also read | Panel recommends releasing prisoners in view of ‘threatening’ situation in CapitalBut daily testing numbers have reduced in the capital over the past three weeks, shows the data from the state daily health bulletin. Delhi tested 114,000 people on April 10, the highest figure for the city till date. The numbers have declined since then and on Thursday, Delhi conducted 78,780 tests. The use of more RATs may boost testing, though they do throw up more “false negatives”. “RAT has a shorter turnaround time -- of 15 to 30 minutes -- and thus offers a distinct advantage of quick detection of cases and opportunity to isolate and treat them early for curbing transmission and for favourable outcome,” the order from Verma read.The order also directed all hospitals to ensure that a follow-up test, the more accurate RT-PCR test, is done only for symptomatic persons whose RAT is negative. “It is reiterated that all teams must adhere to the ICMR norms …follow up RT-PCR testing of symptomatic individuals detected as “negative” by the rapid test and updation of results on ICMR portal in a timebound manner,” the order read.ICMR on Tuesday issued the fresh Covid-19 testing advisory recommending the conducting of antigen tests, a deviation from its previous policy of ensuring that at least 70% of tests conducted are done using the more accurate and gold-standard RT-PCR.Currently, ICMR approves RAT kits if they have a sensitivity of 50%, meaning that the test might actually give a false negative report for as many as half the positive cases. However, a positive RAT result is considered accurate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-asks-hospitals-to-conduct-more-antigen-tests-101620336821054.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||Home isolated patients may apply on govt portal for O2||Those in need of oxygen supply for patients in home isolation will soon be able to apply on the Delhi government’s website www.delhi.gov.in with a valid photo ID, Aadhaar card details, and a Covid positive report.In an order issued on Wednesday by Delhi government’s principal secretary (revenue) Sanjeev Khirwar, the process was to start from Thursday, and the link to “Online booking for refilling of oxygen cylinder-Delhi government-corona relief” was made available on the government’s portal.The link was yet to be made operational, and is expected to function in the coming days. Officials aware of the matter said the government decided to start the online booking of oxygen cylinders for people in home isolation in view of the long queues outside oxygen plants.There were also complaints from residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) and people who had patients at home about difficulties being faced by them in arranging oxygen cylinders. There are 50,562 Covid-positive patients in home isolation in Delhi, according to Thursday’s government bulletin.The government ordered the district magistrates to process the online applications and direct people to authorised dealers from where people can get or exchange an oxygen cylinder.“District magistrates have been directed to streamline the process. People will apply online, and they will be informed about the dealer from where they can collect the oxygen cylinder,” a second official said.Also read | Control room starts today to monitor oxygen supplyAnother senior Delhi government official said the link could not be made operational from Thursday because of some pending preliminary work to link the dealers with refillers.“The district administrations have started the work to streamline the process. Some districts are identifying areas close to dealers from where people can collect the oxygen cylinders. The details are being worked out. The date from which the process will start will be notified soon,” the official said.Once the online process starts, people can book for a refill or a new oxygen cylinder by uploading the patient details on the link provided on the Delhi government’s website.All district magistrates have been directed to depute officials to process applications and e-passes to people who want oxygen cylinders.“This may be accorded top priority….The DMs shall identify dedicated dealers/deports to distribute such cylinders to individuals who shall not be redirected to refilling plants under any circumstances,” read the order issued by Khirwar.The DMs will issue passes to people depending on the availability of cylinders with dealers. The passes will contain the date, time and address of the depot or dealer from which oxygen cylinders can be issued or exchanged. “Before issuing the pass, the DM must ensure that a filled oxygen cylinder is available as per the pass issued,” read the order.On Thursday, people complained about not being able to apply online. SB Singh, president of Lajpat Nagar-3 RWA, said, “It is a good move to streamline the process but the web link to place the request for booking a refill is not working. We tried doing it the entire day. The government should immediately start the process.”Currently, people have to go to the oxygen refilling plants authorised by the Delhi government in areas such as Mohan cooperative area, Mayapuri, Bawana, etc. “This process will continue for the time being,” said the official.Satyajit Vaish, President of Manav Vikas Society and a resident of Panchsheel Park who has been helping people in home isolation arrange oxygen cylinders, said, “The government should advertise it before starting it. We had to rely on our sources outside Delhi. The system needs to be streamlined.”Amid a raging fourth wave of the cases in the past 15 days, Delhi has been hit by an unprecedented medical oxygen crisis. Most people have been managing their individual demands through crowd sourcing on social media, or by word of mouth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/home-isolated-patients-may-apply-on-govt-portal-for-o2-101620336492764.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||Panel recommends releasing prisoners in view of ‘threatening’ situation in Capital||The high powered committee constituted to decongest jails to prevent the spread of Covid-19 has said that there is a need to release prisoners on interim bail for 90 days or eight weeks’ parole in view of the “alarming” and “threatening” situation of the pandemic in the national capital.The committee, headed by Justice Vipin Sanghi, observed, “The entire country was engulfed by the second wave of Covid-19, which according to the medical and expert opinion is more virulent and fatal in comparison to the last year’s strain and in a matter of few weeks has left everyone gasping for air.”“Right to Life under Article 21 is the most precious Fundamental Right of every citizen of India. It unconditionally embraces even an under trial/convict walled off from the society,” the committee said while laying down the criteria for release of around 4,000 under trial prisoners (UTPs) on interim bail for 90 days.The recommendation by the panel comes a week after the Tihar Jail administration wrote to the Delhi government, asking them to release prisoners in the wake of over 200 Covid cases in the jail at a time when it was at its congested worst. The jail has over 20,000 inmates as on date, more than double its sanctioned capacity of 10,000.Last year in March when the pandemic broke out, nearly 6,000 undertrial prisoners were released on bail or special parole to decongest Tihar. Most of them surrendered on court orders in February.The committee said since its last meeting in February this year, the situation “has taken a 360 degree turn and is becoming alarming with each day”.Also read| HC: State must ensure treatment to all patients“Accordingly, there is an imminent and urgent need to take affirmative and effective steps to prevent the outbreak of Covid-19 inside jails and for ensuring social distancing inside prisons by identifying and determining the class/categories of prisoners who can once again be released on interim bails/paroles,” it has said.It has further said that according to statistical data of Covid-19 cases in the national capital, the situation was “not only alarming but threatening” as not only the positivity rate but the death rate in Covid-19 positive cases was also “spiking sharply”.The committee has said that in such a situation, which was much more dangerous than last year, and with the prisons in Delhi holding almost double their capacity of prisoners, it has not only stressed the jail administration but has also “jeopardised the necessity of observing social distancing, which is the need of the hour to prevent the spread of virus amongst the inmates”.The committee has laid down 11 categories of undertrial prisoners like those in civil imprisonment, senior citizens who are facing trial for offences with a maximum punishment of 10 years in jail, those who are suffering other serious illnesses and are facing trial for offences with punishment ranging from 10 years to life, would be eligible for grant of up to 90 days interim bail on furnishing of a personal bond.With regard to release of convicts on parole, Director General of Prisons told the committee that a letter was sent to the Delhi government on April 26 to grant emergency parole of eight weeks to those prisoners who surrendered after expiry of emergency parole granted to them last time during the first wave of the pandemic.The committee then recommended grant of emergency parole to eligible convicts and the principal secretary (home), Delhi government assured the panel that necessary efforts will be taken to get the needful done.Vaccination for inmatesThe Delhi high court on Wednesday directed the superintendent of central jail-6 of Tihar on Wednesday to send a request for Covid vaccines for the inmates in the 18-44 years age group within 48 hours and said the ministry of home affairs (MHA) will supply the requisite doses within 15-30 days.Justice Prathiba M Singh issued the direction after the prison authorities told the court that the jail has not received any vaccine for its 279 inmates in the 18-44 age groups.The prison authority said it has only received vaccines for the 136 inmates in the 45-plus age group, but just 12 of them have been vaccinated as the others were either hesitant to get the jab or did not have an Aadhaar card, a pan card or a mobile phone number to be put on the CoWIN portal for registration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/panel-recommends-releasing-prisoners-in-view-of-threatening-situation-in-capital-101620336170170.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||Control room starts today to monitor oxygen supply||The Delhi government will start a control room from Friday to monitor the oxygen supply and demand in the city on a real-time basis, even as the administration received only 10 urgent calls from hospitals on Thursday, with the administration saying the Capital received sufficient oxygen.The government has also roped in e-commerce giant Amazon to track the cargo carrying liquid oxygen in the capital.“Now that we have somewhat sorted the supply chain, our focus is on strengthening or improving the demand side. A control room will be set up by Friday, May 7, to monitor the real-time dashboard of the oxygen supply and demand in the city,” said Ashish Kundra, principal secretary transport and OSD, health.He said the Delhi government has got a GPS tracking system on 41 tankers carrying oxygen in the city. Amazon has been roped in as a partner to track the cargo carrying the liquid oxygen in the national capital, he said.Kundra said the increased allocation of oxygen for Delhi has eased the crisis to a great extent. “From 60 SOS calls we got from hospitals on May 2, the number of SOS had come down to 10 on May 5. The supply side change has had an immediate impact,” he said.Also read | Can add 9,000 beds if O2 quota is met: Arvind Kejriwal﻿The government also said that oxygen supply has been strengthened by the containerised cargo movement through railways.“The volume of oxygen increasing from 120 MT till May 4 to around 360 MT through the railway route on May 5 has expedited the supply. The movement is further being ramped up. Movement through railway is more efficient as there is no road congestion or chances of breakdown, etc,” Kundra said.The Delhi government has appointed two IAS officers at the Kalinga Nagar facility of Tata Steel where oxygen is being produced. The government has formed a decentralized management system for the distribution of oxygen within the city to various hospitals and institutions, it said.Besides, Delhi is also getting oxygen supply from cities such as Ghaziabad, Modinagar, Panipat and Rourkela (Odisha) through tankers and containers.“Delhi on Wednesday received 730 MT oxygen – the highest so far – even though the demand is 976 MT. What we received on Wednesday was nearly 75% of total demand and came as a big relief. We thank the central government for this. But there is something that is concerning. Out of the 730 MT, around 250 MT were sourced through ad-hoc arrangements by the central government,” said Raghav Chadha, vice chairperson of Delhi Jal Board who is monitoring the day-to-day oxygen supply system in Delhi.“We appreciate the initiative but we are also concerned about instability in supply in the coming days. We urge the central government to ensure that they send 700 MT oxygen from stable sources. If needed, permanently add all the sources from which ad-hoc 250MT was sourced on Wednesday to Delhi’s supply chain,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/control-room-starts-today-to-monitor-oxygen-supply-101620335595484.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||HC: State must ensure treatment to all patients||The Delhi high court on Thursday directed the Delhi government to ensure treatment was available to all Covid patients from the national capital, and said that medical facilities in city was unable to hold up to the test it was put under by the pandemic’s current wave.The remarks and directions were given by a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli which was hearing a plea by a 53-year-old Covid patient who was unable to get an ICU bed with a ventilator after his oxygen saturation fell to around 40 (from the ideal 95 and above).“The existing medical infrastructure in the state is completely exposed... when it was put to the test... The obligation of the state to provide sufficient infrastructure to protect the lives of the people cannot be understated. At the same time, one cannot lose sight of the fact that we are faced with a once-in-a-century pandemic and even most economically advanced nations have found their infrastructure to be lacking to deal with the massive surge of cases,” it noted in its oral order.When senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, argued that the court should not say the medical infrastructure was in “shambles”, the bench responded: “Now you are behaving like the ostrich with its head in the sand. When you defend this situation, then you are not rising above the politics. We always call a spade a spade.”Mehra admitted that existing infrastructure is “struggling”, but requested the court that it is not in shambles as that has a different connotation to it.Also read | Can add 9,000 beds if O2 quota is met: Arvind Kejriwal“In the absence of oxygen what could the infrastructure do? Hospitals were reducing beds due to lack of oxygen,” he said, adding that the city government has taken several initiatives, like augmenting beds by 15,000 and ICU beds by 1,200, which are in the pipeline and the oxygen is also coming in.To this, the bench said: “It is not just oxygen. Is oxygen enough? If you have oxygen, do you have everything? Pipeline is pipeline. They are not there now.”Mehra withdrew the statement saying that he only wanted to state the reasons behind the infrastructure failure.The court said that it was bound to issue directions to the state for the petitioner, and several others like him, because it was their fundamental right.“The petitioner needs an ICU bed with ventilator facility and ideally the same should be available. We are bound to issue a writ to the state to provide the infrastructure to enable the petitioner to undergo the treatment required to save his life... At the same time we cannot lose sight of the fact that thousands of others are afflicted by the same disease in the city and whose condition may be as bad as that of the petitioner, if not worse,” it said.The court added that just because the petitioner was able to approach the court cannot be a reason to pass an order in his favour so that he can steal a march over others who may not have had the same option.“We, therefore, dispose of the petition with a direction to the respondent (Delhi government) that they shall provide facility for medical treatment as may be required by all the residents of Delhi who are suffering from Covid-19.“In case they require hospitalisation, it shall be provided. If medicines, it shall be provided. If oxygen, it shall be provided. If ICU with or without a ventilator, the state would be obligated to provide that too,” the bench said.Meanwhile, another bench of the Delhi high court on Thursday asked why the Delhi government was not using a 150-bed multi-speciality hospital, which was closed down due to an insolvency resolution process against its parent company, and whose services were being offered by the doctor who established it.The high court said the Delhi government should “think out of the box” in view of the Covid wave, which has led to a shortage of beds for patients in the national capital.“150 beds are there. We are struggling to find beds every day. We are fighting for it everyday, and you are saying you will not touch it (hospital)... He (petitioner-doctor) is offering his hospital, he is ready to bring in his medical team, what else can you ask for?”chief justice DN Patel said.The bench was hearing a plea by Dr Rakesh Saxena seeking permission to operate the Febris Multispeciality Hospital to cater to Covid-19 patients in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-state-must-ensure-treatment-to-all-patients-101620335053367.html
07-05-2021||Delhi||In minutes, Delhi goes from torrid to cool, wet||Several parts of the national capital received rainfall on Thursday, bringing some much awaited respite from the scorching heat. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) added that Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh also received moderate to heavy rain, coupled with thunderstorm and hail in several parts.A senior meteorological department official said gusty winds with a speed of 45-60kmph hit the national capital on Thursday afternoon, followed by moderate rain and thunderstorms.“This was an intense western disturbance activity that impacted Delhi, Gurugram, Hodal, Hisar, Panipat, Karnal, Jind, Rohtak, Narwana, Jhajjar, Faridabad, Ballabhgarh, Gohana and Gannur, etc. Some parts of Delhi and NCR also received hailstorms,” the official said.The official said that rainfall during this time of the year is not unusual. Delhi-NCR experiences showers during the onset of summer, as temperatures rise and humidity levels increase.On Thursday, the maximum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official marker for the city, was 39.7 degrees Celsius.The day, however, started with the minimum temperature soaring to 26.5 degrees Celsius, two degrees above what is considered normal for this time of the year.Also read | Monsoon set to keep June 1 onset date with KeralaAccording to the Met department, the maximum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung weather station on Wednesday was 40.5 degrees Celsius. The relative humidity recorded on Thursday morning was 59%, which increased to 67% by 5pm.The IMD has forecast that in the next two days the temperatures are expected to hover between 38-39 degrees Celsius. However, this respite will be brief, as the temperatures will rise again from May 9, IMD scientists said.“But from May 10, we are likely to experience another impact of western disturbance, which will be stronger and the spell will also last for a longer duration. We might see rainfall activities in Delhi-NCR from May 10 to May 15,” another IMD official said.In its long-range forecast, the IMD on April 16 said the annual monsoon rains are likely to be normal at around 98% of the long period average (LPA) after two years of above-average rainfall. It added there could be a variation of 5% over or under the prediction.Private weather forecasting agency Skymet Weather’s assessment earlier in April said that monsoon is likely to be a “healthy normal” at 103%. The IMD’s forecast indicated it at the lower end of its normal LPA range. The LPA is the average rainfall (88cm) recorded from 1961 to 2010. Rainfall between 94-106% is considered “normal”.India has recorded above-average monsoon rains for two consecutive years. A normal monsoon this year will significantly help the agriculture sector.Good rains have been a prime reason for the farm sector’s resilience for two years despite the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-minutes-delhi-goes-from-torrid-to-cool-wet-101620334737437.html
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||J&K’s grimmest day with record 4,926 cases, 52 deaths||Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday recorded the highest-ever daily spike of 4,926 cases and 52 Covid-related deaths. The overall cases in the union territory crossed 2 lakh to reach 2,01,511 and the death toll reached 2,562.Of the new cases, 3,241 cases are from Kashmir while 1,685 are from Jammu. Of the 52 deaths in the UT, 34 were reported in Jammu division and 18 in Kashmir. A record 52fatalities had been recorded on Wednesday as well.The month of April had recorded the highest monthly case tally of 45,123 infections and 289 deaths this year against 4,519 cases and 37 deaths in March.“In comparison to 2020, more Covid positive cases are being reported this year and the number of severe cases are also increasing manifold, due to which the patient rush has increased at hospitals,” said one of the leading preventive medicine experts of J&K, Dr Mohammad Salim Khan, head of department, community medicine, Government Medical College, Srinagar.“As the second wave sweeps through the UT, cases are increasing with each passing day. We cannot predict its peak nor can we predict when shall the number of cases decrease. However, there is sure to be manifold increase in cases in the coming days, which may also lead to an increase in mortality rate,” he said.Officials said with 1,070 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 617 in Jammu district, 605 in Budgam, 353 in Baramulla, 314 in Anantnag and 232 in Rajouri.The number of active cases reached 41,666, officials said. Most of these cases have been added after February 9 when the UT had the lowest active case tally of 593.Dr Salim said the mutant strain is infecting whole families and even children are getting affected. “N440K has been found in Kashmir division which spreads ten times faster,” he said. Around 2,836 patients have recovered, including 1,795 from Kashmir and 1,041 from Jammu.As many as 1,57,283people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 78.05 % against 98% in the first fortnight of February. Over 7.50 million tests have been conducted in the UT so far.Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 88,200 cases and 1,179 deaths of the total.Owing to the surging cases, the J&K administration has imposed corona curfew in four districts of Srinagar, Jammu, Baramulla and Budgam from April 29, which was has been extended till May 10. Samba district was also brought under corona curfew from Wednesday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jks-grimmest-day-with-record-4-926-cases-52-deaths-101620332994538.html
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu leading in deaths, Kashmir in infections||Over the last few weeks, Jammu division has witnessed more deaths than Kashmir even though the Valley is leading in infections, official data shows. In the first five days of May, the UT has recorded at least 20,500 cases, of which 13,800 (67%) were reported in Kashmir and 6,600(32%) in Jammu. In the same period, J&K lost 228 people to the virus, of which 82 (36%) were in Kashmir and 146 (64%) in Jammu. “In the last fortnight, Covid-related deaths in Jammu have been more than Kashmir. There may be multiple reasons for this and a threadbare analysis is required to come to a conclusion,” said Dr Rajiv Gupta,head community medicine, Government Medical College, Jammu. In April, of approximately 45,000 cases, the highest monthly total since the pandemic outbreak in the UT, Kashmir had reported 28,500 cases and Jammu 16,500. Of the 289 people who succumbed to Covid in April, 136 were in Kashmir and 153 in Jammu. Gupta said one of the reasons for more fatalities in Jammu was people’s hesitance to report to hospitals on time. “Because of social stigma, people reach hospitals after their oxygen levels have dropped significantly. This shows that the people of Kashmir report to health care facilities immediately,” he said. “The mutant virus also appears to have more transmissibility and virulence. Besides the health infrastructure in Kashmir is slightly better than Jammu,” he said. However, the overall Covid situation is worse in Kashmir than Jammu. The overall cases till May 5 were 1,96,585 — 120,405 in Kashmir and 76,180 in Jammu. Of 2,510 fatalities, 1476 were recorded in Kashmir and 1,034 in Jammu division. A health official of Kashmir, on condition of anonymity, said he believes many Covid cases may be getting missed in Jammu even though testing rate is same in both divisions. “Covid cases can be missed but deaths cannot be missed. The quality of testing and whom to test makes the difference,” he said. He also said that Kashmir’s healthcare status was better than many other Indian states. “We have better management here,” he said. Social Reforms Organisation, Kashmir, an NGO providing oxygen, equipments, ambulances and burial support to Covid patients in Kashmir, said that the community support for coronavirus patients in Jammu was lacking. “Our call data reveals that there is very little community support prevalent in Jammu. Everyone who needs oxygen support at home does not get it,” it said in a tweet. “Many people who died could have survived, if provided with help on time. Jammu has to fill the void,” the organisation said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-leading-in-deaths-kashmir-in-infections-101620332574663.html
07-05-2021||Other||Punjab Police ASI suspended, demoted for misbehaving with public||An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of Punjab Police was suspend on Thursday after a video clip showing him in an inebriated state went viral on social media.ASI Raj Kumar, who was posted at Civil Line Batala, was caught on camera while misbehaving with the public on Wednesday morning. In the video clip, he is seen hurling abuses at some people around him. The video clip was shared on various WhatsApp groups and Facebook pages, invoking sharp criticism from the public.Batala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Rashpal Singh said, “As soon as the video was brought to my attention, the cop was placed under suspension. We have also demoted him to the post of head constable as punishment for his misbehaviour. A probe has also been initiated into the case.”He said no police official would be allowed to misbehave with the public. “It is the police’s responsibility to protect the rights of the citizens,” the SSP added.This comes a day after the state police suspended an inspector of the department. Phagwara station house officer (SHO) Navdeep Singh was captured in a video while kicking the basket of a vegetable vendor.Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta had tweeted about the incident saying, “Absolutely shameful and unacceptable. I have suspended SGO Phagwara. Such misbehaviour will not be tolerated at any cost and those who indulge in it will have to face serious consequences.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-police-asi-suspended-demoted-for-misbehaving-with-public-101620330778103.html
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||Rupnagar cops recover over 1,500 remdesivir vials from Bhakra canal||The police here on Thursday found 1,500 vials of remdesivir, used in the treatment of Covid-19, besides cefoperazone injections floating in the Bhakra canal near Morinda.Rupnagar senior superintendent of police (SSP) Akhil Chaudhary said that the Chamkaur Sahib police received information that some injections were seen floating in Bhakra canal near Morinda.“A team headed by Chamkaur Sahib DSP was immediately sent to the spot at Salempur village along with drugs inspector and senior medical officer,” he said.SSP Chaudhary added that during the search operation, 1,500 remdesivir and cefoperazone injection vials were recovered from the spot.“The operation is still on as we have deployed teams to recover some more vials upstream at Balsanda village. As per preliminary probe, these vials appear to be fake,” the SSP said.He said that necessary action under relevant sections of the law would be taken once all vials are recovered from the canal, adding, “The operative part of the investigation will be discussed once the search is over.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rupnagar-cops-recover-over-1-500-remdesivir-vials-from-bhakra-canal-101620330777012.html
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||Comedian Sugandha Mishra booked for Covid violations at her wedding||Comedian Sugandha Mishra has been booked for allegedly violating Covid-19 guidelines during her wedding at a Phagwara resort last week, Kapurthala police said on Thursday.The case was registered on Wednesday night against her, the bridegroom’s side, the owner of the resort, and participants of the marriage after a video went viral showing a large gathering of people at the wedding in violation of Covid norms, said police.Phagwara Sadar station house officer (SHO) Raghbir Singh said, “We received some videos of the comedian’s wedding function held at Phagwara’s Club Cabana during April 25-26 where a large gathering was present, in violation of the Covid guidelines. Thereafter a case was registered.”No arrest has been made in the case so far, the SHO added.On April 26, Sugandha married her long-time boyfriend Dr Sanket Bhosale in a private ceremony in Jalandhar. Sugandha has had a long career in television. It was with The Great Indian Laughter Challenge in 2008 that she gained recognition. Later, as Vidyavati (teacher) in The Kapil Sharma Show, she became a popular figure.The case was registered under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act-2005 at the Phagwara Sadar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/comedian-sugandha-mishra-booked-for-covid-violations-at-her-wedding-101620330776095.html
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs highest one-day spike of 3,942 infections||Himachal Pradesh recorded 3,942 fresh Covid-19 infections, the highest single-day spike since the outbreak for the second consecutive day, taking the state’s total caseload to 1,18,729.The death toll mounted to 1,707 after 45 more patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 1,032 were reported in Kangra, 498 in Solan, 477 in Mandi, 400 in Shimla, 368 in Hamirpur, 316 in Bilaspur, 232 in Sirmaur, 206 in Una, 204 in Chamba, 128 in Kullu, 82 in Lahaul-Spiti, and 20 in Kinnaur.Seventeen fatalities were recorded in Kangra, eight each in Shimla and Solan, five in Mand, two each in Hamirpur and Kullu and one each in Una, Sirmaur and Chamba. Active cases have shot up to 27,756 while recoveries reached 89,018 after 1,864 people recuperated.Kangra is the worst-hit district with its case count touching 22,748, followed by Shimla with 16,763 infections and Mandi with 16,489 infections. Solan’s caseload has climbed to 15,310, Sirmaur 8,985, Una 7,860, Hamirpur 7,848, Bilaspur 6,978, Kullu 6,392, Chamba 5,2854, Lahaul-Spiti 2,118 and Kinnaur 1,954.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-highest-one-day-spike-of-3-942-infections-101620330534365.html
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||Pressure Centre for timely supplies to combat Covid: Capt to party MPs||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday urged Congress MPs from the state to pressurise the Centre to augment supplies of oxygen, tankers, vaccines and vital medicines even as some of them suggested to him to consider a “full lockdown” to curb the virus spread in the state. The chief minister, who held a virtual meeting with the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MPs of the Congress from Punjab on the Covid situation, exhorted them to push the central government to increase the state’s oxygen quota and dispatch additional tankers on priority to enable lifting of the full allocated quota of 195MT on daily basis. “Punjab is being meted out a step-motherly treatment by the Centre in the matter of supplies needed urgently to battle Covid,” he claimed, adding, “BJP-ruled neigbouring Haryana has got a bigger oxygen quota and more tankers than Punjab”. The meeting was attended by all party MPs from the state except Ambika Soni who is unwell. Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar was also present. Bajwa, others suggest complete lockdownAt the meeting, some MPs stressed the need for more stringent measures, including a total lockdown, to fight the second wave of the pandemic. “The suggestion was to consider it as several leading health experts have suggested a full lockdown to stop Covid spread. We understand the lockdown will mean lots of hardships on smaller shopkeepers, daily wagers, etc, but we cannot allow the virus to get out of control. If it can be controlled without lockdown, then there is nothing like it. We have to save lives first,” Bajwa, who along some other MPs advised the CM to consider this option, said after the meeting. On Tuesday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had also stated that the only way to stop the spread of Covid-19 infection now was a full lockdown. The state has imposed a “soft lockdown” unlike during the first wave when it was among the first states to impose a statewide curfew in March 2020. The MPs also urged the chief minister to approach the high court for enhancement of its oxygen quota, besides calling a meeting of the cabinet to make oxygen plant mandatory for private hospitals with 25 beds and government hospitals with 50 beds. They also urged the state government to again try and get permission from the central government for import of oxygen from Pakistan and take measures to ensure vaccination of Punjab farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders. The MPs promised to utilise their MPLAD funds to set up oxygen generation plants in government hospitals. Amarinder said the state was facing issues even on the ventilator front, since there was no BEL engineer to install 108 of the 809 ventilators received from the central government. On the vaccination front also, the MPs expressed concern over the low supplies and repeated delays from the Centre. The chief minister said the Centre’s apathy towards Punjab was also reflected in the fact that many other states had been given more vials of Tocilizumab. The state had sought 650 vials but was given only 200 in the initial stages, which were distributed to government and private hospitals, he added. Even Remdesivir continued to be in short supply, as delivery of the 50,000 vials allocated to the state was extremely slow, he said. The MPs expressed concern over the chief minister’s disclosure that genome sequence results had not been received for the past one month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pressure-centre-for-timely-supplies-to-combat-covid-capt-to-party-mps-101620330234273.html
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||Police conducting raids to trace Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar, others||The Delhi Police on Thursday said it is conducting raids in search of two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar and others in connection with a brawl that led to the death of a wrestler inside the Chhatrasal Stadium complex in north Delhi. A senior police officer said Kumar, the only Indian to win two individual Olympic medals, is yet to join the investigation. Teams have been formed and raids are being conducted in Delhi and the neighbouring states, the police said. A 23-year-old wrestler died and two of his friends got injured after they were allegedly brutally assaulted by other wrestlers inside the Chhatrasal Stadium. The incident occurred in the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday over a dispute related to a property located in the Model Town area. Prince Dalal (24), a resident of Haryana’s Jhajjar, has been apprehended in connection with the case and a double-barrel gun has been seized from his possession. The police said they have seized two double-barrel guns, seven cartridges, two wooden sticks and five cars in connection with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/police-conducting-raids-to-trace-olympic-medallist-sushil-kumar-others-101620330055573.html
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||5 of family killed in bike-car crash in Hoshiarpur village||Five members of a family, including three children, died on the spot when the motorcycle they were riding collided with a speeding Hyundai Venue car on the Chandigarh road near Jaitpur village on Thursday. Those killed were identified as Rajesh Kumar, 29, of Nangal Choran village, his 25-year-old wife and three children aged 8, 6 and 5. Rajesh ran a meat shop.Eyewitnesses said the motorcycle hit the car while approaching the main road. Three occupants of the car also suffered injuries and were admitted to a local hospital. Victims’ acquaintance revealed that the family had gone to Barian Kalan village in the morning to meet a relative.Chabbewal station house officer Pardeep Kumar said the car driver, a resident of Bathula village, has been booked for negligence and rash driving. Bodies have been handed over to the kin after the post-mortem, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/5-of-family-killed-in-bike-car-crash-in-hoshiarpur-village-101620330054450.html
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||Country’s reputation took a hit due to Covid mismanagement: Jagir Kaur||Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) chief Bibi Jagir Kaur took a jibe at the Punjab government and the Centre for their alleged failure to tackle the second Covid wave, which has resulted in a record number of deaths.Due to the mismanagement, the reputation of the nation has taken a hit and “it has been left to beg for vaccine and oxygen concentrators from abroad”.Inaugurating the 25-bed Covid care facility at Gurdwara Manji Sahib at Alamgir, Kaur said it will provide free oxygen and medicines to patients and will be manned by medical and paramedical staff from Guru Ram Das Medical College and Hospital, Amritsar.The SGPC chief said a fully equipped ambulance will also be stationed at the Covid care centre which will be put at the disposal of patients if they were to be shifted to a super specialty hospital.Kaur said the SGPC has also made arrangements of 100-beds each at Sri Guru Ramdas Medical Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, Amritsar, and Sri Guru Ramdas Charitable Hospital.“We will soon set up similar Covid care wards of 25-beds each at Takht Damdama Sahib, Jalandhar, Patiala and Bholath and other cities. All these services would be free of cost, and the patients would be taken care by the doctors and staff of Sri Guru Ramdas University of Health Sciences,” she said. “The state government was aware about the second wave. The government could have made adequate arrangements, but nothing was done. Besides the paucity of oxygen in many hospitals, ventilators are not functioning,” said Kaur.She said the SGPC had ordered oxygen concentrators from Russia, but the consignment was stuck for customs clearance in Delhi for five days. “Such life-saving consignments should be cleared on priority,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/countrys-reputation-took-a-hit-due-to-covid-mismanagement-jagir-kaur-101620329574882.html
07-05-2021||Other||Fuel prices surge for third day in row; petrol at ₹97.34, diesel at ₹88.49/l in Mumbai||Fuel prices in the city witnessed a surge for the third consecutive day. On Thursday, the price of petrol increased by 22 paise to ₹97.34 from Wednesday’s ₹97.12. One litre of diesel was priced at ₹88.49 in the city against ₹88.19 a day earlier, after it shot up by 30 paise.The rise in fuel prices in the city was witnessed on Tuesday after remaining constant since April 15. On April 15, the price for one litre of petrol was ₹96.83 and diesel was ₹87.81 as opposed to ₹96.98 per litre and ₹87.96, respectively, a day earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fuel-prices-surge-for-third-day-in-row-petrol-at-97-34-diesel-at-88-49-l-in-mumbai-101620329455511.html
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab sees record 8,874 Covid infections, 154 fatalities||Punjab on Thursday reported a record 8,874 Covid cases taking the tally to 4,16,350, while 154 more fatalities pushed the toll to 9,979, according to a medical bulletin released by the state government.Fazilka registered a maximum positivity rate of 24.48%, followed by Mohali at 22.03%. The number of active cases rose to 66,568 as against 63,007 on Wednesday.A maximum of 25 deaths were reported from Amritsar, 19 from Ludhiana, 15 from Patiala and 12 each from Jalandhar and Sangrur.Ludhiana topped the chart with 1,257 fresh cases, followed by 942 in Mohali, 916 in Jalandhar, 847 in Bathinda, 492 in Amritsar, 373 in Fazilka and 259 in Sangrur, 294 in Gurdaspur, 224 in Ferozepur, 211 in Fazilka, 286 in Muktsar and 211 in Faridkot.A total of 5,126 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection, taking the number of recoveries to 3,39,803, according to the bulletin.There are 238 critical patients who are on ventilator support while 8,728 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 74,641 doses of Covid vaccines were administered on Thursday and 75,74,249 samples have been collected for testing in the state so far. Traders booked for defying curbs Patiala At least 50 members of different trader unions of Patiala were booked for holding protests defying Covid protocols and restrictions on Wednesday. On Thursday, most of the shopkeepers kept their shops open in violation of the government order. Police booked one Rakesh Gupta and 49 others under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-sees-record-8-874-covid-infections-154-fatalities-101620329454416.html
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||Long wait for beds as Jammu’s Covid triage facility overwhelmed||Amid a surge in coronavirus cases, the government Chest Diseases Hospital, the first contact point and triage facility for Covid patients in Jammu, has started bursting at the seams. The hospital witnessed a heavy rush of the patients on Thursday. Patients with oxygen cylinders were seen sitting on hospital stairs, lying in the park, ambulances and stretchers. Ambulances with sirens and lights flashing could be seen converging on the hospital premises. However, patients and attendants had to wait for hours for their turn. “We have been waiting for over two hours now. I have brought my elder brother from Lalyana in Bishnah. The hospital staff told us that they have no beds and asked me to take him home. However, they did provide us with an oxygen cylinder,” said a youngster tending his ailing brother. A technicians of a 108 ambulance, swathed in personal protective equipment said, “The ambulances have brought patients to the hospital but they are not being admitted.” A woman technician of another 108 ambulance said, “The hospital should admit the patients quickly as we are getting an increasing number of calls.” Though doctors and paramedics are working round-the-clock, manpower shortage has also hit the functioning of the hospital, said an official, on condition of anonymity. The hospital’s medical superintendent Dr Rajeshwar Sharma said, “A large number of people had rushed to the hospital and many had to wait for their turn but within six hours, from 10am to 4 pm, we received 125 Covid positive patients, all of whom were examined. Forty CT scans were conducted. Some patients were sent to Covid care centres and 22 were hospitalised.” “Every patient was given an oxygen cylinder the moment they reached the hospital. Examining and treating 125 patients in six hours takes time. We have to examine each one of them and check their oxygen saturation level,” said Dr Sharma. “We have a triage area with sheds and chairs but the patients prefer to sit in parks instead,” Sharma said. Every CT scan takes 10 minutes and then we have to wait for the report. We conducted 40 CT scans today in four to five hours,” he said. CD hospital as 110 beds, of which 14 are ICU beds and they are all occupied.From May 1 to 6 at least 12 health employees of the CD Hospital have tested positive. The hospital has also commissioned its own oxygen plant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/long-wait-for-beds-as-jammu-s-covid-triage-facility-overwhelmed-101620329454933.html
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||Bathinda AIIMS to set up temporary 300-bed Covid care facility||With the indoor patient department at All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), Bathinda, all set to get delayed indefinitely after construction workers left for their home states, the central institute is gearing up to open a temporary 300-bed Covid care facility on the premises.The indoor patient department was scheduled to start from November last year, but the work was hit after the pandemic outbreak last year.Institute director Dr DK Singh said he is contacting the Punjab and central authorities to ensure oxygen supply at AIIMS for Covid patients.“The newly constructed nurses’ hostel and a night shelter can be converted into temporary Covid care facilities with 150 beds each. Other blocks of the under-construction compound of AIIMS can also be utilised to treat coronavirus patients,” said Singh.AIIMS has recently started a 40-bed facility, with 10 beds reserved for critical patients who need ventilators.The institute director said an internal audit conducted on Wednesday stated that construction activities undertaken by a hired agency have almost stopped due to shortage of workers.“The construction agency was conveyed that workers should be encouraged to drop travel plans to their native villages in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal as Covid is spreading at an alarming rate and the institute can take care of their health, but they have left work,” Singh added.Expressing concern over reluctance by a sizeable section of Punjab’s rural population towards vaccination and testing, Singh said religious leaders should motivate people.On Thursday, Bathinda reported 858 new Covid cases and nine deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bathinda-aiims-to-set-up-temporary-300-bed-covid-care-facility-101620329334920.html
07-05-2021||Other||CR cancels 23 outstation trains operating within Maharashtra, cites low occupancy||Twenty-three outstation trains operating in the state have been cancelled by the Central Railway (CR) between May 10 and June 30 owing to low occupancy.Some of the cancelled trains include Dadar-Pandharpur Special, Dadar-Shirdi Special, Mumbai CSMT (Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus)-Gadag Express, Nagpur-Kolhapur Express, CSMT-Kolhapur Special, CSMT-Pune Special, CSMT-Manmad Special, CSMT- Jalna Special, Nagpur-Pune Special and Nagpur-Ahmedabad Express. The railways has also decided to cancel the August Kranti Express operating between Mumbai Central and Hazrat Nizamuddin railway station from Saturday.“The occupancy in all these trains has decreased significantly after the restrictions on travel. Majorly, the trains within Maharashtra have been suspended,” said a CR official.The Maharashtra government’s guidelines under ‘Break The Chain’ have resulted in restrictions on travel, expect for emergency/unavoidable reasons. Travellers coming to the state also have to undergo a 14-day home quarantine.Last month, the railways had cancelled its premium Tejas Express train operating between CSMT and Karmali in Goa, owing to low occupancy.Apart from the premium train, the Nagpur-Mumbai Duronto Express, Mumbai Central-Delhi Duronto Express, Mumbai Central-Indore Duronto Express and Mumbai Central-Jaipur Duronto Express had also been cancelled last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cr-cancels-23-outstation-trains-operating-within-maharashtra-cites-low-occupancy-101620329333782.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Reservations over relief for Marathas remain||A day after the Supreme Court scrapped the reservation given to Marathas by the Maharashtra government in 2018, the state has started deliberating on legal options and ways to pacify the upset community. Marathas were given 12% and 13% quota in education and government jobs, respectively, under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018. The Supreme Court on Wednesday quashed it, saying people from the community can’t be declared educationally and socially backward just to bring them in the reserved category. The five-judge bench also refused to refer the 1992 Indra Sawhney judgment, setting a 50-% cap on reservation, to a larger bench for reconsideration. As chief minister Uddhav Thackeray hinted on Wednesday, the state is expected to approach the Centre for intervention to establish the backwardness of the community and hence, inclusion in the reserved quota. The Centre may also be requested for a legislation to restore the state’s powers to enact a law to accord reservation to any community. The government is also looking into the option of filing a review petition in the top court. “Our legal team and counsels have been studying the 569-page order by the SC, after which the cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation will have a meeting with them. We are requesting the Central government for intervention, after the SC categorically said the powers to notify any caste as backward class lies with the National Commission of Backward Classes (NCBC). The Centre can also reinforce its stand that the 102nd Constitutional amendment has not suppressed states’ powers to give reservation. There are legalities related to these options as the report by State Backward Class Commission headed by MG Gaikwad, too, has been struck down by the court. The option of a review petition is being considered, but we will need to put forth a strong base for it,” said public works department minister and head of cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation Ashok Chavan. According to legal experts and counsels representing the state, there is a limited scope for restoration of the reservation. “The SC order has clarified that there was no need to approach the 11-judge bench for a review of Indra Sawhney judgment. It also questioned the findings of the Gaikwad Commission report, which was the basis of the reservation given in “extraordinary and exceptional circumstances” of backwardness. Even if we decide to approach the NCBC, the question on the basis of backwardness of the community remains,” said one of the counsels, on condition of anonymity. A state official said they don’t have any immediate remedy. He said the state could go for a new law by addressing the flaws pointed out by the SC, but only if the Centre takes the legal recourse to empower the state to do so. “The state can now follow it up with the President of India and the Central government. Simultaneously, the state should ensure the community gets the benefits and schemes they would have got from the quota. A large chunk of Marathas is poor and needs the benefits,” said Balkrishna Renke, former chairman of the National Commission for Denotified, Nomadic and Semi Nomadic Tribes. The state is also planning a meeting with Maratha outfits later next week to take them into confidence. The government has already announced that the community will continue to get benefits such as hostels for youths, funding to SARTHI (Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Research, Training and Human Development Institute), the institute established for educational, social and financial development of the community and scholarships for higher education of the students from the community. The state government is also open to extending the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) quota of 10% reservation to the community. Chavan said they have already announced various schemes for the community and will soon have a meeting with the outfits. Rajendra Date Patil, one of the petitioners in the SC, said, “The Centre had tabled a bill to expand the scope of reservation beyond 50% about a decade ago, as 28 states have crossed the limit. The Centre can take a comprehensive view and get the law enacted to give respite to communities such as Jats, Gujjars and Marathas. The Central government has said in the top court and in Parliament that the 102nd constitutional amendment does not suppress the states’ powers of giving reservation. It will have to make the necessary amendment for it,” he said. A leader closely associated with the developments said they had anticipated the SC verdict and so had requested the SC to transfer it to the 11-member constitution bench. “We also ensured that similar petitions of other states pending in the SC are clubbed with ours. Had it been referred to the larger bench, the verdict could have been different,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reservations-over-relief-for-marathas-remain-101620329273784.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Air ambulance lands on belly in Mumbai as wheel falls off in Nagpur||A Jet Serve Aviation’s Beechcraft C-90 aircraft, VT-JIL, was forced to make an emergency belly landing at Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) on Thursday evening. The non-scheduled medical flight with five people, including a Covid patient, on-board had taken off from Bagdogra to land in Mumbai. It, however, had to land on its belly, as its left rear wheel got separated and fell off at Nagpur, where it had a halt for refuelling.CSMIA spokesperson confirmed the full emergency and said the flight safely landed at 9.09pm as all passengers were safely evacuated.The flight had one patient and his relative, a doctor and two crew members on board.Airports sources confirmed the aircraft’s pilot had contacted the Mumbai air traffic control (ATC) at around 7.20 to inform about the issue as a result of which the ATC declared a full emergency and informed all the stakeholders at CSMIA. “As preparations for the crash landing had to be made, the aircraft was on hold until the runway was foamed, so that the aircraft did not catch fire. It finally approached and landed runway 27 at 9.09pm,” said an airport official.Sources from the airport added that the aircraft had sufficient fuel to hold and hence the crew decided to land on belly after the airport prepared for the landing. Aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri tweeted, ‘A Jet Serve Ambulance with a patient onboard lost a wheel during takeoff from Nagpur. Showing immense presence of mind Capt Kesari Singh belly landed the aircraft on foam carpeting in Mumbai. All onboard are safe. Commendable effort by @DGCAIndia @CSMIA_Official & other agencies.’The airport’s emergency response team including the fire and rescue responders, follow-me vehicles, Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), firefighting team immediately got into action and were on standby to provide immediate assistance to ensure the safe evacuation of the passengers. “As a precautionary method, CSMIA also foamed RWY 27 in order to avoid the aircraft catching fire. All passengers were evacuated safely and flights operating in and out of CSMIA remain on schedule,” CSMIA spokesperson added. Airport officials said that the onboard patient- fighting Covid-19, was immediately rushed to Nanavati hospital. Runway 27 was unavailable till 2am due to this incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/air-ambulance-lands-on-belly-in-mumbai-as-wheel-falls-off-in-nagpur-101620329215233.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Private schools must waive fees: Parents write to Maharashtra govt||A few days after the Supreme Court (SC) ordered private unaided schools in Rajasthan to waive 15% fees from 2019 to 2021, parents from Maharashtra have now written to the state government with the same demand.In a letter addressed to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and state education minister Varsha Gaikwad, the Indiawide Parents Association has urged the government to grant some relief to parents of private schools in the state. “Many schools are profiteering even in pandemic which is a serious concern and must be addressed immediately. Parents have been approaching the education minister and the education department but nothing happened in the past one year and schools are still exploiting parents by demanding 100% fees. In line with the Supreme Court decision, we demand a similar waiver for parents in the state,” read the letter.Anubha Sahai, president of the association said that if schools oppose the waiver, they should be audited and their income accounts should be checked “to keep a check on the profiteering and surplus fees collected.” Officials from the education department refused to comment on the issue. On May 3, the apex court ordered a reduction of fees of private unaided schools by 15% in lieu of unutilised facilities by students. The court also said that schools should not debar students on account of non-payment of fees or outstanding fees. On May 4, the director of primary education in Maharashtra ordered that documents pertaining to fees of private schools- such as papers of PTA approvals, finances of school etc be sent to the department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/private-schools-must-waive-fees-parents-write-to-maharashtra-govt-101620329213786.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Endless challenges for Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||Ever since chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray took up the job, his government has been stumbling from one crisis to another. Three-and-a-half months into his tenure, Maharashtra was hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. For the second year in a row, a tired Thackeray government is battling the raging pandemic. With Supreme Court striking down the quota for Maratha community on Wednesday, Thackeray now has fresh crisis to deal with. Sixteen months into office, Thackeray has battled on various fronts including tackling Covid-19 outbreak with empty coffers, natural calamity, political crisis leading to resignation of two cabinet ministers. The tussle with Maharashtra Raj Bhavan played out elaborately last year with Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari not recommending Thackeray to the Upper House of the state Legislature to keep his chief ministership; ultimately, forcing him to dial Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The strong opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is getting more aggressive and he’s under constant threat of MLAs being poached by BJP. Besides this, Thackeray is dealing with a hostile government at the Centre, but he’s carefully manoeuvring through it without antagonising those in power in New Delhi. The challengesMaharashtra continues to be the most-affected state due to Covid-19 outbreak. While the state government somehow managed to tackle the epidemic in the first wave, the second wave has become a bigger problem with more than 50,000-60,000 cases being reported daily along with a high number of deaths. While Thackeray government is battling with the massive second wave with limited resources, the vaccination too is not taking off well due to shortage in supply of vaccine. On the other hand, Antilia bomb scare-Sachin Vaze episode followed by allegations and resignation of home minister Anil Deshmukh has damaged the reputation of the Thackeray government. Earlier, Shiv Sena minister Sanjay Rathod had to quit his post after his name was linked to the suicide of a young woman in Pune. Before he took over as chief minister in November 2019, Thackeray had no experience in handling the administration. As such, his ability is put to test in every crisis for which he is getting appreciation and also brickbats. Covid crisisPolitical analysts say the onset of health crisis in early days of his chief ministership made it easier for him to strengthen his government. He compensated his lack of administrative experience with emotional connect with the people of the state, they add. Surendra Jondhale, political analyst and former professor of political science at Mumbai University, said Thackeray was sailing the troubled water right since the outset, adding that his initial challenge was to consolidate, strengthen and keep his flock together. “His initial task was to see there is no in-fighting or internal friction, because he was dealing with two ideologically opposite parties.”Political analyst Prakash Bal said, “He had only led a political party and had absolutely no experience in running the state government. Within three months of him coming to power, Covid-19 outbreak shut down the state and nation. But if you look at the larger view and compare it with CMs of neighbouring Karnataka and Gujarat, Maharashtra has done well under him. The state and Mumbai have dealt with the pandemic well so far.”According to Jondhale, the two strengths of Thackeray as CM were his “resilience” and the move to “establish a dialogue with the people”. “Covid-19 has been testing for Thackeray, but his resilience and his addresses to the state have helped him establish a dialogue with the people and build a rapport. He would tell everybody the challenges and give solutions. If the Centre is not giving vaccines or oxygen, he would tell it to the people,” he said. ControversiesThe political challenges faced by Thackeray and the three-party government have damaged the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi’s (MVA) reputation. Allegations of crime against a woman forced Thackeray to seek resignation of Rathod in February-end. Subsequently, allegations against NCP minister Anil Deshmukh rattled MVA. Many Sena leaders privately maintain that the Rathod and Deshmukh crisis should have been managed better by the MVA and the party. Jondhale said, “From the point of view of the voter, the allegations against Rathod and Deshmukh were not unheard of. People have seen and heard what happened in the BJP government with Chikki scam, allegations Prakash Mehta, etc. These allegations definitely cast a negative shadow but nothing politically detrimental which would lead to a collapse.” Both Jondhale and Bal added that Thackeray had the able backing of NCP chief Sharad Pawar when MVA went through any crisis.“Not just CM, but like family member”Sena MP and chief spokesperson Arvind Sawant took a mythological reference from the epic Mahabharata and said Thackeray is not the one who will be caught in the chakravyuh. “Uddhav ji is not Abhimanyu who cannot escape the chakravyuh; he can break it. Natural calamity happened last year [Nisarg cyclone], Covid-19 outbreak happened, social issues erupted over the Maratha reservation issue and political crisis also came on him, but he has overcome them calmly and with patience... No CM has faced so many challenges one after another,” Sawant said.He claimed Thackeray’s addresses to the people “inculcated calmness”.“The manner in which he speaks to the people, they consider him a family member who is advising them. He just doesn’t advise but has the onus of delivering. He is the man who thought of building a field hospital when nobody in the country did. The man who was not in electoral politics, had never seen the Assembly house or a civic house, he is now steering Maharashtra,” Sawant added. Opposition speaksAccording to Bal, the BJP is making shrill noises on Covid-19 management but it is not backed with unrest among people. “Only BJP leaders are making a noise. Even when people were not getting hospital beds and oxygen, there was no negative atmosphere or sense of failure of the Thackeray government.”The BJP, however, says Thackeray government is nothing but a complete failure. Maharashtra BJP chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said there has been complete “lack of administrative leadership” in Maharashtra since November 2019. “This government does not have any kind of direction or will, consequences of which have to be borne by the people of Maharashtra. The Sena-led MVA government has given the people more than one reason to complain about its incompetence in dealing with crisis situations. It completely failed to tackle the Covid-19 outbreak last year. Maharashtra found itself reeling under the pandemic, un-kept promises to farmers affected due to unseasonal rainfall and cyclone, people facing electricity supply cuts for defaulting payment of hiked bills by the state’s power supplier, rising atrocities against women, the unresolved issue of reservation for OBCs and Marathas, the Sachin Vaze episode, etc,” he said.If 2020 was a tough year for him, 2021 is going to be a bigger battle for the “accidental chief minister”. As the state is still battling to control the second wave of Covid-19, there have been projections of a third wave towards the latter half of the year. Following which, Thackeray will gear up for his next major political challenge—the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation election in February 2022, in which the BJP will try to wrest control of India’s richest civic body that has been Sena’s source of strength for decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/endless-challenges-for-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-101620329154346.html
07-05-2021||Other||Bombay HC grants bail to man accused in Dr Dabholkar’s murder case||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday granted bail to Vikram Bhave – an accused in rationalist Dr Narendra Dabholkar’s murder case – on furnishing a bond of ₹1 lakh. While granting the bail, the court expressed its doubts over the material collected by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to connect the 37-year-old with the crime.“We have proceeded on the basis of the material on which respondent No 2 [CBI] has placed emphasis and we find that the same does not appear to show reasonable grounds to conclude that the accusations levelled against the appellant [Bhave] can be said to be prima facie true,” said the division bench of justice Sambhaji Shinde and justice Manish Pitale court while granting him bail. Dr Dabholkar was shot dead by two bike-borne assailants on August 20, 2013, in Pune, when he was out on morning walk. Initially, an offence was registered by the Deccan police station in connection with the murder, and on May 9, 2014, the case was transferred for CBI for further investigation.According to CBI, Virendrasingh Tavade of Sanatan Sanstha is the key accused in the case, while Sharad Kalaskar and Sachin Andure are the assailants who shot Dr Dabholkar. Kalaskar said Bhave had helped him and Andure conduct a recce of the area where the rationalist was fatally attacked. Kalaskar also claimed that Bhave had also helped the duo identify the escape route after the attack. Bhave was subsequently arrested on September 25, 2019.The special court at Pune rejected his bail plea last year on September 15, following which Bhave moved HC, contending that there was no material to connect him to the crime.In support of its case against Bhave, CBI counsel, advocate Sandesh Patil, relied on Kalaskar’s confessional statement, recorded in the murder case of journalist Gauri Lankesh, who was shot dead in Karnataka. In his confessional statement, Kalaskar had named Bhave as an accused in Dr Dabholkar’s case. CBI also claimed before HC that Kalaskar had identified Bhave on the basis of his photograph as the person who had helped him and Andure conduct the recce and had also pointed at him during the scene recreation.HC, however, held that Kalaskar’s confession in the Karnataka case could not be used against Bhave in Dr Dabholkar’s murder case, as the confession could only be used against a co-accused. Bhave has not been named an accused in Lankesh’s case. HC expressed doubts about the material regarding photo identification and the separate scene recreations involving Andure and Kalaskar, after noticing material discrepancies in the memorandum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bombay-hc-grants-bail-to-man-accused-in-dr-dabholkar-s-murder-case-101620329153773.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Reply to Anil Deshmukh’s plea in 4 weeks: Bombay HC to CBI||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday heard a clutch of petitions including one filed by former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh seeking interim protection from the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which recently completed a preliminary enquiry (PE) on allegations of corruption against him, as well as those filed by senior Indian Police Service officer Rashmi Shukla and former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh which sought protection against coercive action in two separate FIRs filed against them by the Mumbai Police.A division bench of Justices SS Shinde and Manish Pitale directed the CBI to respond to Deshmukh’s petition in four weeks and told the counsel representing the former cabinet minister to move the vacation bench in case of “extreme urgency”.The petitions are the fallout of a letter that Singh wrote on March 20 alleging Deshmukh ran an extortion racket. The letter, addressed to the chief minister also referred to an August 2020 report by Shukla, who was commissioner of the State Intelligence Department at the time, on a purported “money for transfer” scam involving police officers, middlemen and politicians.The HC on Thursday extracted a promise from the Maharashtra state that it would not arrest Shukla, who is on central deputation in Hyderabad, till the next date of hearing her plea, and directed Singh to move the vacation bench for relief as it could not hear his petition due to a paucity of time.Deshmukh, who initially brazened out the allegations of corruption, resigned on April 5 citing moral grounds after the Bombay HC directed the CBI to probe Singh’s allegations. The CBI lodged an FIR on April 21 against Deshmukh under section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act [which pertains to illegal gratification obtained by a public servant] and section 120(b) [criminal conspiracy] of the Indian Penal Code and submitted the findings of it PE in a sealed envelope to the court on April 30.The politician filed a petition on May 3 which claimed that the FIR was filed with a “biased, dubious and ulterior motive at the behest of those having political or other vendetta” against him and sought interim protection from the CBI.“We cannot pass any orders without hearing the parties concerned. If there is extreme urgency, then you (Deshmukh) can move the vacation bench of the HC. You (Deshmukh) have that liberty,” the court told Deshmukh’s counsel Amit Desai. It asked the CBI to file an affidavit in response to the plea.Senior advocate Darius Khambata appearing for the state told the bench on Thursday that Shukla would not be arrested till the next date of hearing her plea challenging the FIR registered by the Mumbai cybercrime police for alleged illegal phone tapping and alleged leaking of sensitive documents related to police postings.Shukla, who is currently in Hyderabad serving as the additional director general of Central Reserve Police Force, South Zone, moved the court on May 3 after she received a summons from Mumbai cyber police asking her to appear before the investigation officer on the following day. She had also failed to appear at two previous summons -- on April 26 and 28.The Mumbai police filed an FIR against unidentified persons on March 26 under the Official Secrets Act, the Information Technology Act and the Indian Telegraph Act, which are punishable up to three years only, for allegedly illegally tapping phones and leaking confidential documents, based on a complaint filed by the Maharashtra intelligence department.The IPS officer sought the quashing of the FIR or its transfer to the CBI for further investigation.In her petition, Shukla said that she had “exposed the nexus between ministers and politicians” narrated the events during her posting in the state between October 11, 2018, and September 3, 2020, in which time between July 17-29, 2020, she had intercepted the calls of six men who were acting as middlemen in a purported “money for transfer” scam.Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte however had said in March that the interception was done under the guise of “public safety” and “misguided the authorities”, and that there was no evidence of such a scam.“We will hear this petition after the summer vacation. Until then it will be graceful on the state government’s part to make a statement that it would not take any coercive action,” Justice Shinde said.“It is a fairly important investigation. We don’t know when the COVID-19 pandemic will end. Hence, the police are willing to send a team to Hyderabad where they could record the petitioner’s statement,” Khambata said.Shukla’s counsel Mahesh Jethmalani said the IPS officer is willing to cooperate with the investigation.Singh’s petition sought quashing of an FIR registered against him under the Prevention of Atrocities Act last month based on a complaint by police inspector Bhimrao Ghadge posted at Akola in Maharashtra.Ghadge made a series of allegations of corruption against Singh and other officers when Singh was posted with the Thane police.The bench asked Singh to move the vacation bench in case there was any urgency and did not hear a fresh petition filed by Singh challenging the state government’s decision to entrust two enquiries against him to DGP Sanjay Pandey.The bench also did not hear the petition filed by the Maharashtra government seeking direction to the CBI to delete two topics from the purview of their investigation into corruption charges against Deshmukh: the reinstatement of controversial Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze, arrested in connection with the Antilia bomb scare and subsequent murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran, and the purported corruption in police transfers and postings of senior police officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/reply-to-anil-deshmukh-s-plea-in-4-weeks-bombay-hc-to-cbi-101620329093767.html
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid second wave hit 60-74 age group worst in Himachal||The second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has been most fatal for senior citizens, who account for nearly 40% of the total deaths, in Himachal Pradesh. The health department data shows that as on May 4, a total of 1,647 people died of Covid-19 in the state since the pandemic broke out. Of them, 650 are in the age group of 60 to 74 years. This is 39% of the fatalities. The mean age of the Covid dead is 63 years. “There is high prevalence of diabetes and hypertension in Himachal Pradesh, which is one of the primary reasons why senior citizens succumb to the disease,” says Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital medicine department head Jitendera Mokta. Patients aged between 45 and 59 years were the second most vulnerable group with a total of 416 deaths reported till date. This age group constitutes about 25% of the state’s fatalities. The next affected section is those above 75 years. A total of 368 deaths have been reported in this age group. This is 22.34% of the Covid casualties. Similarly, 139 (8.4%) fatalities occurred among people aged between 30 and 44 years, while 20 (1.2%) victims were aged between 15 and 29 years and six (0.3%) were children. “The state government has urged the Union government to provide oxygen cylinders to the state. The health department is working on ways to reduce the delay in getting reports of Covid tests. We are trying to rope in the private laboratories in Himachal. The government has sanctioned ₹7 crore for setting up laboratories in Una and Kullu,” said health department spokesperson Dr Gopal Berry. Case fatality higher than national average The case fatality ratio has gone up to 1.5% in the state, which is higher than the national average of 1.1% and also one of the highest among states in the region. Berry said, “So far we have not been able to gauge the exact reason the increase in fatality rate,” adding that the CM has directed officers to bridge the gap between home isolation and hospitals as it has been felt that the fatality rate in the state was increasing due to delay in shifting of serious patients in home isolation to hospitals, which is matter of concern. The CM has also directed the health department to ensure a smooth supply chain of oxygen, PPE kits, medicines and other logistics during the curfew. Among the Covid-19 casualties, a total of 1,057 (64.1%) were male and 590 (35.9%) female. Co-morbidities were present in 1,062 (64.5%), while 585 (35.5%) were non co-morbid. A majority of co-morbidities include diabetes 532 (50%), hypertension 476 (44.8%), chronic kidney disease 113 (10.7%) and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 87 (8%). Recovery rate lower than national average The state’s recovery rate has been low as compared to the national and global average. Himachal Pradesh has a recovery rate of 78.1% as compared to 81.9% at the national level and 85.4% at the global level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-second-wave-hit-60-74-age-group-worst-in-himachal-101620329035154.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Maratha quota scrapped: Community gears up for agitations||The Maratha community is unhappy with the recent Supreme Court (SC) order in which it has struck down the provision of reservation to the community under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018. Various organisations representing the community have decided to hold a series of agitations to put pressure on the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government to take steps for restoring the reservation.In a statewide meeting of convenors of Maratha Kranti Morcha, an apex body of various organisations of the Maratha community, they have decided to hold virtual agitations by starting social media campaigns against leaders from across the political spectrum. On the other hand, some outfits decided to stage protests at various places in the state. The convenors said they do not want to risk the lives of the people by asking them to come out on roads in this pandemic. At the same time, they want to build pressure, compelling the governments to take necessary steps to get reservation for the community, be it the state or Centre. They have also roped in experts to examine the SC judgement and help them in determining alternatives, based on which the next course of action will be decided.On Wednesday, SC struck down the SEBC Act, which was enacted to grant 16% reservation to the Maratha community in government jobs and education in November 2018. In June 2019, while upholding the reservation, the Bombay high court (HC) had reduced the reservation limit to 12% and 13% in government jobs and admissions, respectively, as recommended by Maharashtra State Commission for Backward Classes (MSCBC) in its report submitted to the state government in 2018.“We have decided to hold digital (virtual) agitation as we cannot allow the people to endanger their lives by taking to the streets, considering the pandemic situation. We will be holding social media campaigns and target leaders from all the political parties in the state,” said Virendra Pawar, a convenor, who also represents Maratha Mahasangh.Pawar said they already have a social media team, with the help of which the entire agitation demanding reservation was successfully conducted in 2017. The team will now launch online campaigns and devise other ways to target the politicians.“We have several pages on Facebook having lakhs of members in each of them. We also have thousands of WhatsApp groups formed for better coordination which will also be used for the agitation. In the meantime, our team of experts will examine the judgement and help in finalising alternatives, on the basis on which further decision will be taken,” he added.Meanwhile, offices of the Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) in Satara district were attacked by unknown people on Thursday morning. In two different incidents, a group of people hurled stones at the offices leading to damage of windowpane and other accessories. Local police are probing both the incidents, according to Lokmat, a Marathi daily.In another meeting held by Maratha Kranti Thok Marcha (MKTM) in Beed district, it was decided to start agitation for reservation on the lines of guerrilla warfare that was adopted by Maratha warriors during the regime of Maratha king Chhatrapati Shivaji.Abasaheb Patil, convenor of MKTM, said, “We are not going to disclose our plans on how agitations are going to be held. We have lost all the faith in this government because it has failed in the legal battle, and the community is at the receiving end. We want reservation to be restored; that’s it.”Sanjiv Bhor Patil, president of Shiv Prahar Sangathana, said they were examining the SC order and are yet to decide on the next step. “We have asked experts and researchers, who have studied the case, to give their opinion after examining the judgement copy. We will find out the root cause of this judgement and then decide whether we have to continue the legal battle, fight a political battle or hit the roads,” Patil said.Vinayak Mete, who heads the political outfit Shiv Sangram, declared that they will start an agitation from Beed district and subsequently hold them in other districts from May 16. He demanded that the state file a review petition in the Apex court against the order. He will also be seeking time from the chief minister in this regard. Mete had contested the state Assembly elections in 2014 from Beed constituency as a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate and had extended his support to the erstwhile BJP government.“We want justice which was snatched from us because of negligence of the state government. It is now the responsibility of the chief minister to provide reservation benefits to the Maratha community. We have decided to start the agitation from Beed,” Mete said.He further suggested that the government should constitute a study and rectify the findings of the MSCBC that were rejected by the Apex court. “The state government should consider providing reservation to the community in the existing quota of other communities. It should also look into providing benefits to Marathas under the 10% reservation of economically weaker section (EWS) passed by the Centre last year,” Mete said.The Centre has decided to provide 10% reservation to all those under EWS category who are not covered under the existing scheme of reservations for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes. The amendment to the act was cleared by the Parliament in 2019.Meanwhile, public works department minister and head of state cabinet’s sub-committee on Maratha reservation Ashok Chavan alleged that some people have been inciting Maratha community which could endanger lives of the people during the pandemic. “People should keep in mind that the safety of the citizens is important as we are in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic. Nobody should incite the Maratha community just for the purpose of cornering the MVA government politically,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maratha-quota-scrapped-community-gears-up-for-agitations-101620329033753.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||IIT-B researchers design a surface that makes coronavirus evaporate faster||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) have designed a surface that can expedite the evaporation of residual droplets carrying Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, from surfaces. According to the World Health Organisation, Covid 19 primarily spreads when small liquid particles are released into the air when a person infected with the virus coughs, speaks, sings or sneezes. The disease can also transmit via droplets settled on surfaces of objects, often known as fomite transmission. However, fomite transmission is now widely regarded as the least transmissible mode of spread of the virus.When a person infected with Covid-19 coughs or sneezes, respiratory droplets containing the virus are released into the air. This is primarily how Covid-19 spreads. However, the disease can also transmit via droplets settled on surfaces of objects, often known as fomite transmission. IIT-B researchers have proposed a way of designing surfaces for accelerating the evaporation of the residual droplets on surfaces by tuning surfaces’ wettability and creating geometric microtextures on them. Their paper titled— Designing antiviral surfaces to suppress the spread of Covid-19—was published in the Physics of Fluids letter of the peer-reviewed journal AIP Publishing on Wednesday.The lifespan of the respiratory droplet on the surface determines how likely the surface is to spread the virus. While 99.9% of the droplet’s liquid content evaporates within a few minutes, a residual thin film that allows the virus to survive can be left behind. On some surfaces such as glass, the film can last up to four days and on plastic or stainless steel up to seven days.Sanghamitro Chatterjee, Janani Srree Muralidharan, Amit Agrawal, and Rajneesh Bhardwaj — all researchers from IIT-B — had in the past shown that the survival time of the Covid-19 virus was correlated to the drying time of a respiratory droplet on an impermeable (non-porous) surface along with a residual film left on it by the droplet. In a follow-up study in February, they demonstrated how the mass loss of a respiratory droplet and the evaporation mechanism of a thin liquid film is different for porous and non-porous surfaces. In their new study, they’ve found that an optimally designed surface will make a viral load decay rapidly, rendering it less likely to contribute to the spread of viruses.“We’ve extended our findings from the previous studies to design a surface that can make droplets evaporate faster. It works just like a lotus leaf. The surface of a lotus leaf has microscopic pillars on them that make the water droplets roll-off. Bioinspired from lotus leaf, the proposed antiviral surface has microscopic pillars on them,” said co-author of the study Rajneesh Bhardwaj, associate professor of Mechanical Engineering, IIT-B. They designed microtextures or microscopic pillars on surfaces to accelerate the evaporation of liquid.“In terms of physics, the solid-liquid interfacial energy is enhanced by a combination of our proposed surface engineering. The pressure inside the liquid film increases and helps it to dry quickly,” said Chatterjee, lead author and a postdoctoral fellow in the mechanical engineering department. The researchers tried a combination of surface microtextures to determine the most optimal one. “Continuously tailoring any one of these parameters wouldn’t achieve the best results,” said Agrawal, institute chair professor at the department of mechanical engineering and co-author of the paper. “We also propose a design methodology and provide parameters needed to engineer surfaces with the shortest virus survival times,” said Muralidharan, an assistant professor in the department of mechanical engineering. The researchers discovered that surfaces with taller and closely packed pillars, with a contact angle of around 60 degrees, show the strongest antiviral effect or shortest drying time. “This study lays the foundation for fabricating antiviral surfaces that will be useful in designing hospital equipment, medical or pathology equipment, as well as frequently touched surfaces, like door handles, smartphone screens, or surfaces within areas prone to outbreaks,” said Bharadwaj.“Since we analysed antiviral effects by a generic model independent of the specific geometry of texture, it’s possible to fabricate any geometric structures based on different fabrication techniques — focused ion beams or chemical etching — to achieve the same outcome,” Bharadwaj added.“This study helps understand how nanosurfaces work and how they can be used to prevent the spread of Covid-19. These surfaces can be used at healthcare facilities,” said Shyamprasad Karagadde, associate professor, department of mechanical engineering, IIT-B, who was not a part of the study.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iitb-researchers-design-a-surface-that-makes-coronavirus-evaporate-faster-101620328973713.html
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to increase Covid bed capacity by 25%: Soni||Amid surge in Covid cases, the Punjab government has decided to increase the bed capacity in government medical colleges and hospitals by 25%.Taking stock of the Covid care treatment at the Government Rajindra Hospital, state medical education and research minister OP Soni said the medical education and research and health and family welfare departments are exploring possibility of adding 2,000 more beds, besides setting up of temporary hospitals at Mohali and Bathinda.“In view of the grim situation, the departments have been directed to increase the bed capacity in a week or two. The inflow of patients in medical colleges and hospitals has increased manifold as people are reporting at the hospitals at advanced stage, leading to high death toll,” he said.Soni added that at Rajindra Hospital, 125 additional beds will be set up for level 2 patients, who need oxygen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/state-to-increase-covid-bed-capacity-by-25-soni-101620328914393.html
07-05-2021||City||Can add 9,000 beds if O2 quota is met: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi can add 9,000 to 9,500 more beds for Covid-19 patients if the Union government continues to send 700 metric tonne (MT) of medical oxygen, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday, as he thanked the Centre for the increase in supply – a measure sought by the state government and ordered by the Supreme Court and the Delhi high court.Since the third week of April, Delhi has battled an acute shortage of oxygen supplies as the surge in Covid-19 cases crushed the health care system, forcing many to pare back the number of beds they have even as people struggled to get life-saving medical attention.“For the shortage of oxygen, several hospitals in the city had started reducing their oxygen beds. A prominent hospital reduced total oxygen beds from 300 to 100. Our aim is to keep increasing oxygen beds,” said Kejriwal during an online press briefing.Also read | Delhi adds 19,133 new Covid cases, 335 deaths; positivity rate below 25%He listed GTB, Lok Nayak and Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality as hospitals where beds were reduced. “I appeal them to increase beds. Also, several hospitals approached us in the past few days saying they can further augment capacity of oxygen beds if the supply becomes stable. Now that the supply is stable, I request them to increase oxygen beds,” he added.Delhi received 730 MT on Wednesday after days of repeated warnings and prodding by the high court as well as the apex court. Prior to that, the most the city received was on Tuesday when it got 555 MT of oxygen, and the average for seven days before that was 398MT.“Delhi needs 700 MT oxygen, and yesterday was the first time that the Central government sent 730 MT oxygen. But, I request the Centre to continue sending 700 MT oxygen daily until the country’s second wave doesn’t ebb. It shouldn’t be the case that one day we receive 700 MT and the next day we again get only 300-400 MT, because that will create a turmoil in the hospitals again,” the CM said.Rajeev Gandhi Superspeciality hospital, which treats only the sickest patients in need of high flow oxygen and ventilator support, had to reduce the number of beds from 550 to 350 on April 23. A day later, the neighbouring Guru Teg Bahadur hospital, which had 900 Covid-19 beds, had to reduce it to 700 beds. The hospital later added 50 beds.Also read | Delhi CM Kejriwal writes to PM Modi, expresses gratitude for supply of oxygen“We will observe the trend for a few days and then slowly increase the number of beds,” said a senior doctor from Rajiv Gandhi Superspecialitiy hospital, asking not to be named.The Delhi government-run Burari hospital, which runs 370 beds for Covid-19 patients, had to restrict admissions due to the erratic oxygen supply. The hospital has a pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plant, but needs an additional 250 to 260 oxygen cylinders to support Covid-19 patients. “We have had to restrict new admissions depending on the availability of oxygen,” said a senior doctor from the hospital.Several private hospitals, too, said they were keeping beds empty due to the uncertainty of oxygen supply.Hakeem Abdul Hameed Centenary Hospital on Thursday had at least 200 beds that were not being utilised for want of oxygen. “We have more feet on the ground than any other hospital, so we can look after more patients. We have 200-plus beds empty because we do not have wherewithal to get oxygen,” said Dr Sunil Kohli, head of the department of medicine at the hospital. The hospital does not have a large storage quantity and needs several refills a day.Watch | India’s oxygen crisis: IIT Kanpur alumni raise over 3 crore to help Delhi, UP“Patients are dying and hospitals have vacant beds because of the uncertainty of oxygen supply. If Delhi starts getting enough oxygen regularly, the number of beds can be increased by at least 5,000 across city hospitals,” said Dr PK Bharadwaj, secretary, Delhi Voluntary Hospitals Forum.Government records seen by HT showed that Delhi has now inched closer to its augmentation target of 4,625 oxygen beds and crossed the target of 1,126 ICU beds.To be sure, these augmentation targets were to be met by April 27.As on May 6 afternoon, Delhi had 19,330 oxygen beds, including 5,400 ICU beds, according to the government’s app. On April 20 afternoon, the first day of the ongoing lockdown which was imposed to strengthen the health care infrastructure, Delhi had 15,230 oxygen beds, including 4,139 ICUs. In the 16 days, the oxygen beds have increased by 4,100 and ICUs have increased by 1,261, government records said.According to officials, the exercise was delayed because of the severe shortage of oxygen and by April 27, the government managed to increase oxygen beds and ICU by hardly 40% of what was targeted. Now, the government plans to add 15,000 beds in hospitals and facilities attached with hospitals and add 1,200 more ICUs by May 10, according to the documents seen by HT. “Things look better now with better supply of oxygen since May 2,” said one official, who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/can-add-9-000-beds-if-o2-quota-is-met-arvind-kejriwal-101620328302364.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: IIT-B’s O2 generator model gets 1,000 queries in a week||A week after the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay ((IIT-B), set up a demonstration unit converting nitrogen generators into oxygen generators, the institute has been receiving requests from policymakers, industry and hospitals for adopting the technology.So far the institute, along with its industry partner Tata Consulting Engineers Limited (TCE), has received over 1,000 inquiries from across the country for implementing the technology to beat the severe oxygen shortage for Covid-19 patients. On April 29, IIT-B and TCE demonstrated a simple method of converting nitrogen generators, which are found in all parts of India, into oxygen generators by fine-tuning the existing nitrogen plant set up. Milind Atrey, institute chair professor, department of Mechanical Engineering, IIT-B, along with TCE demonstrated a proof of concept using a model nitrogen plant available on campus.“Along with TCE, we have set up a helpline for helping people use this technology in an existing nitrogen plant. The helpline has been flooded since the announcements We’ve received interest from government bodies, hospitals and even industry bodies that want to convert an existing nitrogen plant into oxygen generators. We are providing handholding support for easy adoption of the technology,” said Atrey, who is also the dean, research and development of IIT-B.The institute has made all technical specifications available in the public domain. “Those interested can write to us at tceconnect@tce.co.in,” Atrey added.Nitrogen generation plants, which take in air from the atmosphere and separate oxygen and nitrogen to give out liquid nitrogen, can be found in various industries such as oil and gas, food and beverages. Nitrogen is dry in nature and is used commonly for purging and cleaning oil and gas tankers. Most nitrogen plants work on pressure swing adsorption (PSA) technology, where air from the atmosphere is sucked in, filtered of impurities and nitrogen is extracted. The team has proposed to switch the filter used for nitrogen extraction in the PSA unit with one that can extract oxygen instead.The team replaced the carbon molecular sieves, used in nitrogen plants, with zeolite molecular sieves in the PSA nitrogen plant in the Refrigeration and Cryogenics Laboratory of IIT-B. Zeolite molecular sieves are used for separating oxygen from the air. By controlling the flow rates of the containers, the researchers were able to convert the nitrogen plant on campus into an oxygen generating plant. Spantech Engineers, a city-based company that deals with PSA nitrogen and oxygen plant production, partnered on this pilot project and installed the required plant components as a skid at IIT-B for evaluation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-iit-b-s-o2-generator-model-gets-1-000-queries-in-a-week-101620328434203.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Nair hospital launches mental health helpline for its Covid patients||Mumbai Central-based BYL Nair Hospital has become the first civic-run medical college to start a mental health helpline wherein in-house Covid patients and their relatives can call exclusively for counselling. The helpline number —8828315805 — was launched on Thursday in association with Naraindas Morbai Budhrani Trust. Nair hospital’s ‘Virtual Counselling and Mental Health support for Covid-19 patients and caregivers’ will be functional between 9am and 7pm everyday. It will be manned by six psychologists from the trust who have been trained by the psychiatry team of the hospital.“Our psychiatry department has started this helpline with Budhrani Trust. During the training, we provide them [patients and their relatives] reading materials to acquire knowledge about Covid-19. Any infected patient who gets admitted to the hospital or any suspected patient with Covid-19 symptoms who visit the out-patient department (OPD) for check-ups can call at the helpline number for counselling. This helpline number is dedicated only to the hospital’s patients and their relatives,” said Dr Henal Shah, head of the department, psychiatry, Nair Hospital. However, in case anyone who is not associated with the hospital calls on the helpline, the psychologists will not refuse them help. A poster near the emergency ward and OPD, with the helpline number, reads, ‘It’s normal to feel sad, stressed, fearful or angry during a situation crisis. Talk to people you trust and get relieved.”Speaking to HT, Tushar Yarmal, programme manager of the trust, said, “The number of Covid-19 cases has doubled in the second wave, which has increased anxiety and fear among people. In the first wave, we had started a helpline number focusing on the dissemination of authentic information to the public. Now, with this new helpline number, we want to focus only on counselling.”Amid the pandemic, several psychiatrists and non-government organisations (NGOs) have started various helpline numbers. King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital, along with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), also runs two Covid-19 helpline numbers. But unlike Nair hospital, staff at KEM make calls to the patients to check on their health and callers can’t ring them. “We have an in-house helpline number where we call the kin of the admitted patients at KEM Hospital for counselling. We maintain the data bank of all the admitted patients. Then the second helpline is run in association with BMC where we call the recovered Covid-19 patients for counselling outside KEM,” Dr Ajita S Nayak, head of psychiatry department, KEM Hospital, said.Lokmanya Tilak General and RN Cooper hospitals do not have any helpline solely dedicated for patients suffering from Covid-19.A psychiatrist at Cooper Hospital said, “We are managing the department with four-five doctors. With this strength, we have to attend Covid-19 patients, counsel them and also handle the department. We don’t have the manpower to launch such a helpline number.”Doctors have said that Covid-19 not only affects patients’ physical health but takes a toll on their mental well-being. Patients who are kept in isolation and intensive care units (ICU) often develop mental ailments such as anxiety and depression, which continue to linger long after they are discharged from the hospital. Recently, urban development minister Eknath Shinde also suggested that psychiatric help should be provided to patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-nair-hospital-launches-mental-health-helpline-for-its-covid-patients-kin-101620328374143.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra:Coxavin for 18-44 group to be used for 2nd dose receivers?||In another round of the state versus Centre battle, the Maharashtra government has blamed the latter for delay in providing Covaxin doses, permission to procure medical equipment such as Remdesivir, oxygen, liquid oxygen tanks, and reducing the supply of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) to the state from Karnataka by 50 metric tonnes. Health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said that Maharashtra could temporarily suspend the administration of the first dose of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and divert the state’s 479,000 Covaxin doses, purchased on Tuesday, for those awaiting their second shot. The move is being contemplated as the Centre is not providing enough stock of the vaccine, Tope said. “We might have to suspend Covaxin for 18-44 category [temporarily] and utilise some of these doses for the second shot, because as per scientific advice, those who have received Covaxin shots must be given their second dose within 42 days. The policy decision will be taken by the chief minister in a day or so,” the minister said, adding that is crucial that the Centre provides Covaxin doses for second shots. “We are following up with the Centre to get the second dose of Covaxin. If need be, we are prepared to utilise the stock state government has purchased for 18-44 age group. Our first priority will be to secure the doses from the Centre. If that is not possible, we will take a call to use our stock as the second dose for inoculating those over age 45,” he said.The shortage of vaccines is now limited to Covaxin, as Covishield is available in enough quantity.Maharashtra vaccinated nearly 450,000 people, up from Wednesday’s 250,000, on Thursday. According to the data on Cowin app, Maharashtra administered 447,956 vaccinations across 5,627 centres in the state, making it the second-highest inoculation done in a single-day. The state had vaccinated 534,228 beneficiaries on April 26. So far, Maharashtra has inoculated 17,286,448 beneficiaries, of which 3,077,962 have taken their second dose, as per data.Meanwhile, Tope also said that the decision to reduce Maharashtra’s quota of LMO from Karnataka will have an impact as the state is managing on the supply from other states while completely utilising 1,250MT of LMO manufactured in Maharashtra. “Maharashtra needs 1,750MT of oxygen daily. If Karnataka reduces its supply, then we will definitely feel the shortage. It is not right to reduce our allocation. We are going to appeal against this injustice,” Tope said, adding that the only ray of hope for the state is the installation of around 28 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants. The state has placed orders for 150 PSA plants which will commence operations in the coming week, he said.Tope also said that the Centre’s Department of Pharmaceuticals has not granted clearance for the essential items that the state intends to import in the wake of a surge in Covid-19 cases. “The Department of Pharmaceuticals is not giving a speedy approval for the various essential items that we have to order from abroad. We are confident that in the next two days, the permission to procure 350,000 Remdesivir injections will come from the Centre. This has to expedite so that we can give a purchase order for it,” he said. The minister said that the state is preparing for the third wave so that the districts become self-sufficient for oxygen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtracoxavin-for-18-44-group-to-be-used-for-2nd-dose-receivers-101620328313654.html
07-05-2021||Other||HC asks Centre to decide on oxygen allocation to Tamil Nadu||Chennai: The Madras high court has directed the Centre to take a decision by Friday on the revised allocation of 475 metric tonnes of oxygen to Tamil Nadu after the state health secretary J Radhakrishnan informed the court that the revised quantum was agreed upon by the Centre but an order issued on May 5 did not include Tamil Nadu. More alarming is the fact that if the Centre does not release the agreed upon revised allotment, the reserve oxygen in Tamil Nadu will last only till Friday and that there might be a shortage from Saturday, Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC) Secretary P Umanath told the court. The state produces 400 MTs of oxygen per day and current usage is between 400-450 MTs per day. The state explained that the INOX plant in Sriperumbudur is the lifeline as it supplies 150 MT but the Centre has diverted 60 MT to other states. The central government has revised the data to 475 MT and said that it requires approval of the empowered group, but it has still not come through. Umanath submitted the gist of the meeting with the Centre on the sharing of oxygen to nearby states of Kerala and Telangana. “The diversion of oxygen from Sriperumbudur to other states has put us in a difficult situation. There is no alternative supply to southern states and we are managing with the reserves and it will run out tomorrow,” Umanath told the court. The submissions were made during a suo motu case of Covid-19 second wave preparedness in Tamil Nadu being heard by the first bench comprising Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy. On the demand for beds, the health secretary submitted that oxygen beds and ventilators are fast filling up and 875 new ones will come up Friday. The court also asked the health secretary about the deaths in Chengalpattu government hospital. Thirteen patients died between late Tuesday night and early hours of Wednesday. The state informed the court that they have formed a committee to establish the cause of death but submitted that there were provided oxygen. Doctors in the hospital had protested on Wednesday alleging that it was due to oxygen shortage. But the hospital dean said that there was only a drop in oxygen pressure and the patients died due to critical illness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-asks-centre-to-decide-on-oxygen-allocation-to-tamil-nadu-101620328193629.html
07-05-2021||Other||Stalin cabinet to be a mix of veterans, young leaders||Chennai: Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Thursday accepted DMK’s list of 34 ministers who will take oath with chief minister elect M K Stalin on Friday. At a party meeting, it was decided that Stalin, who will be sworn in as chief minister at 9am on Friday, will hold the portfolio of the home department, welfare of differently-abled persons among other portfolios. The cabinet is a mix of Stalin’s close aides, veterans and young leaders.Perhaps the most important portfolio amid the pandemic is the health ministry which has been handed over to former Chennai mayor M Subramanian. He is one of Stalin’s closest aides having been together from their youth wing days. Subramanian, who was mayor from 2006-2011 is elected an MLA from Chennai’s Saidapet constituency where he defeated former AIADMK’s Chennai mayor Saidai Duraisamy. Subramanian is also a marathon runner and an accessible leader.Another crucial portfolio during the pandemic will be handled by Palanivel Thiagarajan who will be finance and human resource minister. Thiagarajan, an MBA graduate from MIT Sloan and a former investment banker with stints in Lehman Brothers, Standard Chartered Bank in Singapore and US, returned to India. He is currently the DMK’s IT-wing head and was re-elected as MLA from Madurai Central constituency. The old guard such as party organising secretary Duraimurugan, K N Nehru, E V Velu and K Ponmudi have been made ministers for water resources, municipal administration, public works and higher education respectively. Former AIADMK transport minister V Senthil Balaji who sided with TTV Dhinakaran and was among the 18 rebel MLAs who were disqualified and joined the DMK in 2018, will be the new electricity, prohibition and excise minister. P K Sekar Babu who works immensely in Stalin’s constituency of Kolathur will be minister for Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowments. Stalin’s son Udhaynidhi who is elected as an MLA in his electoral debut didn’t make it to the list but his close aide and Thiruverumbur MLA from Trichy, Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi has been handed the responsibility as school education minister. Only two women have been given ministerial posts- Geetha Jeevan gets social welfare portfolio and Kayalvizhi Selvaraj who defeated the state BJP chief L Murugan will be minister for Adi Dravidar Welfare.Political observers say the new cabinet is a gamble. “It’s a blend of old guards and green horns. Durai Murugan is gracefully sidelined with a portfolio which ‘will coordinate with all departments’’ says political commentator Maalan Narayanan. “Subramanian and Anbil Mahesh are given crucial portfolios in which they don’t have experience or expertise. It is a gamble. Thiagarajan is a good choice as FM. Delta region is not represented while Kongu is given heavy representation-- may be to win them back.” Kongu or western region is the AIADMK’s bastion-- the only region where DMK couldn’t make inroads even in this election.Stalin has asked his cadre to watch the swearing in ceremony from home to prevent the spread of Covid-19. It would be low-key event at the Raj Bhavan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/stalin-cabinet-to-be-a-mix-of-veterans-young-leaders-101620328075878.html
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||Rain, gusty winds lash Chandigarh, more to follow||Mercury plunged by several notches, bringing respite from soaring temperatures, but power cuts across the city left the residents hassled, as sharp showers along with gusty winds lashed Chandigarh on Thursday evening. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) observatory at Sector 39 recorded 14.2mm rain between 6pm and 8:30pm, which was accompanied by winds blowing at speeds up to 50 kilometre/hour.After a sunny start to the day, which saw maximum temperature reach 36.1°C, mercury fell to 22°C by 8:30pm. The IMD, Chandigarh, has predicted light rain on Friday as well, which is likely to be followed by cloudy weather on Saturday and another spell of light rain on Sunday. In the next three days, maximum temperature is expected to remain between 33 and 35 degrees while minimum temperature will remain between 23 and 24 degrees.“A system of western disturbances had led to the showers and winds on Thursday. Light run up to 20mm is likely on Friday, while another spell is expected on Sunday. Gusty winds blowing at speeds up to 50km/hour along with thunder can also be expected,” said an IMD official, adding that another system of western disturbances is likely to affect the city around Tuesday as well.Meanwhile, the winds led to power outages in many parts of the city. While Sectors 35, 36 and 43 remained without electricity for up to three hours, power was restored at Sectors 27, 33 and 48 after a short outage, though many residents complained that the UT electricity officials were not picking up their calls. Many villages, including Dhanas, Raipur Khurd and Maloya, also remained without electricity for hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rain-gusty-winds-lash-chandigarh-more-to-follow-101620328075407.html
07-05-2021||Other||B’luru civic workers demand safety gear after one dies of Covid||Bengaluru: A week after Bengaluru’s pourakarmikas (civic workers) held a protest outside the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) demanding safety gear for those cleaning the city streets, one of the city sweepers died of Covid-19 on Wednesday. 51-year-old Susheelamma, a pourakarmika in ward 27 in east Bengaluru’s Banasawadi passed away after battling with the Covid-19. Soon after the incident, paurakarmikas in the ward staged a protest in the streets demanding better equipment for them. They demanded that they have not been provided with the required safety equipment even though they are frontline workers, and they perform a high-risk job. Nayanamma, one of the sweepers at the protest said that the government has not provided them with any safety apparatus but also, they are made to walk for hours since no public transport is available. “We come to work every day knowing the risks involved in our jobs. Susheelamma was one of us and she is no more. The authorities have no paid attention to our demand for safety equipment and our demand for providing us transportation to reach our workplaces,” he said. On April 28, pourakarmikas in Bengaluru staged a protest, demanding protective gears like masks and gloves. They alleged that for the past nine months, they have not been provided any masks or gloves. In a letter to the commissioner of BBMP, BBMP Civic Workers’ Union demanded gloves, sanitiser and shoes for workers. “We are working in these times without any facilities. We also humans, just like you,” said Rathna, a civic worker, in a statement to the media following the protest on April 28. “We have been working for many years and despite the Covid (pandemic), we continue to work. But we haven’t received any of the facilities that we should have. The last time we got masks and gloves was last year. We have been asking for three weeks but we still haven’t been given masks and gloves,” she added. The workers have said that despite their protest, no safety gear has been provided to them and most importantly, many civic workers are yet to receive their vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bluru-civic-workers-demand-safety-gear-after-one-dies-of-covid-101620328013530.html
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh-Delhi Shatabdi trains suspended from May 9||The Northern Railways on Thursday suspended the morning and evening Shatabdi Express between Kalka and New Delhi via Chandigarh from May 9. The announcement comes days after the afternoon Shatabdi Express between Chandigarh and New Delhi was suspended from May 1.The fresh move covers 13 pairs of trains that have been cancelled by the Northern Railways till further orders. The Una-New Delhi Jan Shatabdi Express, which passes through Chandigarh, and Hemkunt Express, which goes from Rishikesh to Katra via Chandigarh, have also be suspended. Even two Kalka-Shimla trains have been cancelled.“The decision has been taken due to low occupancy amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in the region,” said Chandigarh railway station superintendent JP Singh. At present, occupancy in non-AC trains to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar is still considerable, though it has dropped drastically in all other trains, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhdelhi-shatabdi-trains-suspended-from-may-9-101620327954098.html
07-05-2021||Other||Covid scare moves beyond K’taka capital||Bengaluru: Despite the exponential surge in Covid-19 cases in Karnataka, the focus of the state government has primarily been on the capital city of Bengaluru, from where a major chunk of the daily cases, 49.5% to be precise, are being reported in the second wave of the pandemic. However, it changed after the death of 24 Covid-19 patients at two hospitals in Chamarajanagar allegedly due to shortage of oxygen. Experts have alerted the government about a likely spike in other districts of the state by next week. An initial trend of this change can be gauged from the statistics of Covid-19 cases in the state. An analysis of infections reported between April 27 and May 3 by the state Covid war room, shows that Bengaluru city does not even feature in the first three spots in terms of case positivity rate. As per war room data, Mysuru district reported the highest positivity rate at 28.8%, followed by Tumkuru at 25.6% and Ballari at 25%. Bengaluru Urban with a positivity rate of 24.7% came in fourth place, while the state’s average was recorded at 20.9%. Even in terms of case fatality rate (CFR), which is the number of deaths per 100 cases, several districts have surpassed Bengaluru. Haveri in north Karnataka reported the highest CFR of 2%, much higher than the state’s average of 0.6%. While Bengaluru city has a CFR of 0.5%, districts like Chamarajangara (1.8%), Ramanagara (1.4%), Chitradurga (1.3%) and Bidar (1.2%) have reported high CFR rates. In terms of absolute numbers, however, no district in the state is anywhere closer to Bengaluru city. On Wednesday, Bengaluru Urban reported 168 deaths, while all other districts reported less than 50 deaths. The city also accounted for 23,706 new Covid-19 cases out of the total 49,058 reported from across the state on Thursday. The active caseload in Bengaluru and Karnataka stood at 332,732 and 517,075, respectively as on Thursday, according to the state health department. Ashwin Mahesh, an urban expert said Bengaluru is still the biggest headache for the state government. “One out of every 35 people in Bengaluru currently has Covid. If you consider the active cases, which are mostly counted among adults, it could be as high as one in every 25 adults. This is our current situation, and we are not talking about people having had Covid at some time, but only the current cases,” he said. Even though the absolute numbers make Bengaluru a bigger problem for the government, experts fear that unlike the city, most districts lack health infrastructure to handle a spike similar to what has been witnessed in Bengaluru. “The expert committee has asked the government to increase the ICU and bed capacity in the vulnerable districts and increase the oxygen supply,” said Giridhar Babu, a member of the state’s Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on Covid-19. According to experts, an increase in infections across the state can be attributed to the exodus of people from Bengaluru to various parts of the state ahead of the statewide “closed down” announced on April 27. Officials familiar with the development said that following a meeting with experts, chief minister BS Yediyurappa has been advised to extend the lockdown like restrictions in the state. Officials added that there are chances of a further extension of the lockdown, but the decision will be taken on May 10. Experts also added that the government has been making some decisions lately despite the repeated advice from the TAC for a coordinated effort. “Recently, the government has decentralised the responsibilities for taking care of remdesivir, oxygen and beds to different ministers. The health minister has been stripped of several powers. We are not saying the health minister was doing a fantastic job, but a reshuffle of responsibilities during a crisis is not a wise decision. By the time these newly appointed ministers learn about the situation on the ground, we would have lost precious time,” said a member of the TAC on the condition of anonymity. Meanwhile, during a hearing on the deaths of 24 Covid-19 patients allegedly due to shortage of oxygen, the Karnataka high court on Wednesday directed the state’s chief secretary to seize all records related to oxygen supply from the offices of deputy commissioners of Chamarajanagar and Mysuru districts, and also from the Chamarajanagar district hospital. The bench asked the chief secretary to keep all the documents in his safe custody till further orders of the court. It came after the deputy commissioners of the two districts were involved in a blame game over the deaths of 24 Covid-19 patients in Chamarajaganar. The Karnataka government on Wednesday appointed retired high court judge Justice B A Patil as the one-man commission to inquire into the Chamarajanagar incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-scare-moves-beyond-k-taka-capital-101620327834139.html
07-05-2021||Lucknow||In 1st meeting with medical experts’ panel, Yogi asks them to analyse Covid situation, challenges||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday asked the newly formed Covid medical experts’ advisory committee to make a strategy for fighting the pandemic by analysing the current situation and future challenges. He said this at his first virtual meeting with the panel of 14 experts headed by Dr RK Dhiman, director of the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS), Lucknow. “The panel must meet every day to discuss Covid-19 and send its reports to the state health department, the state medical education department and the CM’s office. The panel should also update the government medical institutions, hospitals and other such institutions in the state regarding Covid treatment,” he said The role of medical experts and doctors was praiseworthy in putting up an effective fight against the virus in the second wave, he said. “This is not the time for negative talk. Instead, diversion of energies should be towards joining hands in the fight and also boosting the morale of doctors, health workers, paramedics, sanitation workers, and all frontline workers. Such an approach will be a big support and psychological strength to the society,” he said. He also asked the expert panel to devise ways for publicity campaigns to make people aware of the safety against the disease. Dr Dhiman said medical experts should give information on the mass media about Covid safety and treatment. “Protection is more important than treatment so far as Covid is concerned. Covid appropriate behaviour, use of masks, gloves, sanitisers, social distancing, and vaccination would help a great deal in overcoming the fight against the virus,” he said. He made a presentation before the team regarding Covid and told the chief minister that the panel will follow the mandate given to it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/in-1st-meeting-with-medical-experts-yogi-asks-them-to-analyse-covid-situation-challenges-101620327833522.html
07-05-2021||Other||Black marketing of Bengaluru hospital beds continues||Bengaluru The Bengaluru police on Thursday said they have arrested two persons for allegedly fleecing Covid-19 patients in need of intensive care unit (ICU) hospital beds.In a series of tweets, Bengaluru City Police commissioner Kamal Pant referred to a Covid-19 patient, whose family was forced to pay ₹120,000 for a hospital bed in the city.“A patient Laxmidevamma who was diagnosed with #COVID19 was brought to a private hospital. Due to the non-availability of ICU beds in the hospital, 2 persons, Venkata Subbarao & Manjunath, connected to the hospital and in connivance with Punith -- working as Arogya Mitra in another hospital -- demanded & extorted ₹120,000 from Lakshmisha, the son of the patient, for allotting a bed in a reputed hospital. ₹50K was paid via GPay & ₹70K was paid in cash,” Pant said in two-part tweets on Thursday.He added that the patient died a few hours after being allotted a bed, after which his son Lakshmisha filed a complaint with the police.The two accused were arrested on Thursday, said police, adding that further investigation was on.The incident comes two days after a section of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislators made serious allegations against the administration of Bengaluru civic body.Lok Sabha member Tejaswi Surya along with two legislators from Bengaluru had alleged that there were at least 4,065 instances in which hospital beds were booked in the name of asymptomatic persons and later allotments were changed by people employed at the Covid war room with the help of officials and outside agents.“Yesterday (Wednesday) searches were conducted at 8 zonal war rooms. Lot of data has been collected. Eight teams led by one PI each are scrutinising all data. Further action will be taken based on information taken out from this data. The hospitals in which the arrested accused had blocked beds are being investigated. Teams verifying in these hospitals. Police custody will be taken for further interrogation,” Sandeep Patil, the joint commissioner of police, Crime, said.The scam was, however, given a communal colour by Surya and the two legislators -- Satish Reddy and Ravi Subramanya -- as they singled out names of Muslims working in the war room.Meanwhile, Reddy’s name has also cropped up in the scandal, with allegations that his supporters were also part of the racket.There have been rising complaints against government officials for helping touts to profiteer from the sale of antiviral drugs and injections like remdesivir, taking bribes for hospital beds and even jumping the long-winding queues outside crematoriums.All these come at a time when Karnataka and its capital Bengaluru in particular have seen an exponential rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the second wave of the pandemic. On Thursday, the state reported 49,058 new infections , taking the active caseload to 517,075. Bengaluru accounted for 23,706 new infections, taking its total active case count to 332,732. As many as 328 people succumbed to the viral disease in Karnataka on Thursday, taking the toll in the state to 17,212. Bengaluru reported 139 deaths on Thursday, taking its toll due to Covid-19 to 7,145, according to the daily bulletin of the health department. According to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Central Hospital Bed Management System website, there are over 1,738 beds vacant out of the total 11,074 in government and private hospitals and medical colleges. However, several incidents of critical patients denied admission at hospitals have been reported in the past two weeks.On Thursday, a family drove the ambulance straight to the official residence of CM Yediyurappa, crying for help. In a video that was circulated widely on social media, a man and his sister desperately cry for help to find a bed for her husband who is critically ill and in the ambulance. “We are willing to pay and do not want any money from the government. All we want is a hospital bed,” the man is heard saying. “We have gone to almost 20 hospitals but everywhere they tell us that there are no beds. But the government comes on TV and says that there are enough beds. Please help us get justice,” he pleads with the police and media personnel present there. The woman said that she has two children and wants to save her husband’s life.Gaurav Gupta, the chief commissioner of the BBMP, on Thursday said the city administration was looking to convert around 50% of the beds in Covid care centres meant for asymptomatic patients, into oxygenated beds. He added that there are around 15,000 hotel rooms in the city and at least 945 of them will be converted as ‘step-down’ hospitals to ease the pressure on the existing and inadequate healthcare infrastructure in Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/black-marketing-of-bengaluru-hospital-beds-continues-101620327773483.html
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||PGI staff with high-risk exposure due to own laxity to go on casual leave||Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, has ordered that the quarantine period of healthcare workers, who are at high risk for exposure due to their own laxity in following Covid-19 norms, will be treated as casual leave. In the month of April, around 500 employees of the institute had tested positive, which makes it around 30% of the total employees found positive since the outbreak last year. Justifying the directive, the institute said that it is being observed that despite a huge surge in Covid-19 cases, some health workers do not observe Covid-appropriate behaviour and thus there should be some sort of deterrent so that precautions are observed while performing the duties. The PGIMER administration has brought it to the notice of employees that if someone falls under high-risk exposure due to “sharing of food” and “chatting during duty hours without a mask” or “not wearing proper personal protective equipment due to an unjustifiable reason”, his quarantine period will be treated as casual leave or leave of the kind due. The administration has also given powers to the supervisory officer and in-charge of the area to take necessary action while the department heads have been asked to bring the directive to the notice of every employee working under them. The directive has not gone well with different groups of workers who have been at the forefront of managing critical patients. “The order should be taken back immediately. If the administration is concerned about infection spread among health workers, they should revise the policy on breaks after Covid-19 duties. Earlier, we were being given seven-day breaks after being on Covid duty now we are getting just two. This new policy, which was implemented on April 1, has led to infection spread among employees,” said Satyaveer Dagur, general secretary of the Nurses Welfare Association. Meanwhile, the Resident Doctors Association has said that the order is unjustified and they hope that the order is not followed in letter and spirit. “Doctors are also humans. Sometimes, it may not be possible for them to take the required precautions, which makes this order unjustified. But at the same time, health workers should also follow the precautions wherever they can,” said Dr Uttam Thakur, president of PGIMER’s RDA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pgi-staff-with-high-risk-exposure-due-to-own-laxity-to-go-on-casual-leave-101620327714069.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Three naval ships to bring in oxygen from Persian Gulf||The Indian Navy’s three warships INS Kochi, INS Tabar and INS Trikand, ferrying liquid medical oxygen (LMO) and associated medical equipment from the Persian Gulf, are currently on their way to Mumbai as part of the mission Samudra Setu-II.The Indian Navy had launched ‘Samudra Setu-II’ last month to meet the country’s oxygen requirement amid the surge in Covid-19 cases. As part of the mission, seven ships - INS (Indian Navy Ship) Kolkata, Kochi, Talwar, Tabar, Trikand, Jalashwa and Airavat have been deployed for shipment of oxygen-filled cryogenic containers and associated medical equipment from various countries. INS Kochi and INS Tabar departed Kuwait and INS Trikand departed Doha on May 6 with a total of seven tanks, each of 20 tonnes (total 140 tonnes) liquid oxygen tanks and 14,000 oxygen cylinders, said Navy official.INS Kolkata and INS Airavat are already en route from Kuwait and Singapore respectively with more than 4,000 oxygen cylinders, two containers each have 20 MT (40 tonnes) oxygen-filled containers and eight oxygen tanks. Earlier, Indian Naval Ship Talwar arrived at the port of New Mangalore in Karnataka on May 5 with the first consignment of 54 tons liquid oxygen tanks from Bahrain, said chief public relation officer (CPRO) and commander Mehul Karnik. Also, a 26 member medical team including seven doctors, two nursing officers, two paramedics and 15 battlefield nursing assistants (BFNA) have been deputed from Eastern Naval Command (ENC) to augment the frontline medical team at Dhanvantari Covid hospital in Ahmedabad, added Karnik.The medical personnel from various units of ENC were airlifted from Visakhapatnam to Ahmedabad on May 6. The 26 member team is in addition to 58 doctors, 30 nursing officers, 64 medical assistance and 62 Battle Field Nursing Assistance (BFNAs) deputed earlier by the Indian Navy for duties at Covid hospitals established at New Delhi, Patna, Ahmedabad and Kavaratti island for providing aid to the civil population, said Karnik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-three-naval-ships-to-bring-in-oxygen-from-persian-gulf-101620327413516.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 853 deaths, 62,194 new Covid-19 cases||With 853 deaths on Thursday, Maharashtra recorded a total of 4,702 deaths in the first six days of April, bringing the average number of deaths to 783 per day. The number is almost three times higher as compared to last month’s 1,402 deaths from April 1 to 6, which averaged 233 deaths per day. From March 1 to 6, 286 deaths were recorded, which averaged 47 deaths per day.The total number of deaths in the state since the outbreak of the virus has now touched 73,515. On Wednesday, the state recorded 920 deaths which was the second-highest one day toll in the state. The highest toll was 985 on April 28 last month.On Thursday, the state recorded 62,194 new Covid-19 cases, as 2,77,086 citizens were tested for the virus.There are currently 6,39,075 active patients across the state of which Pune tops with 1,15,182 patients followed by Nagpur with 61,178 active patients. The death toll has now reached 73,515 with Mumbai leading with 13,580 deaths followed by Pune with 9,942 patients.According to Dr Tatrarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), the deaths have increased corresponding with the surge of the virus. “We saw increasing deaths due to the second wave which was more lethal than the first one. The current deaths are of those who have been affected mostly two weeks ago. Due to the lockdown, we will see the deaths stabilising and even coming down in the coming days,” said Lahane.Dr Satyendra Nath Mehra, director, Masina Hospital at Byculla, attributes the increase in the death rates to two main factors. “The younger generation is suffering from ‘Happy Hypoxia’ a condition where the patient does not realise that his oxygen level is low and is happily continuing his normal activities. This results in the progression of the disease and are causing deaths,” said Mehra.“The second is that whole families are getting infected and the worst sufferers are the elderly family members who are already suffering from other diseases. Their condition is deteriorating faster due to this new strain,” he added.As the Covid-19 virus continues to rage in many places, the state government has now decided to enforce an eight-day strict lockdown at Badlapur city in Thane district from Saturday onwards. Badlapur now follows six districts like Ahmednagar, Baramati, Sangli, Satara, Kolhapur and Beed where a strict lockdown is already in place due to the surge in Covid-19 cases.Meanwhile, a company, Genetek Lifesciences located at Wardha has started its operations of producing Remdesivir injections. Union minister Nitin Gadkari was able to procure licenses for this company within three days as it will be producing 30,000 vials of the injections daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-853-deaths-62-194-new-covid-19-cases-101620327353477.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body installs 15 LMO tanks in 40 days||In a span of 40 days between May and June last year, Mumbai civic body installed 15 Liquid Medical Oxygen [LMO] tanks with a capacity of 13 kilolitres each and 11 smaller tanks with a capacity of up to six kilolitres each in the city’s six civic-run hospitals and six jumbo Covid-19 centres. These oxygen storage tanks played a crucial role for Mumbai, which saw its daily demand for medical oxygen go up from 210 metric tonnes (MT) in the first wave to 270 (MT) in the past month alone. The “Mumbai model” has won praise from both the Supreme Court and the Bombay High Court. The apex court on Wednesday appreciated Mumbai’s efforts and recommended that the Centre and Delhi take a cue on how to handle oxygen supply in the face of the severe shortage that the Capital city has been facing for the past three weeks. On Thursday, the HC said that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation chief Iqbal Chahal should hold a video conference with other municipal bodies and explain how the city managed the second wave. So what did Mumbai do to control the crisis? “Building the additional LMO tanks helped us cope during the second wave,” additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu said. “The tanks, construction, fitting, and piping altogether cost us over ₹14 crore. At that point, we didn’t know if they would be utilised, but we still went ahead and created that infrastructure,” he said. That’s barely 0.32% of the BMC’s total budgetary allocation for healthcare in 2020-2021. LMO tanks are highly pressurised tanks that are installed on reinforced concrete structures and require certification by the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO), a department under the ministry of commerce and industry, which has also been overseeing the supply and distribution of oxygen during this crisis. The tanks were installed in facilities with greater bed capacity. For instance, NESCO’s jumbo centre in Goregaon which was opened last June and currently has 2015 beds was fitted with two LMO tanks, but only one was used last year. The BMC plans to construct 10 more LMOs across the city in preparation for a possible third wave expected anytime between July and September, civic officials said. Crack teams and quick response vehicles In April, the city’s daily average cases had touched 7,786 and this is when the oxygen crisis was felt most keenly: many patients were shifted from one hospital to another due to a shortfall of oxygen [for instance, 168 patients were moved out of six government hospitals to jumbo centres on April 17 after oxygen supply was affected], hospital staff struggled with getting supplies and often left with only a few hours of oxygen, some facilities had to refuse admissions. By mid-April, the city had only 41 ICU beds and 15 ventilator beds out of a total of 2,664 and 1,339 respectively. That’s when the BMC announced that it would appoint six civic officials to act as coordinators between oxygen suppliers, assistant municipal commissioners of the 24 civic wards and the Food and Drug Administration. The officials will be responsible for maintaining the existing oxygen supply and also ensuring that the same is used sparingly. Part of Mumbai’s oxygen supply model evolved to ensure the safe transportation of oxygen cylinders. Only two civic-run hospitals, Kasturba in Arthur Road and HBT Trauma Care in Jogeshwari, have oxygen generation plants. Other big hospitals, like civic run KEM, Sion, Nair, Cooper hospitals and private-run Bombay Hospital, have large capacity LMO tanks which are refilled at least once daily. Other hospitals rely on cylinders; in fact, all hospitals are mandated to keep cylinders as backup. When the crisis hit, the civic body deployed six quick response vehicles [tempos] that would ferry oxygen cylinders and concentrators to hospitals in crisis. “Ward-level teams were formed to coordinate and move surplus oxygen from one site to another where there was a shortfall,” said Krishna H Perekar, BMC’s chief engineer (Mechanical and Electrical). A resource inventory of oxygen use and infrastructure of the city’s public as well as private hospitals proved helpful, as Mumbai’s oxygen often needed to go to far-flung suburbs in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, like Navi Mumbai and Thane, which also faced severe shortage of supply. “Our inventory has micro-details like the number of jumbo oxygen cylinders, dura cylinders, and capacity of the LMO tanks at all hospitals. We also have exact details of the oxygen usage at each hospital,” Velrasu said. This inventory came in handy when oxygen had to be transported from one hospital to another or in instances where patients had to be moved. “We formed crack teams to ensure that the LMO tanks reach Mumbai smoothly. These teams were also deployed at the cylinder refilling plant at Navi Mumbai to ensure that Mumbai gets its quota of cylinders,” he said. The civic body has a contract with a private agency, Satramdas Gases Pvt Ltd, whose refilling station is located in Navi Mumbai. When a train carrying three liquid medical oxygen tanks arrived from Gujarat to Kalamboli in Navi Mumbai last month, a crack team consisting of engineers, staff, and guards from the BMC was already waiting on the platform of the goods yard of Kalamboli station. The tankers were swiftly offloaded and routed to Mumbai. At the peak of the crisis, the city still faced a shortfall of 15 to 20MT despite all these efforts: this was managed by moving surplus stock from one place to another, and seeking oxygen from Gujarat. Medical protocolLast month, as the demand for medical oxygen, began to rise, the Maharashtra Covid-19 task force recommended that doctors should stop the use of High Flow Nasal Cannula to deliver oxygen (up to 80 litres/ min) due to the high pressure in the machine. Hospitals were encouraged to use the Bilevel Positive Airway Pressure (BiPAP) machine, which delivers oxygen either through a flowmeter (up to 15 litres/min) or a non-invasive ventilator (up to 30 litres/min), and with lower pressure. “Soon after the advisory, we completely stopped use of HNFC and alternatively started using non-invasive ventilation such as BiPAP,” said Dr. Ramesh Bharmal, dean of civic-run Nair Hospital. Dr. Gautam Bhansali, who consults at the Bombay Hospital said that they reduced the use of HNFC too. “It is hard to completely stop its use because most patients are comfortable with the nasal cannula. With the BiPAP, we have to use a face mask which some patients find uncomfortable,” he said. As the cases in the city have also decreased, the city’s daily requirement of oxygen has now come down to 240MT per day. The civic body now plans to construct an oxygen generation plant at each hospital, so that the dependency of LMO and cylinders reduces. “We may still require LMO as they provide better pressure, mainly for patients in the Intensive Care Units,” said Velrasu. “But having oxygen plants at all facilities will reduce the dependency to a large extent,” he said. The BMC has announced that it would set up 16 oxygen generation plants in 12 hospitals across the city, each of which will produce an estimated 43MT of oxygen. The project will cost ₹90 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-installs-15-lmo-tanks-in-40-days-101620327293482.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Second Covid-19 wave: 13.05% of Maharashtra’s cases from Mumbai||During the second wave of Covid-19, in April 2021, Mumbai has contributed to 13.05% of Maharashtra’s total Covid-19 cases, and 10.1% to Maharashtra’s total deaths, showing a decrease from figures reported in October last year, when cases in the city also peaked. In October 2020, Mumbai contributed to 17.76% of Maharashtra’s cases and 18% of deaths. Since the Covid-19 pandemic broke out, Maharashtra has experienced two waves, one until October last year, and the second since March his year, according to experts. Mumbai’s cases during these two waves peaked on October 7 at 2,484 cases, and on April 4 at 11,206. While the number of daily cases in Mumbai during the second wave was much higher than the first wave, its share in Maharashtra’s overall cases has declined. In October 2020, Maharashtra reported a total of 293,960 Covid-19 cases and 7,249 deaths, whereas Mumbai reported 52,229 Covid-19 cases, and 1,271 deaths. In April this year, Maharashtra reported a total of 1,789,492 Covid-19 cases and 14,182 deaths, whereas Mumbai reported 233,698 cases and 1,435 deaths. Experts have attributed this to other cities and rural parts of Maharashtra catching up in terms of Covid cases and deaths, migration. Dr Rahul Pandit, who is a member of the Maharashtra government’s Covid-19 taskforce said, “This is a relative thing. Now rural Maharashtra and other cities are also reporting a higher number of Covid-19 cases.” In May 2020, Mumbai contributed to 57% of Maharashtra’s cases and to 54% of its deaths. Dr Pandit said, “Now cases are not concentrated to Mumbai alone. Our share in deaths has decreased because of better infrastructure, and policies and protocols Mumbai put in place to reduce mortality. We are effectively utilising our resources such as general practitioners, small nursing homes and clinics as well.” In June last year, the BMC devised it’s Mission Save Lives - a nine-point strategy to reduce Covid-19 fatality. Effectively, Mumbai’s overall case fatality rate dropped from as high as 6% in the first half of 2020, to 3.5% in the second half, to under 2% now. Mumbai’s CFR for the month of October alone was 2.6%, which has dropped to 0.6% in the month of April 2021, even as cases have increased. However, experts point that even though this second wave has recorded fewer deaths due to Covid-19, it is more intense in terms of post-recovery complications. Dr Harish Chafle, senior consultant of pulmonology and critical care at Global Hospital in Parel, said, “Independently, Mumbai has recorded higher cases in this wave as compared to the last wave, as the new variants of Covid-19 are more infectious. But in the first wave, patients did not need as many days of ICU care as now. Now patients are recovering more slowly. Moreover, within 21-30 days, patients are developing fibrosis due to Covid-19, which has serious effects on mortality in the long run, post recovery.” On Thursday, Mumbai reported 3,028 covid-19 cases and 69 deaths, taking the tally to 668,085 and toll to 13,580. However, deaths per day in Mumbai were in single digits in the first week of March. On Wednesday, Mumbai conducted 30,942 tests, with a daily positivity rate of 9.7%, down from 18%-20% recorded last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/second-covid-19-wave-13-05-of-maharashtra-s-cases-from-mumbai-101620327233432.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: MLAs must talk about Centre’s work during Covid-19 pandemic, says BJP||While Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government is drawing flak over handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and its alleged non-cooperation with the non-BJP governments, the Maharashtra unit of the party has asked its legislators to educate people about the Central government’s performance.While addressing the legislators of the party May 1, leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis narrated the steps taken by the Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi government to manage the second wave of pandemic witnessed across the country and told them to put the same in front of the people.Fadnavis also slammed Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra and said it was blaming the Centre to cover its failures. “The second wave has indeed hit India very badly and our healthcare system has been badly affected. But it is because 15% of the infected patients need oxygen and hospital care. To address this emergency (PM) Modi government imported a fair amount of oxygen, invoked special powers to give loan licences for the production of Remdesivir. This has helped in meeting the rising demands for oxygen and life-saving drugs,” he said during his recent virtual interaction with the MLAs. BJP released the videos of the meeting on Thursday.Fadnavis said, “Maharashtra has been the largest beneficiary of Remdesivir injections, liquid medical oxygen and even the vaccines. Maharashtra has got an allocation of 475,000 Remdesivir in 10 days, 1,800 metric tonnes per day and it is the highest allocation among other states. Maharashtra government has failed to install 10 centrally sponsored PSA (pressure swing adsorption) oxygen plants for which the fund of ₹402 crore was allocated by the Centre in January. Similarly, MVA leaders have been blaming the (PM) Modi government for the export of vaccines to other countries, but it was part of international diplomacy. The Maharashtra government has been boasting of having done the highest vaccination in the country. It should answer who provided the vaccines for it,” he said.In a recent meeting with the party legislators, he also asked them to explain these facts to the people of Maharashtra.Fadnavis also said that a few ‘leftist liberals’ were trying to defame India with the help of international media. “But all of you should take the reality to the people with pride as there were honest steps taken by the Centre to fight back the situation,” he said.BJP’s damage control initiative comes in the wake of a blame game between non-BJP state governments and the Centre over supplies of medical equipment and cooperation. Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leaders in Maharashtra slammed the Centre for the disruption in supply again.Maharashtra’s public health minister Rajesh Tope has blamed the Centre for the delay in granting clearance for the import of the medical equipment and drugs. The department of pharmaceuticals is not giving the expected cooperation for the import from other states, he said. Tope said that they were expecting 3.5 lakh Remdesivir from other countries in the next couple of days.Maharashtra has floated a global tender for the import of Remdesivir, liquid medical oxygen, oxygen storage tanks, oxygen concentrators amid the shortage during the second wave of the pandemic.Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant has criticised the Central government for its negligence in dispatching the medical material to states. “(PM) Modi government sent 60 ventilators to Nashik corporation 10 days ago from the PM Cares funds, but they did not have connectors with them. The ventilators are lying unused even when there is a dire need. How can such negligence be accepted? It is an example of laxity in planning and management of the Modi government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mlas-must-talk-about-centre-s-work-during-covid-19-pandemic-says-bjp-101620327113497.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai is a model for entire country in Covid management: HC||charul.shah@htlive.com “Mumbai is a model for the entire country for its efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19 and the government should consider emulating in other parts of the state,” said a division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni of the Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday, praising the efforts taken by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The HC was hearing public interest litigations concerning treatment, shortage of facilities and drugs across the state.The court said the BMC commissioner Iqbal Chahal should hold a video conference with commissioners of other municipal corporations in the state and share the details of the model adopted by the civic body. During the hearing, the counsel for BMC had submitted a data sheet detailing the ground position of the facilities and availability of medicine, oxygen and beds at the various Covid centres. Looking at the data the court noticed that Mumbai’s Covid facilities have availability of more beds. The court hence asked the BMC to share the data regarding the availability of extra beds and check if patients from nearby districts can be shifted to facilities in Mumbai for treatment. During the course of the hearing, the bench expressed concern over a considerable increase in cases and a huge number of active cases in Pune district and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) area. The court suggested that the state government and PMC should consider imposing drastic measures to contain the spread of the deadly infection in the area. HC said, if required, PMC should take help from BMC, which according to the court managed to control the numbers and situation in the city. HC has now directed the PMC commissioner to file a detailed affidavit listing the steps being taken to control the spread of Covid-19. “Don’t wait for our orders. We don’t want to pass any directions crossing our boundaries. But you start taking immediate actions. You may take help from the BMC commissioner about their model,” the court said to the counsel representing PMC. Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni submitted a note containing a detailed status report on Covid management across Maharashtra. Taking note of reports suggesting the impending third Covid wave, HC asked the state government to set up a group that would study the data to prepare for the state machinery for the third wave. The court asked the government if there was any group of expert set up to analyse the area-wise data, as to which areas have recorded a surge in cases and why. You should try to find out as to why there was a surge in only one particular part, the judges said. Observing that the data would be of great use to prepare for a future crisis, the judges said “we must be prepared for the third wave.” “There needs a scientific approach to understand this,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-is-a-model-for-entire-country-in-covid-management-hc-101620326634001.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Walk-in vaccinations suspended in Mumbai||Amid reports of crowding in several Covid-19 vaccination centres across the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday announced that no walk-in vaccination will be conducted in Mumbai from Friday across all age groups. The BMC has made it mandatory for every citizen to get a prior appointment on the Cowin portal in order to get vaccinated. The civic body also plans to start drive-in vaccination centres in all seven zones of the city for citizens above 60 years of age and the specially abled.According to the BMC, drive-in vaccination centres have been proposed in the following open grounds — Wankhede stadium, Oval Maidan, Brabourne stadium, Reliance Jio Garden, Andheri sports club, Cooperage Maidan, Shivaji Stadium, MIG Ground (Bandra), MCA Ground (BKC), Sambhaji Udyan (Mulund), Subash Nagar Ground (Chembur), Tilak Nagar Ground (Chembur), Ghatkopar Police Ground and Shivaji Maidan (Chunnabhatti).The above decisions were taken by municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal after a meeting with guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray on the issue of crowding across several vaccination centres in the city. On Wednesday, a stampede-like situation was reported outside the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) jumbo vaccination centre. Thackeray took to Twitter on Thursday saying, “With regards to the crowding at some of the Vaccination centres and the opening up of more “drive in” vaccination centres across the city,@mybmc Commissioner Chahal ji and I had a discussion this morning and new guidelines would be released soon.”Post this meeting, in a circular issued by him, Chahal stated, “Covid-19 vaccination centres are getting overcrowded, and it becomes difficult to maintain social distancing and Covid appropriate behaviour at the vaccination centres. Therefore, it is hereby directed that all citizens who wish to get vaccinated against COVID-19 shall in advance register themselves on the Cowin portal and also book the appointment slot at the vaccination centre of their choice on the same portal before proceeding to the vaccination centre.”The civic body however has given exceptions for appointment on three grounds. “All citizens above 45 years of age who are due for the second dose of Covaxin only are subject to production of the provisional certificate of 1st dose in either soft or hard copy followed by health care workers and front-line workers due for 2nd dose and 1st dose.”Further, in context of coming up with drive-in vaccination centres across the city, BMC, in a circular, stated citizens above the age of 60 years will be vaccinated at drive-in vaccination centres. Only Covishield vaccine will be administered at these drive-in vaccination centres. “The beneficiary citizen to be vaccinated shall not self-drive and he/she shall be accompanied by an attendant or a driver in each vehicle to deal with AEFI (Adverse Event Following Immunization), if any,” read the circular signed by Chahal.It adds, “The arrangements such as proper single lane barricades for manoeuvring of vehicles, inlet/outlet control etc. shall be done inside the ground/ stadium so that there will not be any traffic jam on the adjoining roads.”The BMC officials are also ordered to make adequate and proper temporary shelter for vaccination area to accommodate vaccination staff, the order also directs to make necessary arrangements for patients of AEFI, ambulance parking, mobile toilets and drinking water facilities. The concept of drive-in vaccination centres is being adopted after good response to the BMC’s first such centre.On Tuesday, BMC set up the first drive-in vaccination centre, where people can visit in their cars to get jabs, at a public parking lot of Kohinoor Square building at Dadar. Hundreds of beneficiaries queued in their cars at the centre to get vaccines in the past three days, according to BMC officials.Meanwhile, on Thursday, vaccination was conducted between 9am and 5 pm across all age groups. However, the BKC jumbo vaccination centre turned down several citizens in the age group of 45+. The BKC centre said it is only vaccinating the first dose for those within the 18-44 age group with prior appointment. Dr Rajesh Dere, dean of BKC vaccination centre, said, “The vaccination for 45+ is shut as there is inadequate supply. Yesterday we got 8,000 doses and it is not sufficient for our requirement.” Further, long queues were also observed across several vaccination centres in the city including Dahisar Jumbo Centre, NESCO jumbo centre, Rajawadi Hospital, KEM Hospital in the city.On Thursday, the BMC added three new centres for the vaccination drive of the 18-44 age group. Starting Friday, first dose of Covaxin will be given to 18-44 age group at these three centres — Maa Saheb Meenatai Maternity Home in Chunnabhatti, PWD Community Hall in Bandra east and The World Tower Parking in Lower Parel. Apart from these three centres, age group of 18-44 will also be vaccinated with Covishield vaccine at five vaccination centres — Cooper Hospital, BKC Jumbo Centre, Rajawadi Hospital, Seven Hills and Nair Hospital.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC, said, “We have got around 31,000 Covaxin doses from which we will vaccinate 18-44 age group at new three centres from Friday, followed by second dose for 45+ age group. Overall, we have 100,000 vaccine doses, which will be enough for the next two days at least. Additionally, we are getting around 75,000 doses on Thursday night.”On Thursday, 60,153 citizens were vaccinated — 2,835 were between 18-44 age group, 21,561 were between 45 and 59 years of age , 28,619 were above 60 years of age, followed by 5,085 frontline workers and 2,052 health care workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/walkin-vaccinations-suspended-in-mumbai-101620326573530.html
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid crisis exposes gaping holes in Chandigarh’s health policy||“The more you sweat in peace, the less you bleed in war,” goes a proven military dictum. As Chandigarh struggles in its war against the Covid-19 pandemic, it is evident that the UT administration didn’t sweat out enough when it could.The pandemic has exposed gaping holes in the administration’s health policy and preparedness — from failure to ramp up health infrastructure to recruitment of enough manpower. Senior officials concede that the capacity of the UT’s health infrastructure didn’t expand in correlation with the increasing patient burden, and now during the pandemic it has been found to be severely wanting.“The central issue is unavailability of medical professionals. Recruitment of more than 150 doctors, against new and old posts, has been pending for several years, as Chandigarh awaits the Centre’s approval,” said a senior UT official, requesting anonymity. In fact, the new infrastructure created in the form of the Civil Hospital in Sector 48 had to be handed over to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, as the approval for creating 80 posts of doctor never came from the central government.Recently, after several hiccups and hanging fire for years, construction of the new emergency-cum-trauma centre started at GMCH. “But, in the absence of additional health care professionals, it is doubtful whether we will able to use these facilities adequately,” said the official.In fact, there are more than 200 sanctioned posts across all categories lying vacant at various government hospitals in Chandigarh.“This tells you that nobody wants to invest in health care,” said Dr RS Bedi, former president of Chandigarh Chapter of Indian Medical Association. “They have not recruited doctors in ages. Also, they are inclined only to employ them on contract basis. There is uncertainty of job; so people don’t want to join. They struggle even during the routine days because of pressure of patients.” Another instance where slow decision-making process is now impacting the city’s capacity to contain this unprecedented crisis is the upgrading of Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16. The proposal to convert it to a medical college is pending for more than a year and a half. “Currently, there is very limited scope for expansion of medical infrastructure in the hospital. The proposed new branch in Sarangpur could have helped us during the pandemic,” said the official.Also, the proposal for allowing nursing homes in residential areas has been shuttling between sub-committees of the Administrator’s Advisory Council for years. Not only this, the pandemic has also exposed the lack of interstate coordination among the UT, Punjab and Haryana to devise common policies for the tricity. R Srinivas, town and country planner, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, said: “An interstate coordination committee was set up for the three administrations by the Centre in 1975. Its last meeting was held in 2016, but since then, it is dormant.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-crisis-exposes-gaping-holes-in-chandigarh-s-health-policy-101620326513994.html
07-05-2021||Other||‘As performers we have to entertain the masses’||Actor Ravi Sah who has been involved with projects like ‘Raat Akeli Hai’, ‘Paan Singh Tomar’, ‘Life of an Outcast’ and ‘Jamtara’ has seen the highs and lows of life. “Initially, it was really tough to survive as I had left everything to follow my passion for acting. Once the benchmark for me was playing the lead and that did happen. But soon I realised that it’s just not enough. Infact playing a protagonist was the real accomplishment. Thankfully, today I have reached there. So, for me this means I have arrived on the scene,” said the versatile actor who was all set to shoot in Lucknow before the second Covid wave began. “I am super selective and try my level best to take up roles that help me challenge my craft. That’s what makes me happy at the end of the day. I ask filmmakers to give me roles where I have scope to add my nuances to the characters and today the result is there in front of us. Keval’s role in ‘Raat Akeli…’ won me many accolades and all my hard work was paid off,” he said. Ravi is awaiting the release of his new OTT series. “Thankfully it was all set for streaming else like many other projects it would have been put on hold due to alarming rise in Covid cases,” he said. “It’s actually a very low and sad phase that our country is presently going through. As an industry we are doing our best to support (people) and as performers it’s our job to entertain the masses. We are trying to do that too,” he said. His series ‘Crime Next Door’ is slated for this month and as the name suggests it’s a crime thriller drama directed by Deepankar Prakash. I play the lead. I am essaying the role of an investigating officer who is caught in a series of mishaps. I was supposed to start another series as well as a couple of other projects but now all of it will resume once things are back to normal,” said the actor who was born in Purnia, Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-performers-we-have-to-entertain-the-masses-101620326453448.html
07-05-2021||Gurugram||Expert committee to decide on tocilizumab case by case||Considering the shortage of drugs to treat Covid-19 cases, an expert committee constituted by the director-general of health services of Haryana will decide on the distribution of tocilizumab available with the state to individual Covid-19 patients in public or private health facilities.“In the last few days, we have received complaints that doctors and hospitals have been randomly and frequently prescribing tocilizumab drugs to Covid-19 patients, which is not even required in most of the cases. Now, with the formation of the expert committee, including a team of three senior doctors, the drug will be provided based on the case history of the infected patient,” said Amandeep Chauhan, district drug control officer.Tocilizumab is an imported drug, which is used to treat critically ill Covid-19 patients under certain conditions. Due to the ongoing surge of coronavirus infections, the demand for medicines like remdesivir, fabiflu and tocilizumab has increased in the city. In Gurugram, at least 10-12 vials are issued every day, said the drug control officer.Earlier this week, the union ministry of health and family welfare issued a statement regarding the unavailability of the drug and import of fresh stock, which has been allocated to different states. Even the Delhi high court observed that there is a severe shortage of the drug. It stated that lack of supplies from foreign shores and no local manufacturing is completely unacceptable in a pandemic situation, especially when consumers are willing to purchase the drug. Keeping rea cord of the drug usage is now a critical exercise, as the Central government has to inform the court about the usage of 500 vials of tocilizumab that has been consumed and the stock currently available for administration in different states.In Haryana, the three-member committee of senior doctors along with drug control officers will keep a tab on the tocilizumab usage. Doctors and hospitals have been prohibited to issue a prescription for tocilizumab for purchasing it from the market and will have to directly apply to the expert committee with complete details of the patient’s case historyThe committee will meet twice every day, during the morning and evening, to take decisions on the applications submitted by hospitals. If an application is approved, the hospital concerned will deposit the charges for the injection with the chief medical officer, who will be authorising the release of the drug from the government warehouse.As per the guidelines, the drug has to be issued the same day. The hospital will also have to submit a report regarding the usage of the drug. In case a patient dies before the injection can be, the hospital will have to reimburse the amount of the drug to the patient and keep the drug in stock and use it only if approved by the committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/expert-committee-to-decide-on-tocilizumab-case-by-case-101620326394559.html
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh urges Centre to increase oxygen quota||With demand and supply of medical oxygen running “neck and neck” in Chandigarh, the administration has requested the central government to increase its daily quota by 15 metric ton. The Centre has allotted 20MT oxygen to Chandigarh, which is supplied from a plant in Solan and distributed among all government and private hospitals. The administration is also able to generate around 5MT oxygen at its newly developed plants.With a sudden jump in the number of active cases and the infection numbers not seeing any decline, officials fear the requirement might increase manifold in the coming days.“With the high court ordering provision of oxygen to patients in home isolation, we have to make arrangements for them too. In view of this, we have asked the Centre to enhance our daily quota from 20MT to 35MT,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida, while urging NGOs setting up mini Covid care centres to provide oxygen concentrators with each bed to reduce the demand. Officials claimed the UT is not even receive the allotted quota, and a gap of 4-5 MT is seen daily, which is being fulfilled through internal sources of hospitals.“We are almost running neck and neck in terms of demand and supply. If there is any lag in the supply, it can result in a crisis-like situation. Also, the requirement is expected to increase as more ICUs are coming up in hospitals,” said Yashpaul Garg, nodal officer for oxygen supply in Chandigarh. Status in neighbouring districtsIn Mohali, the daily oxygen demand is 27 MT, which is being met through multiple sources. Liquid medical oxygen tankers are arriving from Bokaro, Roorkee, Panipat, Uttarakhand and Solan, while two local companies are supplying oxygen cylinders to Mohali hospitals.Meanwhile, an oxygen plant is being set up at the civil hospital in Phase 6, which is expected to become operational in 15 to 20 days.In Panchkula, there is a demand for 11MT oxygen. While it is receiving 8MT liquid medical oxygen, the remaining 3MT is met through cylinders.On Thursday, an oxygen plant was made operational at the civil hospital in Sector 6, which will provide 24x7 supply to 30 beds. Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said another plant with threefold capacity is also being set up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-urges-centre-to-increase-oxygen-quota-101620326394064.html
07-05-2021||Other||World Asthma Day-2021: Take inhalers regularly, ensure cleanliness, advise pulmonologists||LUCKNOW: Asthmatic patients should take their inhalers regularly, avoid sharing it and ensure their cleanliness.Prof Suryakant the head of the department (HoD) of respiratory medicine, King George’s Medical University (KGMU) said at national conference, that he connected virtually, on the occasion of World Asthma Day on Thursday. Prof Surya Kant while explaining how patients can tackle this virus with coexisting Asthma said, “In the present situation any new symptom must be considered as Covid, and testing of COVID-19 should be recommended.” Dr Jyoti Bajpai, assistant professor in department of respiratory medicine, KGMU, Lucknow was the organiser of conference that was supported by Dr Ajay Kumar Verma, Dr Darshan Bajaj, Dr Ankit Katiyar and residents Dr Sapna and Dr Aniket.Dr AK Singh, pulmonologist, Chandan Hospital in a press statement said, “Asthma is a chronic respiratory disorder in which there is inflammation (swelling) of the airways in the lungs. Due to this inflammation, the airways are narrowed, and the lungs become vulnerable to various allergens which act as triggers for an asthma attack.”Dr Rajneesh Srivastava, pulmonologist, Medanta Hospital, said, “Asthma requires long term treatment and inhalers play a vital role in helping people lead a healthy life with asthma. Many patients frequently underutilise their medications or use their inhalers incorrectly. It should not be stopped without consultation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/world-asthma-day-2021-take-inhalers-regularly-ensure-cleanliness-advise-pulmonologists-101620326273412.html
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||All beds occupied at Mohali’s lone government Covid facility||A week after the Punjab health department declared the civil hospital in Phase 6, Mohali, a dedicated Covid-19 facility, not a single bed was available there on Thursday evening. While there is no ICU facility at this government hospital, the number of oxygen beds were upgraded from 60 to 120 recently. Filled to capacity, it was attending to 124 patients on Thursday.Meanwhile, all 336 ICU beds with ventilators were occupied at private hospitals in the district, and only 15 of the 565 oxygen beds were available.The second wave is witnessing more complications among patients, with a large proportion needing critical care or oxygen support. As many as 62 people have succumbed to the virus in just six days this month, while 159 died in April. The number of active cases stands at 8,910. There are around 30 big private hospitals in the district, which has emerged as a medical tourism hub, but all are finding it difficult to meet the surge as patients are pouring in from other parts of the region as well.While there are nine government facilities in the district, only the civil hospital in Phase 6 is attending to Covid-19 patients, and that too only those needing oxygen support. Critical cases are being referred to Rajindra Hospital in Patiala, which too is saturated.  Dr Adarshpal Kaur, civil surgeon, Mohali, said: “All the beds are occupied in the civil hospital, but we are making arrangements in some other government hospitals. Meantime, the army is also coming up with a 100-bed hospital at the civil hospital campus.”Gurtej Singh, chairman of Ivy Healthcare Group, said: “Whatever beds we created for Covid patients have been occupied. However, we are striving hard to create additional capacity and are investing in requisite infrastructure depending upon the availability of oxygen.”Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said: “Though beds are occupied in most of the hospitals in the district, we are making arrangements for more beds for patients requiring oxygen and ventilator.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/all-beds-occupied-at-mohali-s-lone-government-covid-facility-101620326153931.html
07-05-2021||Gurugram||Wall built around one acre of Aravalli land in Faridabad, case filed||Officials of the forest department on Thursday said that a wall has been built over a one-acre area in the Aravallis in Faridabad district, in a fresh attempt to encroach the area.Raj Kumar, divisional forest officer of Faridabad forest division, said, “Around three to four days ago, we learnt that a wall had been built around a one acre plot in the Faridabad Aravallis and the ground levelled off. We sent a team to inspect the area and a forest offence report has been filed in the matter. We also wrote to the police station concerned for lodging an FIR.” The land in question is notified under special sections 4 and 5 of the Punjab Land Preservation Act, which extends protection against land-use change to certain specified Aravalli areas and forests and trees. He further said that no decision has been taken so far over the demolition of the wall. “Due to the lockdown, it could have been easy for the wall to be built but our staff regularly patrols the area to keep a check on such activities. One or two more incidents of encroachments were reported from forest areas away from the main road and FIRs have been registered for those cases as well,” added Kumar. In March, a little over 25 acres of forest land in Ankhir village under the Faridabad forest division has been encroached upon, said officials. Ankhir is one of the two villages in Faridabad district (the other being Mewla Maharajpur), where over 90% of the village common land is notified under the Punjab Land Preservation Act, 1900. As per previous Supreme Court orders, this accords the land legal ‘forest’ status with protection under the Forest Conservation Act, 1980.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/wall-built-around-one-acre-of-aravalli-land-in-faridabad-case-filed-101620325554100.html
07-05-2021||Pune||Priority for second-dose beneficiaries, limited stock leave 18+ group to await their jab in Pune||Pune: Even as there is an increasing demand in Pune for Covaxin among those in the 18-44 age group, they may face acute shortage of indigenously made vaccines considering that the state government is planning to take out doses meant for youngsters to those above 45 years scheduled for second dose. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said there has been an inadequate supply of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin to Maharashtra. This, according to Tope, is leading to a situation where many of those above 45 years and scheduled for second dose, are not getting it. The Covaxin second dose, according to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and central health ministry guidelines, has to be given within 42 days unlike Serum Institute manufactured Covishield, which can be administered till 56 days for second dose. “In view of the shortage of Covaxin, we will have to give doses meant for the 18-plus category to those above 45 years. These people above 45 years cannot wait more than 42 days for the second dose, which is extremely important and is considered a booster dose,” said Tope while speaking to the media in Mumbai. In Pune, Rubal Agarwal, PMC additional municipal commissioner said that for May 7, the vaccine doses are distributed. “Covaxin and Covishield will be available for May 7 at the designated centres with 111 centres for Covishield and four centres for Covaxin. However, the situation from May 8 is unclear as of now as the vaccine stock with the PMC is over. If we get fresh stock on May 7, then the centres will be functional on May 8,” said Agarwal. She said as on Thursday, Covaxin is available for first dose and not for second dose. In the last two days, vaccination among 18 years and above in Pune city has increased due to three new centres where Covaxin was administered to beneficiaries. However, now this supply will also be limited as the stock will be diverted to inoculate 45 years and above beneficiaries. On Thursday, 6,096 beneficiaries of 18-plus age group reported receiving the first jab of vaccines in Pune district. Of these, 2,851 beneficiaries were in PMC limits, 2,474 were in Pune rural and 2,122 in PCMC. Of 6,096 beneficiaries in the district, 3,535 beneficiaries were administered with Covaxin and 2,965 were given Covishield on Thursday. Nisha Parkhe, a 28-year-old beneficiary from Kothurd, said that she had booked an appointment at vaccination centre for Covaxin. “The slots for Covishield vaccine are already booked and despite several attempts in the last few days, I have not been able to book the slot for Covishield. Hence, I booked the slot for Covaxin and will take the jab on May 7,” said Parkhe. Another beneficiary, Harshal Shelkar, 35, who received the jab on Thursday said that he preferred Covaxin over Covishield. “I prefer the indigenously made vaccine Covaxin. The efficacy of Covaxin is also better. Moreover, due to limited doses of Covishield, there was a huge rush to book an appointment. I got the Covaxin appointment right away and was able to take the jab on Thursday,” said Shelkar. Vaccination drive for 45 years and above Pune district on Thursday reported a total of 22,957 beneficiaries receiving the jabs. Of this, 16,457 were beneficiaries above the age of 45 years. On Thursday, 7,506 beneficiaries in PMC, 7,170 beneficiaries in Pune rural and 1,781 in PCMC received the jabs. On Thursday, there were a total of 285 vaccination centres in the district. Of 285, 30 were Covaxin centres and 255 were Covishield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/priority-for-second-dose-beneficiaries-limited-stock-leave-18-group-to-await-their-jab-in-pune-101620318712766.html
07-05-2021||Other||SPPU relaxes norms for on-campus work tenders; aimed at helping MSMEs||PUNE The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has relaxed norms for issuing tenders for works in its various residential and non-residential buildings. With the Covid-19 pandemic adversely affecting small scale industries in particular, the SPPU has take the decision to encourage and support the MSMEs.“Earlier, we had specific norms to allot a tender to a big and experienced contractor who has already done that particular type of work in the past. Also, the financially turnover of that contractor should match the work order. Now these norms are been relaxed,” said Prafulla Pawar, registrar, SPPU.“Tenders are now being given to new contractors. Anyone who wants to bid for the SPPU’s tenders can get its details on the http://mahatenders.gov.in website. Small businessmen can also bid,” he added.There are two types of buildings inside the SPPU campus – residential and non-residential - and several electrical and engineering works are continuously going on, throughout the year. Until now these contracts were given to major contractors. This decision to change the norms was taken at the recent meeting of the SPPU’s Building work committee, held recently. Now the SPPU will issues tenders allowing smaller contractors to bid for jobs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sppu-relaxes-norms-for-on-campus-work-tenders-aimed-at-helping-msmes-101620310852367.html
07-05-2021||Pune||Demand for ICU beds high in Pune despite drop in positivity rate, active cases||Pune: The number of active Covid patients in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limit has reduced by 13,245 in the last 15 days (April 20- May 5). The positivity rate of the city has also come down to 21%. Yet, these numbers have not eased the patient load at hospitals. The count of hospitalised patients and demand for ICU has not reduced. According to the medical experts, home quarantined patients who have developed moderate symptoms are being now getting admitted. Also, patients from outside civic limits are getting admitted at city hospitals. The number of patients on oxygen support has increased by 600 since April 20. “Patients in home isolation are getting admitted now, besides admission of outstation cases,” said Dr Sanjeev Vavre, assistant health officer PMC. Dr HK Sale, executive director, Noble hospital, said that the number of patients in Covid OPDs has decreased, but hospital admissions have not come down. “Home quarantined patients with asymptomatic or mild symptoms are getting hospitalised. The condition of patients admitted in small hospitals is unmanageable but then tend to shift them to big hospitals. For example, admission of critical patients from the outskirts of PMC has increased. In the last few days, ICU demand is going high. Now there is scope to admit patient on oxygen beds. It was impossible last week,” Sale said. Covid cases from rural parts of the district, which have emerged as new hotspots, are also getting admitted in city hospitals. The COEP Covid Jumbo facility was restated from March 22. Of its 2,250 patients admitted, 650 are outstation cases. “These patients are from PCMC, rural parts, Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur. Saving lives is priority. Over 2,250 patients are undergoing treatment at the jumbo facility since the second wave,” said Rajendra Muthe, PMC deputy commissioner. “Number of patients who do not need critical care has reduced, but the demand for ICU is still high. Ventilators are still not vacant. Outstation patients visit hospitals in the city after seeing the Pune dashboard system bed availability status online. The hospitals are under pressure because of the patient count,” said Dr Vinod Bharati, Rising Medicare Hospital Kharadi. According to the Pune division dashboard for bed availability, there are 210 designated hospitals in PMC area to admit Covid patients and 12,080 beds are allotted for Covid patients. On Thursday afternoon, no ventilator bed out of 806 was available in the city. Count of active and hospitalised patients May 5 Active patients in PMC 39,732Patients in hospital 8,633Home isolation 31,099Critical patients 1,415Patients on O2- 6,634April 20 Active patients in PMC 52,977Patients in hospital 8,619Home isolation 44,358Critical patients 1,277Patients on O2 – 6,034Allotment of beds in PMC limits (as on Thursday afternoon) Covid hospitals 210Allocated beds for Covid 12,080Vacant 2,230Isolation beds without oxygen 3,432Vacant 1,556Isolation beds with oxygen 7,227Vacant 667ICU beds without ventilator 615Vacant 7ICU beds with ventilator 806Vacant 0||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/demand-for-icu-beds-high-in-pune-despite-drop-in-positivity-rate-active-cases-101620308332315.html
07-05-2021||World||World’s largest cargo plane carries three oxygen plants to India from UK||The UK is sending three 18-tonne oxygen generation plants, each capable of producing 500 litres a minute, on board the world’s largest cargo plane to help India overcome a severe shortage of oxygen amid a devastating second wave of Coronavirus infections. The oxygen generation plants from the UK’s surplus stocks and 1,000 ventilators will be ferried from Belfast on Friday by an Antonov An-124 aircraft. Airport staff worked through the night to load the life-saving equipment funded by the UK’s Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office. Each of the three oxygen generation plants – the size of 40-foot freight containers – produces 500 litres of oxygen a minute, enough for 50 people to use at a time. They are expected to reach India on Sunday morning, and the Indian Red Cross Society will transfer them to hospitals. The latest support package is in addition to 200 ventilators and 495 oxygen concentrators that the UK sent to India last month. It follows discussions with India and a pledge from Prime Minister Boris Johnson for the UK to do all it can to help, the UK foreign office said. Foreign secretary Dominic Raab said: “The UK is sending surplus oxygen generators from Northern Ireland to India. This life-saving equipment will support the country’s hospitals as they care for vulnerable Covid-19 patients. “The UK and India are working together to tackle this pandemic. No-one is safe until we are all safe.” In a separate development, the Japanese embassy announced on Friday that 100 oxygen concentrators will be sent to India on May 8 as part of the first batch of emergency assistance from Japan in response to the surge of Covid-19 infections. The Japanese government had announced on April 30 that it will provide a total of 300 oxygen concentrators and 300 ventilators to India. “Japan will continue to extend further support promptly in order to contain the Covid-19 situation in India,” the embassy said. On May 5, Japanese foreign minister Yoshihide Motegi told his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar that Japan is ready to provide grant assistance of up to $50 million (about 5.5 billion yen) to India in addition to the other assistance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/worlds-largest-cargo-plane-carries-three-oxygen-plants-to-india-from-uk-101620411661864.html
07-05-2021||World||US determined to help India in its hour of need: Vice prez||US vice-president Kamala Harris said on Friday the situation in India, which is battling a devastating second wave of Covid-19 cases, is “nothing short of heartbreaking” and America is “determined to help India in its hour of need”.Harris, whose mother came from India, spoke of the situation in India for the first time after the Biden administration pledged assistance worth $100 million to help it fight the second wave of the epidemic. Planeloads of supplies that have already reached India include refillable oxygen cylinders, N95 masks and remdesivir. The administration has also announced support for India and South Africa’s proposal at the World Trade Organization (WTO) to temporarily waive intellectual property rights to Covid-19 vaccines to ensure easy affordable access to them around the world, especially in developing countries.“As many of you know, generations of my family come from India. My mother was born and raised in India, and I have family members who live in India today,” Harris said in a recorded video message played at a state department virtual event on US assistance and the role of the Indian diaspora. Her late mother Shyamala Gopalan Harris was from and many of her relatives still live there, including “chithis”, as she called her aunts in Tamil in a speech in 2020. Father Donald Harris, who is estranged from the family, is from Jamaica.She added: “The welfare of India is critically important to the United States. The surge of Covid-19 infections and deaths in India is nothing short of heartbreaking.”The vice-president went on to provide a timeline of how the Bien administration came to announce the assistance, starting with a phone call between President Joe Biden and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 26, a Monday. “By Friday, April 30,” Harris said, “military members from the United States and civilians were delivering relief on the ground”.Harris is the first woman, African American, Asian-descent and Indian-descent vice president of the United States and shares an extremely close working relationship with the president, who has made sure, by his own admission, Harris is the last person to leave the room on all big issues; as Biden himself was as vice president to President Barack Obama.Vice-president Harris went on to give a detailed account of the assistance the United States is sending to India, adding, in most instance, with “more to come”.Harris noted, at some length, the US support to India and South Africa’s waiver proposal announced on Wednesday, which has been applauded as a “monumental moment” and “bold decision”. “We have announced our full support for suspending patents on Covid-19 vaccines to help India and other nations vaccinate their people, more quickly.”As President Biden has noted several times before, Harris, recounted India’s help to the US. “At the beginning of the pandemic, when our hospital beds were stretched India sent assistance. And today, we are determined to help India, in its hour of need.”She added: “We do this as friends of India, as members of the Asian quad. And as part of a global community. I believe that if we continue to work together across nations and sectors. We will all get through this together.”Diaspora participants at the event were MR Rangaswami, founder and chair of the board of Indiaspora; Lata Krishnan, founder and co-chair of the board of the American Indian Foundation; Gunisha Kaur, an anesthesiologist who is a member of several Sikh organisations; and Ghazala Hashmi, a state senator from Virginia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-determined-to-help-india-in-its-hour-of-need-vice-prez-101620408541468.html
07-05-2021||World||Iran's leader Khamenei calls Israel 'not a country, but a terrorist base'||Iran's supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei on Friday called Israel "not a country, but a terrorist base" during a speech on Al-Quds Day, an annual show of solidarity with the Palestinians.Thousands massed for rallies across several Muslim-majority countries including Iraq, Yemen and Pakistan for the day, seen in Israel as an expression of hatred and anti-Semitism.Tensions have been running high between arch-foes Iran and Israel following a series of maritime attacks, an explosion at an Iranian nuclear facility and the assassination of a top nuclear scientist that Tehran blamed on Israel.The Islamic republic does not recognise the Jewish state, and supporting the Palestinian cause, as well as backing armed groups such as Hamas and Lebanon's Hezbollah, has long been a pillar of Iran's foreign policy."Israel is not a country, but a terrorist base against the nation of Palestine and other Muslim nations," Khamenei said in live televised remarks."Fighting this despotic regime is fighting oppression and terrorism, and (doing so) is everyone's duty," he added.Khamenei also blasted Israel's normalisation of ties with "some weak Arab governments" during the past year as attempts to undermine the Israeli "nightmare of Muslim unity".The United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Morocco and Sudan have all normalised ties with Israel in recent months under US-brokered deals."I say this decisively: these attempts will get nowhere," Khamenei said, calling on Palestinians to continue their resistance and for Muslim governments to support them."The decline of the enemy Zionist regime has begun and will not stop."Elsewhere in the region, thousands of Yemenis flooded the streets of the capital Sanaa, held by Iran-backed Huthi rebels, some carrying signs saying, "Death to American, Death to Israel".In the Iraqi Shiite holy city of Najaf, protesters torched paper replicas of Israeli flags and trampled an American one.At a rally in the Pakistani city of Karachi, protesters held up cardboard signs that read "We will wipe out Israel" as they took part in Al-Quds Day.- Burning flags -Al-Quds Day has been held annually on the last Friday of the Muslim holy fasting month of Ramadan since the early days of Iran's Islamic revolution.This year state-sponsored nationwide rallies were absent due to Covid-19 restrictions.But state TV showed the burning of flags by small groups of demonstrators who it said had come out "spontaneously" for the occasion, while an AFP journalist said protesters also rallied on motorbikes in Tehran.Khamenei's comments came amid a rise in violence in the Israeli-occupied West Bank and as tensions have soared in annexed east Jerusalem over an eviction threat hanging over four Palestinian families.Israeli security forces killed two Palestinians and critically wounded a third after the trio had opened fire on a West Bank base on Friday.Police and protesters have clashed in recent days in the Sheikh Jarrah neighbourhood of east Jerusalem, fuelled by a years-long land dispute between Palestinian refugees and Jewish settlers.The latest violence came as Palestinian Muslims flocked to the Al-Aqsa mosque compound in east Jerusalem for the last Friday prayers of Ramadan.The United Nations called on Israel to end any forced evictions in Israeli-annexed east Jerusalem, warning that its actions could amount to "war crimes".In 2018, Khamenei reiterated Tehran's position that Israel is a "malignant cancerous tumour" that must "be removed and eradicated".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/irans-khamenei-calls-israel-not-a-country-but-a-terrorist-base-101620406947851.html
07-05-2021||World||Deforestation of Brazilian Amazon hits record in April||Deforestation of the Brazilian Amazon hit a record last month, the government reported Friday with figures that belie President Jair Bolsonaro's pledge to crack down on such destruction.The area of the rainforest that was destroyed -- 580 square kilometers (225 square miles) -- marked a new high for the month of April and a 42.5 percent on-year rise, according to satellite monitoring by the Brazilian space agency INPE. Its data goes back to 2015.The level for March was also higher than 12 months earlier, and followed two months of decline in the rainy season when logging activity decreases.From January through April 29, however, the cutting of trees to provide lumber and clear land for agriculture was down 3.9 percent compared to the same period in 2020, INPE said.The dry season, which peaks in July and August, is when most deforestation happens.Records have been set in the past three dry seasons, INPE said.The Amazon, the world's biggest rainforest, is considered vital to curbing climate change because of the carbon dioxide it absorbs from the atmosphere.About 60 percent of the rainforest is in Brazil."Right now it is not possible to say what will happen but in 2021 there could be a fourth straight deforestation record," said the Climate Observatory, a group of 63 NGOs and social organizations.Bolsonaro, a far-right climate change skeptic, came to power in 2019 encouraging commercial exploitation of the rainforest and calling conservation groups "cancer."However, last month he pledged to "eliminate illegal deforestation in Brazil by 2030," 10 years earlier than initially planned.Environmental NGOs have expressed doubt that Brazil under Bolsonaro will live up to this pledge."In 2021 there is no federal effort to control deforestation," the Climate Observatory said.The government agency that carries out inspections in the Amazon "is doing nothing" and the process of punishing violators has been halted, it added.A study published last week by the journal Nature Climate Change said the Brazilian Amazon released nearly 20 percent more carbon dioxide into the atmosphere over the last decade than it absorbed.This report shows humanity can no longer depend on the world's largest tropical forest to help absorb man-made carbon pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/deforestation-of-brazilian-amazon-hits-record-in-april-101620406320752.html
07-05-2021||World||Blinken offers veiled jabs as top China diplomat hosts UN event||US Secretary of State Antony Blinken used a speech to the United Nations on multilateralism to issue a not-so-subtle rebuke of China’s behavior on everything from human rights to territorial disputes. He also acknowledged what he called American missteps during the Trump administration.Speaking minutes after Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi -- who was hosting the virtual UN Security Council event on Friday -- Blinken appeared to take aim at Beijing’s expansive but disputed claims in the South China Sea and its treatment of Uyghur minorities in the western region of Xinjiang, as well as Russian actions toward Ukraine.Without ever saying the word “China,” the top U.S. diplomat criticized nations seeking “to resolve territorial disputes by using or threatening force” or claiming entitlement to a “sphere of influence to dictate or coerce the choices and decisions of another country.”On human rights, Blinken disputed the notion that the UN or other international blocs can’t criticize violations taking place within a country’s borders, saying no nation has a “blank check.” China has told nations criticizing its policies in Xinjiang to stop interfering in domestic affairs.China’s Wang kicked off the event by calling on countries to “pursue equity and justice, not bullying and hegemony.” After Blinken spoke, Wang said all countries would like to see the U.S. “change course” and practice multilateralism.“Splitting the world along ideological lines conflicts with the spirit of multilateralism,” said Wang.Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov was more explicit, saying that Western nations use the phrase “rules-based order” to impose their own national interests on the rest of the world.“It’s amazing that Western leaders, openly undermining international law, don’t hesitate to assert that the main goal of global politics should be to counter Russian and Chinese attempts to change the order,” Lavrov said in his address. “The West is no longer concerned with the standards of international law and is now demanding that everyone follow its rules and observe the order it has established.”Blinken’s address followed his meeting with allied leaders from the Group of Seven nations in London this week, where officials singled out China for criticism. China lashed out at the G-7 statement at the end of the meeting, criticizing “clique politics” and urging Western nations to stop meddling in its internal issues.Despite ascending to the rotating presidency of the Security Council in May, China is increasingly under fire. Beijing decided to cancel an economic dialogue with Australia and its diplomats assailed New Zealand because lawmakers there declared human rights abuses are occurring in China’s Xinjiang region. In the early weeks of the Biden administration, Beijing bristled at U.S. efforts to raise the profile of the Quad -- an alliance with Japan, India and Australia -- that was seen as a rebuke of China.Blinken sought to use his speech on Friday to reassure allies and rivals that the U.S. sees the UN as a critical player in global issues. He said he understood if other nations were wary of U.S. intentions after the Trump administration’s “America First” approach to the world, which saw the former president withdraw the country from UN bodies like the Human Rights Council and World Health Organization.Those types of actions “have undermined the rules-based order and led others to question whether we are still committed to it,” Blinken said.And he insisted the U.S. is seeking a stable international order for the benefit of all nations.“Let me be clear -- the United States is not seeking to uphold this rules-based order to keep other nations down,” Blinken said. “The international order we helped build and defend has enabled the rise of some of our fiercest competitors. Our aim is simply to defend, uphold, and revitalize that order.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/blinken-offers-veiled-jabs-as-top-china-diplomat-hosts-un-event-101620402091716.html
07-05-2021||World||‘Nothing short of heartbreaking’: Kamala Harris says US determined to help India in its hour of need||US vice president Kamala Harris on Friday said that the surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in India is “nothing short of heartbreaking”. Speaking at an online event organised by the US state department, Harris delivered a message of solidarity with the people of India and sent condolences to those who have lost their loved ones to the pandemic. She noted that President Joe Biden’s administration took action as soon as the dire nature of the situation in India became apparent.“On Monday, April 26th, President Joe Biden spoke with the Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) to offer our support. By Friday, April 30, military members of the United States and civilians were delivering relief on the ground,” Harris said at the event 'Bolstering US Covid Relief Efforts in India: Perspectives from the Diaspora'.“Already, we have delivered refillable oxygen cylinders, with more to come. We've delivered oxygen concentrators, with more to come. We have delivered N95 masks, and have more ready to send. We have delivered doses of Remdesivir to treat Covid patients,” she added.India is witnessing an unprecedented public health crisis as the second wave of Covid-19 overwhelmed health infrastructure. Several countries, including the United States, have extended help after the shortage of oxygen and critical medical supplies made the situation in India dire. Last week, the first consignment of Covid-19 assistance arrived from the United States, which included 440 oxygen cylinders and regulators and 960,000 rapid diagnostic tests.“Meanwhile we have announced our full support for suspending patents on Covid-19 vaccines to help India and other nations vaccinate their people more quickly,” said Harris, highlighting the recent decision of the US to back India’s proposal at the World Trade Organisation to waive patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines.The United States remains the worst-hit nation in terms of Covid-19 cases, followed by India. The US has reported over 32.6 million Covid-19 cases and more than 580,000 related deaths so far, according to Johns Hopkins University. Harris said that India sent assistance to the US at the beginning of the pandemic, "and today, we are determined to help India in its hour of need."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kamala-harris-says-us-determined-to-help-india-in-its-hour-of-need-101620405787065.html
07-05-2021||World||Britain reopens travel from May 17 to limited destinations||Britain will allow people in England to resume international travel from May 17 but is limiting the number of destinations open for quarantine-free holidays to just a handful of countries as it cautiously emerges from lockdown restrictions.Portugal, Israel, New Zealand, Australia and Singapore all made the green list for travel in a system that will be reviewed every three weeks, transport minister Grant Shapps said on Friday. Popular destinations such as France, Spain and Greece did not.Airlines, holiday companies and tourist hotspots in southern Europe have been waiting for over four months for big-spending Britons to start travelling again, but they will have to wait a few months longer for a full rebound to take off.Left off the list were Spain, France, Italy and the U.S., the top four most visited countries by UK residents in 2019, which all sit in the amber category, requiring self-isolation on return to the UK.Despite the limitations, permitting travel abroad is still a welcome boost for the beleaguered sector and should prompt bookings. Britons have been banned from going abroad without an essential reason since early January, a blow for leisure travel and also splitting families who live across different countries.British Airways, easyJet, Ryanair, TUI and others will now likely have to wait until next month for the larger scale re-opening they need to repair their COVID-19 battered finances.They have argued that Britain's vaccination programme, which has outpaced the rest of Europe, should mean the country can allow more travel sooner, but so far the EU's plans are ahead. It has recommended the arrival of foreign travellers from more countries from June.Earlier on Friday, the chief executive of British Airways-owner IAG called on the UK and the U.S. to open a travel corridor given their high vaccination rates.Countries where Britons might want to travel will still have their own rules for entry. For example, Britons are currently banned from going to the U.S.Green list travel will involve people taking two COVID-19 tests, one before arrival back into the UK and one within two days of returning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-reopens-travel-from-may-17-to-limited-destinations-101620405072689.html
07-05-2021||World||Pakistan allows indicted opposition leader, Shahbaz Sharif, to travel abroad||A top Pakistani court on Friday granted permission to the country’s ailing opposition leader, who has been charged with corruption, to travel abroad for medical treatment.The Lahore High Court ruled that Shahbaz Sharif may travel abroad from May 8 to July 3. Sharif had petitioned the court, saying he is a cancer survivor who now needs treatment outside of Pakistan.The development drew criticism from Prime Minister Imran Khan's government, which said it will explore legal options to stop Sharif from leaving.Sharif faces corruption charges in three separate court cases. He heads the opposition bloc in parliament and leads his brother’s Pakistan’s Muslim League party after Nawaz Sharif, a three-time prime minister was disqualified from office.The ex-premier and elder Sharif, convicted of corruption, lives in exile in London. He was released from prison in 2019 on bail to seek medical treatment abroad but never returned home. Islamabad last December started the process to reach an extradition treaty with Britain that would pave the way for the U.K. to hand over Nawaz Sharif.Shahbaz Sharif was released on bail last month on a court order, about seven months after he was arrested by an anti-graft body over alleged involvement in money laundering.Angered over Friday's order, Pakistan's Information Minister Fawad Chaudhry described the ruling as a “joke" that he said could help the younger Sharif escape the law like his brother did.There was no immediate comment from Khan, who on Friday left on a three-day visit to Saudi Arabia to boost economic ties with the kingdom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-allows-indicted-opposition-leader-shahbaz-sharif-to-travel-abroad-101620405707795.html
07-05-2021||World||Iran nuclear deal talks 'on right track' as diplomats reconvene||The fourth round of talks between world powers on Iran's nuclear programme opened in Vienna on Friday, with diplomats voicing hope an agreement can be reached before the Islamic republic's June presidential election.The remaining parties to the 2015 Iran nuclear deal -- Britain, China, France, Germany and Russia as well as Iran, held talks for about an hour at a luxury hotel in the Austrian capital.The Russian ambassador to the UN in Vienna, Mikhail Ulyanov, tweeted after Friday's session that "the participants agreed on the need to intensify the process"."The delegations seem to be ready to stay in Vienna as long as necessary to achieve the goal," Ulyanov said.One diplomatic source told AFP before Friday's talks that while "nothing was guaranteed" at the negotiations, they are "on the right track".The source expressed hope that the latest talks could be the "final round".The aim is a return to full compliance with the 2015 accord, known as the JCPOA, which has been slowly disintegrating since former US president Donald Trump withdrew from it in 2018 and Tehran responded by breaking the deal's limits on its nuclear activities.Trump's successor Joe Biden has said he wishes to rejoin the JCPOA, and an American official said on Thursday an agreement was "possible" in the coming weeks, before Iran's June 18 election.The US is taking part in the talks indirectly, with European diplomats acting as intermediaries between the Americans and Iranians.The talks are seeking to find a way to lift sanctions on Iran reimposed by Trump, and for Iran to come back into line with the JCPOA's limits on its nuclear activities.Besides the Iran election, another source of time pressure is the looming expiration of a three-month agreement between Iran and the UN nuclear watchdog, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).The agreement announced in February allows the IAEA to maintain a level of oversight of Iran's nuclear facilities despite Tehran's suspension of some inspections by the body.Under the agreement, Iran pledged to keep recordings "of some activities and monitoring equipment" and hand them over to the IAEA as and when US sanctions are lifted.IAEA Director General Rafael Grossi on Thursday met the head of the Iranian delegation to the Vienna talks, Deputy Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi.In an interview last week with Bloomberg TV, Grossi expressed concern that Iran would destroy the camera data if an agreement was not reached in time, adding: "Let's hope it hasn't happened."He said that if the temporary agreement expired and the broader diplomatic talks remained stuck, he would return to Tehran to try to broker another compromise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-nuclear-deal-talks-on-right-track-as-diplomats-reconvene-101620388280042.html
07-05-2021||World||Iraq brings Saudi, Iran closer as Biden resets policy||Iraq is carving out a mediating role between Iran and Gulf Arab oil producers including Saudi Arabia, a shift for a country better known as a victim of regional conflict than a conduit to defuse it.In recent weeks, Iraq convened indirect talks between its neighbors Saudi Arabia and Iran, with a focus on Yemen’s war, where the two countries back opposing sides. Iraqi Prime Minister Mustafa Al-Kadhimi, a former intelligence chief experienced in regional security issues, is seen by Saudi Arabia and its ally the United Arab Emirates as having a degree of autonomy from Iran. He’s been able to build up trust to make such engagement possible, four people briefed on the talks say.Kadhimi has also kept open channels between Tehran and President Joseph Biden’s administration, which two people briefed on the Iraqi side say has welcomed the separate avenue to engage diplomatically with Iran. World powers are holding talks in Vienna to try to resurrect a 2015 deal with Iran to rein in its nuclear activity in exchange for sanctions relief.The mid-May expiration of an agreement on monitoring Iranian nuclear facilities gives these multi-track talks added urgency. The regional outreach could help promote the revival of the nuclear accord, after former President Donald Trump’s unilateral exit was followed by attacks on global shipping lanes and Saudi oil installations, many of them blamed on Iran or its regional proxies.Kadhimi’s PathKadhimi has navigated Iraq’s politics on the front-line of the broader confrontation with Iran, and played his cards wisely, said Robert Satloff, executive director of The Washington Institute and an expert on U.S. Middle East policy. “His stock is very high in Washington right now.”Long caught in the middle of conflicts between global and regional powers, and still rebuilding from the invasions of the U.S. and Islamic State, Iraq hopes to ratchet down tensions that affect it directly. Kadhimi is also seeking to strengthen his role on the international stage, even as he navigates internal politics in Iraq, where he’s pulled between powerful competing parties.In an online interview with the Beirut Institute on Wednesday, Iraqi President Barham Salih acknowledged that Iraq had hosted talks between Iran and Saudi Arabia “more than once.” He said he saw signs of a “diffusion” of tensions between regional powers including Iran, Turkey and Arab countries.“For Iraq to be able to play that convenient role between these regional actors is important,” he said. “Instead of Iraq being a source of instability let it be the common bridge.”A Saudi Foreign Ministry official confirmed his country is in discussions with Iran, according to Reuters. Rayed Krimly, head of policy planning at the ministry, told the news agency that Riyadh wanted to see “verifiable deeds” before evaluating the talks.The meetings, which have involved intelligence officials, began under former Prime Minister Adel Abdul Mahdi but have intensified under Kadhimi. Several rounds are planned with the first set mainly used to test the waters for future rapprochement, a senior Iraqi official said, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss confidential conversations.“The U.S. is pushing its Gulf allies to talk directly to Iran,” said Renad Mansour, a senior research fellow and project director of the Iraq Initiative at Chatham House. “That’s part of the two-track approach that Biden is pursuing to get all sides involved in the process.”The State Department didn’t respond when asked to comment on Iraq’s role. Spokesman Ned Price on April 22 referred questions about the Iraqi mediation to Baghdad and Riyadh.Back-ChannelRegional and global concerns converged this week with the visit of a delegation of senior U.S. officials to the Middle East, meant to ease allies’ concerns over Biden’s bid to rejoin the nuclear deal. Gulf Arab states have long said they should be involved in diplomacy on Iran at a global level for any deal to be sustainable.Iran’s Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif welcomed Iraq’s role during a visit to the country last week and said Tehran wanted to see Baghdad become a more “pivotal” actor in regional matters.If the Vienna talks fail, Iran-backed militias will act up in the region and Iranian hardliners will continue to resist the deal, said Dina Esfandiary, a senior adviser in the Middle East and North Africa team at International Crisis Group. The Gulf Arabs and Iraqis are trying to preempt that by conducting their talks now, she said.Saudi Arabia and Iran both want to end the regional crises, according to the senior Iraqi government official. Tehran is under increasing economic pressure from sanctions imposed by the Trump administration, while Saudi Arabia’s top concern is mounting attacks from Iran-backed Yemeni fighters, a second person close to the Iraqi government said.Iraq has found Saudi Arabia more open to dialog with Iran and thinks Kadhimi is a factor in that, the senior Iraqi government official said. The UAE also takes that view, trusting Kadhimi to communicate with them on Iran, a person familiar with the UAE government view said.Prince MohammedSaudi Arabia’s de facto ruler, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, said last week the kingdom was working to resolve its differences with Iran, in comments that referred to an unspecified regional effort.“We’re working today with our partners in the region to find solutions to these issues, and we hope to overcome them and have a good and positive relationship with them,” Prince Mohammed told a Saudi television channel on April 27.That’s a dramatic reversal from his remarks on Iran in his last local television interview in 2017, when he accused Iran of trying to control the Islamic world and said the kingdom would take “the battle” to Iran, rather than wait for it to be in Saudi Arabia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iraq-brings-saudi-iran-closer-as-biden-resets-policy-101620392766542.html
07-05-2021||World||Asian Development Bank proposes ending financing for coal plants||The Asian Development Bank will stop financing new coal power plants under a draft energy policy released Friday that was cautiously welcomed by environmental groups.The ADB, which provides loans and grants for projects in the poorest countries in the Asia Pacific region, said its current policy was "no longer adequately aligned with the global consensus on climate change"."Coal and other fossil fuels have played a large part in ensuring access to energy for the region's economic development, but they have not solved the energy access challenge, and their use harms the environment and accelerates climate change," the Manila-based bank said in the document.The lender will also no longer fund "any coal mining, oil and natural gas field exploration, drilling or extraction activities", it said.However, under certain conditions, it would provide funds for natural gas projects and "hybrid electricity solutions" involving fossil fuels as backup systems, according to the draft.Between 2009 and 2019 the ADB funnelled $42.5 billion into energy sector projects in Asia, where around 60 percent of electricity is generated by coal, its data show.The final version of the energy policy is expected to be submitted to the ADB board of directors by October.Earlier this week, US climate envoy John Kerry called on the ADB to adopt a "more restrictive fossil fuel financing policy", warning that island nations faced a situation "beyond existential" due to climate change.While welcoming the ADB's policy proposal, Greenpeace said it was "long delayed and incremental"."Communities throughout Asia have struggled for decades to demand ADB to stop financing dirty energy," Greenpeace Southeast Asia programme director Jasper Inventor said in a statement."While this new policy puts the brakes on coal financing, it still opens doors for fossil gas development."Hasan Mehedi from the Coastal Livelihood and Environmental Action Network in Bangladesh said it was a "sweet victory".But he said the ADB must "urgently phase out fossil gas, waste to energy, and large hydro projects to achieve the Paris Goal of staying below 1.5 degrees".The goal of checking global warming at 1.5 degrees Celsius (2.7 degrees Fahrenheit) above pre-industrial times was the aspiration set in the Paris Agreement to avoid the most severe effects of climate change.Speaking at a seminar during the ADB's annual meeting, Kerry called for an end to fossil fuel subsidies and coal plant financing.He warned the 20 countries responsible for most of the world's emissions were not "moving in the same direction" or fast enough to tackle warming.ADB president Masatsugu Asakawa told the same seminar that the Asia Pacific -- which includes China, the world's biggest polluter -- was responsible for about 50 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions.As the market for coal, oil and gas rebounds this year, he warned that more than 80 percent of the expected growth in coal demand would be from Asia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/asian-development-bank-proposes-ending-financing-for-coal-plants-101620392753269.html
07-05-2021||World||US urges citizens to return home from India through available flights||The US, which has urged its citizens not to travel to India due to an unprecedented surge in the Covid-19 cases there, on Friday encouraged those in the country to book their tickets to return home through currently available flights.The United Airlines and Air India are continuing to operate numerous direct flights weekly from India to the US, a State Department health alert said.Additional flight options remain available on Air France, Lufthansa, and Qatar Airways via transfers in Paris, Frankfurt, and Doha.US citizens who wish to depart India are encouraged to book tickets through the airlines, the health alert said.It is mandatory for anyone travelling to the US (2 years and older) to take a Covid-19 test no more than 3 days before travel and show a negative result to the airline before boarding the flight, it said.The passengers should be prepared to show documentation of recovery from Covid-19 (proof of a recent positive viral test and a letter from a healthcare provider or a public health official stating clearance for travel).Travellers are encouraged to follow post-travel guidance once in the US, it said.The US this week reissued its travel advisory on India, urging its citizens not to travel to the country due to an unprecedented surge in the Covid-19 cases there.“Do not travel to India due to Covid-19. Exercise increased caution due to crime and terrorism,” the State Department said on Wednesday in its latest travel advisory that looked identical to the one issued on April 28.Both the travel advisories have been marked 'Level 4' which is the highest warning level.On April 28, the Department approved the voluntary departure of family members of US government employees.On May 5, the Department approved the voluntary departure of non-emergency US government employees.“US citizens who wish to depart India should take advantage of available commercial transportation options,” it said.Last week, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) issued a Level 4 Travel Health Notice for India due to Covid-19, indicating a very high level of Covid-19 in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-urges-citizens-to-return-home-from-india-through-available-flights-101620398234684.html
07-05-2021||World||Britain labels coronavirus 'variant of concern' linked to travel from India||British health officials on Friday labelled a coronavirus variant first found in India a "variant of concern" due to evidence it spreads more easily, with Prime Minister Boris Johnson saying the situation needed careful handling.Public Health England designated variant B.1.617.2, one of three variants identified in India that has spread to Britain, a variant of concern. Surge testing was being carried out in areas where evidence indicates community spread.Cases of the B.1.617.2 variant increased to 520 from 202 over the last week, PHE said, mainly in London and the northwest town of Bolton, with almost half the cases related to contact with a traveller."I think we've got to be very careful about that," Johnson told reporters, in reference to the variant."We're doing a huge amount, obviously, to make sure that when we do find outbreaks of the Indian variant that we do surge testing, that we do door-to-door testing."PHE cited evidence that it spreads more quickly than the original version of the virus and could spread as quickly as the so-called "Kent" variant which fuelled England's second wave of infections.The public health body said other characteristics of the B.1.617.2 variant were still being investigated."There is currently insufficient evidence to indicate that any of the variants recently detected in India cause more severe disease or render the vaccines currently deployed any less effective," PHE said in a statement.The original India variant, B.1.617, was first detected in October, but PHE has categorised three different subtypes, all with slightly different mutations.Other variants of concern include variants first identified in Kent, southeast England, as well as South Africa and Brazil.Two weeks ago, India, which is experiencing a deadly surge in cases, was added to Britain's travel "red list", meaning travellers have to quarantine in special hotels.But the move, which came in on April 23, was announced on April 19, giving travellers notice if they wanted to change plans and beat the hotel quarantine.Britain has recorded 4,428,553 coronavirus cases and 127,583 deaths since the pandemic hit its shores, making it one of the worst hit countries in the world. About 66% of the adult population has now been vaccinated and lockdown restrictions are being eased.India is reporting record daily death tolls. In total it has recorded 21.49 million cases and 234,083 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-labels-coronavirus-variant-of-concern-linked-to-travel-from-india-101620392797219.html
07-05-2021||World||Nepal refutes claims of Covid-19 cases at Everest, other mountain base camps||The Nepal government has refuted reports of the Covid-19 outbreak at Mount Everest and other mountain base camps, as the second wave of pandemic sweeps the Himalayan nation.In a press statement on Friday, Nepal's Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation stated that no cases of Covid-19 have been confirmed at Mount Everest."Concerned Communication Officers has been assigned and stationed in the area. Communication officers are in contact with the group leaders and have been constantly surveilling situation there. They haven't confirmed any [Covid-19] cases or condition of existing threat out there," the ministry stated.The ministry has urged media outlets to only disseminate information that comes from official channels as other reports might create panic and fear amongst climbers as well as their families.The ministry's remarks come despite over a dozen climbers have been evacuated in the last few weeks from Everest Base Camp to capital Kathmandu, after they develop symptoms like Covid-19. They were later tested positive for Covid-19.Norwegian climber Erlend Ness was amongst the first to confirm that he along with his team members have tested positive for the virus after undergoing tests in Kathmandu.Initially, it was believed that Ness had pulmonary edema, a condition where the air sacs in the lungs fill with fluid that is often associated with altitude sickness.Ness had tested negative prior to departing from Norway and again while quarantining in Kathmandu before heading to the base camp.This year Nepal has issued record permits to 745 climbers despite the ravaging pandemic.After Everest, Dhaulagiri Base Camp earlier this week have had reported cases of Covid-19 where many of the climbers have claimed to be tested positive for the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-refutes-claims-of-covid-19-cases-at-everest-other-mountain-base-camps-101620394450355.html
07-05-2021||World||US job growth misses all estimates; unemployment rate at 6.1%||Discover what’s driving the global economy and what it means for policy makers, businesses, investors and you with The New Economy Daily. Sign up here.U.S. job growth unexpectedly softened in April from the prior month as employers found it difficult to attract workers, a development that’s holding back momentum in the labor market.Payrolls increased 266,000 after a downwardly revised 770,000 March increase, according to a Labor Department report Friday that fell well short of projections. Economists in a Bloomberg survey projected a 1 million hiring surge in April. The unemployment rate edged up to 6.1%.Treasury yields plunged, while inflation expectations spiraled downward and dollar turned sharply lower. U.S. stock futures maintained gains.The disappointing payrolls print leaves overall employment well short of its pre-pandemic level and is consistent with recent comments from company officials highlighting challenges in filling open positions. While job gains accelerated in leisure and hospitality, employment at temporary-help agencies and transportation and warehousing declined sharply.Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell said last week the dichotomy likely reflects a combination of a skills gap, child care obligations and lingering virus fears. Some firms indicate enhanced unemployment benefits and the latest round of pandemic-relief checks are discouraging a return to work.Some firms indicate enhanced unemployment benefits and the latest round of pandemic-relief checks are discouraging a return to work even as job openings approach a record.The dearth of job candidates has led some states to swing into action to alleviate the labor shortage. Montana is trying to lure people back into the workforce with a $1,200 payment if they stop collecting unemployment benefits and work for at least four weeks. South Carolina plans to terminate all federal and pandemic-related jobless programs at the end of June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-job-growth-misses-all-estimates-unemployment-rate-at-61-101620391407675.html
07-05-2021||World||Boris Johnson hails party's crushing win in UK opposition stronghold||Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Friday welcomed early election results in Britain's first major vote since Brexit and the pandemic, including a stunning by-election victory for his Conservative party in an opposition Labour stronghold.The "Super Thursday" local and regional contests could reshape the UK as pro-independence forces in Scotland, where voting for the devolved parliament was also held, bid to break away.Results in Scotland are due on Saturday.But in the first results from England on Friday, the Conservatives were performing strongly in various regions and won by a landslide in the northeast parliamentary seat of Hartlepool, in a bitter blow for Labour and its leader Keir Starmer.The rust-belt town constituency, which is deep in traditional Labour heartlands and has never voted Conservative since its creation in 1974, saw a 16 percent swing to the Tories."It's a very encouraging set of results so far," Johnson told reporters."I think that's really because we have been focusing, as a government, on our priorities, the people's priorities, and bouncing back from the pandemic as much as we can."Hartlepool's newly-elected Tory MP Jill Mortimer called her win "truly historic" and accused Labour of taking its people "for granted for too long."The result continues the trend from the last election in December 2019, when Brexit was the dominant issue and Conservatives grabbed a string of seats across Labour's so-called "Red Wall" heartlands in northern England.- 'Shattering' -The vote in strongly pro-Brexit Hartlepool, held alongside local elections across much of the country, came about after its Labour incumbent quit over sexual harassment allegations.In 2019 -- Labour's worst election result since 1935, under the hard-left leadership of Jeremy Corbyn -- around a quarter of Hartlepool's electorate opted for the upstart Brexit Party.Now, with Britain's withdrawal from the European Union complete and that party rebranded, those voters appeared to flock to the Conservatives.The result will ratchet up the pressure on Starmer, elected leader a year ago promising to rebuild the party and reconnect with its traditional voters.Senior party MP Steve Reed called the result "shattering"."It tells us that the pace of change in the Labour Party has not been fast enough," he told the BBC.Starmer had already played down expectations, stressing that rebuilding Labour would take more than a year.- 'Popular' PM -In Hartlepool, a giant inflatable Johnson appeared outside the building where the vote count was taking place. The balloon prime minister, complete with trademark scruffy blond hair, gave two thumbs up.The outcome suggests he continues to enjoy popularity in former Labour strongholds and has benefitted from Britain's successful vaccine rollout, despite the country also suffering one of the world's worst Covid-19 death tolls.Johnson, who has been dogged in recent weeks by several scandals, has campaigned on his record of finally having "got Brexit done". He has also touted government economic support during the pandemic and the vaccine drive.Results of voting for local councils in England, regional mayors including in London, and for the devolved assemblies in Wales and Scotland -- expected later Friday and over the weekend -- will give a broader picture of his support.Initial results showed his Conservatives performing strongly beyond Hartlepool in the northeast, as well as in central and southeast England.They suggest Starmer faces an increasingly daunting task to unseat Johnson at the next general election due in 2024."The structural realignment of party support is clearly going to be the dominant story of the elections in England," said University of Southampton politics professor Will Jennings.He noted the "feel-good factor" of the vaccine rollout may have helped maintain the recent shifts towards Conservatives.- 'Different directions' -But Conservative celebrations could be tempered by events in Scotland.The Scottish National Party (SNP) is seeking a pro-independence majority to pressure Johnson to permit another referendum on splitting from the UK, after most Scots voted in 2014 to stay in."It really is on a knife edge," SNP leader and Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon tweeted Thursday.Political pundits predicted a strong SNP showing alongside the Conservative gains in England could intensify calls for another poll."It entrenches the sense that the two nations are moving in very different directions. That can only fuel demand for independence," said ITV News' UK editor Paul Brand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-johnson-hails-party-s-crushing-win-in-uk-opposition-stronghold-101620391294967.html
07-05-2021||World||Maldives ex-president 'critical' after assassination attempt||Former Maldives president Mohamed Nasheed was in a "critical" condition on Friday following an assassination attempt, doctors said.Nasheed, 53, the Maldives' first democratically elected president and still an important figure in the island nation's murky politics, was rushed to hospital after an explosion late Thursday.Since then he has undergone 16 hours of life-saving operations in the capital Male for injuries to his head, chest, abdomen and limbs.The private ADK hospital said Friday evening that Nasheed was "in a critical condition in intensive care".In a televised address to the nation, President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih announced that a team from the Australian Federal Police (AFP) would arrive Saturday to help with the investigation into the blast.Solih described the attack as an assault on the fledgling democracy, promising the perpetrators "would face the full force of the law".Police said officials from the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime have also been asked to assist in the investigation.Maldivian police said they were treating Thursday's bomb attack as a "deliberate act of terror" and urged the public to provide any information that could identify the perpetrators.Police said a device attached to a motorcycle was detonated as Nasheed got into a car in the capital.The hospital said earlier that shrapnel had been removed from one of his lungs and from his liver but that another piece was still in the same organ."We are hopeful of a full recovery," said a family member who did not want to be named, adding that Nasheed was responsive and spoke with doctors when he was admitted.One of his bodyguards as well as a British national were also wounded and taken to hospital.- Underwater cabinet -The Indian Ocean nation of 340,000 Sunni Muslims is best known for its luxury holiday resorts popular with honeymooners, but it suffers from regular political turmoil.There was no claim of responsibility for Thursday's bomb attack, but officials close to Nasheed's Maldivian Democratic Party (MDP) said they suspected vested political interests opposed to his anti-corruption drive.Nasheed had vowed to investigate a $90-million theft from the state's tourism promotion authority during the tenure of former president Abdulla Yameen."There are some dormant Islamists who could have collaborated with political elements threatened by Nasheed's anti-corruption drive," an MDP source told AFP.The government has cracked down on extremism and foreign preachers are banned.Violent attacks have been rare, though a dozen foreign tourists were wounded by a bomb blast in Male in 2007.The Islamic State claimed a boat arson attack last year, but there is little evidence the group has a presence in the archipelago.Nasheed, a liberal, is maybe best known internationally for holding a 2009 underwater cabinet meeting to highlight the threat of global warming, signing documents as officials wore scuba gear against a backdrop of coral reefs.He was toppled in a military-backed coup in February 2012, convicted on a charge of terrorism and jailed for 13 years.He left the country on prison leave for medical treatment and sought refuge in Britain.He returned after his nominee Solih won the presidency in 2018, winning parliamentary elections the next year to become speaker.Messages of support for Nasheed poured in on Friday from neighbouring India, Pakistan and Sri Lanka as well as Western nations, which have strongly backed his pro-democracy and environmental activism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/maldives-ex-president-critical-after-assassination-attempt-101620391192153.html
07-05-2021||World||Poland, Hungary push against 'gender equality' at EU social summit||Lobbying by Poland and Hungary has led to the removal of the phrase "gender equality" from a draft declaration on advancing social cohesion that the EU is due to publish on Friday, according to diplomats and documents seen by Reuters.Poland's nationalist ruling Law and Justice party (PiS) and its eurosceptic ally, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban, promote what they call traditional social values at home and have repeatedly clashed with their more liberal Western peers over the rights of women, gays and migrants.The two countries opposed mentioning "gender equality" directly in the draft prepared for discussion by the bloc's 27 national leaders, who are meeting in the Portuguese city of Porto on Friday and Saturday.While an earlier draft said the bloc would "promote gender equality", the later version seen by Reuters - which could potentially be redrafted again - avoids the phrase and reads:"We will step up efforts to fight discrimination and work actively to close gender gaps ...and to promote equality."European Union diplomats said Warsaw and Budapest had sought the looser language. Both governments have sought to promote Catholic, conservative social values in campaigns that have gone hand-in-hand with increasing state control over media, courts and academics.Asked to comment on the matter, a Polish official said: "Poland always underlines how important legal clarity is... The Treaty of the European Union very clearly refers not to gender equality but to equality between women and men." The official did not elaborate.There was no immediate reply to a request for comment from the Hungarian missions to the EU.The leaders will commit to an inclusive recovery from the bloc's record recession triggered by the coronavirus pandemic, which has killed nearly 700,000 people in Europe, shut businesses and travel, and confined millions to their homes for more than a year."Our commitment to unity and solidarity also means ensuring equal opportunities for all and that no one is left behind," the leaders will declare in mentioning the bloc's planned green and digital reforms, as well as focus on education and training."...The priority will be to move from protecting to creating jobs and to improve job quality," they will say, according to the latest draft, which also welcomes a proposal to look beyond GDP readings to measure economic and social progress.The leaders are due to gather in Porto from 1200 GMT.Twenty-four will attend in person, with German Chancellor Angela Merkel and two others dialling in for discussions that will also try to overcome divisions on waiving patents for COVID-19 vaccines, and the EU's fraught ties with Russia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/poland-hungary-push-against-gender-equality-at-eu-social-summit-101620382241968.html
07-05-2021||World||Philippines tightens controls on inbound travellers over Covid-19 variants||Travellers entering the Philippines will be required to undergo 14 days of quarantine, up from a week previously, as authorities try to contain more infectious coronavirus variants, the presidential spokesman said on Friday.The new controls will apply regardless of whether a visitor has been vaccinated and the first 10 days of quarantine will be in a government-accredited facility and the remainder at home, Presidential spokesman Harry Roque said in a briefing.Visitors will get a Covid-19 test on the seventh day after arrival, but will still be required to complete a 10-day stay in a facility even if they test negative, Roque said.The Southeast Asian country is battling one of the worst coronavirus outbreaks in Asia with more than a million infections, including those caused by variants first detected in Britain and South Africa, and more than 18,000 deaths.In a bid to prevent the entry of a variant first identified in India, the Philippines has temporarily barred travellers coming from India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Nepal and Bangladesh from entering the country.The new controls come after five passengers arriving in the last month with a travel history to India tested positive for Covid-19. Samples had been taken in order to do genome sequencing, the health ministry has said.The Philippines also allowed a container ship with a travel history to India to dock on Thursday to provide medical assistance to 12 of the 21 Filipino crew members who tested positive for Covid-19.Out of the 12, two were in critical condition and had to be evacuated to a medical facility for treatment, while the others were receiving care on the ship, the transport ministry said on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/philippines-tightens-controls-on-inbound-travellers-over-covid-19-variants-101620378294151.html
07-05-2021||World||EU regulator reviews reports of rare nerve disorder after AstraZeneca Covid shot||Europe's medicines regulator said on Friday it was reviewing reports of a rare nerve-degenerating disorder in people who have received AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine, and requested more detailed data on the cases from the company.As part of a regular review of safety reports for the vaccine, Vaxzevria, the European Medicines Agency's safety committee is analysing data provided on cases of Guillain-Barre syndrome, the regulator said.The EMA is also looking into reports of heart inflammation with Pfizer-BioNTech's vaccine, called Comirnaty, and Moderna's shot, it said. Both the vaccines use new mRNA technology to build immunity against the coronavirus.The EMA and other regulators are already reviewing the possibility of rare blood clotting conditions with Covid-19 vaccines, including AstraZeneca's.Guillain-Barré Syndrome is a rare neurological condition in which the body's immune system attacks the protective coating on nerve fibres. Most cases follow a bacterial or viral infection, and develop over the course of days or weeks.It is an extremely rare, known risk associated with respiratory and gut infections, as well as some vaccinations in the past.AstraZeneca, Pfizer, BioNTech and Moderna did not immediately respond to a request for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-regulator-reviews-reports-of-rare-nerve-disorder-after-astrazeneca-covid-shot-101620389912719.html
07-05-2021||World||British scientists warn over Indian coronavirus variant||British officials could declare one of the new coronavirus strains first found in India a "variant of concern", the BBC said on Friday, as scientists flagged evidence that it spreads more quickly than the original version of the virus.Scientists have recommended that one version of the variant first found in India, known as B.1.617.2, is designated a "variant of concern", the BBC said, adding more than 500 cases of the variant had been recorded, up from 202 last week.Public Health England (PHE), which postponed publication of its weekly data on variants on Thursday, had no immediate comment on the report.Jeff Barrett, Director the Wellcome Sanger Institute Covid-19 Genomics Initiative, said that high numbers of cases of B.1.617.2 in Britain and around the world were "consistent with this one being more transmissible than older versions of the virus from last year"."(It's) possibly as transmissible as the B.117 Kent variant that is very widespread in the UK," Barrett said on BBC radio, referring to the strain found in south-east England which fuelled Britain's second Covid-19 wave.The original India variant, B.1.617, was first detected in October, but Public Health England (PHE) has categorised three different subtypes, all with slightly different mutations.Other variants of concern include variants first identified in Kent, south-east England, as well as South Africa and Brazil, and Barrett said that there had been reassuring evidence from real world studies on the effectiveness of vaccines on those."That paints a relatively positive picture that the vaccines are going to continue to have efficacy," he said."So obviously for new variants like this one, we need to do additional experiments and really get the solid proof one way or the other about that".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/british-scientists-warn-over-indian-coronavirus-variant-101620389759807.html
07-05-2021||World||Experts believe Covid-19 vaccine waiver won’t boost supply to India quickly. Here’s why||While US President Joe Biden’s administration announced its support for a waiver on patent protections for vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), some experts are apprehensive about the impact on vaccine production in the near future. India and South Africa were the first to submit a proposal to the World Trade Organisation (WTO), suggesting a waiver for all members of the trade body on the implementation, application and enforcement of certain provisions of a 1995 intellectual property (IP) rights agreement in order to boost Covid-19 prevention, containment or treatment.As the second wave of Covid-19 ravaged India’s healthcare infrastructure, calls to waive patent protections for vaccines gained momentum, with supporters arguing that the waiver could help the world come out of the pandemic much faster. After the US announced its support for the waiver, World Health Organisation (WHO) chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus termed the decision as a “monumental moment” in the fight against Covid-19.But some experts believe that waiving intellectual property rights would have little effect given the technical complexity of manufacturing Covid-19 vaccines. In an opinion piece for the Washington Post, Rachel Silverman, a policy analyst with the Center for Global Development, said that the waiver won’t immediately boost vaccine supply to countries like India and Brazil, two of the worst-hit countries.“It could even backfire, with companies using the move as an excuse to disengage from global access efforts,” Silverman wrote.Silverman opined that most drugs are simple and easily analysable chemical compounds that can be produced with relative ease after reverse engineering by competent chemists. On the other hand, vaccines are complex biological products and “observing their contents is insufficient to allow for imitation,” she added.While the European Union has shown willingness to discuss the proposal to waive intellectual property rights for Covid-19 vaccines, Germany has opposed any kind of waiver. A spokesperson for the German government said in a statement that the main factors in vaccine production are capacity and quality standards, and not patents. "The protection of intellectual property is a source of innovation and must remain so in the future," she added.WTO director-general Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala told the Post that even if the members of the trade body arrive at a consensus to waive the patent protections, production won’t scale up overnight. “It is very difficult to say now whether there is going to be a consensus, but I think they will be able to come to some pragmatic agreement that will give both sides the necessary comfort that they need,” she was quoted by the Post as saying.Moderna Inc, the US-based pharmaceutical company which produced Covid-19 vaccines based on mRNA technology, said that rivals would face significant hurdles in scaling up manufacturing. During a post-earnings conference call, Moderna Chief Executive Stephane Bancel listed the barriers that other countries and companies would face from taking advantage of the waiver. Bancel noted that there is no mRNA manufacturing capacity in the world and companies won’t find people “who know how to make mRNA.”“And then even if all those things were available, whoever wants to do mRNA vaccines will have to, you know, buy the machine, invent the manufacturing process, invent creation processes and ethical processes, and then they will have to go run a clinical trial, get the data, get the product approved and scale manufacturing. This doesn’t happen in six or 12 or 18 months,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/experts-believe-covid-19-vaccine-waiver-won-t-boost-supply-quickly-here-s-why-101620388210644.html
07-05-2021||World||WHO says expects news on Friday on Sinopharm vaccine emergency use listing||The World Health Organization (WHO) expects news on Friday regarding an emergency use listing for the COVID-19 vaccine made by Chinese state-owned drugmaker Sinopharm, a WHO spokesman said."We are kind of expecting an update on the EUL listing for Sinopharm in the next hour or so," WHO spokesman Christian Lindmeier told a UN briefing. Results of its review of the COVID-19 shot made by Sinovac Biotech could come next week, he said.A WHO emergency listing is a signal to national regulators on a product's safety and efficacy. It would also allow the shot to be included in COVAX, the global programme to provide vaccines mainly for poor countries, but which currently faces major supply constraints.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-says-expects-news-on-friday-on-sinopharm-vaccine-emergency-use-listing-101620383156659.html
07-05-2021||World||Third wave of pandemic 'appears to be broken': German health minister||The third wave of the coronavirus pandemic appears to be broken, German Health Minister Jens Spahn said on Friday, as social distancing measures and an accelerating vaccination campaign help lower the infection rate."The third wave appears to be broken," Spahn told a regular weekly news briefing on Germany's pandemic management.The head of the Robert Koch Institute for infectious diseases, Lothar Wieler, said the incidence of Covid-19 infections was falling across all age groups, and he was hopeful of soon controlling the pandemic in Germany.The share of the population that has received a first vaccine shot has reached 31.5%, with 900,000 getting a dose on Thursday, putting Germany "in the fast lane" by international comparison, said Spahn.In a push to accelerate Germany's vaccination drive, Spahn on Thursday allowed the shot from AstraZeneca to be given to all adults - reversing earlier curbs imposed after earlier reports of rare cases of blood clotting.The decision followed moves by several German federal states to allow people to get the AstraZeneca shot, in consultation with their doctors."We are convinced that this offer is attractive for those who would otherwise not get vaccinated so quickly," said Spahn, adding that 1 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine would be delivered to doctors' practices next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/third-wave-of-pandemic-appears-to-be-broken-german-health-minister-101620378251660.html
07-05-2021||World||US has 'moral responsibility' to help India fight Covid: Congresswoman Jayapal||Indian-American Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal has said the US had a "moral responsibility" to help India in its fight to defeat the raging pandemic in the country.New coronavirus cases and deaths in India hit a record daily high on Thursday after 4,12,262 new infections and 3,980 fatalities were reported, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 2,10,77,410 and the death toll to 2,30,168.“The situation in India is dire. Hundreds of thousands of new Covid cases are confirmed every day, there are no hospital beds open or oxygen supply left, and people are tragically dying before they can even get to a doctor,” Jayapal, the first and only Indian-American in the US House of Representatives, said.“India needs our help — and it is our moral responsibility to rise to the challenge at the local, Federal, and international level because to defeat a global pandemic, we need a global response,” said Jayapal, who was recently in India to meet her parents who were hospitalised due to Covid-19 infections.Chairwoman of the powerful Progressive Caucus in the House of Representatives, Jayapal on Thursday also had a virtual meeting with Indian Ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu.After holding an Indian-American community roundtable with advocates, local leaders, and residents about worsening health conditions in India, Jayapal said that she has repeatedly called on the Biden administration to approve India’s request for raw vaccine materials, release some of America's stockpile of unused Covid vaccines to India, and support a resolution at the WTO to waive patent protections so that they can finally put people’s lives over pharmaceutical profits.“The Biden administration’s willingness to quickly heed my call on each of these life-saving requests comes at a moment when wealthy countries have administered more than 80 per cent of global vaccines while low-income countries have received just 0.3 per cent,” she said.“To redress this injustice, the Congressional Progressive Caucus is focused on partnering with Ambassadors, multilateral organisations, and the Biden Administration to achieve our shared goal of an equitable global vaccination programme that quickly gets more vaccines to countries in need around the world,” Jayapal said.“As we work to accomplish this globally, I am proud of the critical efforts that Indian-American advocates, activists, and allies are doing locally. Groups like the India Association of Western Washington (IAWW) are bringing people throughout our region together to aid families in India,” she said.Jayapal also condemned anti-Asian hate in the US as a spike in Covid cases abroad leads to an upsetting spike in anti-Asian discrimination and violence at home.“As the first Indian-American woman ever elected to the House of Representatives, I will do everything in my power to ensure that we end anti-Asian hate. We each have a role to play — and I am committed to playing mine as we stand together against violence, discrimination, and white supremacy,” Jayapal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-has-moral-responsibility-to-help-india-fight-covid-congresswoman-jayapal-101620378604680.html
07-05-2021||World||Covid-19 vaccine delivery by age may mitigate deaths, severe health impacts: Study||A multi-institutional study suggests that prioritizing vaccine delivery to older age groups and the medically vulnerable has the greatest impact in minimizing loss of life.Strategic vaccine delivery is critical to reducing Covid-19 transmission, mortality and long-term health impacts affirm a study published in PLOS Computational Biology by Sam Moore, Matt Keeling and colleagues at the University of Warwick, United Kingdom.While older people are more likely to experience serious health outcomes related to Covid-19 infections, younger age groups contribute significantly to disease transmission and spread. In order to test the efficacy of different vaccination strategies on minimizing deaths and hospitalisations, researchers built an age-structured model that simulated the spread of SARS-CoV-2 within different regions in the United Kingdom.The authors then used the model to test multiple different scenarios, including variations in vaccine efficacy using observational data on comorbidities and social-distancing measures in the United Kingdom.The models showed that vaccine strategies prioritizing older age groups first most effectively mitigated deaths and lost quality of life years, despite the significant role of younger groups in disease spread. Since the study's completion in 2020, data has become available for the key assumption on vaccine uptake and specific vaccine characteristics, however, the general conclusions of the study remain relevant.Additionally, the research has already helped guide UK policymakers in the development of an effective Covid-19 vaccination program, including the formation of the Joint Committee for Vaccination and Immunisation's priority groups that have been used for vaccine delivery.According to the authors, "While the ultimate success of any vaccination scheme will be highly contingent on the characteristics of the vaccine itself and the level of population uptake, as vaccines are developed which mitigate the disease, it is of great importance that they are delivered in an optimal manner -- reducing mortality and healthcare demands. In all scenarios, we find vaccinating the most elderly and vulnerable first to have the greatest impact."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-vaccine-delivery-by-age-may-mitigate-deaths-severe-health-impacts-study-101620378631826.html
07-05-2021||World||China’s emissions now exceed all the developed world’s combined||China now accounts for more greenhouse gas emissions than all of the world’s developed nations combined, according to new research from Rhodium Group.China’s emissions of six heat-trapping gases, including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide, rose to 14.09 billion tons of CO2 equivalent in 2019, edging out the total of Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development members by about 30 million tons, according to the New York-based climate research group.The massive scale of China’s emissions highlights the importance of President Xi Jinping’s drive to peak carbon emissions before 2030 and reach net-zero by 2060. China accounted for 27% of global emissions. The U.S., the second biggest emitter, contributed 11% while India for the first time surpassed the European Union with about 6.6% of the global total.Still, China also has the world’s largest population, so its per capita emissions remain far less than those of the U.S. And on a historical basis, OECD members are still the world’s biggest warming culprits, having pumped four times more greenhouse gases into the atmosphere than China since 1750.“China’s history as a major emitter is relatively short compared to developed countries, many of which had more than a century head start,” the researchers said. “Current global warming is the result of emissions from both the recent and more distant past.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-emissions-now-exceed-all-the-developed-world-s-combined-101620377192599.html
07-05-2021||World||UK's Conservative Party strikes early blow in opposition stronghold||Britain's governing Conservative Party has won a special election in the north of England town of Hartlepool, dealing a big blow to the main opposition Labour Party, which had held the parliamentary seat since its creation in 1974.The victory for Prime Minister Boris Johnson's party, announced Friday morning, provides further evidence that the Conservatives are making ground in parts of the country that have been Labour strongholds for decades, managing to present itself as the party of change even though it's been in power for 11 years.Over the coming couple of days, results from an array of elections in Britain will be announced. On what was dubbed Super Thursday, around 50 million voters were eligible to take part in scores of elections, some of which had been postponed a year because of the pandemic that has left the U.K. with Europe’s largest coronavirus death toll.The results of Thursday's election in Hartlepool showed the Conservative candidate Jill Mortimer winning with 15,529 votes, or nearly 52% of the vote. The Labour candidate, Paul Williams, only received 8,589 votes, or around 29% of the vote.“It is a truly historic result and a momentous day," Mortimer said in her victory speech. “Labour have taken people in Hartlepool for granted for too long."In the 2019 general election, the Conservative Party made big inroads into Labour's “red wall” in northern England on a combination of factors, including its pro-Brexit stance. The recent success of Britain's coronavirus vaccine rollout also appears to have given the Conservatives a shot in the arm.Whatever lay behind the result, the loss of Hartlepool, a post-industrial town that is one of the poorest in England, represents a stunning defeat for the Labour Party and its new leader Keir Starmer.Hopes were high that Starmer would help Labour reconnect with its lost voters in the north of England when he took the helm a little more than a year ago after succeeding the more left-wing Jeremy Corbyn, who led the party in 2019 to its worst election performance since 1935.Steve Reed, Labour's communities spokesman, said it was “absolutely shattering" to see a Conservative candidate win in a place like Hartlepool.“I think what this shows is that although we have started to change since the cataclysm of the last general election, that change has clearly not gone far enough in order to win back the trust of the voters,” he told the BBC.Over the coming couple of days, Labour should have some results to cheer, with Sadiq Khan and Andy Burnham expected to easily win second terms as the mayors of London and Manchester.Other results to come include the elections for the devolved governments in Scotland and Wales. In addition, thousands of council members, police commissioners and other local authorities are up for grabs in England. No elections took place in Northern Ireland.The result that could have the biggest U.K-wide implications is the Scotland election, where the governing Scottish National Party is looking for a renewed mandate that could speed up the prospect of a second independence referendum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uks-conservative-party-strikes-early-blow-in-elections-101620377208403.html
07-05-2021||World||India’s Covid-19 outbreak peak in coming days, suggests mathematical model||A mathematical model prepared by advisers to Prime Minister Narendra Modi suggests India’s coronavirus outbreak could peak in the coming days, but the group’s projections have been changing and were wrong last month.The team’s most recent forecast puts them more in line with at least some other scientists, who have suggested a mid-May peak for India.India reported a record 412,262 new infections and 3,980 deaths on Thursday, with experts saying that the reported figures likely underplay the real toll because the nation’s crematoriums and hospitals have been overwhelmed. That makes the assessment of any peak particularly complicated.Still, estimates may become crucial because Modi has been avoiding a national lockdown, choosing instead to allow states to implement their own restrictions to curb the spread.“Our predictions are that the peak will come within a few days,” Mathukumalli Vidyasagar, professor at the Indian Institute of Technology in Hyderabad, said by email Thursday, referring to a model prepared with Manindra Agrawal, a professor from IIT Kanpur. “As per current projections, we should hit 20,000 cases per day by the end of June. We will revise this as needed.”In April, Vidyasagar’s team wrongly predicted that the wave would peak by the middle of last month. That was due to incorrect parameters as “the pandemic was changing rapidly, even wildly, until about a week ago,” he wrote on Twitter at the time.More recently, he told Reuters that the peak would be between May 3-5, and then the India Today publication that it would come on May 7.Scientists are largely agreed that the coming few weeks will be difficult for India. A team at the Indian Institute of Science in Bangalore used a mathematical model to predict about 404,000 deaths will occur by June 11 if current trends continue. India’s death toll from the pandemic has already crossed 200,000.Infections have surged by more than 300,000 cases for 15 straight days, pushing India’s total tally past 21 million. Some experts blame the sudden surge of India’s second wave on a new variant that has emerged in the country.Anuradha Mittal, a pediatrician with the Kailash Hospital in Noida, on the outskirts of New Delhi, got Covid last month despite receiving both her shots earlier this year. She said that about 50 other doctors in her network had a similar experience. “Probably the viral load is very, very high in the hospitals we work in and the mutants have a role to play,” Mittal said.Scientists worry that new virus mutations can become the next blindspot that can stretch the pandemic for the entire world, as strains from countries like India reach other nations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indias-covid-19-outbreak-peak-in-coming-days-suggests-mathematical-model-101620365309222.html
07-05-2021||World||Kamala Harris' family in India grapples with Covid-19||G. Balachandran turned 80 this spring — a milestone of a birthday in India, where he lives. If not for the coronavirus pandemic, he would have been surrounded by family members who gathered to celebrate with him.But with the virus ravaging his homeland, Balachandran had to settle for congratulatory phone calls. Including one from his rather famous niece: Vice President Kamala Harris.“Unfortunately, because of the Covid, I cannot have such an elaborate function,” the retired academic said in a Zoom interview Thursday from his home in New Delhi.Harris' uncle says he spoke with the vice president and her husband, Doug Emhoff, for quite a while. To close out the conversation, Harris assured him she’d take care of his daughter — her cousin — who lives in Washington.“Don’t worry, Uncle. I’ll take care of your daughter. I talk to her quite a lot,” Balachandran recalls Harris telling him in their March conversation.It was the last time they had a chance to speak. Since then, the coronavirus has raged out of control in India, overwhelming the nation’s health care system and killing hundreds of thousands of people.While the crisis in India has created diplomatic and humanitarian challenges for the Biden administration, for Harris it is also personal: Her mother was born there, and she’s spoken emotionally throughout her political career about the influence of her many visits to India as a child.On Friday, she’s set to deliver remarks at a State Department event focused on the effort to combat Covid-19 in India, and she’s expected to express U.S. solidarity with the nation.Speaking at a fundraiser for the Indian nongovernmental organization Pratham in 2018, Harris talked about walking hand-in-hand with her grandfather, P.V. Gopalan, and listening to him speak with friends about the importance of a free and equal democracy.“It was those walks on the beach with my grandfather on Besant Nagar that have had a profound impact on who I am today,” she said.She spoke often on the campaign trail about her late mother, Shyamala Gopalan, a headstrong and resilient woman who bucked tradition and decided to leave India to pursue a career as a scientist at the University of California, Berkeley.And during her acceptance speech at the 2020 Democratic National Convention, Harris opened her speech with a shout-out to her “chithis” — a Tamil word for aunt. One of those chithis, Sarala Gopalan, is a retired obstetrician who lives in Chennai.As a child, Harris used to visit India every other year. Now all that remains of her extended family there are her aunt and uncle. Another Indian-born aunt lives in Canada.Balachandran said that while he used to hear about friends of friends getting the virus, now it’s hitting close to home. Those he knows personally or worked with are getting the virus, and some are dying.“The conditions are pretty bad in India,” he said.Balachandran considers himself one of the lucky ones, as he’s retired and largely stays home alone, leaving only occasionally for groceries, so that “nobody can infect me other than myself.”His sister Sarala is the same, he says, and has largely isolated herself in her apartment in Chennai to avoid exposure. Both are fully vaccinated, something he knows is a luxury in India, which has suffered from a severe vaccine shortage.That shortage is part of what prompted criticism in India of what many saw as an initially lackluster U.S. response to a humanitarian crisis unfolding in the nation over the past month. The U.S. initially refused to lift a ban on exports of vaccine manufacturing supplies, drawing sharp criticism from some Indian leaders.When Covid-19 cases in India started to spin out of control in April, there were calls for other countries — particularly the U.S. — to get involved. While a number of countries, including Germany, Saudi Arabia and even India's traditional foe Pakistan, offered support and supplies, U.S. leaders were seen as dragging their feet on the issue.The White House had previously emphasized the $1.4 billion in health assistance provided to India to help with pandemic preparedness and said when asked that it was in discussions about offering aid.The delay in offering further aid was seen as putting a strain on long-standing close diplomatic relations between the two nations, and on April 25, after receiving scrutiny over the U.S. response, a number of top U.S. officials publicly offered further support and supplies to the nation — including a tweet and a call to Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi from President Joe Biden himself.Harris’ niece in California, Meena Harris, has retweeted a half-dozen accounts calling for more aid to India, including one from climate activist Greta Thunberg admonishing the global community to “step up and immediately offer assistance.”Harris' office declined to comment for this article.The U.S. announced it would lift the export ban on vaccine manufacturing supplies and said it would send personal protective equipment, oxygen supplies, antivirals and other aid to India to help the nation combat the virus.The administration gets no criticism from S.V. Ramanan, a temple administrator of the Shri Dharma Sastha Temple in Harris’ Indian grandfather’s hometown Thulasendrapuram in Southern Tamil Nadu state, 215 miles (350 kilometers) from the coastal city of Chennai.“Everyone has their priorities. America also passed through something similar and we helped then. Now they are helping us,” he said.Ramanan added that he didn’t expect that having Harris as vice president fast-tracked aid to India or that it somehow meant help should have come earlier, adding: “I think in general all other countries should help, and I’m glad the U.S. has stepped up.”He hopes Harris can make a visit to her ancestral village when things are better.While Harris has embraced her Indian heritage as part of her political profile, in responding to the crisis there she’s been careful to speak from the perspective of a vice president rather than an Indian American worried about her family’s safety.“We are all part of a world community. And to the extent that any of us, as human beings who have any level of compassion, see suffering anywhere around the world, it impacts all of us. You know, it impacts us all,” she told reporters last week in Ohio.A ban on travel to and from the country was announced that day. Harris said only that she hadn’t spoken to her family since the ban was announced.And G. Balachandran, Harris’ uncle, doesn’t fault his niece for how the U.S. response has played out.He said that, knowing Kamala, “she would have done all that she can in order to expedite the matter.”For now, he's content with the occasional phone call from his niece. When the two talk, it’s mostly about family; he doesn’t share much about current affairs in India because, he joked, “she’s got a whole embassy that’s sending her cables every hour on all of India!”But he does hope to visit the vice president's residence in Washington at the Naval Observatory when he can travel again. Balachandran said he'd like to meet Biden again and remind him that the last time they met was when Biden was vice president and swore in Harris as a U.S. senator.“I wish we could all be together at the same time,” he said of the extended family, “but that’s a big wish to look for at this moment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kamala-harris-family-in-india-grapples-with-covid19-101620363712141.html
07-05-2021||World||Why patents on Covid vaccines are so contentious||The Biden administration's call to lift patent protections on Covid-19 vaccines to help poor parts of the world get more doses has drawn praise from some countries and health advocates.But it has run into resistance from the pharmaceutical industry and others, who say it won't help curb the outbreak any time soon and will hurt innovation.Here's a look at what patents do and why they matter:HOW DO DRUG PATENTS WORK?Patents reward innovation by preventing competitors from simply copying a company's discovery and launching a rival product. In the US, patents on medicines typically last 20 years from when they are filed, which is usually done as soon as a drugmaker thinks it has an important or lucrative drug.Because it often takes a decade to get a drug approved, companies typically end up with about a dozen years of competition-free sales. But drugmakers usually find ways to improve their product or widen its use, and they secure additional patents that can extend their monopoly for another decade or more.WHY IS PATENT PRODUCTION SO IMPORTANT TO DRUGMAKERS?Medicines are incredibly expensive to develop. Most experimental drugs fail at some point during what can be years of laboratory, animal and finally human testing. Averaging in the cost of all those flops, it typically costs more than $1 billion to bring a drug from discovery to regulatory approval. Without the prospect of years of sales without competition, that work is all the more risky.WHY IS THE US BACKING EFFORTS TO LIFT PROTECTIONS ON COVID-19 VACCINES?The Biden administration has been under intense pressure, including from many Democrats in Congress, to get more COVID-19 vaccines to the rest of the world. Support for the waiver idea floated by India and South Africa in October has been growing in other countries while the outbreak worsens in some places, especially India.WHY HAVE THE US AND OTHERS OPPOSED LIFTING PROTECTIONS IN THE PAST?The US and some other wealthy countries lead the world in many areas of research and innovation. That's particularly true for medicines. Aside from the prestige they confer, pharmaceutical companies provide millions of jobs that pay very well, pay taxes on their income and provide new medicines that can save or improve lives. Drugmakers and their trade groups spend millions every year lobbying governments to maintain the status quo on patents.WHY IS THE INDUSTRY SO OPPOSED TO THE EFFORT?In a word, money. In the US, pharmaceutical companies can charge whatever they want for their medicines. They can and do raise prices, typically twice a year, so that list prices often double or triple during a drug's patent-protected years.That makes the big, long-established drugmakers among the world's most profitable companies. But a huge amount of innovation comes from startup pharmaceutical and biotech companies.They must constantly raise money from venture capital firms and other investors to fund early research until they can get their medicine approved or, more often, get a big drugmaker to help fund the research and buy rights to that drug or the entire startup. Without the prospect of a big payday for the new drug, it would be much harder to attract the crucial early money.WHAT WOULD BE THE PRACTICAL EFFECTS OF LIFTING PROTECTIONS ON COVID-19 VACCINES?That's not entirely clear, but drugmakers and some analysts say waiving their patent rights won't do much to get Covid-19 vaccines to developing countries faster.That's because making the vaccines is far more complex than following a recipe, requiring factories with specialised equipment, highly trained workers and stringent quality control — things that can't be set up quickly.There's little available factory capacity, as the companies with authorised vaccines already have hired many contract drug manufacturers to help them make their shots. In addition, many of the raw materials to make the vaccines, along with vials, stoppers and other components, are in very short supply, and that's not expected to change soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/why-patents-on-covid-vaccines-are-so-contentious-101620361839167.html
07-05-2021||World||UN agencies delivered nearly 10,000 oxygen concentrators, 10 mn masks to India||Several United Nations agencies have delivered nearly 10,000 oxygen concentrators and about 10 million medical masks to India to support national and local governments to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, according to the spokesman for the UN chief.In India, the UN team on the ground “continues to support the authorities — both nationally and locally — to tackle the pandemic,” Stephane Dujarric, Spokesman for UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, said at the daily press briefing on Thursday.He said UNICEF, the World Health Organization (WHO) and the UN Population Fund (UNFPA) have delivered nearly 10,000 oxygen concentrators, nearly 10 million medical masks and more than 1.5 million face shields. The UN team has also purchased ventilators and oxygen-generating plants.UNICEF is also providing cold chain equipment for Covid-19 vaccines.“Our team has also delivered testing machines and kits, as well as airport thermal scanners,” he said adding that WHO is also providing tents and beds for temporary health facilities and the agency has deployed thousands of public health specialists to help address the pandemic.UNICEF and the UN Development Programme (UNDP) are also helping to monitor more than 175,000 vaccination centres across India.UNICEF Executive Director Henrietta Fore had earlier cautioned that the “tragic" Covid-19 situation in India should “raise alarm bells for all of us. Unless the world steps up and helps India now, there will be reverberations across the region and the world in terms of virus-related deaths, virus mutations and supply delays.”India is in the midst of a raging second wave of Covid-19 and is recording over 400,000 daily coronavirus infections and over 3,000 deaths. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), India has a total of over 20.6 million confirmed Covid-19 cases and over 226,000 deaths.Countries across the South Asia region are witnessing rises in infections, with India accounting for over 90 per cent of both cases and deaths in the region, according to the World Health Organization.India also accounted for 46 per cent of global cases and 25 per cent of global deaths reported in the past week, WHO has said.UNICEF Regional Director for South Asia George Laryea-Adjei had said in a statement that urgent action and steadfast leadership are indispensable to stop the catastrophe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-agencies-delivered-nearly-10-000-oxygen-concentrators-10-mn-masks-to-india-101620361850020.html
07-05-2021||World||Canadian MPs ask Trudeau to drop opposition to TRIPS waiver||Sixty Canadian MPs have written to Prime Minister Justin Trudeau asking him to drop “without delay” his government’s opposition to temporarily waiving intellectual property protections for vaccines and medication required to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, amid signs Ottawa may be softening its stance on the matter.India and South Africa had submitted a proposal in October last year seeking that waiver under the Agreement of Trade-Related Intellectual Property Rights or TRIPS for the duration of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, some nations, mainly from the West had opposed that move.On Thursday, 60 Canadian MPs, belonging to the House of Commons and Senate and cutting across party lines, wrote to Trudeau demanding a change in Ottawa’s position. The MPs, including members of the ruling Liberal Party, wrote, “Simply, we need to eliminate all potential barriers to the timely access of affordable Covid-19 medical products, including vaccines and medicines, and scale up the manufacturing and supply of essential medical products. There is no question that normative intellectual property rights represent a significant potential barrier.”The Canadian government is taking a softer line on this issue, as Minister of Small Business, Export Promotion and International Trade Mary Ng told the House:“Canada will actively participate in negotiations to wave intellectual property protection, particular to Covid-19 vaccines.” She also said Canada will continue to work with members of the World Trade Organisation or WTO “to reach an agreement and to find solutions that will accelerate the production and equitable distribution of vaccines”.Canada’s new tone comes after the United States expressed its support for the waiver this week, and was joined in that stand by France.The motion moved by India and South Africa was officially endorsed by 58 countries with 100 supporting it. The MPs, in their letter to Trudeau, said they wanted to add their “voices to call on the Government of Canada to endorse the proposed TRIPS waiver without delay and work collaboratively with WTO members to support its adoption”.In an interview to CBC News, India’s High Commissioner to Ottawa Ajay Bisaria said India and Canada had a conversation ongoing in this regard at the level of the nations’ WTO ambassadors. He added, “We’re hoping we get this through and I’m sure all our partners will be part of this process as we go forward.”The Canadian MPs noted that opponents of the measure had argued that patent monopolies were necessary for pharmaceutical companies to recover their investments in research and development. However, they countered that this justification did not apply since Covid-19 vaccine development “was primarily financed through public investment and advanced market commitments”. They asserted that “we all benefit when every human is vaccinated, and barriers to this objective must be removed wherever possible”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadian-mps-ask-trudeau-to-drop-opposition-to-trips-waiver-101620361257163.html
07-05-2021||World||Blast that injured Nasheed, is attack on Maldives' democracy: President Solih||The Maldives president said on Friday an explosion that wounded former leader Mohamed Nasheed was an attack on the country's democracy and economy and said Australian police would assist the investigation.Nasheed, 53, was injured in the blast Thursday night outside his home and was being treated in a hospital in the capital, Male, police said. Home Minister Imran Abdulla told a local television that Nasheed's injuries were not life-threatening.He is the current Parliament speaker and was the Maldives' first democratically elected president, serving from 2008 to 2012.President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih said in a televised speech Friday that Australian Federal Police investigators will arrive in the Indian Ocean archipelago nation on Saturday.Neither Solih nor police have given further details on the attack and no one has claimed responsibility.Photos circulated on social media showed a ripped-up motorcycle at the scene.Neighbouring India's External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar in a tweet described the blast as an attack on Nasheed.“Wish him a speedy recovery. Know that he will never be intimidated,” Jaishankar said.The presidency of Nasheed ended a 30-year autocratic rule, but his own term ended when he resigned amid protests. He was defeated in the following presidential election and became ineligible to enter the 2018 election due to a prison sentence. His party colleague Solih won the 2018 presidential election.Nasheed remained an influential political figure and was elected Parliament speaker in 2019.Nasheed has championed global efforts to fight climate change, particularly warning that rising seas caused by global warming threaten the low-lying islands of the Indian Ocean archipelago nation.He has also been an outspoken critic of religious extremism in this predominantly Sunni Muslim nation, where preaching and practicing other faiths are banned by law.Maldives is known for its luxury resort islands but has seen rare violent attacks.In 2007, a blast in a park in the capital wounded 12 foreign tourists. (AP)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/blast-that-injured-nasheed-is-attack-on-maldives-democracy-president-solih-101620355717406.html
07-05-2021||World||Covid-19 hits new highs: After Mount Everest, virus spreads to other peaks||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has not spared even the world's highest peaks. Along with the Norwegian climber it infected on Mount Everest in late April, the virus has struck climbers on the world's seventh-highest peak -- Dhaulagiri -- 345 kilometers (214 miles) west of Everest. A CNN report quoting the chairperson of tour operator Seven Summits Trek Mingma Sherpa says that at least 19 people have been evacuated from the camps of the mountain out of which seven tested positive and 12 others were scheduled to take a test after showing symptoms.Also Read: Nepal issues record number of permits for Everest expeditions despite Covid-19On Everest too, 30 people have been evacuated from base camp and subsequently tested positive after April, according to Polish climber Pawel Michalski's Facebook post.The highly virulent virus, which has infected more than 156 million and killed over 3 million people around the world, according to the real-time statistics provider website Worldometers, forced China to cancel permits to the world's highest peak in March last year. Soon after, Nepal too called off all expeditions to the peak from its side of the mountain. Now that the restrictions have been eased, a year later, the 8848.86 meters-tall mountain issued a record 394 permits for expeditions till April, according to news agency PTI.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageNepal generates a large part of its revenue from the tourism sector. Many Nepalis depend on climbing for their livelihoods. After last year's season was called off due to the pandemic, this year's permits are rays of hope for numerous local guides, sherpas and chefs. The tourists will attempt to bubble and socially distance. However, according to experts, following Covid-appropriate behaviour may be tough. "Base camp is really a small city," said veteran Everest watcher Alan Arnette, and according to Furtenbach Adventure, there are around 1,200 people at the camp this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-hits-new-highs-after-mount-everest-virus-spreads-to-other-peaks-101620351110342.html
07-05-2021||World||US activist urges Biden to release 60 mn doses of AstraZeneca vaccine for India||A top American civil rights leader has urged President Joe Biden to release 60 million AstraZeneca vaccine doses for India, which is battling a devastating second wave of the coronavirus pandemic.The AstraZeneca vaccine has not been approved by the US and is unlikely to be used by the Biden administration.Biden had recently said that he intended to give AstraZeneca vaccines to other countries.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAt a news conference in Chicago, American civil rights activist Rev Jesse Jackson said he would speak to Biden to immediately release 60 million doses of AstraZeneca vaccines to India.Mass level vaccination is said to be the only cure to the current public health crisis in India, he said."They are human beings. As the wind blows, if we don't stop it today, it'll spread around the world,” he said.Expressing concern over the current situation in India, Rev Jackson said he will personally speak to the healthcare industry to donate oxygen concentrators and cylinders to India and follow up with the pharmaceutical giants to ensure therapeutic supplies to the country.Other Indian Americans from the Chicago area echoed similar sentiments."It is everyone's duty to help India flatten this COVID-19 surge as we live in a world that cannot be separated by borders," said Dr Vijay Prabhakar, the chairman of American Association of Multiethnic Physicians."Based on the current projections some of the models are suggesting, there may be 1 million deaths by the end of August. As we know, that would be a tragic humanitarian crisis,” said Dr Srinivas Reddy, the trustee of Chicago Medical Society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-activist-urges-biden-to-release-60-mn-doses-of-astrazeneca-vaccine-for-india-101620353409976.html
07-05-2021||World||'I felt really heavy': Astronauts describe returning to Earth on SpaceX capsule||Four astronauts just returned from the International Space Station described on Thursday their reentry into Earth's atmosphere and ocean splashdown after more than 160 days in space.A SpaceX Crew Dragon capsule carrying the crew back to Earth splashed down off Florida early Sunday in NASA's first nighttime ocean landing in more than 50 years."There was a point where I was just saying to myself, breathe. Inhale, because I felt really heavy -- I felt like those cartoons when they experience G and your face is just sagging down," said American Victor Glover, one of the astronauts in the group called Crew-1.It was the first regular mission to be taken and then returned from the ISS aboard a spacecraft built by billionaire Elon Musk's company."I expected it to be so dynamic -- and so challenging -- that the actual event I think, was a little less than what I was expecting, and so it was enjoyable all around," Glover said.The weight of acceleration was concentrated in the chest, making it difficult to breathe.But then, "launch and entry are such unique experiences," he said.NASA has contracted SpaceX to launch astronauts into space from US soil, something that has not been possible since 2011 with the end of space shuttle program.Since that time until now NASA was forced to pay for rides to the ISS aboard Russian Soyuz vessels, which land on dry land."Landing in the water was interesting because none of us really knew what to expect, but I would say from my standpoint, it felt a little bit softer than landing on land," said US astronaut Shannon Walker."You spend less time under a parachute on the Dragon than you do under the Soyuz," he said.Soon, space "tourists" -- civilians who are not professional astronauts -- will take their places on Dragon.US astronaut Mike Hopkins believes that space tourists will be able to handle the rough reentry rides.After the civilians go through some centrifuge training "it's not going to be completely unique to them," he said.Japanese astronaut Soichi Noguchi said the landing was pretty smooth."Impact was very, very minimal, and right after splashdown. We feel the waves, we come back to the water planet."That's a great feeling."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/i-felt-really-heavy-astronauts-describe-returning-to-earth-on-spacex-capsule-101620349699029.html
07-05-2021||World||Ex-president of Maldives hurt in bomb attack||A suspected bomb blast injured former Maldives president and current parliament speaker Mohamed Nasheed on Thursday and he has been rushed to hospital, officials and residents said.The explosion went off as Nasheed, 53, was getting into his car in the capital city of Male, an official from his Maldivian Democratic Party (MDP) told AFP over telephone.“It looks like some sort of an improvised explosive device, possibly rigged up to a parked motorcycle,” the official said, adding that an investigation was underway. Residents in Male said the blast was heard across the capital.In a tweet, Maldives President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih said, “Speaker of Parliament President Mohamed Nasheed is currently receiving treatment at ADK Hospital in Malé for injuries sustained following an explosion outside his residence tonight. We are treating this matter with utmost seriousness and an investigation is currently underway.”A source in Maldives told HT that Nasheed has suffered “superficial wounds that required stitches” and there were “no internal injuries”. The former Maldives president “should be okay”, the source added.At least one of his bodyguards was also rushed to hospital, AFP reported.Nasheed became parliament speaker, the Indian Ocean nation’s second most powerful position after president, following his party’s landslide victory in elections in April 2019.He had become the country’s first democratically elected president after winning the first multi-party elections back in 2008.India’s external affairs minister S Jaishankar expressed concern over the attack. “Deeply concerned at the attack on Speaker @MohamedNasheed. Wish him a speedy recovery. Know that he will never be intimidated,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/expresident-of-maldives-hurt-in-bomb-attack-101620349306007.html
07-05-2021||World||Class 6 girl opens fire at US school, shoots 3: Police||A girl opened fire at a school in the northwestern US state of Idaho on Thursday, injuring three people before being disarmed by a teacher, police said.The unnamed student at Rigby Middle School near Idaho Falls was in the sixth grade, meaning she would likely be aged 11 or 12.She "retrieved a handgun from her backpack, fired multiple rounds inside of the school and out," said Jefferson County sheriff Steve Anderson.Injuries suffered by two students and one staff member are not thought to be life-threatening, he said."During the shooting a teacher disarmed the student, and detained her until law enforcement took her into custody," added Anderson at a press conference.The shooting is being investigated by the FBI as well as local law enforcement.The US has suffered a spate of mass shootings in recent weeks, including at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis, an office building in California, a grocery store in Colorado and at several spas in Atlanta.President Joe Biden last month branded US gun violence an "epidemic" and an "international embarrassment"There were more than 43,000 gun-related deaths in the United States last year, including suicides, according to the Gun Violence Archive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/class-6-girl-opens-fire-at-us-school-shoots-3-police-101620348178887.html
07-05-2021||World||Moderna’s booster shots effective against variants||Moderna’s Covid-19 booster shots gave positive results against immune system-evading strains that emerged in South Africa and Brazil, according to early results from a mid-stage trial.Two types of booster shots studied spurred higher levels of virus-halting antibodies against the strain P.1 that hit Brazil and B.1.351, common in South Africa, Moderna said. One of the boosters is an additional low-dose shot of its existing vaccine, while the other type is customised against the South Africa strain.Scientists and drugmakers are moving rapidly to head off the rise of coronavirus variants with new mutations that may help them elude existing vaccines from Moderna, Pfizer-BioNTech, and Johnson & Johnson.Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayIn Moderna’s trial, the customised booster, called mRNA-1273.351, produced the highest levels of antibodies against the strain common in South Africa.“We are encouraged by these new data, which reinforces our confidence that our booster strategy should be protective against these newly detected variants,” said Stephane Bancel, Moderna’s CEO.Meanwhile, Moderna said that initial results from its trial of its Covid vaccine in adolescents aged 12-17 years showed that it was 96% effective, with no serious safety problems identified so far.The company is continuing to collect data and is in discussions with regulators about amending its emergency use authorisation to include teenagers.China detects 18 cases of double mutant variantChina has confirmed at least 18 cases of the “double mutant” coronavirus variant circulating in India, including in three Chinese nationals who worked near New Delhi and returned home last month. The Chinese CDC has told state media that more Covid-19 cases imported from India were feared to be found, but they were unlikely to trigger cluster infections because proper measures were in place.Philippines orders arrest of face mask violatorsPhilippine President Rodrigo Duterte has ordered the police to arrest anyone not wearing a mask properly, including those who wear it below the nose, as the country battles to contain a sharp rise in coronavirus infections.(With inputs from Sutirtho Patranobis)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/modernas-booster-shots-effective-against-variants-101620347706550.html
07-05-2021||World||US can prevent 6 mn cases if it vaccinates half its population by summer: Study||A new study finds if the United States vaccinates half its population by the summer vs fall, 6.8 million cases could be prevented and USD 9.8 billion in societal costs could be saved.The study published in the Journal of Infectious Diseases shows the lives, hospitalisations, and costs that can be saved by even relatively small increases in vaccination coverage and reaching higher vaccination coverage levels sooner (e.g., by the end of the summer versus fall/winter).The study was led by researchers from PHICOR (Public Health Informatics, Computational, and Operations Research) at CUNY Graduate School of Public Health & Health Policy, the National School of Tropical Medicine at Baylor College of Medicine, and Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe team developed a computer simulation model of the entire U.S. and the spread of the COVID-19 coronavirus throughout the country. Using the model, the team could simulate vaccinating different proportions of the population at different rates with different types of COVID-19 vaccines. Like real people, each of these virtual people could become infected with the virus and develop different symptoms over time and, depending upon the severity of those symptoms, visit clinics, emergency departments, or hospitals. These in turn would have associated costs, allowing the tracking of various medical costs and productivity losses.The study showed that going from a 30 per cent vaccination coverage to a 40 per cent coverage could save 24.3 million cases and $33.1 billion in direct medical costs and productivity losses. Going from 50 per cent to 70 per cent coverage could save 9.5 million cases and 10.8 billion in direct medical costs and productivity losses.In fact, even relatively small increases in vaccine coverage can prevent thousands of cases and lives and hundreds of millions in costs. For example, results from the model showed each 1 per cent increase between 40 and 50 per cent of the U.S. population being vaccinated by the fall can prevent 1.6 million cases, 60,190 hospitalizations, and 7,100 deaths and save USD 674.2 million in direct medical costs and USD 1.5 billion in productivity losses.Each 1 per cent increase between 50 and 70 per cent can prevent 473,900 cases, 17,600 hospitalizations, 2,000 deaths, and 537 million in direct medical costs and productivity losses.The study also emphasised the importance of reaching higher coverage levels as soon as possible. For example, speeding up vaccinations to reach a 50 per cent coverage by July 2021 instead of October 2021 could save an additional 5.8 million cases, 215,790 hospitalizations, 26,370 deaths, USD 3.5 billion in direct medical costs, and USD 4.3 billion in productivity losses.Results suggested that getting as many people fully vaccinated as possible before the early winter would be particularly important. The model incorporated changes in the transmission of the virus that occurred with the changing seasons in 2020, when surges occurred during the winter months, and projected what may happen in 2021. For example, when 50 per cent of the U.S. population is vaccinated by October 2021 instead of the end of December 2021, 6.6 million cases, 252,260 hospitalizations, 29,380 deaths, USD 4.0 billion direct medical costs, and USD 8.0 billion productivity losses were saved."The results of this study can give policymakers, community leaders, and other decision-makers a sense of how much can be invested into vaccinating those who may be harder to get vaccinated," explained Sarah Bartsch, MPH, the study's lead author and project director for PHICOR."Such investments may end up paying for themselves. For example, the potential cost savings exceed the USD 1.5 billion Biden Administration community outreach and media campaign. Our results show that increasing total vaccination coverage by just one per cent could cover the costs of this effort.""The longer it takes to reach higher vaccination coverage levels and herd immunity thresholds, the more the virus can spread," said Bruce Y Lee, senior author of the study, executive director of PHICOR, and CUNY SPH professor."It may be particularly important to reach higher coverage levels before the late fall to prevent another winter surge."Additionally, the study showed how increasing vaccination coverage levels were more valuable than using vaccines with higher effectiveness. For example, we found that achieving a 70 per cent coverage with a 70 per cent effective vaccine can save 2.1 million cases and 5.5 billion in medical costs and productivity losses compared to achieving a 50 per cent coverage with a 90 per cent effective vaccine over the same period.This shows the value of using all Covid-19 vaccines that are available to get more people vaccinated as soon as possible, rather than focusing only on those with the highest effectiveness. Moreover, as more contagious variants circulate, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of the existing Covid-19 vaccines, this can help address concerns about continuing with the existing vaccines or waiting for an updated version.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-can-prevent-6-mn-cases-if-it-vaccinates-half-its-population-by-summer-study-101620346342709.html
07-05-2021||World||Twitter shuts down accounts for attempting to evade Trump ban||Twitter Inc suspended several accounts this week that were set up to share statements from a new part of former US President Donald Trump's website, saying they broke its rules against evading an account ban.Trump was banned from Twitter, where he had more than 88 million followers, and multiple other social media platforms following the deadly Jan. 6 siege of the US Capitol by his supporters.On Tuesday, a page was added to Trump's site, dubbed "From the Desk of Donald J. Trump," where he posts messages that can be shared by his audience to both Twitter and Facebook."As stated in our ban evasion policy, we'll take enforcement action on accounts whose apparent intent is to replace or promote content affiliated with a suspended account," a Twitter spokesman said in a statement.A Trump representative said they had nothing to do with the suspended accounts, which included @DJTDesk, @DJTrumpDesk, @DeskofDJT and @DeskOfTrump1.Twitter, which has said that its ban on Trump is permanent even if he runs for office again, has said users can share content from the Trump page as long as it does not fall foul of its ban evasion rules.On Wednesday, Facebook Inc's oversight board upheld Facebook's suspension of Trump but said the company should not have made it indefinite. The board gave Facebook six months to decide a proportionate response.Trump plans to launch his own social media platform, an adviser has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitter-shuts-down-accounts-for-attempting-to-evade-trump-ban-101620345959928.html
07-05-2021||World||Covid-19: US defense chief underscores America's commitment to support India||The US is doing everything to support India's frontline healthcare workers during the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin has said.He said the US has already delivered tons of health supplies to India in the past few days."I should say just a word about the crisis facing our friends in India. We're moving urgently to support India's front-line healthcare workers. And three U.S. Air Force C-5M Super Galaxies and a C-17 Globemaster 3 has already delivered many tons of critical supplies," Austin told reporters at a Pentagon news conference on Thursday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageEarlier in the day, Under Secretary of Defense for Policy Dr Colin H Kahl spoke with Indian Defense Secretary Dr Ajay Kumar.During the call, Kahl assured Kumar that the US Defense Department will continue to stand by India in its moment of need, according to a readout of the call by Pentagon Deputy Press Secretary Jamal Brown.Dr Kahl and Dr Kumar highlighted the enduring strength of the US-India strategic partnership, noting that the bonds between the two nations have only deepened in times of crisis,” he said.They reiterated their commitment to working closely with like-minded countries, including Quadrilateral partners, to address the defining challenges of the time, Brown said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-us-defense-chief-underscores-america-s-commitment-to-support-india-101620346200886.html
07-05-2021||World||Thaw in tensions with Britain after French fishermen end stir over rights||French fishermen started leaving the British isle of Jersey on Thursday evening and ended a protest over post-Brexit fishing rights, after the U.K. and France sent military patrol ships to the area.Representatives of the fishing fleet, who are upset at the conditions attached to licenses needed to operate in the area, said they had made their point and will be heading back to France.On Thursday, Britain and France sent navy and coastal patrol ships to waters near the Channel island of Jersey as tensions spiralled between the two neighbours. The posturing was sparked by a protest by French fishing boats, which gathered outside Jersey’s main port, raising fears of a blockade.That prompted British Prime Minister Boris Johnson to send two royal navy gunboats to the area, with France following suit with two of its own coast patrol vessels.The British navy vessels HMS Severn and HMS Tamar arrived in Jersey’s waters to “monitor the situation,” the UK government said on Thursday, while people in the French military said “the situation is very calm overall”.Johnson said on Thursday that two Royal Navy vessels would remain off the island of Jersey, his office said after a call between Johnson and Jersey’s Chief Minister John Le Fondré.Earlier in the day, the European Commission, the executive arm of the European Union, appealed for tensions to be defused. “...obviously we call for restraint and for calm, and for discussing the issue at stake between the two stakeholders calmly,” spokesperson Dana Spinant said at a daily briefing in Brussels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thaw-in-tensions-with-britain-after-french-fishermen-end-stir-over-rights-101620334496940.html
07-05-2021||India||More than 167 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered so far: Centre||The total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered across the country has exceeded 16.71 crore, the Union health ministry said on Friday.It said 2,96,289 beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group received their first dose of Covid vaccine on Friday and cumulatively 14,78,865 people across 30 states and union territories.The total number of doses administered so far stands at 16,71,64,452, the ministry said.The beneficiaries include 95,19,788 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 64,28,032 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,38,49,396 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose, 76,31,653 FLWs who have taken the second dose and 14,78,865 people in the 18-44 age group who have taken the first dose, it said.Besides, 5,46,94,917 and 58,29,433 beneficiaries in the 45 to 60 age group have taken the first and second dose respectively, while 5,34,89,421 and 1,42,42,947 beneficiaries above 60 years have been administered the first and second dose, it added.According to a provisional report, 21,27,057 doses were administered on Friday, the 112th day of the vaccination drive. As many as 9,14,322 beneficiaries were administered the first dose and 12,12,735 received the second dose, the ministry said, adding that final reports for the day would be completed by late night."The vaccination exercise, as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19, continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level," the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-167-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-so-far-centre-101620410267451.html
07-05-2021||India||Five days after election results, Assam yet to get a new CM||Results for the Assam assembly polls declared on May 2 gave a clear verdict to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and allies for another term in power. But five days after the outcome, voters in the state are not sure who will head the next government in Assam. This comes at a time when other states where elections took place simultaneously have already witnessed new heads of state assuming office. Mamata Banerjee took charge as West Bengal chief minister for a third time on Wednesday and MK Stalin took oath in Tamil Nadu on Friday. In Assam, the delay is due to the BJP leadership in New Delhi failing to select one among incumbent CM Sarbananda Sonowal and senior minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, both claimants for the top post. “Government formation will happen in due course. Right now all our focus is on controlling the spread of Covid19 across the state and saving lives,” Sonowal said on Friday while taking stock of facilities to tackle the disease. The BJP leadership is yet to send central observers to Assam to interact with the party’s state office-bearers and no official meeting of the 60 newly elected members have taken place to choose the new CM. “The delay was initially due to the violence in West Bengal after declaration of results in which the Trinamool Congress workers targeted our members. The prevailing Covid-19 situation in the country has also affected the decision on formation of the next government,” said BJP spokesperson Rupam Goswami. “There’s already a caretaker government in place in Assam and it is functioning well. There’s no difference within the party on the CM’s post and the same will be announced soon,” he added. The delay in government formation is happening at a time when the state is witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases. On Thursday, Assam recorded 4,936 new positive cases, which was the highest ever single day figure for the state since the pandemic started last year. The state recorded 46 deaths on Thursday. “BJP got a clear and decisive mandate, but still it hasn’t been able to form a government. Especially at a time when the state is going through a difficult time, critical decisions like dates of board examinations and handling of the Covid19 spike shouldn’t be left to an ad-hoc government,” Congress Lok Sabha MP Pradyut Bordoloi said. “At present, what was needed was an all-out effort on war footing to check the alarming surge in Covid-19 and community spread of the disease seen in tea-gardens. But the delay exposes the bankruptcy of the BJP’s decision-making process,” he added. Akhil Ranjan Dutta, professor of political science in Gauhati University said that the BJP’s defeat in West Bengal could have played a part in delay in announcement of Assam’s next CM. “The outcome in West Bengal in a way eroded the moral authority of the BJP leadership to dictate or impose decisions in Assam. Therefore, they are taking time and indulging in negotiations as they are worried about a possible revolt,” Dutta said. “The BJP got its fourth successive poll victory in Assam in this election since 2014 general elections. But the delay in the government formation process amounts to complete insult to the faith reposed in the party by the voters,” he added. People aware of the developments confirmed late on Friday that both Sonowal and Sarma have been called to New Delhi by the party high command to sort out the leadership issue. Both leaders are scheduled to leave by a chartered flight early on Saturday and take part in meetings with senior leaders. It is also believed that the name of the next CM could be announced on Sunday and the oath-taking ceremony may be held on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-days-after-election-results-assam-yet-to-get-a-new-cm-101620410161800.html
07-05-2021||India||5 million Covishield doses meant for export to UK to be used in India||Fifty lakh doses of ‘Covishield’ vaccine earmarked by the Serum Institute for export to the United Kingdom have now been made available for the inoculation of 18-44 age group in 21 states/UTs in India, amid a surge in COVID-19 cases, official sources said.The Centre's decision to allocate these doses to 21 states and Union territories (UTs) came after Prakash Kumar Singh, director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at Pune-based Serum Institute of India, recently wrote to the Union health ministry seeking permission for the same.The Serum Institute had on March 23 sought permission from the ministry to supply 50 lakh doses of Covishield to the UK, citing an agreement with AstraZeneca in this regard, while assuring India that its own anti-coronavirus vaccination programme will not be disturbed due to this supply."The stock of 50 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine is now available for inoculation of 18-44 age group people in 21 states and UTs," an official source said.The ministry has asked the states to contact the company and initiate procurement activity promptly.While some states have been allocated 3,50,000 doses each, others got 1,00,000 doses each and two others have been assigned 50,000 doses each based on the COVID-19 caseload, official sources said.The jabs are labelled as ‘COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca’ injections and not ‘Covishield’.Developed by Oxford University and Swedish-British pharma major AstraZeneca, Covishield is being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII).India saw a record 4,14,188 new coronavirus infections in a day, pushing the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 2,14,91,598, while the death toll increased to 2,34,083 with 3,915 fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours, according to the ministry data updated on Friday morning.The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated and the vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2.The next phase of the COVID-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for those over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions.India launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 years from April 1.Implementation of the Liberalised and Accelerated Phase 3 Strategy of COVID-19 Vaccination to inoculate those in the age group of 18-44 years started from May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-million-covishield-doses-meant-for-export-to-uk-to-be-used-in-india-101620408294815.html
07-05-2021||India||Waiver of patent protections key step for scaling up manufacture, availability of vaccines: Shringla||India’s proposal at the World Trade Organization (WTO) for waiver of patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines is an important step for ensuring the rapid scaling up of manufacture and availability of vaccines, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Friday. In a virtual address to a UN Security Council debate on international peace and security and multilateralism, he said the challenges of today’s interdependent world cannot be addressed by outdated systems and a reformed Security Council is at the core of India’s call for reformed multilateralism. India has worked with South Africa and other partners in the WTO “to seek a relaxation in the norms of the TRIPS agreement to ensure quick and affordable access to vaccines and medicines for developing countries during the Covid-19 pandemic”, Shringla said. “This waiver will be an important step for enabling the rapid scaling up of manufacture and timely availability of affordable Covid-19 vaccines and essential medical products on a global basis,” he said, days after the US administration announced it backs a temporary suspension of patent protections for vaccines. India, he pointed out, provided Covid-19 vaccines, pharmaceuticals and medical equipment to more than 150 countries over the past year, and is now extending appreciation to “those that have come forward to provide us with some priority requirements to battle the second wave” of the pandemic. Shringla said the challenges of today’s dynamic and interdependent world, including terrorism, pandemics, climate change, threats from emerging technologies, disruptive role of non-state actors and intensifying geopolitical competition, can’t be addressed by outdated systems designed to deal with problems of the past. “While the UN has addressed most of these issues somewhat partially and intermittently, our collective effort has nonetheless fallen short in providing effective and enduring solutions, particularly due to the infirmities within the multilateral system,” he said. Shringla described 2021 as a “watershed moment” that provides a “timely opportunity to reflect on the effectiveness of the UN” in achieving its goals and objectives set out 75 years ago. The pandemic has sharpened awareness about global interdependence, and the lack of a coordinated global response has exposed the vulnerabilities and weaknesses of the contemporary multilateral system, he added. “At the core of India’s call for reformed multilateralism lies the reform of the UN Security Council, reflective of the contemporary realities of today. When power structures continue to reflect the status quo of a bygone era, they also start reflecting a lack of appreciation of contemporary geopolitical realities,” he said. Multilateral institutions must be made more accountable to members, and the Security Council must be more representative of developing countries in order to deliver effective solutions, Shringla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/waiver-of-patent-protections-key-step-for-scaling-up-manufacture-availability-of-vaccines-shringla-101620407761315.html
07-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Kejriwal instructs officials to ensure bed availability, oxygen supply, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19: Kejriwal instructs officials to ensure availability of beds, oxygen supplyDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday instructed officers to ensure that there is no shortage of beds, now that the oxygen supply situation is coming under control. Read moreMucormycosis among Covid-19 patients not major, says Centre, lists 5 measuresReacting to reports of mucormycosis or black fungus among Covid-19 patients, Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul on Friday said that the occurrence is natural and the correlation between mucormycosis and Covid-19 is not exclusive. The infection affects only those who have a high blood sugar level, notwithstanding the presence of Covid-19 infection. Read moreTMC spokesperson lodges complaint against actor Kangana Ranaut in KolkataA Trinamool Congress spokesperson has lodged a complaint against actor Kangana Ranaut at a police station in Kolkata for allegedly spreading hate propaganda in a bid to incite communal violence in West Bengal. Read moreHow women are shaping political fortunes in IndiaThe results of the recently concluded assembly elections have reaffirmed a phenomenon that has been increasingly discussed across the past few electoral seasons — the importance of women as a voting bloc in India. Read moreRavindra Jadeja returns as India announce squad for World Test Championship final and England TestsThe BCCI on Friday picked a strong 20-member squad for India's tour of England which starts next month. India will travel to England for a four-month long tour, which will begin with the World Test Championship final against New Zealand on June 18, before facing the hosts in a five-Test series. Read more'Abhinav Shukla will win': Rakhi Sawant predicts Khatron Ke Khiladi 11 winner, calls Mowgli her forefatherRakhi Sawant has shared her verdict on the Khatron Ke Khiladi 11 contestant list. The Bigg Boss 14 contestant was spotted on her daily coffee run in Mumbai on Friday where she discussed the adventure reality show with the paparazzi. Read moreAnand Mahindra’s share featuring lions from Junagarh talks about co-existenceBusiness tycoon Anand Mahindra is known for sharing many insightful posts on Twitter that garners much praise from netizens. His latest share is no different. The video features two lions drinking water from a reservoir inside a human settlement, but what makes the clip more profound is the caption shared alongside it. Read moreWatch: Covid: Doctors bust myths on prevention, medicines amid 3rd wave warning||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-kejriwal-instructs-officials-to-ensure-bed-availability-oxygen-supply-and-all-the-latest-news-101620399006999.html
07-05-2021||India||Telangana extends night curfew by a week, imposes curbs on public gatherings||The Telangana government on Friday announced the extension of night curfew for one more week to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the state, while imposing further restrictions on public gatherings. The orders were issued by chief secretary Somesh Kumar in the evening. The night curfew – from 9 pm to 6 am the following day – will continue till May 15. “All business establishments, hotels and other offices should be closed by 8 pm. Collectors and superintendents of police, besides commissioners of police in all major cities have been empowered to implement the night curfew,” the chief secretary said. The state government also imposed restrictions on public gatherings like marriages and other such events. Only 100 members would be allowed to attend any such event under strict compliance of Covid-19 norms. Similarly, for funerals, not more than 20 people would be allowed. The government completely banned political meetings, rallies, sports and other entertainment programmes in view of the Covid-19 situation. The Telangana government on Thursday night declared that there was no question of imposing any kind of lockdown – partial or total, to contain the spread of Coronavirus on the ground that it would lead to the total collapse of the financial system of the state. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, who held a high-level official meeting at his camp office late on Thursday, told officials that a lockdown would make life stand still and would affect the livelihood of over 25-30 lakh migrant workers from other states who work in Telangana. “Moreover, there is bumper yield of paddy in the state and workers are busy in procurement activity in 6144 procurement centres in the state. There are lakhs of people involved in the process. What will happen to the workers who have come from other states and are working in the rice mills, if lockdown is imposed? The entire paddy purchasing process will come to a standstill if lockdown is imposed,” he said. He said if the lockdown was imposed, it would lead to panic. “Hence we are not ready for lockdown. However, we will identify the areas where the cases of infection are more and declare them as micro-level containment zones and take the required measures,” he explained. According to the official bulletin from the state medical and health department, Telangana reported 5,559 new Covid-19 infections and 41 fatalities as on Friday evening, taking the cumulative number of positive cases to 4,87,199 and total deaths to 2,666. The number of active cases in Telangana currently stands at 71,308.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-extends-night-curfew-by-a-week-imposes-curbs-on-public-gatherings-101620400260700.html
07-05-2021||India||India to receive between 190-250 mn fully subsidised Covid vaccines; $30 mn fin assistance: Gavi||Gavi, a global alliance on vaccines, on Friday said that India would receive between 190 and 250 million fully subsidised doses of Covid-19 vaccine and funds up to USD 30 million for urgent technical assistance and cold chain equipment.A decision on the matter was taken by the COVAX Board in December, a Gavi spokesperson said.Gavi, previously called Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation is a public–private global health partnership which is leading the global effort to provide vaccines to low- and middle-income countries.“Gavi commits its full support to helping India come through its current crisis. In December 2020, the COVAX Board agreed that India would receive approximately 20 per cent of the total doses available to AMC (Advance Market Commitment)- eligible countries through the COVAX Facility – estimated at between 190 and 250 million fully-subsidised doses – subject to vaccine prices and available funds,” a Gavi spokesperson told PTI."India is also to receive 20 per cent of the total funding available to AMC- eligible countries for urgent technical assistance and cold chain equipment, or USD 30 million," the spokesperson said.Responding to a question, Gavi acknowledged that the current crisis in India has impacted its vaccine supply chain given that the country has been a major producer and supplier of vaccines.Much of COVAX’s second quarter supplies were due to be fulfilled by the Serum Institute of India (SII). As SII focuses production towards domestic needs, this has inevitably led to a shortfall for other parts of the world, the spokesperson said.As a result, COVAX is aiming to address this in the very short term by securing dose donations from high income economies that have a surplus, as well as working towards other short-medium term goals such as diversifying its portfolio of suppliers and decreasing bottlenecks that are currently hampering global production increases, the spokesperson noted.Gavi welcomed the decision by the United States government to use all mechanisms to increase global equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines.“We also recognise the significance of the (Biden) administration's commitment to work towards increasing raw material production which will have an immediate impact on alleviating current global supply constraints,” the spokesperson said.It is important now that in the interests of global equitable access, that the US supports manufacturers to transfer not only IP but also know-how in a bid to urgently boost global production, said the spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-receive-between-190-250-million-fully-subsidised-covid-vaccines-gavi-101620394755668.html
07-05-2021||India||TMC spokesperson lodges complaint against actor Kangana Ranaut in Kolkata||A Trinamool Congress spokesperson has lodged a complaint against actor Kangana Ranaut at a police station in Kolkata for allegedly spreading hate propaganda in a bid to incite communal violence in West Bengal. “Ranaut has made several offensive posts from her verified official Instagram handle in the story section. She has also distorted and maligned the image of chief minister of West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee,” the complaint read. The complaint was filed by Riju Dutta, spokesperson of the TMC, at the Ultadanga police station late on Thursday night. “We have received a complaint and a FIR has been lodged,” said an officer of the police station. The actor had allegedly attacked the chief minister over post-poll violence and had uploaded distorted pictures of the Bengal chief minister accusing her of unleashing a Hindu genocide.Banerjee had on Thursday told the media that at least 16 people have been killed in post-poll violence in the state. Ranaut’s Twitter account was ‘permanently suspended’ on Tuesday, after she posted a series of tweets reacting to the recent West Bengal assembly election results. This isn’t the first time that the actor has been penalised by the social media platform. Earlier this year, certain restrictions were imposed on her account after her tweet against Amazon Prime Video web-series Tandav, in which she said it was ‘time to take (the makers’) heads off’ for hurting religious sentiments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-spokesperson-lodges-complaint-against-actor-kangana-ranaut-in-kolkata-101620392519902.html
07-05-2021||India||WhatsApp scraps May 15 deadline for accepting privacy policy terms||WhatsApp has scrapped its May 15 deadline for users to accept its controversial privacy policy update and said not accepting the terms will not lead to deletion of accounts.WhatsApp had faced severe backlash over user concerns that data was being shared with parent company Facebook.A WhatsApp spokesperson told PTI that no accounts will be deleted on May 15 for not accepting the policy update."No accounts will be deleted on May 15 because of this update and no one in India will lose functionality of WhatsApp either. We will follow up with reminders to people over the next several weeks," the spokesperson said in an emailed response to a query on Friday.The spokesperson added that while a "majority of users who have received the new terms of service have accepted them", some people have not had the chance to do so yet.However, the company did not clarify the reason behind the decision and did not divulge the number of users who have accepted the terms so far.In January this year, WhatsApp had informed users about the changes in its terms of service and public policy through an in-app notification. Users were initially given time till February 8 to agree to the new terms in order to continue using the platform.According to WhatsApp, the key updates include more information about its service and how it processes user data; how businesses can use Facebook hosted services to store and manage their WhatsApp chats; and how WhatsApp partners with Facebook to offer integrations across the company products.WhatsApp has insisted that the acceptance of the privacy policy update does not expand its ability to share user data with Facebook.However, user backlash over WhatsApp's alleged sharing of user information with Facebook forced the company to postpone the February deadline to May 15.The WhatsApp spokesperson said the company has spent the last few months working to "clear up confusion and misinformation". "As a reminder, this update does not impact the privacy of personal messages for anyone. Our goal is to provide information about new options we are building that people will have, to message a business on WhatsApp, in the future," the spokesperson said.The company further stated that it will take every opportunity to explain how it protects people's personal messages and private information. The softening of stance on the deadline comes at a time when digital platforms like Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp have become lifelines for people looking for oxygen cylinders, hospital beds, plasma donors and ventilators as the country reels under the deadly second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic.India is the biggest market for WhatsApp, and the platform -- as per government data -- has 53 crore users in the country.India remains a critical market for Internet companies like Facebook with its large population base and burgeoning Internet adoption.The country is the world's second-largest telecom market and the biggest consumer of data. Following the backlash faced by WhatsApp earlier this year, the popularity of rivals like Telegram and Signal surged as users thronged these platforms. WhatsApp, in the past, has said it is open to answering any questions from the government on the privacy issue and that it will continue to explain to users that their messages are end-to-end encrypted.It had also sought to assuage user concerns through blog posts and tweets by its Global Head Will Cathcart and even full-page ads in leading dailies in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whatsapp-scraps-may-15-deadline-for-accepting-privacy-policy-terms-101620390353144.html
07-05-2021||India||Kerala: Covid-19 call centre operations resume as cases spike||As Kerala continued to witness a spike in Covid-19 cases in the second wave, the Health Department has recommenced its call centre to redress the doubts and concerns of people and help them by passing on information regarding the pandemic.The doubts, raised by callers, would be cleared and significant information collected from them would be forwarded to different district authorities and departments concerned for further action.The operation of the call centre resumed in the wake of a surge in the number of Covid-19 patients, a Health Department statement said here.Selected staff are deployed at the call centres after they are imparted expert training to answer various queries related to the pandemic, it added.As the government announced a lockdown in the state from Saturday, the Health Department also expanded 'esanjeevani', its telemedicine system, to help people to get the service of expert doctors while staying safe at home.As part of this, the Covid-19 out-patient (OP) service through the 'esanjeevani' platform has been extended to 24 hours from Friday.Anyone, who is under observation for suspected virus infection, those undergoing treatment for the disease and those with symptoms, can avail the service.For this, doctors, with experience and expertise in treating COVID-19, are assigned for 24 hours, a health department statement added.Meanwhile, a multilingual call centre, launched by the state Labour Department to clear the doubts raised by the migrant workers and settle their issues during the pandemic days, is operational now.Call centres and control rooms have been set up for guest workers at the state level in the Labour Commissionerate here and also at 14 district headquarters, official sources said.Bilingual officials are assigned in these centres to answer the queries and doubts raised by the guest workers, they said adding that call centre services are available in various languages including Assamese, Oriya, Bengali and Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-covid-19-call-centre-operations-resume-as-cases-spike-101620379537707.html
07-05-2021||India||Goa govt imposes 15-day lockdown from May 9 amid Covid-19 spike||Goa government on Friday imposed a 15-day lockdown starting from May 9 at 9am. Curfew like restrictions will be imposed in the state. However, essentials will be available between 7am and 1pm while takeaway will be allowed from 7am to 7pm.Earlier in the day, Sawant had hinted at a lockdown in the state to curb the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Sawant said all the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLAs have been asked to set up a war room in their constituencies to coordinate efforts to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. "The MLAs will also have to start round-the-clock call centres which will be in touch with Covid-19 patients," he added.Goa is currently under stringent Covid-19-related lockdown, which includes closure of non-essential shops. The restrictions come at a time when Goa is battling a high positivity rate -- 51.65% with 3,496 of the 6,769 tests conducted emerging positive. Sawant has said that he expects the positivity rate to come down over the next 10 days as the effects of the state ramping up testing are yet to be seen.Goa on Thursday reported 3,869 fresh Covid-19 cases that took the infection count to 1,08,267, an official from the health department said. The death toll mounted to 1,501 after 58 patients died of the infection. There are now 29,752 active cases. The case tally stands at 1,08,267.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-govt-imposes-15-day-lockdown-from-may-9-amid-covid-19-spike-101620389667785.html
07-05-2021||India||Kerala HC refuses to stay govt order to cap RT-PCR test at ₹500||The Kerala high court on Friday refused to stay a government order reducing the price of RT-PCR tests for Covid-19 from ₹1,700 to ₹500 for private laboratories.A single bench accepted the contention of the government that the decision was based on a study conducted by the Kerala Medical Services Corporation. The government pleader also said the prices of the tests in other states range from ₹400 to ₹600.Also Read | 414,188 new Covid cases recorded in India in biggest daily spike, 3,915 deathsThe petitioners argued that the decision was taken without consultation with private laboratories, and they will incur huge losses if they get a high volume of tests. But the government contended that a testing kit costs ₹270, and the rest can be considered as the fee for human resources, etc.“The government arrived at the rate after conducting the market study. We also found that charges in many other states like Haryana, Telangana, and Uttarakhand are within the same range. Considering the present situation, we do not find any reason to stay the government order,” the court said.Many laboratories stopped RT-PCR tests citing losses. Later, the government threatened to confiscate them and prompted 10 leading private laboratories to move the court two weeks back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-refuses-to-stay-govt-order-to-cap-rt-pcr-test-at-rs-500-101620390599802.html
07-05-2021||India||India has administered over 168mn Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered over 168 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Thursday, May 7. The Centre has promised to provide more than a million vaccine doses to the states and Union Territories within the next three days.In an official release, the ministry of health said they would be providing a total of 1,025,000 vaccine doses to the states and union territories within the next three days.Meanwhile, by Thursday 8pm, 164,876,248 vaccine doses had been given in India. In the 18-44 year category, 262,932 beneficiaries received their first dose and cumulatively, 1,164,076 beneficiaries in this category got their shot across 12 states/UT.Also Read | War rooms, field hospitals helped Mumbai in battle of second wave: OfficialsThe over 164 million number includes 9,500,564 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 6,391,562 who have got their second dose as well. As many as 13,758,487 frontline workers have had their first dose while 7,536,320 have got their second dose too.In the 45-59-year age group, 54,289,107 people have got their first dose and another 5,344,986 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 53,318,278 people have been administered their first dose while 13,572,868 have had their second dose as well.As many as 2,298,530 vaccine doses were given by the evening. Of this, 1,024,548 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 1,273,982 beneficiaries received their second dose as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-168mn-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101620390364156.html
07-05-2021||India||Mucormycosis among Covid-19 patients not major, says Centre, lists 5 measures||Reacting to reports of mucormycosis or black fungus among Covid-19 patients, Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul on Friday said that the occurrence is natural and the correlation between mucormycosis and Covid-19 is not exclusive. The infection affects only those who have a high blood sugar level, notwithstanding the presence of Covid-19 infection."It is a fungus that breeds on wet surfaces. It is very uncommon to happen among patients who do not have diabetes. There are reports of this fungal infection among Covid-19 patients. But I want to reassure you that there is no major outbreak and we are monitoring the cases at our level," Paul said.It is absolutely preventable, Paul said adding that if one's diabetes is under control, there is no reason to worry.Delhi hospital sees increase in deadly fungal infection among Covid-19 patients"There are three factors triggering this fungal infection: uncontrolled diabetes, immunosuppression because of steroids or any other disease and exposure to a wet surface. The presence of Covid-19, breathing difficulty is not necessary for this infection, we must remember," Paul said."For Covid-19 treatment, we are using life-saving steroids and medicines which suppress immunity. In addition, if one diabetic Covid-19 patient is on oxygen support, then he or she gets exposed to the humidifier. This increases the chance of the fungal infection," Dr Paul said.Listing out five measures that doctors should follow to minimise the chance of this infection among Covid-19 patients, Dr Paul said one must keep blood sugar under check, Covid or no Covid. Second, in Covid-19 treatment, steroid should be used judiciously, only in the recommended dose and after the sixth day, he said. Third, the humidifier, if the Covid-19 patient is on oxygen support, should have clean water. Fourth, the overall cleanliness of the covid-19 patient should be maintained. Fifth, if there is any new oral ulcer, it has to be treated immediately, Dr Paul said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mucormycosis-among-covid-19-patients-not-major-says-centre-lists-5-measures-101620388623307.html
07-05-2021||India||MP extends suspension of passenger bus services to neighbouring states||Madhya Pradesh on Friday extended the suspension of passenger bus services to Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan until May 15 due to the rise in Covid 19 cases.“As the chief minister extended Janta [people’s] curfew in MP [Madhya Pradesh] till May 15 so we have also extended the [suspension of] passenger bus services,” said additional commissioner (transport) Arvind Saxena. Also Read | States step up curbs as Covid-19 tightens gripThe bus services to Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh were suspended in March and those to Uttar Pradesh in April after a surge in cases due to Mahakumbh in Haridwar (Uttarakhand).The transportation of essential goods will remain unaffected even as borders with the neighbouring states have been sealed. “After the panchayat election, the cases of Covid 19 in the villages of Uttar Pradesh have been increased and people are coming to Madhya Pradesh for treatment. They are becoming super-spreaders in the villages of Madhya Pradesh. We have sealed the borders and deployed a police force to check the entry of people from Uttar Pradesh,” said Rakesh Singh, police superintendent, Rewa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-extends-suspension-of-passenger-bus-services-to-neighbouring-states-101620389639607.html
07-05-2021||India||DDMA quarantine for those coming to Delhi based on false report: Scientists||An order on Thursday that cited a virulent Covid-19 variant for mandatory 14-day quarantine for people arriving in Delhi from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana is based on a refuted news report, scientists said on Friday. The report referred to a paper, which is yet to be peer-reviewed. It was refuted by Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia, which is responsible for sequencing the viral genomes and keeping track of dominant variants in the country.Dr Anurag Agarwal, the director of New Delhi’s Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, said: “The news of N440K mutant on which this seems to be based was incorrect.”Rakesh Mishra, the director of Hyderbad’s Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), said it takes time to sequence the viral genome, analyse it, and then upload it to the database. “The variant was dominant in South India a few months back, but it is on its way out now. It has virtually disappeared from Karnataka and Kerala. Another few weeks and it will be extinct. It is not driving the current surge in cases.”The paper was based on laboratory experiments to determine the clinical implications of the mutation. The scientists found that the N440K mutation produced 10 times the viral load than the previous variants in circulation.Also Read | PIL to vaccinate Board exam students: HC seeks Centre, Delhi govt stand“Lineages with #N440K are NOT the dominant ones in the second wave of #Covid19inIndia. Also, it is important to remember that just because a variant behaves a certain way in cell cultures (with no competition, and in controlled settings), it does not mean it will behave the same way in humans, or in a complicated pandemic scenario,” said Divya Tej Sowpati, a researcher from CCMB, in a tweet.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday ordered the mandatory quarantine at government or paid facilities if those arriving from Andhra and Telangana do not have RT-PCR Covid-19 negative reports issued 72 hours prior to their arrival.In its order, DDMA said the virulent variant of Covid-19 reported to have been found in the two states has a shorter incubation period and high transmission rate. “...the progress of disease is much more rapid. Therefore additionally precautionary measures in respect of persons coming from the states of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana to Delhi via airlines, trains, buses, cars, trucks or any other mode of transportation are required to be taken in public interest.”HT has reached out to DDMA for a comment. The copy will be updated once it is received.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ddma-quarantine-for-those-coming-to-delhi-based-on-false-report-scientists-101620389039054.html
07-05-2021||India||J&K admin creating hurdles for NGOs helping Covid patients, alleges Omar||Former chief minister Omar Abdullah has criticised the Jammu & Kashmir administration for “creating hurdles” in the working of non-governmental organisations (NGOs), especially those providing medical help to the Covid-19 patients.“Don’t throw the baby out with the bathwater. Stopping the hoarding/black marketing of oxygen cylinders is a laudable goal. Preventing NGOs or making it tougher for them to help people get [oxygen] cylinders is dangerous. NGOs were working when the government was still in deep slumber,” tweeted Abdullah.He shared Srinagar deputy commissioner Mohammad Aijaz’s order on Thursday directing vendors to stop supplying oxygen to NGOs.Also Read | J&K’s grimmest day with record 4,926 cases, 52 deathsAijaz said the order was issued to ensure an adequate supply of oxygen to hospitals amid reports of black marketing. “...all oxygen manufacturing units within the jurisdiction of district Srinagar shall supply oxygen refills only to designated hospitals/clinics and will stop supply to any private society/NGO with immediate effect. Supplies to private persons/ societies/NGO’s (other than private hospitals) shall be made only with the prior approval of District Magistrate...,” he said in his order.After a backlash, Aijaz, in a tweet, said to provide fair and equal access to oxygen supply to the neediest patients, things have been streamlined. He added a proper mechanism is in place to ensure a regular supply.On Friday, local NGOs also held a meeting with the administration. “We told the government that NGOs are helping people so if oxygen is stopped, people will face problems. The matter has been resolved,” said Farooq Ahmad, an NGO worker.Srinagar had 10,666 active Covid-19 cases until Thursday, the highest in Jammu & Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jkadmin-creating-hurdles-for-ngos-helping-covid-patients-allegesomar-101620387719522.html
07-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Covid-19 3rd wave may not take place equally at every place, says expert and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.3rd wave of Covid-19 may not take place equally at every place, says expertK Vijay Raghavan, the principal scientific advisor to the government, on Friday clarified his earlier comment on a third wave of the pandemic being inevitable in the country and said such a wave may not take place equally at every place if adequate precautions are taken. "It may not take place at all if precautions are taken. The pandemic has different peaks and falls across the country," the expert said. Read more‘Gall to oppose the same project you…’: Puri rebuts Congress on Central VistaCivil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri slammed the Congress party on Friday on its questioning of the government’s Central Vista project, related to the redevelopment and construction of a new Parliament and a common central secretariat, and said that the incessant questioning by the Congress party exposes their “shameful double face”. Read moreCurb post-poll violence in Bengal, RSS asks TMCThe Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) on Friday criticised the West Bengal’s Trinamool Congress (TMC) government for failing to curb post-poll violence against its opponents and said it should establish rule of law, act against the culprits and instill a feeling of safety and confidence among the affected people. Read moreIf we fail to complete the IPL, the loss will be close to INR 2500 crore: BCCI president Sourav GangulyThe 2021 edition of the Indian Premier League was suspended indefinitely after 29 matches were played due to a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases inside the bio-bubble. Read moreYou’ll have to look twice to believe this Spider-man is a cake. Clip may make you droolThere are many videos on the Internet that showcase the talent of home-bakers as they churn out some surreal looking cakes. This Instagram clip of an inverted Spider-man cake is a delicious addition to those clips. With a first glance you may mistake it for a normal action figure but let us assure you that the making process may make your jaw drop. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5pm-covid-19-3rd-wave-may-not-take-place-equally-at-every-place-says-expert-and-all-the-latest-news-101620386498227.html
07-05-2021||India||‘Gall to oppose the same project you…’: Puri rebuts Congress on Central Vista||Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri slammed the Congress party on Friday on its questioning of the government’s Central Vista project, related to the redevelopment and construction of a new Parliament and a common central secretariat, and said that the incessant questioning by the Congress party exposes their “shameful double face”.“Congress doesn’t stop at hypocrisy. Look at their shameful double face. During UPA, Congress leaders wrote about the need for a new parliament. The Speaker in 2012 wrote a letter to the Urban Development Ministry for the same. And now they have the gall to oppose the same project?” Puri wrote in a series of tweets.Congress doesn’t stop at hypocrisy. Look at their shameful double face.During UPA, Congress leaders wrote about the need for a new parliament. The Speaker in 2012 wrote a letter to Urban Development Ministry for the same. And now they have the gall to oppose the same project? pic.twitter.com/33weJfsed1Puri also said that the government was well aware of its priorities adding that healthcare is one of the major priorities of the government.Read more: 20 heritage jamun trees may be uprooted in Central Vista revamp“Congress’s discourse on Central Vista is bizarre. Cost of Central Vista is about ₹20,000 crore, over several years. GoI has allocated nearly twice that amount for vaccination! India’s healthcare budget for just this year was over ₹3 lakh crore. We know our priorities,” Puri wrote on the micro-blogging site.“There are hundreds of projects being executed by various depts. Governance hasn’t come to a standstill, unlike the Congress’s times of policy paralysis. Central Vista is just another ongoing project. It’s only the Congress that’s obsessed about it, nobody else. Moreover, only projects for New Parliament Building & rejuvenation of Central Vista Avenue have been awarded at an estimated cost of ₹862 crore & ₹477 crore respectively till now. As I said, there are many components in the Central Vista project which are spread over several years,” Puri further wrote.Read more: Delhi high court defers hearing on plea seeking suspension of Central Vista project work amid Covid-19 surgeEarlier in the day, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi questioned the Centre over the Central Vista project. Calling the project "criminal wastage," Gandhi wrote, "Put people’s lives at the centre- not your blind arrogance to get a new house!" on Twitter. The Congress party has often questioned the government on the Central Vista project urging them to shelve the project and give priority to improving medical infrastructure in the country as it faces the challenge of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.In his post, Puri further said that the questions posed by the Congress party on the project are just “cheap politics” done to “spread lies.”Read more: PM house in new Central Vista given green clearance“They want to distract people from monumental governance failures in their states by spreading lies. So they indulge in cheap politics despite knowing this project creates direct & indirect employment for thousands of skilled, semi-skilled & unskilled workers in these times. While Central Vista is not new, see Congress’ hypocrisy. Congress & its allies are splurging on a new project reconstructing an MLA hostel in Maharashtra & building a new Legislative Assembly building in Chhattisgarh. If this is fine, what is the problem with Central Vista?,” Puri wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gall-to-oppose-the-same-project-you-puri-rebuts-congress-on-central-vista-101620384221125.html
07-05-2021||India||Armed forces spearhead India’s Covid response as crisis deepens||“’Jal’, ‘Thal’ and ‘Nabh’...our armed forces have left no stone unturned in strengthening the fight against COVID-19.” This tweet by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday recognised the critical contributions of the navy, army and air force to India’s pandemic response. The military has swiftly marshalled enormous resources to help manage -- in some measure -- what is being dubbed the world’s biggest health crisis.The armed forces, officials said on Friday, are operating in full battle mode for Covid relief. They foresee a bigger role for themselves in the coming weeks and months to help tackle the devastating second wave of the pandemic even as they cater to the health needs of serving soldiers, veterans and their dependents.Modi has reviewed the military’s preparations for Covid relief four times since April 26 in one-on-one meetings with the chief of defence staff and the three service chiefs.Firing on all cylindersThe armed forces are in the vanguard of the fight against the disease. They have helped meet the exploding demand for oxygen, set up Covid hospitals and opened military hospitals to civilians and transported critical medical stores.The Indian Air Force (IAF) is flying sorties daily to international and domestic locations to help overcome a shortage of oxygen. It has deployed eight C-17 Globemaster III aircraft, four IL-76s, 10 C-130J Super Hercules special operations aircraft, 20 An-32 transport planes, 10 Dornier aircraft and 20 helicopters for Covid-related duties.The IAF is airlifting much-needed empty oxygen containers from abroad and domestic locations to filling stations across the country to help beat oxygen shortages. Till May 6, IAF aircraft clocked almost 400 flying hours while performing Covid-related duties.Also Read | PM, Scott Morrison agree on importance of equitable access to Covid-19 vaccinesIAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria has ordered 24x7 readiness of the force’s entire heavy-lift fleet and substantial numbers of the medium-lift fleet to operate in a hub and spoke model for Covid-related duties.“IAF transport aircraft carried out 50 sorties, airlifting 61 oxygen containers of 1,142 MT capacity from abroad. Within the country, it carried out 344 sorties, airlifting 230 containers of 4,527 MT capacity till May 5,” defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Thursday, enumerating the steps taken by the armed forces in the battle against Covid.The army is helping authorities set up and run Covid facilities, treating civilians at military hospitals and providing medical specialists, super specialists and paramedics for adequate staffing at non-military hospitals, officials said.On Thursday, it mobilised two field hospitals by air from the northeast to Patna to assist the Bihar government set up a 500-bed Covid facility, including 100 intensive care unit (ICU) beds. Also, around 750 beds in various military hospitals across the country have been reserved for civilians.The army has also set up a Covid management cell under a three-star general to help civilian authorities. It is headed by the Director-General of Operational Logistics and Strategic Movement, who reports directly to the vice chief. The main responsibility of the new cell is to coordinate Covid-related logistics support across the country. The army is also liaising with state governments to help them deal with the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases.Also Read | Kuwait sends 215 MT of oxygen, ready to supply 1,400 MT in all, says envoyThe navy has assigned several of its warships - nine, at the last count - to ferry liquid oxygen-filled cryogenic containers and other medical stores from countries in the Middle East and South-East Asia under Operation Samudra Setu-II.On April 27, CDS General Bipin Rawat said the military still has “long distances to travel” in the Covid fight, a clear reference to the challenges lying ahead.Future courseSome experts and officials believe that the military has the potential to expand the scope of its assistance to the civilian authorities in these extraordinary times.The army, with its vast resources, can play a critical role in providing logistics support to civilian authorities, setting up communication centres to coordinate Covid relief, strengthening supply chain management, conducting outreach in remote areas, building more medical infrastructure and also helping with vaccination, said Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd).“Involving the military brings in an element of effectiveness. It has the capacity, skills and leadership to mount a swift response,” Hooda added.While the involvement of the armed forces in Covid relief efforts can be increased, many believe it is paramount that resources are not overstretched given the military’s vast operational responsibilities along the borders with China and Pakistan.In an article in Hindustan Times on May 5, strategic affairs expert Commodore C Uday Bhaskar wrote that maximising the institutional capacity of the military in the war against Covid, without diluting its primary operational orientation, in the backdrop of a resource crunch, is the task ahead for the Indian political and defence leadership.“The military’s core characteristics are professional competence, innovation in the face of adversity, proven organisational acumen and a deeply ingrained spirit of selfless service. Add to this the intrinsic training ethos of the military and some policy options can be identified,” Bhaskar wrote.Lieutenant General BS Sandhu (retd), a former director-general of supplies and transport, said the military can provide engineering support, help repair medical equipment and speed up the movement of critical medical stores. “However, we have to ensure that channelling resources into the Covid fight does not dilute the military’s operational role. More Covid waves are being predicted, and the role of the armed forces in this fight can’t be stretched beyond a limit,” he said The defence minister on Thursday said that the military’s efforts for Covid relief did not undermine its operational readiness. “All the efforts and initiatives by the armed forces and various organisations of the defence ministry…are being done without compromising the objective of defending the nation from any external threat.”Singh said the armed forces were walking the extra mile for the nation to emerge a winner in the fight against Covid. “Hard times demand the manifestation of an indomitable spirit to fight against the odds and that is what the country is doing at the moment.”Building capacitiesThe government has sanctioned emergency financial powers for the military and its medical wing to strengthen and accelerate efforts to deal with the crisis.While vice chiefs of armed forces, including the chief of integrated defence staff to the chairman chiefs of staff committee (CISC) and army commanders (and their equivalent ranks in the navy and air force) have been given “full powers”, corps commanders and area commanders have been delegated powers to spend up to ₹50 lakh per case.These powers have been granted for a period of three months, from May 1 to July 31.Also Read | Taiwan, Uzbekistan send support for India’s Covid-19 responseDivision commanders/sub area commanders and their equivalent ranks in the navy and air force have been delegated powers to spend up to ₹20 lakh per case. Such powers were sanctioned last year too when the pandemic first broke out.Emergency buying powers have also been conferred on senior military doctors. While the heads of the medical wings of the three services have been given powers to make purchases worth ₹five crore, doctors holding the ranks of major general and brigadier can now make procurements worth ₹three crore and ₹two crore, respectively.The armed forces are also marshalling 600 retired military doctors for Covid relief.DRDO, DPSUs fully involvedThe Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and defence public sector undertakings (DPSUs) are fully involved in Covid relief. The DRDO has so far set up or is in the process of setting up state-of-the-art Covid hospitals in six cities to treat more than 3,100 critical patients. It is also extending technical support to state governments in setting up temporary Covid hospitals, officials said.DRDO will set up 500 medical oxygen generating plants across the country within three months under the PM-CARES Fund to ramp up oxygen production.The Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) has earmarked nearly 60% of its existing medical set-up for Covid care. As many as 813 beds out of a total of 1,405 are reserved for Covid patients. The OFB is providing Covid care at its medical facilities in 25 locations across Maharashtra, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Odisha and Uttarakhand.The OFB is the country’s main producer of military arsenal.State-run plane-maker Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) is setting up a 250-bed Covid hospital in Lucknow. It has already set up two Covid facilities in Bengaluru with 250 and 180 beds each. It has also operationalised a 70-bed facility in Odisha’s Koraput and a 40-bed hospital in Maharashtra’s Nasik.The DPSUs are fast-tracking the procurement of oxygen plants for state government hospitals under their corporate social responsibility scheme. These include HAL, Bharat Dynamics Limited, Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited and Garden Reach Shipbuilders & Engineers Limited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armed-forces-spearhead-india-s-covid-response-as-crisis-deepens-101620386639467.html
07-05-2021||India||Curb post-poll violence in Bengal, RSS asks TMC||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) on Friday criticised the West Bengal’s Trinamool Congress (TMC) government for failing to curb post-poll violence against its opponents and said it should establish rule of law, act against the culprits and instill a feeling of safety and confidence among the affected people.“We urge upon the Union government to take necessary and all possible steps to establish peace in West Bengal and ensure that state government acts...” said RSS general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale in a statement.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has blamed TMC, which swept back to power on Sunday, for violence against its workers and supporters. It has said many of its workers have been grievously injured in the violence. On Thursday, Union minister V Muraleedharn’s vehicle was allegedly attacked in West Bengal.Referring to the violence, Hosable said,” The first and foremost responsibility of the ruling administration, whichever party may be in power, is to establish peace and safety in society by maintaining law and order, to instill fear of law in the minds of the antisocial elements, and to punish those involved in violent activities. The electoral victory belongs to political parties, but the elected government is accountable to the entire society.”Also Read | Bengal House now wears bipartisan political shadeHosable lashed out at the Mamata Banerjee government. “That the role of state administrative missionary was completely passive, and they remained mute spectators was the most heinous part of this unabated and inhuman violence. Neither the rioters seemed to be afraid of anything nor is there any initiative by the state police and administration to control the violence.”He also referred to alleged attacks on women and children. “...It is but natural that the opposing sides...sometimes cross the limits in making allegations and counter-allegations. However, we should always remember that all contesting parties belong to our country only and all those participating in the elections – the candidates, their supporters, the voters – are citizens of the nation.”There was no immediate response from the TMC, which has earlier rubbished the allegations as fake and said its workers have also been killed. Banerjee has also appealed for peace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/curb-post-poll-violence-in-bengal-rss-asks-tmc-101620386040785.html
07-05-2021||India||3rd wave of Covid-19 may not occur everywhere, explains govt's expert||K Vijay Raghavan, the principal scientific advisor to the government, on Friday clarified his earlier comment that a third wave of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic is inevitable in the country and said such a wave may not take place everywhere in the country if adequate precautions are taken. "It may not take place at all if precautions are taken. The pandemic has different peaks and falls across the country," the expert said, adding that the only condition for such waves is the presence of a susceptible population."It may be useful to talk about the location, timing and intensity of infections instead of waves and their number, although the latter is in common usage. If we take strong measures, the third wave may not happen at all places or indeed anywhere at all. It depends on how effectively the guidance is implemented at the local level, in the states, in districts," Raghavan said, referring to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, local lockdown measures etc.The "insidious, asymptomatic" transmission of the virus can be stopped, if the guidance on testing, treating, containing is followed, he said. "This sounds difficult, it is difficult but we can and must do it," he added.How different will Covid's 3rd wave be from first two? What government says"Very simply put, the infections rise when the virus has the opportunity to infect people. When the virus runs out of opportunities, infections fall," he said. Explaining, the principal scientific advisor said that when a large number of people is vaccinated against the virus or is following social distancing and other precautions, the virus runs out of opportunities.But when the virus runs out of opportunities, it does not mean that it has been eliminated. If new opportunities are given to them, cases will again rise. And new opportunities can arise if people become complacent, and if people think the pandemic is over, the expert explained."The frequency and the size of these ups and downs may be reduced as this is in our hands. Remember, asymptomatic people can also transmit the infection. This is all the more reason why you should maintain social distancing and proper hygiene," he said.This comes as a departure from his earlier comment where he warned the country of a third wave of the pandemic. In his earlier warning, he said a third wave seems inevitable given the high levels of the virus in circulation, though it's not clear when the third wave may attack. As people are building immunity against the virus, the virus is finding new ways to infect people. That's how the virus has worked so far, Raghavan earlier said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3rd-wave-may-not-take-place-equally-at-every-place-says-government-expert-101620385649432.html
07-05-2021||India||Stalin begins tenure by signing orders for welfare of Covid-19 affected, women||MK Stalin announced ₹4,000 assistance each to over 20 million ration cardholders facing financial difficulties due to the Covid-19 pandemic after he was sworn in as the Tamil Nadu chief minister on Friday.The order for the package was among the five he signed in line with promises made in the election manifesto of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, which returned to power in the state on Sunday.The ₹4,000 assistance will be paid in two installments beginning this month and will cost the state ₹4,153 crore.Also Watch | DMK president MK Stalin sworn in as Tamil Nadu chief ministerStalin extended the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme to cover treatment for Covid-19 in private hospitals for existing beneficiaries as infections surge. All working women and those pursuing higher education will now get to travel on state-owned buses for free from Saturday. Stalin ordered slashing of Aavin milk sold by Tamil Nadu Co-operative Milk Producers’ Federation Limited by ₹3. The state has sanctioned ₹1,200 crore for the purpose.A new department has also been formed to address people’s grievances within the first 100 days of the new government. The grievances were received during the “Stalin in your constituency” campaign.As many as 33 ministers took oath along with Stalin on Friday. Four bureaucrats have also been named as Stalin’s private secretaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-sworn-in-as-tamil-nadu-chief-minister-101620385559246.html
07-05-2021||India||India's Biological E to begin Phase III trial of vaccine, production from August||India's Biological E. Ltd will soon start Phase III trials of its COVID-19 vaccine and plans producing 75 million to 80 million doses a month from August, its managing director told Reuters on Friday.The company has developed the vaccine with Baylor College of Medicine in Houston and Dynavax Technologies Corp. Late last month it received approval from India's drug regulator to conduct a Phase III clinical trial, which Managing Director Mahima Datla said would begin soon.Government officials have said the vaccine, which uses the recombinant-protein technology in which a harmless agent is used to stimulate an immune response in cells, could be rolled out in the country from August.Datla said Biological E. would apply for emergency use authorisation (EUA) for the drug based on government advice.Production "from August but EUA depends on the government. Will follow their advice and directives," she said in a text message. "75-80 million doses a month from the time of launch."Datla declined to comment on any firm deal to contract-manufacture the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. She told Reuters in February that Biological E. was looking to make about 600 million doses of the J&J vaccine annually.J&J said last month it was in talks with India's government to begin a clinical trial of its single-dose shot.India, battling the world's worst jump in coronavirus infections, has partially or fully immunized only about 10% of its 1.35 billion people. It has administered a total of 163 million doses of the AstraZeneca shot and a domestically made one called Covaxin.The country has also received doses of the Sputnik V vaccine from Russia though it has not been launched yet in the country. India has also urged Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna to sell their shots to the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-biological-e-to-begin-phase-iii-trial-of-vaccine-production-from-august-101620380211704.html
07-05-2021||India||Allocate more oxygen to Bengal to prevent deaths: Mamata to PM||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allocate at least 550 metric tonne (MT) of medical oxygen to the state every day, without which, she said, more Covid patients may lose their lives. In her third letter to the PM in as many days, she wrote,“Any allocation of medical oxygen less than the requested amount (550 MT) will not only adversely affect the supply of medical oxygen but may also result in loss of lives of the patients, in the state.”On Thursday, West Bengal reported 18,431 new Covid-19 cases with the death toll at 117. On May 5, soon after resuming charge as the chief minister, Banerjee wrote to the PM over insufficient supply of vaccines, and shortage of essential drugs and medical oxygen. She also pointed out that the demand of medical oxygen in the state had doubled -- from 220MT to 400 MT per day. On Thursday, she shot off another letter to the PM, urging him to “advise the concerned ministry to release the due fund to the eligible farmers (under PM-Kisan scheme) and share the database of the over 2 million farmers”.Reiterating her demand for oxygen allocation, Banerjee said in her letter on Friday that the demand for medical oxygen in the state has further shot up to 470 MT in the last 24 hours and is expected to touch 550 MT in another week. Also Read | Bengal starts equipping rural hospitals as Covid-19 spreads to villages“However instead of allocating the same as per the requirement of West Bengal, the Centre has increased allocation of medical oxygen to other states, from the total production in West Bengal,” she alleged.She alleged that the Centre has increased the allocation to other states from 230 MT to 360 MT and this is being diverted from the 560 MT produced in the state even as the allocation for Bengal has been kept constant at 308 MT. “Considering the critical solution, I would request you to kindly have the allocation reviewed and instructions issued for an immediate allocation of at least 550 MT per day of medical oxygen preferably out of the total oxygen produced in the state,” the letter stated. A senior official said that the state has set up more than 12,500 beds in block and sub divisional level hospitals where patients can receive round-the-clock oxygen supply. The government is coming up with 55 oxygen plants, which are expected to start production by June, and oxygen plants have already been set up at two state-run hospitals.Liquid medical oxygen tanks are also being set up at six hospitals and industrial oxygen is being diverted to hospitals to prevent any shortfall, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allocate-more-oxygen-to-bengal-to-prevent-deaths-mamata-to-pm-101620383819128.html
07-05-2021||India||PM, Scott Morrison agree on importance of equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday thanked his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison for the country's support to India's fight against coronavirus disease (Covid-19). "Spoke with my friend @ScottMorrisonMP to thank him for Australia’s solidarity and support for India’s fight against the pandemic. We agreed on the importance of ensuring affordable and equitable access to vaccines and medicines, and discussed possible initiatives in this regard," PM Modi tweeted.PM Modi sought Australia's support for the initiative taken at the World Trade Organisation by India and South Africa to seek a temporary waiver under Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) in this context, a statement read.Both PM Modi and Morrison took note of the progress made in the India-Australia Comprehensive Strategic Partnership since the Virtual Summit held on June 4 last year and discussed ways to further strengthen cooperation and foster people-to-people ties."The leaders also discussed regional issues and reiterated the importance of working together for a rules-based international order and a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region," the statement read.PM Modi's statement comes amid Australia's decision to not extend the ban on citizens returning from Covid-hit India. Morrison had earlier this week banned all travel from India, fearing a large number of Covid-19 positive arrivals would overwhelm Australia's already exhausted quarantine facilities.The ban stranded an estimated 9,000 Australian citizens and threatened them with large fines and jail time if they tried to dodge the order and return on non-direct flights.Morrison said the measures would remain in place until May 15 as planned, but then repatriation flights could resume."The determination was designed to be a temporary measure and the medical advice... is that it will be safe to allow it to expire as planned on May 15," he added.India is currently witnessing a deadly Covid-19 second wave. India on Friday registered 4,14,188 new Covid-19 cases within the past 24 hours, marking the largest daily increase since the start of the outbreak, the Union health ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-scott-morrison-agree-on-importance-of-equitable-access-to-covid-19-vaccines-101620379502925.html
07-05-2021||India||Kuwait sends 215 MT of oxygen, ready to supply 1,400 MT in all, says envoy||Kuwait has shipped 215 tonnes of liquid oxygen on four ships that are expected to begin arriving in India from Saturday, and stands ready to provide up to 1,400 tonnes over the next three weeks to help address a severe shortage across the country. The Indian Navy has so far deployed nine warships to ferry liquid oxygen containers, concentrators and medical supplies from different countries, and three of these vessel are bringing in oxygen from Kuwait. “The three Indian Navy warships and a large commercial vessel are bringing in a total of 215 tonnes of medical liquid oxygen. They are set to begin arriving in ports in Mumbai and Gujarat from Saturday,” Kuwaiti ambassador Jasem Ibrahem Al Najem said. “But this will not be the only shipment. The sea bridge that has been established will continue and the Indian Navy ships will go back to be refilled. Kuwait will provide 1,400 tonnes of oxygen in three weeks,” he said. India has recorded more than 350,000 coronavirus infections a day over the past week, and the massive surge has stretched resources at healthcare facilities in many cities. The external affairs ministry has identified liquid oxygen and oxygen generation plants as the focus of efforts to source equipment and supplies from abroad. An Indian warship brought in about 40 tonnes of liquid oxygen from Bahrain this week and more supplies are expected from Qatar and Singapore, though the supplies from Kuwait are expected to be the largest in volume. Also Read | India, EU set to start negotiations on 3 agreements during May 8 virtual summitAl Najem explained that Kuwait has one of the largest companies producing medical oxygen in the region and its daily output is almost 200 tonnes a day. “We provide liquid oxygen to countries such as Iraq, Jordan and Saudia Arabia. When we saw the need for oxygen in a friendly country such as India, we decided to support India as part of collective efforts to fight the global pandemic,” he said. Besides the liquid oxygen, a Kuwaiti Air Force aircraft transported 40 tonnes of support, including 282 oxygen cylinders and 60 oxygen concentrators, to New Delhi on Tuesday. The commercial vessel, MV Capt Kattelmann, left Kuwait’s Al-Shuaiba port with 75 tonnes of liquid oxygen and 1,000 oxygen cylinders on Wednesday and is set to arrive in India on May 10. On the same day, INS Kolkata left with 40 tonnes of liquid oxygen, 200 oxygen cylinders, oxygen concentrators and other essential material and is expected to arrive in India on Saturday. Two more warships, INS Kochi and INS Tabar, departed from Kuwait’s Shuwaikh port with a total of 100 tonnes of liquid oxygen and 1,400 oxygen cylinders and are expected to arrive in Mumbai on May 11. “India was with us during the initial stages of the pandemic and deployed a military medical rapid response team in April last year, and it also supplied 200,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccine,” Al Najem said. “This is more than about the traditional friendly relations between the two countries. The two sides stand together during all problems and crises,” he said. Al Najem also said the Indian community in Kuwait, which numbers about a million, is safe. “This is the third largest Indian expatriate community in the region, after the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia, and includes not just workers but also their families,” he said. About one million people have been vaccinated so far in Kuwait, out of the total population of 3.5 million that includes 1.5 million Kuwaitis. Al Najem said the country is using the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines and is looking at more sources for doses in view of the global vaccine supply shortages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kuwait-sends-215-mt-of-oxygen-ready-to-supply-1-400-mt-in-all-says-envoy-101620381779067.html
07-05-2021||India||'Fight with Corona, not with PM Modi': Harsh Vardhan's strong message to Hemant Soren on 'Mann ki Baat' jibe||As a war of words began over Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren's tweet where he accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of only doing his 'Mann ki Baat' during a telephone conversation, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday said the chief minister should concentrate on fighting against the pandemic and not with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "While making a statement on the Prime Minister of the country, he must not forget that the pandemic situation should be addressed by a joint effort of the Centre and the state government. Taking out the rage on PM Modi while trying to conceal your failure is condemnable," the health minister said in a strongly worded tweet.केंद्र सरकार ने कोरोना संकट काल में जहां ग़रीबों और ज़रूरतमंदों के लिए खज़ाने खोल दिए हैं, वहीं झारखंड सरकार ने, अपने खज़ाने का मुंह बंद कर रखा है।श्री @HemantSorenJMM जी चाहते हैं कि हर काम केंद्र सरकार करे। कोरोना से लड़िए, PM से नहीं !@PMOIndiaAccusing the state government of keeping its purse strings tight, the health minister said Hemant Soren wants the Centre to do everything while he will keep the state treasury shut. "Fight with coronavirus, not PM," the health minister said.Watch: Hemant Soren’s ‘Kaam ki Baat’ jibe at PM Modi; BJP leaders lash outThis is not the first time the Union health minister reacted to PM Modi's criticism regarding the management of the Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier too, when states accused the Centre of inequal vaccine distribution, the health minister turned the heat on the state governments and blamed the state administrations for the 'dismal' situation.Don’t get why all media folks are getting worked up about CM @HemantSorenJMM ji ’s tweet, all it conveyed is that time for polite talk over pandemic is over& expect PM to talk on decisive action wrt vaccines, medicines etc. What’s wrong with that? Tone down that outrage-o-meter.As other state chief ministers and political leaders got divided over Hemant Soren's tweet, Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy said it is not time to point fingers."I have great respect for you, but as a brother, I would urge you, no matter what ever our differences are, indulging in such level of politics would only weaken our own nation. In this war against Covid-19, these are the times not to point fingers but to come together and strengthen the hands of our Prime Minister to effectively combat the pandemic," Jagan tweeted.In this war against Covid-19, these are the times not to point fingers but to come together and strengthen the hands of our Prime Minister to effectively combat the pandemic. 2/2Shiv Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedi said the outrage again Hemant Soren is misplaced. There is nothing wrong in pointing out that 'time for polite talk over pandemic' is over and PM Modi is expected to 'talk on decisive action regarding vaccines and medicines.आपके इस बचकाना एवं ग़ैर ज़िम्मेदाराना,निरंकुश ट्वीट की देश ही नहीं दुनिया में थू-थू हो रही है। झारखंड की संस्कृति में झूठ,फ़रेब की कोई जगह नहीं है,ईश्वर आपको सद्बुद्धि दें,संयमित रखें और ज़िम्मेदार बनाएँ।2/2@HemantSorenJMM @narendramodi @PMOIndia @blsanthosh @BJP4IndiaOn Thursday night, PM Modi spoke to Hemant Soren about the Covid-19 situation of the state. After the conversation, Soren took to Twitter and said that PM Modi only did his "Mann ki Baat" during the conversation."It would have been better had he listened to and spoken on important matters," the chief minister tweeted.Hitting out at Soren for disrespecting the dignity of the CM's post, Assam BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma said the tweet makes fun of the suffering of the state about which the PM is concerned and he called to enquire of the situation.Assam incumbent chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal termed Soren's tweet as 'unfortunate' and said Soren is only trying to politicise PM Modi's concern and work for people. "PM Modi ji's every effort and action are only for the people and the Nation," he tweeted. Jharkhand BJP leader Babulal Marani slammed Soren for his tweet and said Jharkhand is ashamed of its CM's behaviour on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fight-with-corona-not-pm-modi-harsh-vardhan-s-strong-message-to-hemant-soren-on-mann-ki-baat-jibe-101620381419663.html
07-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Harvard University student mobilises funds for India, Tharoor commends efforts||As the disastrous surge in the daily number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections caught the healthcare infrastructure of the country underprepared, support has been pouring in from around the world amid a huge shortage of essential medical supplies in the country.Shyamli Badgaiyan, a student of Harvard Business School, is among those who quickly raised more than $160,000.Also read: Sonia Gandhi slams govt for failing to deliver essential services amid CovidBadgaiyan along with Priyank Lathwal, a PhD student at Carnegie Mellon University, mobilised South Asian student organisations across her University and from 20 other universities, including Stanford, Carnegie Mellon University, Georgetown, MIT, Northwestern University, Tufts, and the University of Pittsburgh.Congress MP Shashi Tharoor on Friday appreciated the work done by Badgaiyan, who he said had worked with his office in Delhi. Commending her efforts to help the country, he tweeted, "Proud of Shyamli Badgaiyan, who had worked with my MP office in Delhi. Idealism & commitment never wear out!"Proud of Shyamli Badgaiyan, who had worked with my MP office in Delhi. Idealism & commitment never wear out! #COVIDSecondWave https://t.co/w2Oni6SZCt"I had been watching Covid-19 cases surge and been feeling terribly anxious and helpless,” Badgaiyan, who hails from Delhi, said. “I found myself thinking of ways to help from afar — an instinct I would later learn many students across the country were also feeling," she added, reported The Harvard Gazette.Also read: TN CM announces ₹2,000 as Covid time relief, cut in Aavin milk priceThe student-led initiative is using a united platform to pool funds and pass them to organisations in India to augment the supply of oxygen, protective equipment, and other medical supplies. The initiative that was launched last week is working in collaboration with GiveIndia, an organisation that is partnering with NGOs authorised to supply equipment to hospitals and Covid care centres in the country. Funds collected by the group are disbursed by GiveIndia to their nonprofit partners for the supply of the resources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-harvard-university-student-mobilises-funds-for-india-tharoor-commends-efforts-101620371874792.html
07-05-2021||India||Fourth time lucky, Rangasamy to head his first coalition govt in Puducherry||Seventy-one year old AINRC founder N Rangasamy was on Friday sworn-in as Chief Minister of Puducherry for a record fourth time but will be heading his maiden coalition cabinet, with alliance party BJP slated to be inducted into the ministry.On Friday, Rangasamy alone was sworn in as the other Ministers belonging to the AINRC and BJP would be inducted in the next few days, a party source said.Known to be a simple, soft-spoken and accessible leader, Rangasamy is famous for driving around in a two- wheeler across the streets of Puducherry, even as a CM.A former Congress veteran, he floated his All India NR Congress in 2011 after being replaced as CM then by the AICC following complaints from V Narayanasamy, then Congress Lok Sabha MP representing the UT.Rangasamy started off his electoral politics on an unsuccessful note by losing his first Assembly poll from Thattanchavady in 1990 when he was defeated by his political arch rival V Pethaperumal of the Janata Dal.However, he was elected from the same segment the next year and was rewarded with the Agriculture portfolio in the cabinet.Again in 1996, he won on a Congress ticket.In 2001, when the Congress won again, he took over the reins of the UT and continued to helm Puducherry after leading the party to a successive win five years later as well.However, things took a different turn with Narayanasamy intensifying his criticism of Rangasamy on several counts and the AICC replaced him as CM with V Vaithilingam in August 2008.In 2011, Rangasamy floated his All India NR Congress, which joined hands with the J Jayalalithaa-led AIADMK and won the then polls.The AINRC came out successful with 15 members and had the support of one independent which together gave Rangasamy the minimum strength of 16 on its side and he formed the government under his stewardship.He ditched the AIADMK at the time of forming the government in 2011, prompting strong criticism by the late Jayalalithaa who described him as a 'traitor' later.The AINRC contested the 2016 poll on its own but failed to ensure a clinching performance, with the Congress- DMK combine with 17 members forming the government.Rangasamy became opposition leader in 2016. He kept a low profile for some time before the Congress government, led by Narayanasamy, fell in February 2021 after it was reduced to a minority in the wake of a spate of resignations by his party MLAs.Rangasamy is a graduate in Commerce and also in legal studies. He did not practise as he swung into active politics.Thattanchavady has been his pocketborough all along and did not disappoint him during the April 6 polls as well.Though he sought election simultaneously from Yanam, an enclave of the union territory in Andhra Pradesh, he was defeated by an Independent candidate there.PTI Cor SA SS PTI PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fourth-time-lucky-rangasamy-to-head-his-first-coalition-govt-in-puducherry-101620379163173.html
07-05-2021||India||Delhi CM to hold high-level meeting to review Covid-19 situation||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will hold a high-level meeting to review the Covid-19 situation in Delhi. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, health minister Satyendar Jain and other officials will be present in the meeting expected to be held later in the day.Delhi is facing a severe covid-19 wave in which the daily cases have spiked to unprecedented levels, pushing the health care system to a breaking point. This has also led to the acute shortage of medical oxygen and other medical necessities.On May 6, the Delhi government set up a portal on its official website to streamline the distribution of oxygen to Covid-19 patients in home isolation, non-Covid hospitals, nursing homes and ambulances.The government said that the portal was created to streamline the entire system of distribution of the lump-sum allocation under the supervision of District Magistrates. It also aims to facilitate the public to access these cylinders with certainty and to curb the black market.A person can apply with a valid photo id, Aadhar card details, Covid positive report and other documents like CT scan report if available on the Delhi government website -- delhi.gov.in. The district magistrates will then identify dealers to distribute oxygen cylinders to the individuals.Meanwhile, earlier in the day, the Supreme Court pulled up the Centre after the Delhi government complained to the court it didn't receive 700 MT of oxygen even after the court's orders. The top court cautioned the Centre and asserted that it has to give 700 MT of oxygen to Delhi every day till this order is reviewed or modified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-cm-to-hold-high-level-meeting-to-review-covid-19-situation-101620377769476.html
07-05-2021||India||Allocation of Remdesivir done upto May 16 for 'adequate availability': Gowda||Amid the surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the country owing to the far more deadly second wave of the pandemic, the government on Friday allocated Remdesivir upto May 16 in order to ensure the adequate availability of the medicine, a drug used in the treatment of some cases of Covid-19. The decision was taken by Union minister of chemicals and fertilizers DV Sadananda Gowda and the allocation plan was made jointly by the department of pharmaceuticals and the ministry of health and family welfare.Read more: Co-Win introduces 4-digit security code mandatory for online vaccine booking“Considering the requirement of Remdesivir in every state and ensuring its adequate availability, allocation of Remdesivir has been made upto 16th May 2021. This will ensure smooth supply of Remdesivir across country so that no patient face difficulty in this pandemic time,” Gowda said in a tweet sharing the official notification with a list which stated 530,0000 vials of Remdesivir have been allocated to the states between April 21 and up to May 16.Considering the requirement of Remdesivir in every state and ensuring its adequate availability, allocation of #Remdesivir has been made upto 16th May 2021.This will ensure smooth supply of Remdesivir across country so that no patient face difficulty in this #pandemic time. pic.twitter.com/GfTqtBxJ7j“The allotment has been made for the States/UTs and State Governments and UTs have been asked to monitor proper distribution within the State/UT covering government and private hospitals as appropriate and in line with judicious use,” the statement read.With this, the government also asked state governments and governments in Union territories to place orders for purchase of the drug with marketing companies.“State governments / UTs have been advised to place adequate purchase orders with the marketing companies immediately, if they have not already done so, for the quantity that they want to purchase out of allocation for the State/ UT as per supply chain in close coordination with liaison officers of the companies. The coordination with private distribution channels in the state could also be made,” the statement added.This comes at a time when India reported 414,188 new Covid-19 cases and 3,915 deaths due to the virus on Friday, according to the Union health ministry dashboard at 8am. With this, the total tally in the country went up to 21,491,598 and the death toll was pushed to 234,083. Total recoveries in the country stood at 17,612,351 and the number of active cases in the country stood at 36,451,64.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allocation-of-remdesivir-done-upto-may-16-for-adequate-availability-gowda-101620377822790.html
07-05-2021||India||Maharashtra transfers ‘encounter specialist’ Daya Nayak to Gondia||The state government on Thursday evening issued orders transferring two police inspectors, including “encounter specialist” Daya Nayak, outside Mumbai. Nayak is credited with eliminating over 80 criminals in so-called police encounters.Nayak, who was posted with Juhu unit of the anti-terrorism squad (ATS), has been transferred to Gondia district, whereas another officer, police inspector Rajkumar Kothmire of the anti-extortion cell (AEC) of the Thane police, is transferred to Maoist-hit Gadchiroli district.The order stated that both the officers were transferred on administrative grounds. Daya Nayak was part of the ATS investigating team probing the Antilia bomb scare case and arrested two accused – cricket bookie Naresh Gor and former police constable Vinayak Shinde – for allegedly providing logistical support to controversial police officer Sachin Vaze in allegedly killing Thane trader Mansukh Hiran. Hiran was linked to the Scorpio which was found parked near the south Mumbai residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani with 20 gelatin sticks and a threatening note.Also Read | Air ambulance lands on belly in Mumbai as wheel falls off in NagpurNayak’s transfer was held back in 2019 over a threat to his life as he had killed so many criminals. Earlier, on April 4, four police inspectors serving in the Mumbai Police and crime branch for several years, police inspector Nandkumar Gopale, Sachin Kadam, Kedari Pawar and Sudhir Dalvi, were transferred out. Gopale was heading the Mumbai crime branch’s unit 9 during TRP scam investigated former assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, then in-charge of crime intelligence unit, and Gopale and his team helped to arrest several accused allegedly involved in the TRP scam.Kadam was heading Anti-extortion cell (AEC) of the Mumbai crime branch which was part of the investigating team who helped to bring in underworld don Ravi Pujari and Ejaz Lakdawala. Pawar was heading the Property Cell and initially, he and his team were also working on the Antilia bomb scare case.Soon after Vaze’s arrest, 65 crime branch officials were transferred in local arms units and police stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-transfers-encounter-specialist-daya-nayak-to-gondia-101620376258616.html
07-05-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi slams govt for failing to deliver essential services amid Covid||Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on Friday criticised the government for failing to deliver essential services and supplies on adequate scale amid the second Covid-19 wave while calling it imperative for her party to enhance and streamline these efforts. “The AICC [All India Congress Committee]’s Covid control room is reaching out with a detailed blueprint. Similar Covid relief control rooms have been set up at the State level,” she said in her address to Congress members of Parliament.Gandhi called for making efforts to organise ambulances, temporary beds, oxygen concentrators and necessary medicines. “In our party, there are many resourceful persons. I urge them to come forward and render whatever help possible through our states’ Relief Control room or on their own.” She said Prime Minister Narendra Modi “arrogantly boasted” that he had defeated the pandemic and his party “obediently felicitated him for his so-called success”.Also Read | Central Vista project a criminal wastage, says Rahul GandhiGandhi said the system has not failed but the government did not channelise the resources constructively to strengthen India. She pointed out that despite ₹35,000 crore allocation for “free vaccine for all”, an inequitable vaccination policy would exclude Dalits, Adivasis, Other Backwards Classes, as well as the poor and the other marginalised groups. Gandhi said the government instead of helping people was using the state’s power to torment them for seeking help. She alleged it was cracking down on the citizen groups trying to help people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-slams-govt-for-failing-to-deliver-essential-services-amid-covid-101620376078500.html
07-05-2021||India||21-point Covid-19 advisory on social media is fake: ICMR||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Thursday alerted about a fake list being circulated on social media under the fake name of the apex body. The list contains a few dos and don'ts points amid the Covoid-19 pandemic. Clarifying that no such advisory has been released by the body, ICMR tweeted that the list is fake. "This is circulating in different social media platforms. ICMR did not issue any such guideline or advisory. It is fake circulation," it wrote on social media as it shared the image.The fake list suggests, "Postpone foreign travel for two years, don't eat outside for a year, stay away from a person who has a cough. Don't go to a crowded place for at least a year." It also asked people to "don't bring shoes into home".This is circulating in different social media platform. ICMR did not issue any such guideline or advisory. It is #Fake circulation. #FactCheck #FakeNews pic.twitter.com/FeusTaOiWMIt also advised against wearing a belt, ring, wristwatch "when going out."The fake list claimed that the Covid-19 disaster "is not going to end soon" and asked people to follow the mentioned precautions for the next 6 to 12 months regardless of the lockdown.India is reeling under the second wave of Covid-19 and the number of infections has reached unprecedented levels leading the healthcare system to crumble under the weight of patients. Many hospitals in the national capital have run out of key things like hospitals beds, medical oxygen.On Friday, the country added 414,188 fresh cases of infection and 3,915 fatalities in a single-day spike. The overall caseload now stands at 21,491,598.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/21point-covid-19-advisory-on-social-media-is-fake-icmr-101620375107476.html
07-05-2021||India||Co-Win introduces 4-digit security code mandatory for online vaccine booking from May 8||Admitting data-entry error in marking many people who have booked vaccination slots as 'vaccinated', the Union health ministry on Friday said the Co-Win software through which registration and vaccination slot booking is taking place will have some additional security feature. Upon booking vaccination slots on cowin.gov.in website, people will receive a four-digit security code which will have to be produced at the vaccination centre. The code will also be mentioned on the digital certificate, the ministry said.The additional security feature has been introduced as many people received messages claiming that they have received one dose of the vaccine, while they did not actually turn up for the vaccination on the scheduled date. "This will ensure that, for such citizens who have booked an online appointment, the data entries regarding vaccination status of a citizen, are recorded correctly and only for those who book online appointment and avail the services at the centre where they have booked the appointment. This will also reduce the opportunities for impersonation and wrongful use of flexibilities provided in Co-WIN for facilitating vaccination coverage," the ministry said.Aarogya Setu fades into background as India deals with second Covid-19 waveThe security code, unknown to the vaccinator, will be printed on the appointment acknowledgement slip as well. Before administering the vaccine dose, the vaccinator will ask the beneficiary the 4-digit security code.The ministry has also advised citizens to carry a copy (digital or physical) of their appointment slip or the appointment confirmation SMS so that the security code can be furnished easily.In the ongoing third phase of vaccination where people between the age group of 18 to 44 years are getting vaccinated, slots can be booked online only.With the new security feature, here are the checklist for registration on Co-Win:> Co-Win is not a mobile app. Registration can be done through Co-Win website or through the Aarogya Setu app.> One can register on Co-Win through a mobile number, based on the one-time password.> During registration, one has to mention the identification number of the photo ID card that he or she will carry during vaccination.> Registration on Co-Win and booking slots for vaccination are different as booking can be done depending on the slots available in government and private hospitals.> One will receive the four-digit security code after successful completion of the booking of a vaccination slot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cowin-introduces-4-digit-security-code-mandatory-for-online-vaccine-booking-from-may-8-101620374554848.html
07-05-2021||India||TN CM announces ₹2,000 as Covid time relief, cut in Aavin milk price||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Friday announced a covid pandemic time relief of ₹2,000 for the people of the state, a cut in Aavin milk rate and free travel for women in state-run buses, all promises made by his DMK ahead of the April 6 Assembly elections.Issuing his first set of orders after taking over as CM, Stalin also announced bringing covid treatment in private hospitals under a government insurance scheme, to provide succour to such people, an official release here said.It recalled the party's promise of providing ₹4,000 for rice ration card holders to aid citizens affected due to the pandemic and help them with their livelihood."To implement that, the Chief Minister has signed the order to provide the first instalment of ₹2,000 in May itself at ₹4,153.69 crore, covering 2,07,67,000 ration card holders," it said.He also signed another order, reducing the price of milk supplied by state-run Aavin by ₹3 with effect from May 16.Women can travel free of cost in all ordinary fare city buses operated by State transport corporation from Saturday onwards and the government has allocated a sum of ₹1,200 crore as subsidy for this purpose, the release said about another poll promise.Further, he approved constituting an IAS officer- headed department to implement the "Chief Minister in Your Constituency" scheme, to fulfill another assurance of redressing people's issues within 100 days of taking over, on petitions received by him ahead of the polls as DMK chief.He had then promised to solve the issues within 100 days of taking over as chief minister of the state if his party was given the mandate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-cm-announces-rs-2-000-as-covid-time-relief-cut-in-aavin-milk-price-101620374284075.html
07-05-2021||India||Bengal starts equipping rural hospitals as Covid-19 spreads to villages||West Bengal is equipping block-level primary health centres and hospitals with isolation beds, medical oxygen and ambulances as Covid-19 cases have surged in rural areas of the state. Officials said patients with Covid-19 symptoms and severe respiratory illnesses have been pouring into health centres in rural Bengal.“...a large number of patients are coming with Covid-19 symptoms and severe acute respiratory illness. These cases need proper diagnosis and management to check the virus from spreading further,” said a state health department official.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has warned the situation could worsen over the next two weeks as she has allowed hospitals and nursing homes across the state to augment their bed capacity by 40%.“The [health centres] and rural hospitals have been directed to keep at least 5-10 isolation beds ready, arrange oxygen and basic medicines...at least one or two ambulances on standby,” said the official.District authorities have been directed to arrange for Rapid Antigen Tests in the peripheral health facilities to identify Covid patients.Also Read | Rahul Gandhi slams government’s ‘lack of clear Covid vaccination strategy’On October 22, when West Bengal reported the highest daily cases in the first surge -- 4157--Birbhum, Murshidabad, Hooghly and Nadia districts reported 82;110; 225 and 194 cases respectively. The districts reported 705; 593; 906 and 852 cases respectively on Thursday. This marked a rise in cases by five to eight times. Barring Nadia, the other three districts have over 1,000 active cases. The districts are among those which produce the maximum paddy in West Bengal and account for over 60% of the rural population.On Thursday, West Bengal reported 18,431 cases and 117 deaths.The government has also announced that it would deploy around 275,000 rural health care workers, who are often consulted by villagers for minor ailments in absence of qualified doctors, as the first line of defence against the second wave of Covid-19. The state health department is expected to issue dos and don’ts for their handling of Covid-19 patients.“We can use this workforce. We can name them Swasthya Suraksha Bondhu instead of calling them quacks,” said Banerjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-stars-equipping-rural-hospitals-as-covid-19-spreads-to-villages-101620373978525.html
07-05-2021||India||Manipur extends curbs in Greater Imphal area till May 16||Manipur has extended restrictions imposed in areas under Imphal Municipal Corporation(IMC) and Greater Imphal till May 16. Only last week, on April 30, Greater Imphal was declared a containment zone for seven days to check the Covid-19 spread.Chief secretary in-charge MH Khan, who is also the chairman in-charge of state executive committee of the state disaster management authority, issued an order in this regard on Thursday night. As per the order,all shops in Thangal Bazaar and Paona Bazaar –the two main markets in Imphal – shall remain closed. Ima Keithels (women markets) and adjoining temporary markets in Imphal and other local markets at Khurai Lamlong, Andro Parking, Lambulane, Kongba, Pishum thong, Kwakeithel, Nagamapal, Singjamei Bazaar, Wahengbam Leikai will also remain closed, it added.One in every three wholesale shops in Imphal may open on rotation from 6am to 10am. If the shops or vendors are in congested rows, only alternate rows shall be allowed to open. Queue system should be adopted by all shops and vendors, it suggested.Deputy commissioners and district superintendents of police will prepare the roster of shops vendors, it stated. Activities allowed are movement of goods vehicles carrying oxygen/oxygen cylinders,LPG and oil tankers and vehicles of other essential services such as power supply,water supply,waste/garbage clearance,public distribution system(PDS),medical/Covid services and vehicles of personnel of departments/organisations. All healthcare facilities, including animal healthcare, hospitals, clinics, nursing homes and movement of healthcare workers,all pharmacies, including those selling veterinary medicines besides all persons going for Covid-19 vaccination,Covid testing and medical emergencies are to be permitted.But there will be complete ban on movement of all vehicles.The night curfew from 7pm to 5am across the state and closure of all historical and tourist sites will be continued.Imphal airport shall remain open and movement of staff and passengers would be permitted, it added. On Thursday, Manipur recorded,380 fresh cases,taking the state’s total tally to 33,733.Thirteen Covid-19 patients also died,taking the state’s death toll to 447.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-extends-curbs-in-greater-imphal-area-till-may-16-101620373258336.html
07-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: System hasn't failed, Modi govt has, says Sonia Gandhi on Covid-19 crisis and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.System hasn't failed, Modi government has: Sonia Gandhi on Covid-19 crisisAmid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic situation of the country, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday said the system has not failed as India has many strengths and resources. Read moreIndia, EU set to start negotiations on 3 agreements during May 8 virtual summitIndia and the European Union (EU) are expected to launch negotiations on three agreements – on trade, investment protection and geographical indications – during their virtual summit on May 8 as part of efforts to drive economic recovery amid the Covid-19 crisis. Read moreSupreme Court refuses to stay Karnataka HC order on more oxygen to stateThe Supreme Court on Friday turned down the Central government’s plea to stay the Karnataka high court order directing it to immediately increase the supply of medical oxygen to the state from 962 metric tonnes (MT) per day to 1,200 MT per day in view of the spurt in the number of active Covid-19 cases. Read more'It helps to keep people in homes': Pat Cummins explains why continuing IPL 2021 was a 'positive' thing amid pandemicDespite the covid-19 crisis in India deepening in the past few weeks, the Indian Premier League 2021 continued in the country for the entire month of April, inciting a debate. Read moreMalaika Arora shares ways to improve the health of lungs in new video. Seen yet?Malaika Arora is a true fitness enthusiast. The actor has lately been sharing a lot of exercises that help with the lung capacity. Read moreAnushka Sharma-Virat Kohli share video message, start fundraiser for Covid-19 relief: 'It pains us to see India suffer'Actor Anushka Sharma and her cricketer husband Virat Kohli have shared a video on Instagram. The couple have started a fundraiser together, to raise money for Covid-19 relief in India. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-system-hasn-t-failed-modi-government-has-says-sonia-gandhi-on-covid-19-crisis-and-all-the-latest-news-101620370264257.html
07-05-2021||India||Dark chocolate, turmeric milk in Centre's list of food to build immunity amid Covid-19||As people recovering from Covid-19 should focus more on rebuilding muscle, immunity and energy levels, the Centre through its mygovindia Twitter handle has recommended a list of food items to build natural immunity amid Covid.Loss of taste and smell is one of the common symptoms of Covid infection, found in both phases of the pandemic. Since this leads to a loss of appetite and patients find it difficult to swallow, muscle loss may happen. "It is important to eat soft foods at small intervals and to add amchoor in the food," the guideline said.Are you looking for natural ways to boost your immunity?We’ve got you covered! Here’s few general measures which you can follow to boost your immunity organically amidst #COVID19. #StayHomeStaySafe#IndiaFightsCorona @MoHFW_INDIA @MIB_India @PIB_India pic.twitter.com/KfKk2pLyeLHere's what else a Covid patient should include in the diet:> 5 servings of coloured fruits and vegetables to get adequate vitamins and minerals.> Small amount of dark chocolate with at least 70 per cent cocoa to get rid of anxiety.> Turmeric milk once a day to boost immunity.'No need for RT-PCR tests if...': ICMR issues new testing guidelines for Covid-19> Eating soft foods at small intervals and adding amchoor in the food.> Whole grains like ragi, oats and amaranth are advised.> Good sources of protein such as chicken, fish, eggs, paneer, soy, nuts and seeds.> Healthy fats like walnuts, almonds, olive oil and mustard oil.Amid the surge of the second wave of the pandemic, as the country is witnessing the highest daily cases and record deaths in a day, the onset of fever, body ache are spreading panic among people. Several unscientific home remedies to fight Covid-19 are also doing the rounds on social media. The Centre has reiterated that 80 to 85 per cent of Covid infection will get cured at home, with proper nutrition, without any serious medical intervention. The Centre has also advised regular physical activity and breathing exercises as per tolerance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dark-chocolate-turmeric-milk-in-centre-s-list-of-food-to-build-immunity-amid-covid-101620371958169.html
07-05-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi slams government’s ‘lack of clear Covid vaccination strategy’||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday blamed the government’s “lack of clear and coherent vaccination strategy” for the exponential rise in Covid-19 cases that has made another lockdown “inevitable”. He reiterated the demand for immediately vaccinating the entire population and for more transparency.In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Gandhi said since India is home to one out of every six people globally, allowing the “uncontrollable spread of the virus” will be devastating not only for India but also for the rest of the world. “It is also important to understand India’s responsibility in a globalized and interconnected world.”Gandhi urged Modi to ensure scientific tracking of the virus and its mutations using genome sequencing. He called for assessing the efficacy of all the vaccines against all new mutations and to keep the rest of the world informed about India’s findings. “It is absolutely critical that we address these urgent issues without delay.”Also Read | System hasn’t failed, Modi government has: Sonia Gandhi on Covid-19 crisisGandhi attacked the government’s handling of the crisis. “Your government’s lack of a clear and coherent Covid and vaccination strategy, as well as its hubris in declaring premature victory as the virus was exponentially spreading, has placed India in a highly dangerous position: today the disease is growing explosively. It is currently on the verge of overwhelming all of our systems. GOI’s [government of India] failures have made another devastating national lockdown almost inevitable.”Gandhi reminded Modi about the suffering caused by last year’s lockdown and urged him to “act with compassion and provide critical financial and food support to our most vulnerable people”. He acknowledged the economic costs of another lockdown but added the human cost of allowing this virus to spread will have far more drastic consequences.Gandhi also separately attacked the Central Vista project, calling it a “criminal wastage” while asking the government to focus on people’s lives.There was no immediate response from the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-slams-government-s-lack-of-clear-covid-vaccination-strategy-101620371578549.html
07-05-2021||India||India, EU set to start negotiations on 3 agreements during May 8 virtual summit||India and the European Union (EU) are expected to launch negotiations on three agreements – on trade, investment protection and geographical indications – during their virtual summit on May 8 as part of efforts to drive economic recovery amid the Covid-19 crisis. The two sides will unveil a connectivity partnership based on a shared approach towards transparent connectivity initiatives that respect international standards and provide fair opportunities to Indian and European companies, senior EU officials told a briefing on Thursday. This will only be the EU’s second connectivity partnership after a similar arrangement with Japan. The heads of state or government of all 27 members of the EU are expected to gather in the Portuguese city of Porto for the virtual summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi – only the second time such a gathering will be held following the EU’s meeting with US President Joe Biden in March. The trade negotiations are being seen as a resumption of talks with India that stalled in 2013 because of differences on issues such market access for European products and mobility for Indian professionals. “We expect the leaders to endorse the launch of negotiations on three agreements – on trade, investment protection and geographical indications and this is a major step,” said a senior EU official, adding the move would be helpful in boosting recovery from the economic fallout of the pandemic. Also Read | Support grows for India over patentsA second official said the talks are expected to lead to a breakthrough towards balanced, comprehensive and mutually beneficial agreements. “After almost eight years of suspension of free trade talks, we will agree to resume these and this opens up the way to a possible free trade agreement between us,” he said. The officials described the connectivity partnership as a key deliverable of the summit that will boost cooperation in rail, maritime and air transport, and also cover digital initiatives and infrastructure development. The two sides will also take steps aimed at shaping global standards for digital technologies and data management, and operationalise a joint task force on artificial intelligence (AI), the officials said. “We have a common vision on data protection, network security, privacy and AI, and will collaborate on setting global standards in these areas,” the second official said, adding that the two sides were pooling their super computing resources to boost modelling on the Covid crisis and climate change. The officials described the resumption of the human rights dialogue with India after a pause of eight years as a key development in view of the EU’s commitment to human rights and equal opportunities. “We fully respect India as a secular democracy. Human rights are very much an important part of the political dialogue between the EU and India...One important message that we underlined was the important role that civil society actors and journalists play in a vibrant democracy,” the first official said. He acknowledged that the farmers’ protest in India had figured in recent talks between the two sides. Other issues expected to figure in the summit are cooperation on maritime security, cyber-security and counter-terrorism, enhanced collaboration to ensure a free and open Indo-Pacific, the signing of a working arrangement between Europol and its Indian counterpart to coordinate in the fight against terror and organised crime, the situation in Afghanistan and Myanmar, and efforts to revive the Iran nuclear deal. The officials were circumspect on the issue of possible EU support for a waiver of patent protections on Covid-19 vaccines but said the bloc understands the reasons behind India’s decision to suspend vaccine exports following a massive surge in Coronavirus infections. The officials said EU is ready to assess how the US proposal to support the waiver of patent protections can help, but called on all vaccine producing countries without pressing domestic needs to allow exports and avoid measures that disrupt supply chains. The officials said the two sides are expected to agree on cooperation on resilient medical supply chains, distribution of vaccines and active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) and preparing for future pandemics and global health emergencies, including the strengthening of the WHO. EU President Charles Michel, who has proposed an international treaty on pandemics to help strengthen the WHO, is keen to work with India in this field, they said. The officials also said EU member states had so far provided equipment and supplies worth 100 million euros for India’s Covid-19 response and the bloc had announced emergency support of 2.2 million euros for the WHO to help with testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiaeu-set-to-start-negotiations-on-3-agreements-during-may-8-virtual-summit-101620370738344.html
07-05-2021||India||System hasn't failed, Modi government has: Sonia Gandhi on Covid-19 crisis||Amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic situation of the country, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday said the system has not failed as India has many strengths and resources. The Modi government has failed to constructively channelise those resources, Sonia Gandhi said at the virtual Congress Parliamentary Party meeting. On the results of the recently concluded elections in four states and one Union territory, the party president said the Congress Working Committee will soo analyse the election outcome.Referring to the letters written to PM Narendra Modi by Manmohan Singh, Rahul Gandhi, the party president said all these helpful initiative have fallen on deaf ears as the government has made no meaningful response and continues to behave as if it alone has the answers.It is not a "government versus us" battle but a battle between "Us versus corona", Sonia said adding that the Congress demands the meetings of the standing committees. "The situation brooks no delay. Tackling this crisis requires able, calm and visionary leadership. The nation is sinking under the weight of the Modi government’s indifference and incompetence. This is a time for us to steel ourselves and rededicate ourselves in the service of our people," Sonia Gandhi said.Lambasting the goverment for its "flawed" vaccine policy, Sonia said that despite allocating ₹35,000 crore in Budget 2021 for "free vaccines for all", the Modi government put the state governments under immense pressure of procuring the vaccines in the third phase. "The Modi government’s inequitable vaccination policy will exclude millions of Dalits, Adivasis, Other Backwards Classes, as well as the poor and the marginalized. It is utterly shocking to see the Modi government abdicate its moral obligation and its sworn duty towards the people," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/system-hasn-t-failed-modi-government-has-sonia-gandhi-on-covid-19-crisis-101620370124008.html
07-05-2021||India||India holds up wireless approvals for China-made devices, delaying launches: Report||India has held up approvals for import of wifi modules from China for months, driving companies such as U.S. computer makers Dell and HP and China's Xiaomi, Oppo, Vivo and Lenovo to delay product launches in a key growth market, two industry sources said.Imports from China of finished electronic devices - like bluetooth speakers, wireless earphones, smartphones, smartwatches and laptops - containing wifi modules are being delayed, the sources said.The Communications Ministry's Wireless Planning and Coordination (WPC) Wing has withheld approval since at least November, according to the sources, who were familiar with lobbying efforts by firms seeking clearance.More than 80 such applications by U.S., Chinese and Korean firms have been pending with the WPC since then, one of the sources said. Even applications from some Indian firms, which bring in some finished products from China, are awaiting WPC approval, the sources added.Dell, HP, Xiaomi, Oppo, Vivo and Lenovo did not respond to requests for comment.The communications ministry did not respond to a request for comment either. And both sources said the government had still to respond to representations made by industry lobby groups and individual companies.India's hard stance on Chinese imports comes amid Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call for greater economic self-reliance.His nationalist policies have helped boost the growth of smartphone assembly in the South Asian nation, and the sources believe the government's intention is to persuade companies to locate more of their production of electronic devices in India."The government's idea is to push companies to manufacture these products in India," one of the sources said."But tech companies are caught in a difficult situation - making in India would mean big-ticket investments and a long wait for returns, on the other hand the government-imposed hurdle on imports means a potential loss of revenues."India previously allowed companies to self-declare wireless equipment, a move that made imports easier, but new rules in March 2019 mandated firms to seek government approval.While India's market and export potential have turned it into the world's second-biggest mobile maker, tech analysts and industry insiders say it does not yet have the size or scale for companies to invest big in making IT products and smart wearable devices.WARY OF CHINA TECHThe long delay in WPC approvals also underscores India's strategy to cut China's influence in its tech economy, especially after a border clash with Beijing last year though tensions have eased since.Modi's government this week omitted Chinese gearmaker Huawei from a list of participants in its 5G trials, though European and Korean rivals were permitted.And once 5G deployment begins in India, New Delhi will likely block mobile carriers from using Huawei's telecoms gear, Reuters previously reported.U.S. firms Apple, Cisco and Dell were last year caught up in India's border tensions with China, as Indian ports held up imports of their products from China.In another example, reported by Reuters late last year, India's tight control of quality clearances for electronic goods from China slowed the import of an Apple iPhone model.Now that firms have obtained safety clearances from India's quality control agency, getting WPC approval has become the main obstacle to importing electronic devices from China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-holds-up-wireless-approvals-for-china-made-devices-delaying-launches-report-101620369702466.html
07-05-2021||India||Covid-19: IAF airlifts oxygen containers from Singapore, Bangkok to Bengal||As India continues its battle against COVID-19, the Indian Air Force (IAF) on Thursday airlifted 3 cryogenic oxygen containers from Singapore and 4 cryogenic oxygen containers from Bangkok to Panagarh Air base in West Bengal.According to Indian Embassy in Thailand, the aircraft is also carrying 30 concentrators donated by the India-Thai Chamber of Commerce."5th consignment of cryo O2 tanks airlifted today from #Bangkok by Indian Air Force C-17 aircraft. The aircraft is also carrying 30 concentrators donated by India-Thai Chamber of Commerce. Thank you @ITCCBKK," India in Thailand wrote in a tweet.Also Read: After key role in Ladakh, C-17s leading IAF’s Covid relief workDomestically, IAF's C-17s airlifted 2 cryogenic oxygen containers from Hyderabad to Bhubaneswar and 4 from Chandigarh to Ranchi.Other C17s are bringing 3 cryogenic oxygen containers from Hindan to Ranchi, 6 from Lucknow, Bareilly and Agra to Ranchi and Jamnagar, 4 from Jodhpur to Jamnagar, 4 from Bhopal to Jamnagar and Ranchi, 2 from Hindan to Bhubaneswar, 2 from Vijayawada to Bhubaneswar and 4 from Nagpur to Bhubaneswar, according to a statement.In addition, IAF An-32 airlifted 3 ton oxygen plant load from Ahmedabad to Dimapur, 28 ventilators from Palam to Mumbai and 40 oxygen concentrators from Delhi to Hyderabad.Moreover, IAF C130s airlifted 16 ton load and 52 passengers from Legpui to Patna for setting up a field hospital there. Another C130 is bringing oxygen concentrators from Palam to Guwahati and Jorhat.An IAF IL 76 airlifted 155 ventilators from Delhi to Mumbai. "Another IL 76 is bringing 150 oxygen concentrators from Delhi to Thiruvananthapuram, and another one is transporting 180 oxygen cylinders each (total 360) from Chennai to Thiruvananthapuram and Yelahanka."India on Thursday reported 4,12,262 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, the highest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases since the pandemic began.With this, the cumulative count of COVID-19 cases in the country has gone up to 2,10,77,410, informed the Union Health Ministry on Thursday.As many as 3,980 patients succumbed to the infection during the last 24 hours, taking the total COVID-related death toll to 2,30,168.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-iaf-airlifts-oxygen-containers-from-singapore-bangkok-to-bengal-101620368991564.html
07-05-2021||India||Australia to lift ban on citizens returning from Covid-hit India next Saturday: PM Morrison||Australia will lift a ban on its citizens returning from Covid-hit India from next Saturday and the first repatriation flight will land in the city of Darwin the same day, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Friday.The Australian government, for the first time in history, recently imposed a temporary ban on its citizens from returning home, if they have spent time in India up to 14 days before flying back.The government threatened to prosecute them with a possibility of five years of jail term or a penalty of 66,000 Australian dollars (USD 50,899). The move triggered a backlash with several lawmakers, doctors, civil societies and businessmen criticising the government for "abandoning" Australians in India and threatening the travellers with a hefty penalty and a jail term.The government's order on the matter is set to expire on May 15.Following the National Security Committee on Friday, Morrison agreed it saw "no need to extend it beyond that date".Australia will charter three repatriation flights between May 15 and May 31. The first flight into Darwin will touch down on May 15. Direct commercial flights from India are still banned.Morrison said flights being organised to repatriate stranded Australians will be "focused on bringing those Australian citizens, residents and families who have been registered with our high commission and consular offices within India.""It will also be targeted (at) those 900 most vulnerable of the group," he said after the latest national Cabinet meeting"I have asked the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT) to do a review of those registrations those who been registered in India to ensure they are current. And that will assist a proper prioritisation of placing people on those flights," Morrison said.''The charters will be undertaken by the Australian crews, and they will require rapid antigen testing prior to departure," he said.He said that three flights will land in Darwin by the end of this month while Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria were also open to taking in more flights from India which means there could be six flights potentially.Morrison, while addressing a media conference, said a three-week pause on flights from India has slowed the rate of Covid-19 infections in quarantine facilities.''We have already facilitated the return of around 20,000 Australians from India, and this has been a big task. And that task will commence again on May 15,” he said.''All of this is about sensibly preventing a third wave of Covid-19 here in Australia, and doing that responsibly, while at the same time doing everything we can to sustainably bring Australians home from what is currently the most significant hot spot for those travelling into Australia of anywhere in the world right now," Morrison said."The biosecurity order is doing its job. It is doing what we intended it to do. It will run for the term we intended for it to run, and then that will be replaced by arrangements made beyond that point to ensure we can prevent the third wave,'' he said.Media reports said that Morrison was due to speak to Prime Minister Narendra Modi later on Friday to see what further assistance Australia can give."I want to thank in particular, in Australia, our Australian community of people who are of Indian descent. The Indian community here in Australia. I thank them for their patience. I thank them for their understanding," Morrison said."...I know they will be welcoming the fact these repatriation flights will be returning once again but also believe we will be able to do that because of the actions we have taken on a sustainable basis," he added.Official figures say there are currently 9,000 Australians in India who want to return home.With a record 4,14,188 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases climbed to 2,14,91,598, while the active cases crossed the 36-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday.Meanwhile, Australia's chief medical officer Paul Kelly stood firm on advice on India travel suspension."With the data, we had in terms of the increasing cases coming from India, where they have had over 2 million cases in the past week, with thousands of deaths, the contrast between their expense and our experience, and I joined the prime minister in my heart going out to people in India and those with loved ones in India," Kelly said."We had to take that into account to protect Australia using the data we had last week. And it's working." Kelly said.According to ABC news, many Australians have fled to Sri Lanka from India. The federal government is now working with Sri Lanka towards ensuring people who board flights to Australia have received a negative test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/australia-to-lift-ban-on-citizens-returning-from-covid-hit-india-next-saturday-pm-morrison-101620369161069.html
07-05-2021||India||AAI, Goa Airport geared up for uninterrupted delivery of Covid-19 essentials||Airports Authority of India, Goa International Airport and its frontline corona warriors are geared up to combat Covid-19 by facilitating the seamless delivery of medical essentials, said the Ministry of Civil Aviation on Friday.During the first phase of the pandemic, Goa International Airport catered to eight LifeLine Udan flights intended to transport essential medical cargo to remote parts of the country amid the nationwide lockdown with a total inbound cargo of 2.15MT and outbound cargo of 3.96 MT.According to the Ministry of Civil Aviation, the Goa Airport also handled three lots of Covid-19 vaccine for the state of Goa and one lot for the neighbouring state Karnataka in the months of January and February 2021."The race is not stopped and Goa International Airport has further strengthened its mission to tackle the unprecedented situation created by covid-19 by the seamless supply of medical essentials i.e., Covid vaccines, Fabiflu medicines, covid-19 testing kits and other essentials," it said.In the second phase of the pandemic, the Goa Airport has facilitated the movement of Covid-19 vaccine to Goa as part of the inbound cargo and ensured the expeditious exit of consignments and handing over to the health authorities in the shortest time possible."Goa Airport so far airlifted 13 boxes of Covid vaccine (Covishield) received from Chennai on April 18, 2021, 9 Boxes of Covid vaccine (Covishield) received from Mumbai on April 30, 2021, and 122 Kg of Covid-19 testing kits received from Delhi on April 23, 2021," the ministry said.In addition to inbound Cargo, Goa Airport has also played a crucial role in facilitating the supply of Glenmark's Fabiflu medicines as part of outbound cargo to different parts of the country i.e., Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Delhi, Kolkata, Lucknow, Jaipur, Hyderabad, Indore, Nagpur, etc."A total of 31,955 Kg of Fabiflu medicines flew from Goa Airport as part of outbound Cargo in the month of April 2021," it added.Fabiflu is used for the treatment of mild to moderate Covid infected people.Further, Goa Airport is also planning to organise a covid vaccination camp for the employees of AAI and their dependent family members, Airlines, Agencies and other frontline staff working at the Airport in collaboration with and support from the Government of Goa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aai-goa-airport-geared-up-for-uninterrupted-delivery-of-medical-essentials-101620368822072.html
07-05-2021||India||Over 10 lakh Covid vaccine doses to be received by states, UTs in 3 days: Centre||The central government has promised to provide more than 10 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses to the states and union territories within the next three days.In an official release, the ministry of health stated that they would be providing a total of 10,25,000 vaccine jabs to the states and union territories within the next three days.Over 90 lakh Covid vaccine doses (90,30,670) are still available with the states and union territories to be administered. States with a negative balance are showing more consumption (including wastage) than vaccine supplied as they have not reconciled the vaccine they have supplied to armed forces, as per the ministry release.The Centre has provided more than 17.35 crore vaccine doses (17,35,07,770) to the states and union territories free of cost. Of this, the total consumption including wastages is 16,44,77,100 doses as per data available at 8 am on Friday, stated the release.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 19 announced a "liberalised" policy to include all above the age of 18 years to administer Covid vaccines in the third phase of the vaccination drive, which commenced on May 1.All the potential beneficiaries are required to either register themselves through CoWIN portal or via Aarogya Setu app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-10-lakh-covid-vaccine-doses-to-be-received-by-states-uts-in-3-days-centre-101620368753189.html
07-05-2021||India||Supreme Court refuses to stay Karnataka HC order on more oxygen to state||The Supreme Court on Friday turned down the Central government’s plea to stay the Karnataka high court order directing it to immediately increase the supply of medical oxygen to the state from 962 metric tonnes (MT) per day to 1,200 MT per day in view of the spurt in the number of active Covid-19 cases.“We can’t keep people of Karnataka in the lurch,” said a bench of justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah.The bench added that the high court order was a “careful, calibrated and judicious exercise of power” and required no intervention of the top court.On May 5, while hearing a public interest litigation, the high court had noted that the projected requirement of oxygen in Karnataka was 1,471 MT per day as on April 30, 2021, whereas the Centre had agreed to enhance it from 862 MT to only 962 MT per day. It also recorded a statement of Karnataka’s additional chief secretary that the requirement of oxygen in the state was likely to go up to 1,792 MT by May 5, 2021.The high court then directed the Karnataka government to submit a representation to the Union government while ordering that till this representation was considered, the Centre will supply 1200 MT of oxygen per day to the state. Challenging this order, the Centre said that the high court failed to consider the rationale behind allocation of certain amounts of oxygen to each state.Also Read | ‘Don’t force us to take coercive steps’: SC to Centre on oxygen supply to Delhi“...purely on the basis of purported shortage in the city of Bangalore, (high court) passed directions which, if fulfilled, will have a cascading effect and result in the total collapse of the system in its fight against the ongoing second wave of Covid-19 Coronavirus,” stated the petition.The plea stated that the high court order “would ultimately lead to mismanagement of resources and create a further chaotic environment in an already overburdened system”.The Centre further sought intervention of the Supreme Court, saying such matters required a comprehensive national approach. “Issues which transcend the boundaries of the particular state, especially issues wherein one or more states would be competing for the limited resources during the time of the pandemic, or issues which require any special treatment to a particular state at the expense of other states would necessarily have to be examined by the Supreme Court as it essentially requires a comprehensive national approach,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-refuses-to-stay-karnataka-hc-order-on-more-oxygen-to-state-101620367918079.html
07-05-2021||India||Central Vista project a criminal wastage, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday slammed the Centre over the Central Vista project, a redevelopment project to construct a new Parliament and a common central secretariat. Terming the project as "criminal wastage," Gandhi wrote, "Put people’s lives at the centre- not your blind arrogance to get a new house!" on Twitter.Over the last year, Gandhi and the Congress have been asking the government to shelve its plans on the Central Vista project and give priority to improving medical infrastructure as the country reels under the devastating impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. Cases have spiked to unprecedented levels in the country, while the healthcare system has been burdened to the breaking point.Earlier this week, the environment ministry’s expert appraisal committee (EAC) granted the necessary clearance for the Central Vista project. The project has been designated as an "essential service", hence getting exemption from the lockdown restrictions in the national capital which is severely hit by the pandemic.According to the CPWD’s submission to the ministry, the work on the new Parliament has been scheduled to be completed by November 2022, the vice-president’s enclave by May 2022, and the PM’s residence and the SPG building by December 2022.This has drawn strong objections by opposition parties and activists with many raising concerns regarding the well-being of construction workers.A plea has also been filed in the Delhi high court seeking immediate suspension of construction activity in Central Vista during the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic to protect the life of the workers and those involved in the project.Workers are being exposed to the infection on a "daily basis while working and that too without payment", petitioners claimed in their plea.The government will shell out around Rs.13,450 crore on the makeover plan which also saw the construction of a common Central Secretariat and revamping of the nearly 3.5-km-long stretch from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to the India Gate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-vista-project-a-criminal-wastage-says-rahul-gandhi-101620367312322.html
07-05-2021||India||'Don't force us to take coercive steps': SC to Centre on oxygen supply to Delhi||The Supreme Court on Friday pulled up the Centre after the Delhi government complained it didn't receive 700 MT of oxygen even after the court's orders. The top court cautioned the Centre and asserted that it has to give 700 MT of oxygen to Delhi every day till this order is reviewed or modified."Don't force us to take coercive steps. Tell your officers to comply with our order of 700 MT of oxygen every day," the Supreme Court told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta.While hearing the matter, the apex court yesterday told the central government that Delhi must get at least 700 tonnes of oxygen every day to meet the needs of Covid-19 patients. "If nothing is to be hidden, let it come before the nation how allocation and distribution is done transparently by the Centre," the Supreme Court added.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has sought 700 tonnes of oxygen a day for the national capital. He said that "his administration won't let anyone die of oxygen shortage if it got the earmarked 700 tonnes of oxygen supply every day from the Centre.""If we get an adequate supply of oxygen...700 tonnes, we will be able to set up 9,000-9,500 beds in Delhi. We will be able to create oxygen beds. I assure you that we will not let anyone die to a shortage of oxygen in Delhi," Kejriwal added.Earlier on Wednesday, the top court recommended that the Centre should look to Mumbai and take note from the Bombay Municipal Corporation (BMC) as it had done a good job in managing oxygen supplies. "The Bombay Municipal Corporation has done some remarkable work and not disrespecting Delhi but we can maybe see what was done by the civic body," Justice Chandrachud had said.Delhi on Thursday reported 19,133 fresh Covid-19 cases and 335 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to official data. The Covid-19 positivity rate has dropped below 25% for the first time since April 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-force-us-to-take-coercive-steps-sc-to-centre-on-oxygen-supply-to-delhi-101620366007971.html
07-05-2021||India||Aarogya Setu fades into background as India deals with second Covid-19 wave||Aarogya Setu, the government’s contact tracing app touted as the first line of defence against Covid-19 last year, has faded into the background as the second wave of the pandemic has overwhelmed the country. Nearly 100 million people began using the app within a month and a half of its launch last year. The app had over 150 million users by the end of September last year, the government told Parliament.An official said the application now has 170 million users and people now use it to register more for Covid-19 jabs as it is linked to the Co-WIN platform for vaccine registrations. “The application can only act if data is fed to it. Labs are testing, but not updating the mobile numbers on Aarogya Setu. So, the app has limited function in terms of helping identify emerging hotspots,” the official said on condition of anonymity. The official added that the application was still sending early warnings on prevention of transmission of the virus and was colour coding people on the basis of the perceived threat level.A person involved with the development of Aarogya Setu said the application had the potential to be leveraged to combat the second wave. “The technology is there but the government dropped the ball.”Also Watch | Switzerland, Netherlands send oxygen concentrators, other medical aid to IndiaIndependent researcher Srinivas Kodali said Aarogya Setu can only function as long as data is being provided to it. “Last year, ICMR [Indian Council of Medical Research] was passing on the data that help in the targeted intervention using the application,” said Kodali. “The government promoted it in a fashion that if one has the application, they will not get Covid. ...there are so many people who do not have smartphones... The important issue that should have been highlighted is testing.” Kodali said it is important to look at what happened with Aarogya Setu as the government begins promoting Co-WIN.Anivar Aravind, a software engineer who petitioned against the mandatory use of the application in the Karnataka high court, said contact tracing apps have proven to be ineffective. “There is no data on how effective these apps have been,” he said. “In Iceland, it did not help; in Singapore also, it is evaluated. In 2021, the question we need to ask is why do contact tracing apps still exist.”Aravind added that Aarogya Setu was an experiment that failed. “This was nothing but technology theatre. Aarogya Setu was a distraction and now we have Co-WIN. I presume that the app will likely make a reappearance as an immunity passport as we go along.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aarogya-setu-fades-into-background-as-india-deals-with-second-covid-19-wave-101620365578382.html
07-05-2021||India||Senior journalist Shesh Narain Singh passes away due to coronavirus||Senior journalist Shesh Narain Singh passed away due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Friday. He was undergoing treatment for the disease at a hospital in Noida.A columnist, political commentator and an expert on foreign policy, Shesh Narain Singh had a career spanning over two decades.Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed his condolences to the members of Shesh Narain Singh's family and said that he would be remembered for his significant contribution to the journalism world. "The demise of senior journalist Sesha Narayan Singh ji is very sad. He will always be known for his significant contribution to the journalism world. My condolences to his family in this hour of grief. Om Shanti!" PM Modi tweeted.The Press Club of India, too, condoled the senior journalist's death."The Press Club of India deeply mourns the passing of Shesh Narayan Singh, senior journalist, columnist, and political commentator. His death has left a vacuum in the media world that will not be filled. PCI mourns his untimely demise. Our heartfelt condolences to the family," it tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-journalist-shesh-narain-singh-passes-away-due-to-coronavirus-101620364514220.html
07-05-2021||India||Covid-19 spreads to Assam tea gardens; nearly 300 cases reported||Covid-19 has found its way to Assam’s tea gardens with close to 300 positive cases detected in Dibrugarh and Biswanath districts in the past few days. “We found many cases in Zaloni tea estate. On the first day of testing, 39 positive cases were detected. On day 2, 90 reports came positive and nearly 50 more on the third day,” said Dr Nabajyoti Gogoi, joint director (in-charge), health services, Dibrugarh, said on Friday. He added that around 60 cases were found in two other tea gardens after a special testing drive. The tea gardens have been declared containment zones and as most cases are asymptomatic, they have been quarantined or in home isolation, depending on their condition. “A sero survey in several tea gardens in our district last year found that most people were not infected during the first wave,” said Dr Gogoi. “This year, when cases started rising in the state, we conducted tests in these places again and found positive cases. If the test drive hadn’t been conducted, most patients, who are asymptomatic, would have gone unnoticed and continued to spread the virus,” he added. Several cases among tea garden workers have been detected in Biswanath district as well and the administration has taken measures to ensure the virus doesn’t spread to other areas. Also Read | 414,188 new Covid cases recorded in India in biggest daily spike, 3,915 deaths“We have detected 46 cases in Nilpur tea garden in the past 4-5 days. The area has been declared a containment zone and infected persons isolated. Most of them are asymptomatic. Those showing severe symptoms have been transferred to hospitals,” said Biswanath deputy commissioner Pranab Kumar Sarmah. On Thursday, Assam recorded 4,936 new positive cases, which was the highest-ever single day figure for the state since the pandemic started last year. It also recorded 46 deaths on Thursday. At present, Assam has 31,829 active cases. The state’s daily positivity rate has been recorded between 8% and 10% for the past several days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-spreads-to-assam-tea-gardens-nearly-300-cases-reported-101620364737914.html
07-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Centre issues SoP to vaccinate beggars, prison inmates without identity cards||The Union health ministry has issued an SOP entrusting district task forces with the responsibility of registering those groups of people on Co-Win, who do not have any photo identity cards required for the registration on the vaccine software. Since all vaccination against Covid-19 will be documented on the software, one key facilitator with a valid identity card will be identified who will be the point person for the vaccination of these groups, the Centre said. Prison officials, old age home officials can serve as the key facilitators, the Centre said.Who will be vaccinated in this process?The Centre has identified several groups of people for vaccination without photo identity cards. Such groups of people include nomads (including sadhu/saints from various religions), prison inmates, inmates in mental health institutions, people in old age homes, beggars, people residing in rehabilitation centres and any other identified eligible persons not have any of the seven prescribed photo ID cards.Panel recommends releasing prisoners in view of ‘threatening’ situation in CapitalThe documents required for vaccinationAadhaar card, voter ID card, passport, driving licence, PAN card, NPR smart card, pension document are the accepted photo ID proof required for vaccination. The ministry has received several representations from various state governments regarding people who do not have any of these. "Covid-19 vaccination services may not be denied in absence of identity proofs," the ministry said.Vaccination of these people will take place only at government centres. The key facilitator will have to verify the identity of the beneficiaries.With the advent of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, prison authorities have raised the issue of the rapid spread of the infection among prison inmates. About 319 Tihar jail inmates have been infected with Covid-19 while five died of the infection till May 3, director-general (prisons), Sandeep Goel, has said.The Kerala government has decided to grant two-week parole to eligible prisoners to ensure social distancing in jails. In Uttar Pradesh's Meerut too, around 280 jail inmates will be released on bail or parole, news agency ANI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-centre-issues-sop-to-vaccinate-beggars-prison-inmates-without-identity-cards-101620362138217.html
07-05-2021||India||Karnataka may extend lockdown-like curbs in state beyond May 12: CM||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday hinted that the lockdown-like restrictions imposed across the state is likely to be extended beyond May 12.“We are discussing this with officials... It has become inevitable to take stricter action,” Yediyurappa told reporters after visiting a temple in Bengaluru’s Gandhi Nagar on Friday morning. “What kind of action should be take will be decided in today and tomorrow’s meetings,” he said. The possibility of an extension comes even as several other states have announced lockdown and other restrictions to contain the surge of Covid- 19. On Thursday, Karnataka reported 49,058 new infections , taking the active caseload to 517,075. Bengaluru accounted for 23,706 new infections, taking its active case count to 332,732. As many as 328 people succumbed to the viral disease in Karnataka on Thursday, taking state’s toll to 17,212. Bengaluru reported 139 deaths on Thursday, taking its Covid toll to 7,145, according to the daily bulletin of the health department. Also Read | PM Modi holds meet with Cabinet to review vaccine drive, medicine availabilityCovid cases have continued to steadily rise since the beginning of April. The Yediyurappa-led government is scrambling to increase preparedness now, almost 7 months after a state-appointed technical advisory committee (TAC) warned the administration of an imminent second wave in the state. Karnataka’s health crisis has been exacerbated by the poor infrastructure which includes shortage of hospital beds, medicines, oxygen and even lack of space in crematoriums that are overflowing with the dead. K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education on Thursday indicated that the restrictions have not worked as per expectation. The Opposition leaders from the Congress have also backed the idea of a lockdown to reduce the stress on the crumbling healthcare infrastructure and containing the surge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-may-extend-lockdown-like-curbs-in-state-beyond-may-12cm-101620361437115.html
07-05-2021||India||No lockdown, partial or total, in Telangana: CM Chandrashekar Rao||Telangana will not impose a lockdown -- partial or total -- to contain the spread of Coronavirus, as it will lead to the collapse of the financial system in the state.A decision to this effect was taken at a high-level official meeting chaired by chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao (KCR) at his camp office late on Thursday. It was the first official meeting held by KCR since April 19, when he went into quarantine at his Siddipet farmhouse after testing positive for Covid-19.According to a late-night official release from the chief minister’s office, KCR told the officials there was no question of imposing a lockdown in the state. He also pointed out that Covid numbers had not dropped in states under lockdown either.He said there were over 250,000-300,000 workers from other states working here, and the state could not afford to see them leave, and not return, as had happened during last year’s lockdown.Also Read | PM Modi holds meet with Cabinet to review vaccine drive, medicine availability“Moreover, there is bumper yield of paddy in the state and procurement is on at 6,144 centres in the state. There are hundreds of thousands of people involved in the process. What will happen to the workers who came from other states and are working in the rice mills if lockdown is imposed? The entire paddy purchase process will come to a standstill,” he said.A lockdown could lead to a panic situation, he said. “Hence, we are not ready for the lockdown. But, we will identify the areas with a greater number of cases and declare them as micro-level containment zones,” he said.The chief minister also spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over phone about the supply of the required vaccines, oxygen and Remdesivir injections at the earliest. He brought to the PM’s notice that the oxygen supplies allocated to the state from Sriperumbudur in Tamil Nadu and Bellary in Karnataka had not been supplied so far.“Since Hyderabad is a medical hub, people from the bordering states also depend on Hyderabad for medical treatment,” he said.At present, the state has 440 MT of oxygen per day and it should be increased 500 MT per day. Likewise, only 4,900 vials of Remdesivir are available and against the requirement of 25,000. He said the Centre has so far given only 5 million doses of vaccine. He requested the Prime Minister to ensure the supply of 200,000-250,000 doses of vaccine per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-lockdown-partial-or-total-in-telangana-says-cm-101620360476949.html
07-05-2021||India||With rise in Covid-19 cases, black fungus cases also spike: All you need to know||Doctors at Delhi hospitals are reporting a rise in cases of black fungus, a rare fungal infection, also known as Mucormycisis, in patients of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Last year as well, doctors had flagged several cases of the Covid-19-induced infection after at least 10 people were found to be infected within 15 days.A senior ENT surgeon in Delhi's Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Manish Munjal said the hospital has seen six cases of mucormycosis in the last six days. "We are seeing a rise again in this dangerous fungal infection triggered by Covid-19. In the last two days, we have admitted six cases of mucormycosis. Last year, this deadly infection caused high mortality with many patients suffering from the loss of eyesight and the removal of the nose and the jaw bone," news agency PTI reported.The doctor also said that the infection is commonly being seen in patients who are at the recovery stage but have comorbidities such as diabetes, kidney or heart failure or cancer.The use of steroids in the treatment of Covid-19 patients could be one reason for the fungal infection, according to doctors.How serious is 'Black Fungus' or Mucormycisis?It is a serious but rare fungal infection and is triggered by the viral Covid-19. In many cases, the infection has been a cause of serious complications and death of a patient in transplants, ICUs. It is a “serious but rare infection caused by a group of molds called mucormycetes.” According to the advisory issued last year in India, Mucormycisis has an overall mortality rate of 50 per cent.Covid patients with weak immunity are more prone to this deadly infection, said Munjal.The infection most commonly affects the sinuses or lungs after inhaling fungal spores from the air, or the skin after the fungus enters through a cut, burn or other types of skin injury. According to the advisory, it can occur in any part of the body.It cannot spread between people or between people and animals.SymptomsSymptoms of the disease are face numbness, nose obstructions on one side, swelling in the eyes, or pain. It can also be accompanied by cough, fever, headache.The infection may initially occur at the site of skin trauma, but it can quickly spread to another area. Doctors suggest to remain cautious of symptoms such as blackened skin tissue, blisters, redness, swelling.Prevention"Early clinical suspicion on symptoms such as nose obstruction, swelling in the eyes or cheeks and black crusts in the nose should immediately prompt a biopsy and start of antifungal therapy as early as possible," said Munjal.People should also avoid direct contact with a lot of dust, wear shoes, long pants and gloves while handling soil or moss, and clean skin injuries well with soap and water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-rise-in-covid-19-cases-black-fungus-cases-also-spike-all-you-need-to-know-101620359495974.html
07-05-2021||India||414,188 new Covid cases recorded in India in biggest daily spike, 3,915 deaths||India reported 414,188 fresh infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 3,915 deaths due to the virus on Friday, according to the Union health ministry dashboard at 8am. With this, the country's cumulative infections went up to 21,491,598 and the toll was pushed to 234,083.Meanwhile, 17,612,351 people have recovered from the disease till date and the country has 36,451,64 active cases. This means that the Covid-19 recovery rate has dropped to 81.95 per cent and the active cases comprise 16.96 per cent of the total infections, according to the health ministry.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAs many as 16,49,73,058 people have been vaccinated against the virus, according to the health ministry, with 23,70,298 of them being inoculated in the last 24 hours.The huge spike in deaths and cases comes amid various states including Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan imposing complete lockdowns and other states tightening restrictions in order to curb the spread of the virus.Kerala, which reported 42,464 new infections on Thursday, imposed an eight-day lockdown from Saturday. “The entire state of Kerala will be under lockdown from 6am on 8 May to 16 May. This is in the background of a strong 2nd wave of #COVID19,” chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan tweeted.Also Read: States step up curbs as Covid-19 tightens gripIn Madhya Pradesh, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan told people to “close down everything” till May 15. The state had reported 12,421 fresh cases and 86 fatalities on Thursday.The Rajasthan government has imposed a lockdown in the state from May 10 to May 24.The highly virulent virus has infected more than 156 million and killed over 3 million people around the world, according to the real-time statistics provider website Worldometers. India is leading the world's daily infection count with over 4 lakh new cases reported for two days in a row. On Thursday, 412,262 fresh Covid-19 cases had pushed India's infection tally to over 21 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3915-covid-19-deaths-recorded-in-india-in-24-hours-daily-cases-at-414188-101620358138480.html
07-05-2021||India||Remdesivir to be available at govt's price, says Gadkari as Centre ramps up production||The Centre has decided to increase production of anti-viral drug Remdesivir and it will be provided to people at government's price, said Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday.This comes after several cases of blackmarketing of Remdesivir came to light amid the Covid-19."There was a shortage of Remdesivir injection. Because of this, incidents of black marketing took place, several people lost their lives as they have not received Remdesivir, so we decided to increase its production," Gadkari said."But we tried (and to got manufacturing rights), Remdesivir will be provided to people at government's price. Now, I think there will be no black marketing or no person will die due to lack of it, there is no reservation, can be provided to other states when there will be surplus," he added.Gadkari on Thursday visited the Genetic Life Sciences (pharmacy) in Wardha to oversee the production of Remdesivir injections.There are currently 35,66,398 active cases in the country, as per Union Health Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remdesivir-to-be-available-at-govt-s-price-says-gadkari-as-centre-ramps-up-production-101620358036428.html
07-05-2021||NA||Highlights: Italy reports 10,554 new Covid-19 cases, 207 related deaths||India's coronavirus caseload went up to 21,491,598 as it continued to report explosion of cases. As of Thursday morning, the death toll stands at 234,083, according to the Union health ministry dashboard.In Delhi, doctors are reporting a rise in cases of black fungus, a rare fungal infection also known as Mucormycisis, in patients of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Last year as well, doctors had flagged several cases of the Covid-19 induced infection after at least 10 people were found to be infected within 15 days.A mathematical model prepared by advisers to Prime Minister Narendra Modi suggests India’s coronavirus outbreak, which saw record cases and deaths Thursday, could peak in the coming days.Meanwhile, Japan is set to extend a virus state of emergency that includes Tokyo to the end of May. In the United States, New York’s mayor said the city is in talks to offer free vaccines to visitors as a way to spur tourism.Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE can make as many as 3 billion doses this year, more than double what the partners forecast six months ago.German Chancellor Angela Merkel opposed a US-backed proposal to waive intellectual-property protections for Covid-19 vaccines, casting doubt on international support for the idea.Follow all the updates here:Harsh Vardhan thanks US government for supporting India's Covid-19 effortsExpressed my gratitude to @SecBecerra for USA's support in our fight against #COVID19Having actively contributed to & witnessed success of global collaborations in tackling diseases like Polio & Small Pox, I'm certain together we shall end this #pandemic too.@PMOIndia pic.twitter.com/a4FfnbBIWCUnion health minister Harsh Vardhan thanked US secretary of health and human services Xavier Becerra for the country's support in India's efforts against the Covid-19 pandemic.Over 167 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine administered so far: Centre#LargestVaccineDrive 💉Cumulative #COVID19Vaccine doses administered in India exceed 16.71 Cr  💉More than 21 L vaccine doses administered today 💉More than 2.96 L beneficiaries from the age group 18-44 Vaccinated till 8 PM today#Unite2FightCorona #IndiaFightsCOVID19 pic.twitter.com/uz8if7wiEyIndia's Covid-19 vaccination drive has so far administered more than 167 million doses of the vaccine, health minister Harsh Vardhan tweeted.Italy reports 207 Covid-19 deaths, 10,554 new casesItaly reported 207 coronavirus-related deaths on Friday against 258 the day before, the health ministry said, while the daily tally of new infections fell to 10,554 from 11,807. Italy has registered 122,470 deaths linked to Covid-19 since its outbreak emerged in February last year, the second-highest toll in Europe after Britain and the seventh-highest in the world. The country has reported 4.09 million cases to date. Patients in hospital with Covid-19 - not including those in intensive care - stood at 16,331 on Friday, down from 16,867 a day earlier.Chhattisgarh sees 13,268 cases, record 61,939 tests conductedChhattisgarh's Covid-19 tally touched 8,30,117 on Friday after 13,628 people tested positive for the infection, while 208 deaths took the toll to 10,158, a health official said. The number of recoveries reached 6,88,918 after 414 people were discharged from hospitals and 12,625 completed home isolation during the day, leaving the state with 1,31,041 active cases, he said. With 61,939 samples being examined on Friday, the highest in a single day so far, the number of tests in the state went up to 76,07,874.Uttar Pradesh logs over 28,000 fresh Covid-19 infections, 372 deathsUttar Pradesh reports 28,076 new #COVID19 cases, 33,117 discharges and 372 deaths in the past 24 hoursTotal cases: 14,53,679Active cases: 2,54,118 pic.twitter.com/I00KWMkG2SWest Bengal reports 19,216 new Covid-19 cases, 112 deathsWest Bengal records new 19,216 #COVID19 cases, 17,780 recoveries and 112 deaths in the past 24 hours; case tally at 9,54,282 and active cases at 1,24,098 pic.twitter.com/tjToOjGBKtGoa reports nearly 4,200 new Covid-19 infectionsGoa reports 4,195 fresh COVID19 cases, 56 deaths and 2,175 recoveries in the past 24 hoursActive cases: 31,716Total cases: 1,12,462 pic.twitter.com/efdb0UaRmATamil Nadu reports 26,465 fresh Covid-19 cases26,465 new #COVID19 cases, 197 deaths and 22,381 discharges reported in Tamil Nadu in the last 24 hoursActive cases: 1,35,355Case tally: 13,23,965Death toll: 15,171 pic.twitter.com/TgqyCo9k7UUttarakhand logs 9,642 fresh Covid-19 cases, 137 deathsUttarakhand reports 9,642 new #COVID19 cases and 137 deaths in the last 24 hours; case tally at 2,29,993 and active cases at 67,691 pic.twitter.com/vWUOh9HBIrJapan extends Covid-19 emergency in Tokyo, PM Suga says still going ahead with OlympicsJapan on Friday extended a state of emergency in Tokyo and three other areas until the end of May to contain the spread of Covid-19, but Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga reiterated hosting Tokyo Olympics this summer is still possible, reported Reuters.Maharashtra: Nagpur logs 4,306 new Covid-19 casesNagpur in Maharashtra reported 4,306 new Covid-19 cases and 79 deaths in the last 24 hours.Puducherry reports 1,746 new Covid-19 cases, 19 deaths#COVID19 | 1,746 new cases, 1,079 discharges and 19 deaths reported in Puducherry in the last 24 hoursCase tally: 68,373Active cases: 13,078 pic.twitter.com/OicSP5CCM7Delhi reports 19,832 new Covid-19 cases, 341 deathsDelhi reported 19,832 new Covid-19 cases, 19,085 recoveries and 341 deaths in the last 24 hours. Active cases in the national capital now stands at 91,035.Mumbai reports steep decline in Covid-19 cases since 2 weeks: Health ministryDistricts in Maharashtra showing a continued decline in cases since last two weeks are:NashikThaneMumbai (steep decline)LaturAurangabadJalgaonBhandaraNanded: Additional Secretary, @MoHFW_INDIA pic.twitter.com/jKMoVzqtdp18 states show continued rising trend in daily new Covid-19 cases: Health ministryStates with continued increasing trend in daily new #COVID19 cases are:KarnatakaKeralaTNAndhra PradeshWBBiharHaryanaOdishaUttarakhandPunjabJ & KAssamHP PuducherryMeghalayaTripuraArunachal PradeshNagaland: @MoHFW_INDIA pic.twitter.com/jeQ6n8F4dzMore than 16.5 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses administered so far: Health ministryCoverage of #COVID19Vaccination (As on 7th May 2021):✅Total doses administered: 16.50 crore◼️People above 45 years: 12.66 crore◼️Health Care Workers: 1.59 crore◼️Front Line Workers: 2.13 crore◼️People aged 18-44 years: 11.81 lakh (1st dose)#LargestVaccineDrive pic.twitter.com/UTLGbn96YK12 states show high Covid-19 caseload: Health ministryMaharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Haryana and Bihar have a high Covid-19 caseload, said Arti Ahuja, additional secretary (health) on Friday.Covid-19 vaccination drive for 18 years and above begin in AssamAssam: Vaccination drive for 18 years and above commences in the state today. Visuals from Guwahati Medical College. #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/uLm7VA411VCovid-19 vaccination to be mandatory for all workers in Saudi ArabiaThe human resource ministry of Saudi Arabia on Friday said all public and private sector workers wishing to attend a workplace will be required to have taken a Covid-19 vaccination. The ministry didn't inform when this would be implemented.Maharashtra: Raigad reports 1,064 new Covid-19 cases, 39 deathsMaharashtra's Raigad district recorded 1,064 new cases of Covid-19 and 39 casualties in the last 24 hours that took the infections tally to 113,646 and death toll to 2,467, PTI quoted an official as saying.Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to hold a high-level Covid-19 review meetingDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will hold a high-level meeting today over current Covid-19 situation. Deputy CM Manish Sisodia, Health Minister Satyendar Jain and other officials to participate in the meeting.SC rejects Centre's plea to stay Karnataka court's order to give 1200 MT of oxygenSupreme Court turns down Central government's plea to stay the Karnataka high court order on May 5 to give 1200 MT of oxygen to the state immediately till the state's representation to the Union is considered."We can't keep people of Karnataka in the lurch," says SC.Delhi HC seeks Centre's stand on plea seeking vaccination for class 12 studentsDelhi High Court seeks Centre's stand, Delhi government on PIL to vaccinate all class 12 students appearing for Board exams.SC pulls up Centre after Delhi govt's complain regarding oxygen supplySupreme Court pulls up Centre after Delhi Government complained it didn't receive 700 MT yesterday even after court orders.SC cautions Centre, asserts Centre has to give 700 MT to Delhi every day till this order is reviewed or modified."Don't force us to take coercive steps. Tell your officers to comply with out order of 700 MT every day," SC told SG Tushar Mehta.90 lakh doses available with the states/UTs: Health ministryGovt of India has so far provided more than 17.35 crore vaccine doses to States/UTs free of cost. More than 90 lakh doses are still available with the States/UTs to be administered. Over 10 Lakh doses in addition will be received by States/UTs in next 3 days, says Union ministry of health and family welfare.Karnataka may extend lockdown-like curbs in state beyond May 12: CMKarnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday hinted that the lockdown-like restrictions imposed across the state is likely to be extended beyond May 12. Read More414,188 fresh cases in India, death toll at 234,083India's Covid-19 tally rises to 21,491,598 after 414,188 fresh cases. The death toll reaches 234,083.Japan to extend state of emergency till May 31Japan's government is set to extend on Friday a state of emergency in Tokyo and three other areas by about three weeks until the end of May to curb a surge in novel coronavirus cases just months before the start of the Tokyo Olympics.Australia to lift ban on citizens returning from IndiaAustralia will lift a ban on its citizens returning from Covid-ravaged India in a week, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Friday, as state officials reported that an outbreak in Sydney appeared to be contained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-coronavirus-live-updates-india-world-death-toll-may-2021-101620357036297.html
07-05-2021||India||Maharashtra’s Covid death toll on rise, daily average at 783||With 853 deaths on Thursday, Maharashtra recorded a total of 4,702 deaths in the first six days of May, bringing the average number of deaths to 783 per day. The number is almost three times than that of last month’s. Between April 1 and April 6, the state saw 1,402 deaths, which averaged 233 deaths per day. From March 1 to 6, 286 deaths were recorded, which averaged 47 deaths per day.The total number of deaths in the state since the outbreak of the pandemic has touched 73,515. On Wednesday, the state recorded 920 deaths which was the second-highest one day toll in the state. The highest toll was 985 on April 28 last month.On Thursday, the state recorded 62,194 new Covid-19 cases, and 277,086 citizens were tested for the virus.Also Read | Moderna’s booster shots effective against variantsThere are currently 639,075 active cases across the state of which Pune tops with 115,182 cases followed by Nagpur with 61,178 active cases. In Covid fatalities, Mumbai leads with 13,580 deaths followed by Pune with 9,942.Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), said, “We saw an increase in deaths due to the second wave which is more lethal than the first one. The current deaths are of those who have been affected mostly two weeks ago. Due to the lockdown, we will see this number stabilise and even come down,” said Lahane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtras-covid-death-toll-on-rise-daily-average-at-783-101620357476924.html
07-05-2021||India||Rain, thunderstorms likely over western Himalayas, adjoining plains for 4-5 days||Widespread rain and thunderstorms are likely over the western Himalayan region and parts of northwest India for 4-5 days, according to India Meteorological Department.Due to Western Disturbances, scattered to fairly widespread rainfall or thundershower is very likely over the western Himalayan region and isolated to scattered rainfall or thunderstorm is likely over plains of northwest India during the next 4-5 days. Hailstorms are also likely over the region during the next 24 hours. Dust storm is likely over Rajasthan on May 6 and 7. An east-west trough (area of low pressure) is running from eastern parts of central India to northeast India across east India in lower levels. This east-west trough is very likely to persist during the next 4-5 days. Also Read | States step up curbs as Covid-19 tightens gripUnder their influence, widespread rainfall or thunderstorm activity is very likely over northeastern states, West Bengal and Sikkim; and isolated to scattered rain or thundershower is likely over the remaining parts of east India during the next 4-5 days. Heavy rainfall is also likely over northeast India and sub Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim during May 6 to 10.Under the influence of a cyclonic circulation over north interior Karnataka and a north-south trough over south Peninsula at lower levels, light or moderate scattered to fairly widespread rain or thunderstorm is very likely over Kerala, Mahe, Lakshadweep and Karnataka; and isolated rain or thundershower likely over the remaining parts of south Peninsular India during the next 5 days. Isolated heavy rainfall is also likely over Kerala & Mahe and coastal and south interior Karnataka during the next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-thunderstorms-likely-over-western-himalayas-adjoining-plains-for-4-5-days-101620356276859.html
07-05-2021||India||Six US planes carrying key Covid-19 supplies reached India in past 6 days||The US has so far sent six planes carrying emergency supplies to India, which is battling one of its worst public health crises.The emergency supplies include 20,000 courses of remdesivir (125,000 vials) to help treat critically ill patients, nearly 1,500 oxygen cylinders, which can be repeatedly refilled at local supply centres, and one million rapid diagnostic tests to quickly identify Covid-19 cases.The six planes, which have landed in just six days, also carried nearly 550 mobile oxygen concentrators that obtain oxygen from ambient air. These units have a lifespan of more than five years and can serve multiple patients at once, depending on their oxygen needs.The US has also sent nearly 2.5 million N95 masks to protect healthcare professionals and other frontline workers.According to the USAID, a large-scale deployable Oxygen Concentration System that can provide oxygen to treat 20 or more patients at a time and 210 pulse oximeters to measure oxygen levels in a patient’s blood to determine whether a higher level of care is needed has also been sent to India.The US government assistance to combat the current crisis is about USD100 million. The United States is continuing to work closely with Indian officials and health experts to identify and respond to emerging trends in this ongoing crisis, the USAID said.The six shipments were made possible by a USAID-led whole-of-government effort, which included the Department of Defense, Department of State, Department of Health and Human Services, Travis Air Force Base, in partnership with the state of California, National Airlines, and United Airlines, it added.Last week, the USAID immediately allocated funding to purchase locally an additional 1,000 mobile oxygen concentrators.These life-saving units will be used in hundreds of primary health care facilities to address India’s critical oxygen shortage.The USAID said it is also supporting the Government of India’s efforts to stand up 150 Pressure Swing Adsorption oxygen generating plants, allowing 150 healthcare facilities to generate their own oxygen for years to come."The official US response over the last few days to India’s horrific Covid crisis underscores the depth and breadth of Washington’s unwavering commitment to India. Both the Biden administration and the US Congress have spared no effort toward this end in a testament to the strength and character of the bilateral relationship,” Ronak D. Desai, an expert on US-India relations at Harvard University and an international investigations attorney at Paul Hastings LLP, told PTI.Observing that Congressional efforts to assist India in its darkest hour have proven pervasive, bipartisan and bicameral, Desai said the speed at which members in both the House and Senate have mobilised to reduce India’s suffering serves as a potent reminder of the enduring goodwill India continues to enjoy in the corridors of the US Congress."Profound credit is due to Representatives Raja Krishnamoorthi, Ro Khanna, Pramilia Jayapal, and Dr Ami Bera for their steadfast leadership in helping mobilize the Congressional response to India’s Covid crisis and bringing national and international attention to the grave situation in India, why it matters, and why all American should care,” he said.Less than five years ago, such community representation in Congress would have been hard to predict. Less than five years later, it is clear why such representation is so crucially important, he said in response to a question.Noting that the scope and substance of Washington’s assistance to India over the past several days demonstrates the sincerity and reliability of the US, Desai said the Biden administration and its Congressional partners have proven that they treat their partnership and engagement with India in a non-transactional manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-us-planes-carrying-key-covid-19-supplies-reached-india-in-past-6-days-101620348738748.html
07-05-2021||India||'Covid-19 second wave in India a tragedy,' says US' top surgeon Vivek Murthy||The second wave of Covid-19 in India is a tragedy, US Surgeon General Dr Vivek Murthy has said, underlining the need for countries to help each other during the crisis."If Covid-19 has taught us anything, it's that we need each other to get through this pandemic. As a world, we need each other in terms of countries to step up to help make sure that the world has an adequate supply of vaccine, to ensure people have treatments available, supply of PPE because the threat of Covid in any part of the world is ultimately a threat to every country,” Indian-American Murthy told a news channel in an interview.To a question on the current Covid crisis in India and if the US might face a similar situation, Murthy hoped that it never happens."But it is always a possibility and that we have to be mindful of. And I'm cautiously optimistic that we will do well in this country, especially if we keep up our efforts at the vaccination campaign,” he said on Thursday."What's happening in India is a tragedy. And India has two challenges or has many challenges, but in terms of their variants, it has to B117 variant, which is the predominant one circulating here, which we know is at least 50 per cent or more contagious than the variant we were dealing with last year in the US,” Murthy said.The 617 variant of the deadly virus may or may not be more transmissible, he said, adding that doctors are still trying to understand it."It's just what they do. But they can't mutate, if they're not spreading, if they're not replicating within people. That's why we got to work hard. Just remember, this is not an effort that one person can take care of on their own or one country on its own," said the Indian-American surgeon general.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-second-wave-in-india-a-tragedy-says-us-top-surgeon-vivek-murthy-101620345813827.html
07-05-2021||India||Centre moves SC against K’taka HC order to step up daily oxygen quota for state||The Centre on Thursday moved Supreme Court against a Karnataka high court order, directing it to immediately increase the supply of medical oxygen to the state from 962 metric tonnes (MT) per day to 1,200 MT per day in view of the spurt in the number of active Covid-19 cases.According to the petition, such a direction by the high court will “have a cascading effect and result in the total collapse of the system in its fight against the ongoing second wave of Covid-19 Coronavirus.”Also read | What is the plan on vaccinating children, top court asks CentreA bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah will hear the Union government’s appeal on Friday along with a plea to stay the operation of the high court order issued on May 5.“We have filed an appeal against the order passed a day ago. We are seeking a stay on the interim order on allocation,” Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said. Expressing shock over the Centre’s move, state Congress chief D K Shivakumar tweeted: “Will CM @BSYBJP & BJP MPs remain mute spectators when people are dying of Oxygen shortage?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-moves-sc-against-k-taka-hc-order-to-step-up-daily-oxygen-quota-for-state-101620342068230.html
07-05-2021||India||PM Modi holds meet with cabinet to review vaccine drive, medicine availability||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday held a meeting with his top Cabinet colleagues to review the progress of ongoing Covid-19 vaccination, availability of drugs such as Remdesivir, and to discuss the scaling up of vaccine production.“Citizens should be facilitated for vaccination despite lockdowns and healthcare workers involved in vaccination must not be diverted for other duties,” Modi directed officials at the meeting, according to an official statement.Also read | States step up curbs as Covid-19 tightens gripModi was also informed about the vaccine wastage.“As many as 17.7 crore [177 million] vaccines have been supplied to the states in the country and almost 31% of eligible population over the age of 45 has been given at least one dose of the COVID vaccine,” the statement said.Modi called for ensuring quick and holistic containment measures to prevent the further spread of the virus. He was told about 12 states that have over 100,000 active cases. Modi said the states should be given help and guidance. He added the states should ensure that the speed of the vaccination should not decrease.Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Nirmala Sitharaman, Harsh Vardhan, Piyush Goyal, Mansukh Mandaviya attended the meeting along with top officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-holds-meet-with-cabinet-to-review-vaccine-drive-medicine-availability-101620341784407.html
07-05-2021||India||20 heritage jamun trees may be uprooted in Central Vista revamp||Several heritage trees, including 20 jamun trees, are likely to be uprooted as part of the Central Vista Avenue redevelopment plan stretching from Rashtrapati Bhawan to India Gate and will be transplanted elsewhere, officials in the know said on Thursday.Citizens and activists have been sharing pictures on social media of the dug-up Rajpath stretch lamenting the loss of the heritage jamun trees.“We have started work after requisite approvals. No tree to be cut…affected trees are to be transported elsewhere,” said a Central Public Works Department (CPWD) spokesperson.A senior official of the environment and forest department of Delhi said permission has been given to CPWD to transplant a total of 400 trees for the new Parliament project. These include some jamun and neem trees on Raisina Road and Red Cross Road that are nearly 100 years old.“There are some 20-22 old jamun trees on Raisina Road that are said to have been planted in the 1920s and were part of Edwin Lutyens’ original design of Lutyens’ Delhi. These trees are nearly 100 years old and might not survive transplantation,” said the environment department official cited above.Also read | Monsoon set to keep June 1 onset date with KeralaActivists said the environmental impact of redevelopment work on Rajpath hasn’t been assessed. The environment clearance for the new Parliament building was issued in June 2020 while that for a common central secretariat and Central Conference Centre along with the Prime Minister’s Residence, the SPG Building and the Vice President’s Enclave has been recommended by the environment ministry on April 13. As per the minutes of the expert appraisal committee (EAC) meeting held on April 13, 3,230 trees are to be transplanted from the site while 1,412 will be retained.“The central vista project has been broken into different components including the new parliament, central vista avenue and a consolidated proposal including the common central secretariat buildings, the Prime Minister’s residence and the Vice President’s estate. The environment clearance for the new parliament was issued in June 2020 and the approval for the consolidated proposal has been recommended in April 2021. The work on the central vista avenue presently underway did not go through an independent environment impact assessment, possibly because it did not attract the provisions of the EIA notification as it was separated from the other components and implemented as a stand-alone project,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.The jamun trees near Rajpath have a special significance to birders and nature lovers in the city. Twice a year there is a murmuration of Rosy Starlings over these jamun trees, and above India Gate.“Twice a year we see a murmuration of Rosy Starlings over these jamun trees before they roost for the night. We see hundreds of them dance in the sky forming different shapes over India Gate. These trees are also the roosting site for parakeets in the city. During daybreak they are seen flying off to other green spaces such as IIT or Green Park and in the evening, you can see them coming back to India Gate,” said Nikhil Devasar, founder, Delhi Bird.“…the starlings set off for their communal roost in one of the most staggering natural spectacles of all. Flocks arrive from all directions, gathering in the skies above their roost sites. As the numbers reach into the tens and hundreds of thousands, the murmurations take on incredible shapes in the sky, contracting and expanding as one flock merges into another, and taking on a life of their own...” says the UK-based The Wildlife Trusts, describing starling murmurations.Delhi forest department officials said they have no information on cutting or transplantation of trees for the Central Vista project.While the initial tree cutting and transplantation permission requests for the Central Vista project were tabled before the south division of the Delhi forest department, on April 24 the jurisdiction was redrawn and the project site was handed over to the west division.“Since the official handover happened, no fresh permission request for the Central Vista project has come to the west division,” a senior forest department official said.Experts pointed out that the transplantation of these heritage trees was as good as cutting the trees because most of them were unlikely to survive the “shock”.CR Babu, professor emeritus at the Centre for Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystem, Delhi University, said while it is easier for young and shallow-rooted species to survive transplantation, for trees with deep tap root such as the jamun the survival chances are low. “A jamun tree that is less than 20 years of age can survive and regrow. But when their age is above 50 years their roots tend to have penetrated too deep into the soil. This makes it difficult to dig out the roots without damaging the roots. Even if they survive, these will not flourish or perform any ecological functions, so it is equal to being dead,” Babu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-heritage-jamun-trees-may-be-uprooted-in-central-vista-revamp-101620334233182.html
07-05-2021||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||It’s October 2021.Life is almost back to normal after the coronavirus pandemic in the global north.Following the example of the UK, the US and many other countries, have even given those over the age of 50 years a third shot of the Pfizer/BioNTech or Moderna vaccine.Economies are growing; it isn’t quite like the roaring twenties that followed the Spanish Flu (and preceded the Great Depression), but things are definitely looking up.There are still stray, minor outbreaks caused on account of the anti-vaxxers (who have no protection against the disease other than what they get on account of herd immunity, which has been achieved thanks to the widespread vaccination) and the rare mutant strain, but because most vaccines offer protection from serious illness, none of these is serious enough to warrant the closure of anything.School is on. As is college. Offices are open (although many companies continue to offer people the flexibility of working from home, or just about anywhere). Shops and restaurants are open. Large-scale sporting and cultural events have restarted. And countries have full-time vaccine czars running huge departments that have figured out schedules for revaccinations and booster shots. Vaccines, these countries have discovered, are the only way to get the better of the pandemic.In short, life is good.But that’s in the global north.Also read | How different will Covid's 3rd wave be from first two? What government saysIt’s October 2021.Things are still bad in the global south. There are not enough vaccines to go around. Some countries have vaccinated around 20-25% of their population and they are the outliers. Many others have vaccinated far fewer. Even those that have vaccinated a fourth of their population are struggling. The only way they have been able to keep infections under check is by continuing with harsh non-pharmaceutical interventions. Everyone continues to wear masks and practice social distancing. School is still online (or hybrid). As is college. That means the underprivileged who are at the wrong end of the digital divide slide even further down. Most offices remain closed — indoor spaces are lethal — and people continue to work from home. Shops and restaurants follow stringent rules.Large outbreaks are common. As are attacks by variants of the Sars-CoV-2 virus that result in flare-ups of infections. Herd immunity (the good kind, achieved through vaccination) is some distance away. Every time there is an outbreak, there is a lockdown. Some last weeks, others months. Everyone is tired of stopping and starting, then stopping and starting again. Economies are in tatters.Travel outside the countries, especially to the global north, is difficult. Those that want to travel need to prove that they have been vaccinated; everyone is tested on landing; and some countries insist on a quarantine on top of everything else.And because even the first round of vaccination isn’t complete, these countries are caught between universal coverage (for at least everyone who wants a shot), and revaccination, and booster-shot drives.In short, life is a mess.October is four months away. India, a country that is in the global south, still has a shot at living the scenario described above for the global north. But for that, it will need to resurrect its faltering vaccine drive (which means, most importantly, accepting that it is faltering). It’s the only way to crush the second wave of the pandemic — and prevent (or lessen the impact of) a third that the government told us on Wednesday was coming.It’s still not too late to do what it takes to make the first scenario India’s reality by October 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-what-you-need-to-know-today-101620333651349.html
07-05-2021||India||Centre needs to revamp its O2 allocation plan: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday said that the central government’s policy on allocating medical oxygen supplies to states needed a “complete revamp”, highlighting what it said were the “most obvious points” of considerations overlooked by the expert committee.Observing that it was inclined to set up a committee to review the Centre’s policy, the bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah found fault with the Centre’s formula to link allocation of oxygen to only the number of beds in the hospitals of a state and its active cases.“Your formula requires a complete revamp. Now, we tell you the practical problem is that when you prepared this formula, not everyone required oxygen or bed but many patients today require oxygen even at home. Your formula takes into account number of beds in hospitals but not those who will require it at home because there are no beds available anywhere,” it told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who represented the Union government.The court added that the formula, which computed total requirement of a state on the basis that 50% of the non-ICU beds required 10 litres of oxygen per minute, while 100% percent of the ICU beds required 24 litres per minute, also failed to take note of oxygen requirements for ambulances and Covid care facilities, besides the logistical issues regarding its transportation, turnaround time etc.“If we look at Delhi, your forum is a gross underestimation of what is actually required for Delhi. This formula has to be looked at in the national perspective. We don’t want these proceedings to make Delhi-centric but this formula requires a revamp... your committee didn’t look at most obvious points which we as judges can see,” it said.Also read | Oxygen Express ferries over 2,500 MT of load across India to battle Covid crisisThe Centre’s expert group comprised Dr VK Paul, (doctor and member, Niti Aayog), Dr Randeep Guleria (director, AIIMS), the director general of Indian Council of Medical Research and the director general, Health Services.On his part, the S-G adduced a chart in the court to show that the Centre has complied with the court order and Delhi received 730 MT oxygen on May 6. He added that a survey of 56 big hospitals in the city on Wednesday has revealed that all of them had sufficient stock available with them and that large quantities of oxygen which reached on Wednesday was yet to be distributed.Refuting Delhi’s claim of the daily requirement of 700 MT, Mehta also emphasised that the allotment made to other states was interfered with to comply with the court order of supplying 700 MT oxygen to Delhi every day. “It is therefore clarified that any deficiency in other states resulting from diversion of their allotted quota to GNCTD may result into adverse consequences beyond the control of the Central government,” he maintained.The S-G pressed for an ‘oxygen audit’ in Delhi, stating there was a systemic failure in efficiently handing oxygen in the national capital and that a committee of expert could be set up to examine the loopholes and deficiencies.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, called it a “witch-hunt” and resisted any order of audit since he claimed it could divert the resources and officials from the Covid-19 management. Mehra contended that if at all any audit was required, the top court must order an audit into arbitrary oxygen allocation policy of the Centre.The court observed that a committee will have to be formed “to provide a national pool of resources and guidance on management of the pandemic” which could go into areas such as allocation of oxygen and other logistical requirements, and a pan-India audit of distribution of resources given the fact that major part of the country was rural where equitable distribution must take place.At this, the S-G said that the policy was continuously evolving in the wake of the dynamic nature of the pandemic.“I accept that a minimum fault formula is to be arrived. I must also tell this court that this issue is being examined at the highest possible level in the government. I assure this court that we would revisit that formula,” he said.The bench, however, responded: “We need to assess the basis of oxygen allocation. We are in stage two of the pandemic and we may be getting to stage three. All need to prepare to be able to handle stage three.”It further underscored the necessity of creating a buffer stock of oxygen in all high load cities, starting from Delhi in respect of which the court passed an order on May 2.“Hospitals are sending SoS that we are left with 2 hours of oxygen; three hours of oxygen. This created panic in the minds of the people. In Delhi’s Batra hospital, a senior doctor lost his life. That’s the kind of situation we need to alleviate. If there is a buffer stock, there will not be oxygen panic in the city. Citizens will feel they have sufficient oxygen,” it added.The bench, which had on Sunday directed the Central government, to give the national capital 700 MT oxygen every day, is expected to release its detailed order on the formation of the committee and its terms of references on Friday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-needs-to-revamp-its-o2-allocation-plan-sc-101620331303983.html
07-05-2021||India||Protagonists of negative politics defeated: Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan||The Left Front’s decisive victory in Kerala will help the party and secular forces across the country, state chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Thursday, underlining that his government will put forth a positive agenda focused on development and arresting the second wave of Covid-19 infections.In an interview to HT, Vijayan credited the Left Democratic Front’s (LDF) win, which bucked a four-decade-old electoral trend of the state changing governments every five years, to welfare measures, transparency and development.“This is the achievement of the people. They were very clear that the protagonists of negative politics were kept away from power. People have rewarded us mainly because we kept our promises,” said the 76-year-old.The LDF’s stellar performance in Kerala – it won 97 of the state’s 140 assembly seats – was somewhat marred by the group’s poor showing in erstwhile bastion West Bengal, where it drew a blank. But Vijayan said the Kerala win will rejuvenate the party and secular forces.Also read | Kerala Covid-19 cases reach unprecedented levels, state announces 8-day lockdown“They always looked up to Kerala, as we have been relentlessly fighting the communal agenda propelled by the RSS [Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh]. We were also able to put across an alternative agenda on both social and economic spheres,” he said.He said the state had no space for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and said he triumphed in the polls despite a conspiracy to destabilise his government through central agencies. He also acknowledged that a surge in Covid-19 infections – the state has been reporting 36,059 cases on average – was a challenge.“Containing the pandemic is our major task, and we are confident of success. We have already sought assistance from the central government, including an additional share of vaccines. We are working in unison with the central government to contain the spread of virus,” he said.He highlighted that the previous government focussed on infrastructure development in roads, air connectivity, power, and gas and his second term will stress on attracting more investment, developing tourism, and creating jobs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protagonists-of-negative-politics-defeated-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-101620330747600.html
07-05-2021||India||Monsoon set to keep June 1 onset date with Kerala||India is likely to see a normal monsoon this year, expected to arrive on time in Kerala on June 1, a top government official said on Thursday, citing an early indication ahead of the India Meteorological Department’s official forecast due May 15.India receives about 70% of its annual rainfall during the four-month rainy season, which is crucial for the country’s farm-dependent agricultural economy that employs nearly 50% of the country’s population.A normal monsoon -- which hits Kerala around June 1 and covers the rest of the country by mid-July -- is imperative for the agriculture sector, especially this year, as it could help farmers and cultivators sidestep losses due to a pandemic ravaging the country.“Extended range forecast suggests monsoon will arrive over Kerala on time, around June 1. This is an early indication. @indiametdept [The India Meteorological Department] official monsoon forecast on May 15 and rainfall forecast update around May 31,” said M Rajeevan, secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences.“Early analysis indicates monsoon will arrive around June 1 over Kerala. Like we have projected earlier it’s likely to be a normal monsoon this year,” he added.Also read | IMD forecasts thunderstorms with moderate to heavy rain in Delhi, adjoining areaIn its long-range forecast, IMD said on April 16 that annual monsoon rains are likely to be normal at around 98% of the long period average (LPA) after two years of above-average rainfall. It, however, said there can be a variation of 5% over or under the prediction.The same month, private weather forecasting agency Skymet Weather too assessed that monsoon is likely to be a “healthy normal” at 103% this year. The IMD’s forecast indicated this at the lower end of its normal LPA range.LPA is the average rainfall (88cm) recorded from 1961 to 2010, and rainfall between 94-106% is considered “normal”.India has recorded above-average monsoon rains in the last two years -- considered to be the prime reason for the farm sector’s resilience despite the Covid-19 pandemic that severely hit businesses and brought economies to a standstill during the 68-day nationwide lockdown last year. The agriculture sector grew 3.4% in the June 2020 quarter even as the Indian economy shrank 24.4% in the same period. In the quarter ending December 2020 , agriculture grew at 3.9% and India’s GDP recovered to see 0.4% growth.Experts said a normal monsoon will significantly help the agriculture sector tide over the public health crisis this year as well. “Migrant labour normally goes back to their villages during the Kharif season to do some farming because urban incomes are uncertain and living in urban areas is also increasingly becoming uncertain. So, going back and farming reduces risk. In the past five years farm insurance has become a serious problem because many states including Telangana and Gujarat haven’t managed to pay their premiums and went out of insurance cover. A normal monsoon is so important for reducing risk to people’s lives,” Ramanjaneyulu GV, executive director at the Centre for Sustainable Agriculture, Telangana, said last month.Around 60% of India’s net-sown area does not have access to irrigation, and relies on monsoon rains. Nearly half of the country’s population, including 150 million farmers, is engaged in the sector. Additionally, monsoon rains also replenish 89 nationally important reservoirs that are critical for drinking and power generation.If the forecast is accurate, this will only be the second time in two decades that India will have recorded normal rainfall for three consecutive years. Previously, India saw normal monsoon for three back-to-back years from 1996-1998.The normal date for monsoon withdrawal is October 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-set-to-keep-june-1-onset-date-with-kerala-101620330218545.html
07-05-2021||India||Support grows for India over patents||The Biden administration on Wednesday announced the US will support temporary waiver of intellectual property rights to Covid-19 vaccines, accepting a key element of a joint proposal by India and South Africa at the World Trade Organization (WTO), and said it will “actively participate” in negotiations to “make that happen”.The decision, also backed by French President Emmanuel Macron, reversed former president Donald Trump’s opposition to the proposal in its entirety. It was welcomed as a “monumental moment” by WHO director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus and was a called a “bold decision” by Doctors Without Borders (Médecins Sans Frontierè — MSF).The UK and the European Union, too, indicated a change in their posture, but the German government opposed the move, saying it would create “severe complications” for future vaccines.People familiar with the matter said it is a “limited waiver” that the US is supporting, as it covers only vaccines and not therapeutics and related technologies as proposed by India and South Africa. And, given the consensus-based approach of the WTO, it will not happen overnight.“The administration believes strongly in intellectual property protections, but in service of ending this pandemic, supports the waiver of those protections for Covid-19 vaccines,” US trade representative Katherine Tai said. “We will actively participate in text-based negotiations at the World Trade Organization (WTO) needed to make that happen.”Following US announcement, the EU and the UK also indicated a change in their posture, or a willingness to do it. European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen said “we are ready to discuss how the US proposal for a waiver on intellectual property protections for Covid-19 vaccines could help achieve that objective” of addressing the global crisis.Also read | Moderna sees no impact on Covid-19 vaccine from potential patent waiverFrench President Emmanuel Macron, too, reversed his previous stance and said he is “absolutely in favour”. In London, a government spokesperson said, “The UK is working with WTO members to resolve this issue. We are in discussions with the US and WTO members to facilitate increased production and supply of Covid-19 vaccines.”The proposal will now be discussed and cleared by the general council, which is the highest decision-making body of WTO. The council will lay down conditions under which member countries will be allowed to “violate” the agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS), which protects patents and copyrights. This could take weeks and months or years as it did when WTO dealt with patented drugs and HIV/AIDS that was the last time it confronted similar policy challenges, according to people familiar with ongoing negotiations.Officials in India welcomed the decision. “We welcome the statement of the US government of 5th May announcing their support for this initiative. We are hopeful that with a consensus-based approach, the waiver can be approved quickly at the WTO,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement. “The waiver is an important step for enabling rapid scaling up of manufacture and timely availability of affordable Covid-19 vaccines and essential medical products,” it said.In the joint proposal filed in October, India and South Africa had sought a waiver of TRIPS provision “in relation to prevention, containment or treatment of COVID-19”, covering, in other words, vaccines, diagnostic kits and technologies and therapeutics such as remdesivir. The US support for waiver is only for vaccines.Watch | Covid update: Russia approves Sputnik Light; Rajdhani, Shatabdi trains suspended﻿The Biden administration was under mounting pressure from lawmakers of the ruling Democratic Party, rights groups at home and a growing number of WTO member nations — more than 100 at last count — to reverse US opposition to the waiver proposal ordered by Trump, who was in office when India and South Africa moved their joint proposal last October. The US was joined in its opposition to the waiver by the EU, the UK, Japan and Switzerland, essentially developed countries that had built up sizable stockpiles of vaccines and therapeutics.“The administration’s aim is to get as many safe and effective vaccines to as many people as fast as possible,” Tai said. “As our vaccine supply for the American people is secured, the Administration will continue to ramp up its efforts – working with the private sector and all possible partners – to expand vaccine manufacturing and distribution.”“I warmly welcome her willingness to engage with proponents of a temporary waiver of the TRIPS agreement to help in combating the Covid-19, pandemic,” Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, World Trade Organization chief , said in a statement, read to reporters by her spokesperson Keith Rockwell.India and South Africa moved the proposal before WTO calling for temporary waiver of the agreement on TRIPS to protect patents and copyrights, with the goal of ensuring easy and affordable access globally, and specially to developing countries, to Covid-19 vaccines, therapeutics and related technologies till the pandemic had been crushed.GAVI, the global vaccine alliance said: “We recognise also the significance of the (Biden) administration’s commitment to work towards increasing raw material production which will have an immediate impact on alleviating current global supply constraints.Gavi urges now that in the interests of global equitable access the US supports manufacturers to transfer not only IP but also know-how in a bid to urgently boost global production.”Also read | European Union 'ready to discuss' Covid-19 vaccine patent waiverThe proposal secured the support of the majority of the members of the WTO but ran up against a small group of developed countries led by the US.The pharmaceutical companies were opposed as well and remain so. “This change in longstanding American policy will not save lives,” said Stephen Ubl, the president and CEO of PhRMA, a lobbying group for the biopharma industry. “This decision does nothing to address the real challenges to getting more shots in arms, including last-mile distribution and limited availability of raw materials.” Opponents of the waiver have argued that IP rights to the vaccines do not pose a barrier to equitable distribution, but scalability of production.“The decision probably wasn’t made lightly,” said Atman Trivedi, an Obama administration official, who was on Biden’s presidential transition team, pointing to the centrality of intellectual property safeguards to the American economy. “But the strong humanitarian case, as infections surge in India, throughout South Asia, Latin America, and other parts of the developing world, is compelling.”The second wave of Covid-19 in India added a sense of urgency to the debate on whether or not the US should support the waiver, as the tragedy unfolding in overcrowded, ill-equipped and understaffed hospitals and overwhelmed cremation grounds was depicted in graphic details in words and visuals in the US media.Rick Rossow, who holds the India chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a leading tank, welcomed the US’s decision but said, “India and other nations have the right to break patents anyways under Compulsory License rules... But proactively announced American support further helps repair the damage caused by the noticeable period of American inaction from mid-April.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/support-grows-for-india-over-patents-101620329411029.html
07-05-2021||India||400 priests booked in Kerala for flouting Covid-19 protocol||The Kerala police on Thursday booked 400-odd priests including Church of South India (CSI) South Kerala Diocese Bishop Father Dharmaraj Rasalam for allegedly flouting Covid-19 protocol to organise a religious retreat in the hill station of Munnar in Idukki district last month. The incident was discovered after two priests died of Covid-19 last week and more than 100 participants reportedly tested positive. Some of the reformist groups in the church alleged that a section of priests was forced to attend the retreat after church authorities threatened them with disciplinary action. There were many attempts to hush up the case and most of the infected were shifted to a medical college run by the church along the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border discreetly, they alleged. A case was registered after a senior revenue official inquired about the incident and found that more than 450 people, a majority of them priests, attended the meet flouting all Covid-19 norms. District collector H Dinesh later asked the police to register a case against them. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had called the incident “unfortunate” on Wednesday. Church insiders said all norms were flouted during the event and at least 400 priests and others participated in the event organised by CSI Christ Church in Munnar. They said some young priests questioned the timing of the meet but they were threatened with disciplinary action by authorities. “Photos of the retreat show all Covid-19 norms were flouted. None of them were wearing masks. We alerted some top officials about this but no action was taken then,” said Jacob Mathew, a member of the Joint Christian Council, a reformist group. But the church maintained that all precautions were taken and only 28 priests tested positive, not 100. “The event was planned much earlier and we met all norms. Most of the priests were infected weeks after the event,” said diocese secretary T T Praveen. But reformists insisted that the event turned out to be a super spreader. The CSI retreat is the latest religious event to hit the headlines for recklessness during the pandemic. Last year, at the beginning of the first wave, a congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi caused a spike in cases. Last month’s massive congregation at the Kumbh Mela also contributed to spike in Covid-19 cases in many northern and central Indian states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/400-priests-booked-in-kerala-for-flouting-covid-19-protocol-101620329634365.html
07-05-2021||India||Centre approves key appointments in department of military affairs||The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC), headed by the Prime Minister, has cleared the appointment of senior military officers as additional secretary and joint secretaries in the department of military affairs (DMA) under the defence ministry. In an order issued late on Wednesday, the ACC approved the appointment of Lieutenant General Anil Puri as additional secretary in the DMA. It also cleared Major General K Narayanan, Rear Admiral Kapil Mohan Dhir and Air Vice Marshal Hardeep Bains for the posts of joint secretary in the department. Chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat heads the DMA as its secretary. The DMA was set up by a gazette notification issued on December 30, 2019. Puri and the other three officers were already holding these posts in the DMA in officiating capacities but did have the powers vested in the positions as the government had not formally approved the appointments, officials familiar with the developments said on Thursday. “Now that the appointments have been cleared, files will not have to be channelled through the CDS. Things will move at a faster pace,” said an official. Rawat wears three hats — he is the permanent chairman of the Chiefs of Staff Committee (COSC), heads the DMA and is the single-point military adviser to the defence minister. The government expects Rawat, who took charge as India’s first CDS on January 1, 2020, to bring about jointness among the three services in a three-year time frame (by January 2023). One of the means to achieve jointness is the setting up of integrated theatre commands for the best use of military resources to fight future battles. The DMA is one of the five verticals in the defence ministry — the departments of defence, defence production, defence research and development and ex-service welfare. One of the key responsibilities of the DMA is to work towards promoting the use of indigenous equipment by the services at a time when the armed forces are dependent on imported military hardware.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-approves-key-appointments-in-department-of-military-affairs-101620328734186.html
07-05-2021||India||400 priests in Kerala booked for violating Covid protocols||Kerala police on Thursday booked around 400 priests, including Church of South India (CSI) South Kerala Diocese Bishop Dharmaraj Rasalam, for allegedly flouting Covid-19 protocol as hundreds attended a religious retreat in the hill town of Munnar in Idukki district of the state last month. The incident came to light after two priests died of Covid-19 last week and more than 100 participants reportedly tested positive after the event, organised by the CSI Christ Church in Munnar between April 13-17. Overall, around 400-450 people, a majority of them priests, attended the event, according to reformist groups in the church. The event was organised at a time the state, like much of the country, is witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases. On Thursday, Kerala added a record 42,464 cases with a test positivity rate of 27.28%, an all-time high for the state. It also announced an 8-day lockdown, starting May 8, that banned all gatherings.A case was registered after district officials inquired about the incident and found on Wednesday that around 450 people attended the meeting after flouting pandemic norms. District collector H Dinesh later asked the police to register a case against them. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan termed the incident “unfortunate” on Wednesday. Some of the reformist groups in the church alleged that a section of priests was forced to attend the retreat after church authorities threatened them with disciplinary action. There were many attempts to hush up the incident and most of the people infected after attending the event were shifted to a medical college run by the church along the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border discreetly, they alleged. “Photo session of the retreat shows all norms were flouted. None of them were wearing masks. We alerted some top officials about this, but no action was taken then,” said Jacob Mathew, a member of the Joint Christian Council, a reformist group. But the church maintained that all precautions were taken and 28 priests tested positive, not 100. “The event was planned much early and we met all norms. Most of the priests were infected weeks after the event,” said diocese secretary TT Praveen. Church officials refused to comment on other allegations. “We have booked them under Section 269 of the IPC (unlawful gathering) and provisions of the epidemic management control act. Since majority of them are undergoing treatment we have to wait for further probe. Our preliminary investigation show 480 participated in different batches in different days. We have booked them as unidentifiable now other than the bishop,” said Munnar deputy SP R Suresh. Among infected are Church of South India (CSI) South Kerala Bishop, Father Dharmaraj Rasalam. Two priests who attended the retreat -- Father Bijumon (52) and Rev Shine B Raj (43) -- died last week after contracting Covid-19.The Munnar event is the latest religious event to hit the headlines for holding large gatherings as the second wave of the pandemic ravages the country. On May 3, hundreds of women gathered for a religious event in violation of the Covid-19 norms at a village in Gujarat’s Ahmedabad district to “eradicate coronavirus”, police said, adding that 23 had been arrested. Over 9.1 million pilgrims attended the Mahakumbh in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar from January to April this year even as states battled shortage of medical supplies. At least 100 seers and mela officials were infected with Covid-19 and four died from the viral illness, authorities said. Experts also say pilgrims who returned to their home states after the event may have fastened local outbreaks. Last year, one of India’s first large outbreaks was attributed to the weeks-long congregation of the Tablghi Jamaat in March in New Delhi. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/400-priests-in-kerala-booked-for-violating-covid-protocols-101620328253600.html
07-05-2021||India||Andhra begins enforcing partial lockdown, Telangana still waiting for nod from KCR||As the Andhra Pradesh government began strictly implementing partial lockdown with effect from Wednesday afternoon to contain the spread of Covid-19, the Telangana government is yet to take a call on enforcing any lockdown in the state, at least during the weekends. According to an official in the Telangana state health department familiar with the development, the authorities are waiting for instructions from chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, who has just recovered from Covid-19. KCR, who had been under quarantine at his farmhouse at Erravelli village of Siddipet district since April 19 when he tested positive for the virus, returned to his official bungalow Pragati Bhavan in Hyderabad on Thursday, two days after he tested negative. “He is expected to hold a high-level meeting on Friday to review the Covid-19 situation in the state and decide on whether to enforce lockdown – total or partial. At present, there is only night curfew in the state – from 9 pm to 6 am, which will be in force till May 8,” the official cited above said. The high court on Wednesday suggested that the government consider the possibility of imposing lockdown at least during the weekends and inform the same to the court by Saturday. “We shall take the high court’s suggestions into consideration while exploring all other options,” state chief secretary Somesh Kumar said. Kumar held a high-level review meeting at the secretariat on Wednesday and went around various hospitals on Thursday to find out the ground situation. He said as of now, the situation in Telangana was under control and there was a gradual decline in the number of cases in the state. According to the bulletin issued by the state health department on Thursday morning, out of 79,824 people who underwent tests for Covid-19, as many as 6026 positive cases were reported on Wednesday night, besides 52 deaths. The cumulative number of positive cases in Telangana till now is 4,75,748 and total death toll is 2,579. The chief secretary said if people took proper precautions, there was no need to impose lockdown. “The healthcare system of the state is able to reach out and provide medical facilities at the right time. Lockdown is not a solution as it affects the livelihoods of millions of people,” he said. The Andhra Pradesh government on the other hand has begun strictly implementing partial lockdown in the state – from 12 noon to 6 am every day, in the wake of growing number of Coronavirus cases in the state. The partial lockdown will continue for 14 days. All shops will be open between 6 am and 12 noon every day, after which curfew is being enforced till 6 am the following day. Only emergency services will be allowed to operate after 12 noon. No public or private transport on the roads and no shops would be allowed to run. The state government also withdrew RTC bus services in the afternoon. On Thursday, Andhra Pradesh reported as many as 21,954 positive cases for Covid-19, apart from 72 deaths. The cumulative number of positive cases in the state so far is 12,28,186 and the total death toll is 8446, a bulletin released by the state health department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-begins-enforcing-partial-lockdown-telangana-still-waiting-for-nod-from-kcr-101620328074072.html
07-05-2021||India||Plane carrying Remdesivir injections crash lands in MP’s Gwalior||A plane owned by the Madhya Pradesh government carrying Remdesivir injections crash-landed at Gwalior airport on Thursday night, according to the district collector. The pilot Captain Majid Akhtar, co-pilots Shiv Jaiswal and Dileep Kumar were on board the plane. They sustained minor injuries and have been admitted to a hospital, said Kaushlendra Vikram Singh, district collector, Gwalior. “The plane took off from Indore with vials of Remdesivir. The reason for the crash landing is not clear yet but it was a minor accident and the vials of Remdesivir injections are safe. Air force officers reached the spot and rescued the pilots and co-pilots after the incident,” Singh said. Gwalior, superintendent of police, Amit Sanghi said, “Prima facie, it appeared that there was a snag with the plane’s arrestor gear, which is used on the runway. However, the real cause of the crash landing will be informed by the pilot, who is in a state of shock right now.” The plane- Beechcraft 250- which met with the accident was purchased by the state government in 2020 at a cost of ₹65 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plane-carrying-remdesivir-injections-crash-lands-in-mp-s-gwalior-101620327054221.html
07-05-2021||India||Ajit Singh: From IIT grad to India’s beloved farm leader||Former Union minister and Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Ajit Singh, who was elected to Parliament seven times on the strength of his base among farmers in western Uttar Pradesh and held several federal portfolios, died of Covid-19 at a private hospital in Gurugram on Thursday. He was 82.Singh, the son of former prime minister Charan Singh who was known as north India’s tallest farmer leader, was diagnosed with Covid on April 20. The disease came at a time the Jat leader was rebuilding his party in Uttar Pradesh and supporting the ongoing farmers’ agitation against three central agricultural laws.“Throughout his life journey, Chaudhary Sahib was loved and respected by many. He, in turn, cherished this bond with all of you and gave his best consideration and efforts for our welfare,” his family said in a statement.The family implored his followers to stay at home and obey Covid protocols. “This would be the best way to honour Chaudhary Sahib as well as all those Covid warriors who are working night and day to protect us,” the statement said.Also read | PM Modi, Rahul Gandhi among leaders who condole Ajit Singh's deathBorn on February 12, 1939, Singh obtained a B.Tech (Computer Science) from IIT- Kharagpur and MS from the Illinois Institute of Technology. He worked as a computer scientist in the US for 15 years before he took a plunge in politics to fill the vacuum created by the death of his father in 1987.“Deeply saddened by the passing away of former Union minister Chaudhary Ajit Singh ji. He was always devoted to the interests of the farmers. He efficiently discharged the responsibilities of several departments at the Centre. My condolences to his family in this hour of mourning,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted.Singh started his political career with the Lok Dal and later allied with the Congress, the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Mulayam Singh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party. He was a seven-time Lok Sabha MP from Uttar Pradesh’s Baghpat and founded the RLD in 1996. He was first elected to the Rajya Sabha in 1986. He entered the Lok Sabha from Baghpat in 1989, and was re-elected in 1991, 1996, 1997, 1999, 2004 and 2009.He served as a Union minister on multiple occasions, the first being minister for industry in 1989 in the National Front government led by VP Singh and the last being civil aviation minister from 2011 to 2014 in the United Progressive Alliance government.“He always raised his voice in the interest of the farmers. As a public representative and minister, he left a different impression on the politics of the country. My condolences to his family and well-wishers,” President Ram Nath Kovind tweeted.RLD fared poorly in the 2014 and 2019 general elections and the 2017 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, but Singh, and his son Jayant Chaudhary, was in the process of rebuilding the party’s base in western UP. The party held several huge meetings in support of protesting farmers and also won crucial rural body seats in the just-concluded panchayat polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ajit-singh-from-iit-grad-to-india-s-beloved-farm-leader-101620326993414.html
07-05-2021||India||India welcomes US support on waiving covid vaccine patents||New Delhi India on Thursday welcomed the US administration’s support for waiving patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines and expressed the hope that a waiver can be quickly approved at the World Trade Organization (WTO) through a consensus-based approach. US Trade Representative (USTR) Katherine Tai announced the Biden administration’s support on Wednesday following pressure from a group of 110 Democratic lawmakers. More than 100 countries have backed a proposal made by India and South Africa at the WTO last October for a waiver of intellectual property protections on Covid-19 vaccines. Prime Minister Narendra Modi personally raised the matter with US President Joe Biden during a phone call on April 26, and informed him about India’s initiative at the WTO that is aimed at countries around the world. “We welcome the statement of the US government of 5th May announcing their support for this initiative. We are hopeful that with a consensus-based approach, the waiver can be approved quickly at the WTO,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement. “The waiver is an important step for enabling rapid scaling up of manufacture and timely availability of affordable Covid-19 vaccines and essential medical products,” it said. India and South Africa proposed a relaxation in the norms of the WTO Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) on October 2 last year in view of the global health crisis and the need to combat the pandemic. The move was aimed at ensuring quick and affordable access to vaccines for developing countries. “As a result of proactive outreach by India and other like-minded countries, the proposal has received the support of more than 120 countries,” the statement said. The US move comes against the backdrop of a fresh push by India and South Africa at the WTO for the waiver of patent protections by presenting a revised text of last year’s proposal that is expected to highlight the urgent need for equitable and speedy access to vaccines following a second wave of Coronavirus infections in countries such as India. The revised proposal is also expected to state that patent protections for vaccines should be waived for a limited timeframe. USTR Tai said in a statement that the Biden administration believes strongly in intellectual property protections but “supports the waiver of those protections for Covid-19 vaccines” in order to end the pandemic. “This is a global health crisis, and the extraordinary circumstances of the Covid-19 pandemic call for extraordinary measures,” she said. The US will actively participate in text-based negotiations at the WTO to obtain the waiver. “Those negotiations will take time given the consensus-based nature of the institution and the complexity of the issues involved,” she said. With vaccine supply for the American people secured, the Biden administration will ramp up efforts by working with the private sector and all possible partners to expand vaccine manufacturing and distribution. It will also work to increase raw materials needed to produce vaccines, Tai said. The US position was also welcomed by UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, whose spokesperson Stéphane Dujarric described the move as unprecedented. “It opens the opportunity for vaccine producers to share the knowledge and technology that will allow the effective expansion of locally-produced vaccines and can significantly increase the supply to the COVAX facility,” he said. However, the Biden administration’s decision has angered pharmaceutical companies, which have opposed any waiver on the grounds that it could hurt future innovation. They have also said the production of Covid-19 vaccines is a complex process that requires extensive capabilities and sophisticated technology, and can’t be ramped up simply by easing patent protections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-welcomes-us-support-on-waiving-covid-vaccine-patents-101620326933497.html
07-05-2021||India||Govt forms channels to allocate foreign aid||Foreign aid coming to India to help the country cope with the raging second wave of the coronavirus disease is being transparently distributed , on the basis of a methodology to ensure their optimal use , primarily to the states with a high case load and regional medical hubs, according to a top government official directly involved in channeling this aid.Government documents, reviewed by HT, show that three channels have been set up each for government-to-government aid, private donations, and direct aid to the states.Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said, “We are about 100% transparency on all foreign aid related to Covid19.” According to him, the Niti Ayog, the government’s think tank, “has set up a portal in which donors can track the relief material, end-to-end, till it reaches intended beneficiaries.”India has been receiving international donations of Covid-19 medical supplies and equipment since April 27 from countries including the US, UK, Russia, UAE, France, Thailand, Germany, Uzbekistan, Belgium and Italy. Between April 27 and May 5, India has received 1764 Oxygen Concentrators, 1760 Oxygen Cylinders, 7 Oxygen Generation Plants, 450 ventilators and at least 1.35 lakh Remdesivir vials.Also read | States step up curbs as Covid-19 tightens gripThe grants received directly from foreign nations, individuals or organizations are routed through the external affairs ministry. Some donors are willing to send materials directly to the states, and the government has asked each state to set up a nodal officer.In cases where the aid is not earmarked, the Centre has decided that these grants in aid must be allocated to high burden states or states with higher number of active cases and where the requirement for such equipment or medicines is more. This, the government maintained, would help in optimal utilization of the donations. On Wednesday, the government said in a statement that 38 institutions across 31 states and Union territories ries have already received (or shortly receive) material.“Spreading such grant in aid thinly over a large number of states without any specific empirical criteria [such as number of active cases] may not bring forth the desired results. It will also lead to small packages travelling large distances, high turnaround times and possible wastage of resources,” a government note said, esplaining the rationale behind the allocation.Apart from high-burden states, special focus is also being given to states that are considered medical hub of the region and where patients from other states come. “In some cases, resource low states such as North Eastern and hill states where tankers etc. don’t reach, can also be covered,” said a note, a copy of which has been reviewed by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-forms-channels-to-allocate-foreign-aid-101620326873472.html
07-05-2021||India||SC rejects EC petition over reporting of Madras HC observations||Underlining that “a courtroom is a public space”, the Supreme Court on Thursday ruled that real-time reporting of court proceedings was an extension of the freedom of speech and expression of the press and that “public constitutional institutions must find better responses than to complain”.The bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah dismissed a plea by the Election Commission of India (ECI) to restrain media from reporting oral observations of the judges that the poll body was singularly responsible for a second wave in the country and that its officials should probably be tried on murder charges for allowing political parties to hold massive rallies without following Covid-19 norms.“We find no substance in the prayer of the EC for restraining the media from reporting on court proceedings. This court stands as a staunch proponent of the freedom of the media to report court proceedings. This, we believe is integral to the freedom of speech and expression of those who speak, of those who wish to hear and to be heard and above all, in holding the judiciary accountable to the values which justify its existence as a constitutional institution,” held the top court.Also read | What is the plan on vaccinating children, top court asks CentreIt highlighted that with the advent of technology, reporting has been proliferated through social media forums which provided real-time updates to a much wider audience. “This is an extension of the freedom of speech and expression that the media possesses. This constitutes a virtual extension of the open court...Acceptance of a new reality is the surest way of adapting to it. Our public constitutional institutions must find better responses than to complain,” it emphasised.On April 26, the high court made the scathing remarks against ECI while hearing a writ petition by Tamil Nadu transport minister MR Vijayabhaskar, who sought a direction for safety measures and fairness during counting in Karur constituency from where he was contesting. “You are the only institution that is singularly responsible for the situation today...No action against political parties taking rallies despite court orders. Your election commission officials should be put up on murder charges probably,” the high court observed.In its appeal before the Supreme Court, the ECI maintained that the remarks made by the high court were widely reported in the media and have tarnished the image of the ECI as an independent constitutional authority, besides reducing the faith of the people in the poll body.Deciding the ECI’s petition, the Supreme Court said that the high court could have been more cautious in its remarks, but declined to issue an order of expunging them after noting that oral remarks were not a part of the official judicial record at all. It said that a formal opinion of a judicial institution is reflected through its judgments and orders, and not through its oral observations during the hearing.At the same time, the bench acknowledged that the ECI shouldered a significant burden in ensuring the sanctity of electoral democracy while noting noted in its judgment that the remarks were harsh and metaphor inappropriate, as it added that judges should exercise caution in off-the-cuff remarks in open court, which may be susceptible to misinterpretation.“A degree of caution and circumspection by the high Court could have allayed a grievance of the nature that has been urged in the present case. All that needs to be clarified is that the oral observations during the course of the hearing have passed with the moment and do not constitute a part of the record,” said the court, clarifying the high court remarks did not seek to attribute culpability for the Covid-19 pandemic in the country to the ECI.However, the bench remained firm that there could be any shackles on the right of the media to report on the proceedings, saying it would be retrograde for this Court to promote the rule of law and access to justice on one hand, and shield the daily operations of the high courts and this court from the media in all its forms, by gagging the reporting of proceedings, on the other.The court also regretted that the poll body had sought to restrain media from reporting oral observations, noting: “This prayer of the ECI strikes at two fundamental principles guaranteed under the Constitution – open court proceedings; and the fundamental right to the freedom of speech and expression.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-rejects-ec-petition-over-reporting-of-madras-hc-observations-101620326814051.html
07-05-2021||India||What is the plan on vaccinating children, top court asks Centre||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the central government about its preparedness to deal with the third wave of Covid-19 pandemic,underlining that the vaccination of everyone below 18 must also be undertaken as soon as possible.Starting May 1, anyone aged 18 or over is eligible for a Covid vaccine. Out of country’s total population of 1.3 billion, around 450 million are under 18 and, as such, not eligible for a vaccine yet. Around 160 million doses of a coronavirus vaccine have been administered so far with 30 million people, which is just a little over 2% of India’s population getting the complete two doses.To be sure, most vaccines are not yet approved for people below 18, and Canada became the first country in the world on Wednesday to approve Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine for ages as young as 12. HT reported this week that experts have pointed to the importance of planning for the vaccination of those below 18 because there cannot be a proper opening up until the entire population is protected. The number of companies conducting trials of vaccines for children is limited and if India doesn’t move fast enough, supplies may not be available.On Thursday, the bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah sought to know from the government whether any policy was being contemplated to combat a third Covid-19 wave in the wake of opinions of experts that it may affect children worse than the first two waves have.K VijayRaghavan, principal scientific advisor to the government of India, on Wednesday said that a third wave of Covid-19 was inevitable looking at the current surge in infections.Also read | Centre needs to revamp its O2 allocation plan: SC“How will you deal when the third surge comes? There are reports about it. Your own scientists are taking about this,” the bench asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Union government.Mehta responded that the government was mindful of this and would take all appropriate steps but it was willing to consider if the court had anything to suggest. “My lords may tell us what we should do,” he said.The bench, however, retorted that the question was for the government so that the court could have a fair idea of how the government planned to combat the third wave.“In the third wave, children are going to be affected. And the issue is that when they will have to be taken to hospitals and they will have to be accompanied with by their parents. Therefore, we say that when we plan for the third stage, the vaccination process for young children has to be complete,” the bench told the SG.It added that the court was looking for a scientific way of dealing with the issue of preparedness before the third wave descends. “We are not saying that it is only the government’s problem but we will have to also deal with this. And we will have to deal with this in a scientific way,” it said.The SG replied: “I appreciate that the highest court of the country is sharing and expressing its concerns with the Centre and is not asking for a report...What is to be done is yet to be decided.”“But we are exactly on this...what is to be done? The second wave is already here. Our idea is to ask you about this is so that we are not caught unawares when the situation descends on us.”Mehta, on his part, then said that it could not be lost sight of that nothing is static.This made justice Chandrachud quip: “Arre, wo sab to theek hai ki (we understand that) nothing is static. But, when will it become dynamic? We are in a pandemic. There has to be a plan.”Hearing the case relating to allocation of oxygen to Delhi, the bench further lamented that the Centre’s formula on allocation of medical oxygen to the states was not scientific and required a revamp.“We need to assess the basis of oxygen allocation. We are in stage two of the pandemic and we may be getting to stage three. All need to prepare to be able to handle stage three,” it said.At this point, Mehta said the Union government was open to consider all the suggestions mooted by the court regarding review of the Covid-19 management policies, including the one on allocation of oxygen to the states. The court is expected to take up this issue with the Centre on Monday again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-the-plan-on-vaccinating-children-top-court-asks-centre-101620326813436.html
07-05-2021||India||States step up curbs as Covid-19 tightens grip||Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan imposed complete lockdowns on Thursday, joining a number of other states that have curbed movement of people and banned gatherings to arrest the second wave of coronavirus infections.Kerala decided to enforce an eight- day lockdown beginning Saturday, with chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan blaming the “worsening” Covid-19 situation for the move.Kerala recorded 42,464 new infections on Thursday, the highest since the outbreak hit the state last year.Though its fatality rate is the lowest in the country (below 0.4%), statistics show it is also climbing steadily in the last one week with 58 deaths reported in the last 24 hours. In terms of total cases of the viral infection, Kerala is at the third spot after Maharashtra and Karnataka.“The entire state of Kerala will be under lockdown from 6am on 8 May to 16 May. This is in the background of a strong 2nd wave of #COVID19,” Vijayan tweeted. The CM said there was no need for panic.“Availability of essential articles/services will be ensured. Lockdown is essential to ensure #COVID19 spread is contained and that our lives are secure. Let us all cooperate. We shall overcome,” he added.Also read | Kerala Covid-19 cases reach unprecedented levels, state announces 8-day lockdownIn Madhya Pradesh, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said the only way to break the chain of transmission and contain Covid-19 cases was for people to “close down everything” till May 15.Chouhan also announced free treatment for patients from poor financial background, common citizens and middle class population in Madhya Pradesh, an official of the state’s public relations department said.To facilitate this, a package will be unveiled on Friday under the Ayushman Bharat health insurance scheme. Also, the government plans to sign an agreement with private hospitals for free CT scan and other medical tests, the official said.“Corona is a big crisis for humanity. The only option to control the corona is to break the chain of infections. We cant close down everything for long. We have to make peoples life easy. Therefore, till May 15, we should close down everything. Strictly follow janata curfew and break the chain of infection,” Chouhan said.Currently, Madhya Pradesh is under a slew of restrictions to stem the spread of COVID-19.Chouhan said health infrastructure was being readied to deal with a possible third wave of infections. “Oxygen plants are being set up in each district. A total of 95 such plants will be established in the state,” he saidMadhya Pradesh on Thursday reported 12,421 fresh cases and 86 fatalities,according to the HT dashboard.Also read | Covid: Madhya Pradesh govt extends ongoing 'Janata Curfew' in state till May 15He asked officials to launch a “kill corona campaign” in cities and villages by conducting door-to-door surveys and identifying patients whose treatment can start immediately.The Rajasthan government has imposed a lockdown in the state from May 10 till May 24 to curb the spread of Covid-19. Weddings in the state have been banned till May 31.In view of a fresh surge in COVID-19 cases, curfew was extended in the three heavy caseload districts of Dehradun, Udham Singh Nagar and Haridwar in Uttarakhand till May 10.The curfew, which was imposed in the last week of April, was earlier scheduled to end on Thursday. The order asked the DMs of the remaining 10 districts to assess the situation in their areas and impose curfew from May 6 to May 10 (till 5 am), if required. However, there shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement during the period, the order said. Ration shops will open on alternate days, while milk booths and vegetable shops will be allowed to operate till only 12 pm daily.Uttarakhand recorded its highest caseload in a day with the detection of 8,517 fresh infections on Thursday.On Thursday, Dehradun district reported the highest number of fresh cases at 3,123 followed by 1,130 in Udham Singh Nagar, 1,045 in Haridwar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-step-up-curbs-as-covid-19-tightens-grip-101620326633503.html
07-05-2021||India||Union minister’s convoy attacked in Bengal as violence after polls continues||Post poll violence continued to rock the state of West Bengal as former Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislator from Dinhata in Cooch Behar, Udayan Guha, sustained a fracture in his right arm, two of his security officers suffered head injuries and a car in the convoy of Union minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan was vandalised on Thursday.The incidents took place on a day when a four-member team was rushed by the Centre to take stock of the violence that broke out ever since the results of the assembly elections were declared on May 2.Muraleedharan and his vehicle were not affected in the attack that reportedly took place in Panchkuri area where the minister had gone with state BJP leader Rahul Sinha to meet party supporters. By evening, at least eight TMC workers were arrested in this regard.Sharing a video of the incident, the minister tweeted: “TMC goons attacked my convoy in West Midnapore, broken windows, attacked personal staff. Cutting short my trip.”Also read | MHA sends team to Bengal, seeks report from governor on violence“The violence tarnishes Bengal’s image,” he later told reporters in West Midnapore.In Dinhata, the ruling TMC called for a 24-hour bandh to protest against the attack on Guha, who lost the local seat to BJP’s Nishith Pramaik.TMC’s Cooch Behar district president Partha Pratim Roy alleged that the attack was carried out by workers belonging to the saffron party.Refuting the allegations, BJP district chief Malati Rava Roy said: “Guha lost the polls because of infighting within the TMC. It is the members of the rival faction that attacked him and his security personnel,” Roy said.At a press conference later in the day, chief minister Mamata Banerjee urged the saffron party to accept the mandate of the people. “Cooch Behar is witnessing more violence than other places as the BJP bagged several seats there. BJP leaders and Union ministers are visiting villages to instigate the people. The BJP is indulging in violence. I request BJP leaders to accept the people’s mandate and restrain themselves,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-s-convoy-attacked-in-bengal-as-violence-after-polls-continues-101620324773331.html
07-05-2021||India||Bengal House now wears bipartisan political shade||The West Bengal assembly, India’s second largest state legislature after Uttar Pradesh, is also one of the least diverse Houses now after Mamata Banerjee’s All India Trinamool Congress (AITC) and the Bharatiya Janata Party mopped up 290 out of 292 seats that went to the polls this summer.For the first time, the Bengal assembly doesn’t have representation from the Congress and the Left Front, projecting a bipartisan shade of political representation that was unthinkable in the state till 10 years ago.But West Bengal is not the only assembly in India where all seats are distributed between just two parties. The Delhi assembly, for the last 10 years, has seen Arvind Kejriwal’s Aam Admi Party enjoying a sweeping majority. and the seats are divided between the AAP and the BJP.“See, it’s the BJP that tried to polarize the Bengal elections. But the plan backfired and ultimately, Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool got more than two-third majority. In the process, some parties got wiped out. The Congress got just 2.8% votes. These parties will not be heard in the floor of the assembly,” said TMC national spokesperson and former union minister Saugata Ray.Also read | Union minister’s convoy attacked in Bengal as violence after polls continuesAlong with West Bengal, Kerala, Assam, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry also went for polls. In Assam, as many as seven parties will be present in the assembly while in Tamil Nadu eight parties have found representation.Kerala, where the LDF alliance headed by the Left Front retained power , has the highest number of parties in any Indian assembly. With various regional factions of Congress and other local parties making their mark, as many as 15 political outfits, barring independents, will be present in the Kerala legislative assembly.Among the large states, Madhya Pradesh is the only other state where nearly all seats are concentrated between two political parties. In the 132-member House, the BJP and the Congress dominate most of the seats with just a few independents and one MLA of the BSP.Former Lok Sabha secretary general P Sreedharan maintained that number of parties or their strength doesn’t matter much in legislative Houses. “Numerical strength is no guarantee of an effective opposition. Even a four- or five-member strong Opposition bench can be effective if they have good orators,” he said.Underlining that in the parliamentary system of India, political parties have to accept the people’s mandate, Sreedharan said, “I remember in 1967, the Congress had just 9 seats in Kerala . But it was such a good opposition that in the next poll, it came to power.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-house-now-wears-bipartisan-political-shade-101620324653296.html
07-05-2021||India||MHA sends team to Bengal, seeks report from governor on violence||The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Thursday sent a four-member fact-finding team to West Bengal as post-poll violence continued to roil the state and a Union minister alleged his convoy was attacked by Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers.In Bengal, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced that 16 people from Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), TMC and Sanyukta Morcha died in clashes, which began soon after her party won a thumping victory in assembly elections on Sunday. “We will pay a compensation of ₹2 lakh to their family members,” she said at the state secretariat in Kolkata, accusing BJP leaders of provocation.MHA also sought a detailed report from governor Jagdeep Dhankar on the current law and order situation in Bengal, people familiar with developments said. On Monday, MHA had sought a detailed report from West Bengal government and asked it to take necessary steps to ensure such incidents stopped “without any loss of time”. The ministry also issued a reminder to the government in this regard on Wednesday.Also read | Calcutta HC directs Centre to take instructions about Covid-19 vaccine supplyThe four-member team left for Bengal early Thursday. It will prepare a detailed report on the violence, possible suspects behind it and reasons for TMC government not being able to stop it, which will be submitted to the MHA for action, the people cited above said.BJP alleged that TMC workers torched their homes, ransacked party offices and killed several members. “TMC goons attacked my convoy in West Midnapore, broken windows, attacked personal staff. Cutting short my trip,” tweeted Union minister of state for external affairs, V Muraleedharan.Dhankhar condemned the violence. “Another sleepless night with reports of rampant post-poll violence continually pouring. Ashamed of such anarchy and lawlessness @MamataOfficial. In the morning another shocker from print media! All is well? How can this be? And today central minister attacked,” Dhankhar tweeted.Dhankhar also alleged the state government was not sending reports sought by him. “Governance @MamataOfficial away from constitutional prescriptions. Post-poll violence and vandalism continue unabated. ACS @HomeBengal has not even sent reports sought by me 2 days ago and sitting ones from @WBPolic @KolkataPolice. Silence of Fourth Pillar of Democracy baffling,” the governor said in another tweet.TMC denied the charges, saying BJP was putting out fake news and pointing out that several of its workers, including former MLA Udayan Guha, were attacked. “BJP leaders are roaming around, they are provoking. It is not even 24 hours of the new government, they are sending letters, teams and leaders are coming. They are actually not ready to accept the mandate. I request them to accept people’s mandate,” Banerjee said.She said even central ministers will need to carry Covid-negative test report to enter West Bengal. The state made it mandatory for anyone entering the state on flights, long-distance trains and interstate buses to carry RT-PCR negative test report from May 7.“Anyone coming from outside the state, including ministers, will have to carry test reports. We would check the reports even for those coming on special flights,” Banerjee said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-sends-team-to-bengal-seeks-report-from-governor-on-violence-101620324593323.html
07-05-2021||India||PM Modi chairs meeting to review Covid-19 situation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday held a meeting with his top Cabinet colleagues to review the progress of ongoing Covid-19 vaccination, availability of drugs such as Remdesivir, and to discuss the scaling up of vaccine production.“Citizens should be facilitated for vaccination despite lockdowns and healthcare workers involved in vaccination must not be diverted for other duties,” Modi directed officials at the meeting, according to an official statement.Modi was also informed about the vaccine wastage across the country.Also Read | Delhi adds 19,133 new Covid cases, 335 deaths; positivity rate below 25%“As many as 17.7 crore [177 million] vaccines have been supplied to the states in the country and almost 31% of eligible population over the age of 45 has been given at least one dose of the COVID vaccine,” the statement said.Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Nirmala Sitharaman, Harsh Vardhan, Piyush Goyal, Mansukh Mandaviya attended the meeting along with top officials.Modi called for ensuring quick and holistic containment measures to prevent the further spread of the virus in the country.He was told about 12 states that have over 100,000 active cases. Modi said the states should be given help and guidance on how to ramp up the healthcare infrastructure. He added the states should ensure that the speed of the vaccination should not decrease.Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren said, "Today, the honourable PM called. He only spoke his mind. It would have been better if he spoke and heard about the work needed instead."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-chairs-meeting-to-review-covid-19-situation-101620301672683.html
07-05-2021||India||India, Australia, France call for equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines||India, France and Australia have said fair and equitable access to safe and affordable Covid-19 vaccines and treatments globally will be crucial for collective recovery from the pandemic, especially for people in the most vulnerable countries.The three countries also pledged during their first trilateral ministerial dialogue to work together to achieve a free, open, inclusive and rules-based Indo-Pacific, and to support freedom of navigation, peaceful resolution of disputes, democratic values, and respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity.India’s external affairs minister S Jaishankar, France’s foreign minister Jean-Yves Le Drian and Australia’s foreign minister Marise Payne met in London late on Tuesday on the sidelines of the G7 foreign ministers’ meeting. The talks were held in-person before the Indian delegation began self-isolating after two members tested positive.The trilateral ministerial dialogue was originally scheduled to be held in New Delhi on the margins of the Raisina Dialogue but was deferred after Payne called off her visit to India amid a massive surge in Coronavirus infections in India.Also Read | US backs India, South Africa’s Covid-19 vaccine patent waiver planWhile discussing ways to enhance trilateral cooperation to cope with challenges linked to the pandemic, the three foreign ministers called for “fair and equitable access to high quality, safe, effective and affordable Covid-19 vaccines and treatments globally”, according to a joint statement issued on Wednesday.This, they said, will be a central factor in collective recovery, especially for people in vulnerable situations, including women and girls in the most vulnerable countries, particularly in Africa.The India side thanked France and Australia for their support for India’s Covid-19 response and the ministers also recognised India’s contribution to supplying vaccines to various countries, bilaterally and through multilateral mechanisms such as the WHO-backed COVAX facility.France and Australia have rushed a range of equipment, including large oxygen generation plants, oxygen concentrators and ventilators, to help India cope with a severe shortage of oxygen as daily infections crossed the 400,000-mark in recent days.The three ministers agreed to deepen cooperation on maritime safety and security in the Indo-Pacific, and welcomed the holding of a trilateral information-sharing workshop on maritime domain awareness at India’s Information Fusion Centre for the Indian Ocean Region, where France and Australia have assigned liaison officers. The three sides also encouraged information-sharing between humanitarian and disaster relief agencies of the three countries.Also Read | China suspends economic dialogue with Australia as relations curdleThe ministers also emphasised the importance of a coordinated approach to deal with illegal unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing, which they described as a “trans-boundary and transnational problem that affects the biological sustainability of relevant fish stocks and impacts the livelihoods of fishers...and coastal communities in developing countries”.The three sides also agreed that the Covid-19 crisis had demonstrated the need for strong multilateral institutions underpinned by openness, accountability and balance that can deliver for all countries. They said they were committed to a reformed, UN-centred multilateralism and Australia and France reaffirmed their support for India’s permanent membership of the UN Security Council.The ministers also committed to intensify coordination at multilateral institutions such as the World Health Organization, standard-setting bodies and the UN Human Rights Council. They also decided to work closely with the G20, with particular focus on economic recovery and the response to Covid-19.In the field of counter-terrorism, the ministers agreed to work together through the upcoming “No Money for Terror” ministerial conference and pointed to the importance of cooperation to address risks to international security from malicious cyber activity, and to ensure that technologies critical to shared interests in security and prosperity are designed and developed in line with public safety and democratic values.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-australia-france-call-for-equitable-access-to-covid-19-vaccines-101620289671370.html
07-05-2021||India||Karnataka crosses 10mn vaccinations: Govt||Bengaluru Karnataka on Wednesday crossed the 10 million mark in inoculation of COVID-19 vaccines, making it one of the first states to do so in the country.Karnataka is heavily relying on increasing its vaccination drive to contain the surge of cases in the state, which on Wednesday reported its highest ever single-day spike with 50,112 new infections.“Karnataka crossed 10 million inoculations of Covid-19 vaccine today. K’taka has received 1,05,49,970 doses from Centre & state govt has procured 300 thousand doses. Vaccine is our biggest weapon to defeat the pandemic & govt is leaving no stone unturned to vaccinate everyone at the earliest,” K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education said on Twitter.However, the bulk of vaccinations taken place so far are the first dose, according to data.Out of the 1,00,72, 795 vaccinations done so far, 83,28,235 are those who received the first dose. Only 17,44,560 persons have received both doses, according to government data.Though Karnataka has given a symbolic beginning of vaccinations for persons between 18-44 age group, only 5,136 persons have been inoculated so far due to shortage of vaccines.Karnataka has ordered for 10 million doses of Covishield vaccines from Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) at the cost of ₹400 crore. However, the state government has said that the vaccination for the 18-44 age group will be delayed since SII has not given any clarity on delivery of vaccines.The state government, which is being accused of not preparing for the imminent second wave despite warnings in November by the technical advisory committee (TAC) in November, has now tried to get its act together by naming senior ministers to overlook requirements of critical supplies like hospital beds, medicines, oxygen and others.CN Ashwath Narayan, the deputy chief minister, incharge of testing, medicines and other requirements on Wednesday said that the government would ensure that Covid-19 test results would be provided within seven hours as against 72 hours taken currently.He also added that the four companies that supply Remdesivir will double their distribution to Karnataka from 10,000 vials currently to 20,000.“I have spoken to company heads of these four firms and put together, they have agreed to increase the supply to 20,000 vials. Till now these companies were supplying 10,000 vials in total per day. He also informed that the companies have agreed to further increase the supply after May 9.Narayan had a telephonic conversation with Nikhil Baswan, Global Head of Cipla, Rakesh Bamzai of Mylan, Kiran Mazumdar Shaw of Syngene and Umangur of Jubilant, according to a statement by his office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-crosses-10mn-vaccinations-govt-101620242139682.html
07-05-2021||Today's||The EU stands with India in times of need||On Saturday, the leaders of the 27 European Union (EU) member-states, the president of the European Council, and I will meet virtually with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It illustrates the importance that the EU attaches to its partnership with India, and demonstrates our solidarity with the Indian people as they fight the coronavirus.Coronavirus has swept the planet in unrelenting waves. Europe has been hit hard and today, we witness a deterioration of the situation in India. My heart goes out to all who have lost loved ones, and my thoughts are with the heroic frontline workers.The EU has long been a reliable partner for India, and we are proving this once again. As soon as India requested support, the EU and its member states came together to help. We activated our EU civil protection mechanism in one of its biggest-ever response operations. This is what friends do in times of need.The European Commission is coordinating and co-financing the delivery of urgently needed medical equipment such as oxygen cylinders, concentrators and plants, ventilators and antiviral drugs provided by 16 EU member-states. We are working with the Indian authorities to make sure that these critical items are distributed quickly to the hospitals in need, saving lives. The EU has more shipments in the pipeline for the coming days. This “Team Europe” assistance is altogether worth over €100 million. In addition, the European Commission has announced an immediate initial €2.2 million contribution to the World Health Organization, for additional testing and patient care capacity in India. Our message is clear — we are with you in your time of need.Important as this support may be, we need to look beyond the current emergency. Building global health preparedness and resilience is at the heart of today’s EU-India Leaders Meeting. Defeating the coronavirus through global cooperation and solidarity remains our common priority. We share the commitment to work together to ensure a better, safer, sustainable and inclusive recovery.A first step is universal, safe, equitable and affordable access to coronavirus vaccines, diagnostics and treatments. The EU substantially contributes to the world’s vaccines production and to the COVAX Facility, and let me recognise and praise India’s efforts to produce and distribute vaccines to over 90 countries through “Vaccine Maitri”. But it will take more to “build back better” in the wake of the pandemic. We need to jointly take on the formidable challenge of climate change and biodiversity loss. At our leaders’ meeting, I hope that we will agree to cooperate more closely with India on all aspects of the green and digital transformations. We also need to exploit the untapped potential of EU-India trade, and I am confident that we can overcome barriers that existed in the past. Last, the EU and India are key partners in strengthening the rules-based international order and working towards a safer, more prosperous and democratic world. The leaders’ meeting will boost our cooperation in all these areas.Out of this pandemic, we need to forge stronger global solidarity, beyond our determination to beat the coronavirus. EU and India are like-minded partners. We must work together to shape the global agenda.Ursula von der Leyen is president of the European CommissionThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-eu-stands-with-india-in-times-of-need-101620398820410.html
07-05-2021||Today's||How women are shaping political fortunes in India||The results of the recently concluded assembly elections have reaffirmed a phenomenon that has been increasingly discussed across the past few electoral seasons — the importance of women as a voting bloc in India.From West Bengal to Kerala, commentators have attributed the Trinamool Congress’s and the Left Democratic Front’s victory to the high turnout among women. The political recognition of women’s power was also evident during the campaign, with most parties making promises to introduce or increase social welfare measures for them. The success of such poll promises has also been noted in Assam.This tradition of offering direct benefits to women is not new. Leaders have been known to promise programmes that appeal to women, including, but not limited to, scholarships for girls, reservations for women in government jobs, better safety, subsidised water and electricity, a prohibition on alcohol sale and free bus rides.There is a calculated math behind these. When India became independent, the Constituent Assembly agreed on the principle of universal suffrage. However, when electoral poll officers came calling to make independent India’s first electoral rolls, many women chose to be registered as the wife or daughter of someone. Sukumar Sen, the then chief election commissioner, noticed this gap and asked for a cleaning of the electoral rolls, so that women’s rights for suffrage could be identified as distinct from their families, and they could cast their independent ballot. Even so, the participation of women in voting remained limited. In the 1962 Lok Sabha elections, for example, only 47% of women came out to vote as opposed to 62% of men.By 2014, this difference had reduced to a mere 1.5 percentage points, with some states such as Bihar and Odisha recording a higher female turnout on voting day than men. By 2019, women’s turnout across India exceeded that of men, largely on account of states such as Assam, Bihar, Odisha, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal where women outvoted men. In West Bengal, in this assembly election, the percentage of women voters crossed the 49% mark, while in Tamil Nadu, more women voted than men.Interestingly, more women step out to vote in rural areas. Electoral participation among rural women has risen by nearly 13 percentage points between 1971 and 2014, in contrast to a slight dip in urban female turnout.But here is the more fascinating fact. Not only are women stepping out more to vote, their voting preferences are no longer in line with those of their families or communities. Back in the 1990s, gender often intersected with other social markers such as caste or class. There was no significant difference in this trend, even in states where female political leaders were present.This has changed. For one, younger women are joining the voter base. They are more educated than their mothers (on average) and do not usually follow the collective decisions of their village or social group to vote for a given candidate or party. In a survey carried out by Lokniti-Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS) in February 2019, on 5,000 first-time young female voters (between the ages of 18-22), a little more than three out of five women said they would vote without being influenced by their families, 68% believed that women should participate in politics just like men, and 65% rejected the idea that men make better political leaders than women.Second, many women voters now believe that their vote matters in electing a new government. Praveen Rai of CSDS analysed voter-behaviour data and found that the perception that their vote matters is a significant predictor for women actually stepping out to vote. Apart from this, “interest in politics” is also an important predictor of women’s degree of participation in voting. This rising interest, more so in rural areas, has been attributed by many studies to the increasing presence of women leaders, who currently comprise nearly half the panchayat leadership positions in India. While they may have risen to such positions due to reservations, such leaders serve as role models for many women.Finally, changes in the way the ballot is cast may have also strengthened women’s positions. They may have earlier lost out due to ghost paper ballots that were cast in their names. Frauds that took advantage of the fact that women voters would not traverse long distances or stand in queues are less likely now.Political parties are taking cognisance of this changing trend. They recognise that women now vote for parties or candidates who they believe are likely to address issues that concern them.Politics aside, for feminists, what is more heartening to see are the shifts recorded in female voter turnout over time, even in traditionally backward states. This, as economists, Mudit Kapoor and Shamika Ravi argue, represents a silent movement towards women’s self-empowerment, one of the rare domains in which we see gender equality in India, more so out of women’s own volition and account, without any effort as such to push for it.Having witnessed the role female voters have played in this round of assembly elections, one thing has become clear. They are a voting bloc in their own right, a far cry from the late 19th century, when philosophers such as James Mill argued that women need not have separate voting rights because their interests were in line with their families. This ignites hope that women’s concerns as distinct from men, especially in the light of one of the worst crises in India’s history, might be taken up by political parties.Soumya Kapoor Mehta is the head of the Initiative for What Works to Advance Women and Girls in the Economy (IWWAGE), an initiative of LEAD at Krea UniversityThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/how-women-are-shaping-political-fortunes-in-india-101620398460498.html
07-05-2021||Today's||Year after Gogra trespass, PLA dragging feet over restoring status quo ante||On May 17-18, 2020, Chinese troops of the South Xinjiang military district transgressed into areas of Kugrang nullah, a tributary of the Chang Chemo river, near patrolling point 15, north of Hot Springs, patrolling point 17 A Gogra and north of Pangong Tso.It is quite evident that the military move had sanction from the Central Military Commission (CMC) headed by President Xi Jinping, as a deliberate and calculated attempt was made to unilaterally change the status quo on the ground with Western Theatre Commander tasked to impose the 1959 line on 1597 km Line of Actual Control (LAC) in East Ladakh. The 1959 line runs through Kongka La, general area Kugrang river, and finger four of the north bank of the saltwater lake and the Galwan Valley. The 1959 line was categorically rejected by India at that time only.Nearly a year after the transgression at Kugrang and after 11 rounds of military dialogue, the military situation along the 3,488 km LAC is largely stable with China heavily investing in the construction of aircraft hangers to guard against Indian airstrikes and dramatically increasing connectivity to its last posts on the border through optical fibre cables, high tech camera and surveillance radars. The only fully disengagement and de-escalation completed between two sides is at the Galwan river and that too after the Indian Army refused to allow PLA to cross the patrolling point 14, resulting in bloody clashes that led to casualties on both sides.While the PLA has taken the first disengagement steps north and south of Pangong Tso due to Indian counter-move on August 29-30, 2020, the military commanders of the two sides are now trying to restore the status quo ante in the Gogra-Hot Springs area. The process despite interventions at the level of State Councillor and foreign minister has been very laborious with Xi Jinping wanting Prime Minister Narendra Modi to resume business as usual without resolving the fundamental friction between the two countries.To add to Indian discomfort is a raging pandemic with origins in Wuhan in November 2019. While authoritarian, single-party China has been able to enforce large-scale covid protocol compliance through strong-arm tactics on the citizens, India is hampered by the fact that it is a raucous, multi-party democracy with elections, religious festivals and protests going on side by side with vaccination. It is quite evident that China will make the fastest economic recovery out of the pandemic, while India will be economically scorched if discipline is not enforced by the rule of law with elections and protests being put on the back-burner.Although President Xi did write a letter of support to PM Modi on the resurgent pandemic, the missive made no mention that the two sides will restore peace and tranquillity on the LAC. “It was like a letter written by an Emperor, who likes to talk and hear about good things,” said a former foreign secretary, as President Xi chose to ignore the fundamental problem afflicting a relationship with huge potential.State Councillor and foreign minister Wang Yi has held several rounds of dialogues with external affairs minister S Jaishankar and with National Security Advisor Ajit Doval as Special Representative on boundary issues but the Chinese refuse to recognise that there can be no serious relationship with the Modi government till such time status quo ante is restored and 1993/1996 peace and tranquillity agreements implemented. PM Modi and his military advisors are not comfortable in carrying out an economic relationship on a separate track with Beijing while Indian soldiers are deployed in all readiness at the LAC with PLA increased activity across Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh border. It is more than clear that the time for parallel diplomacy as practised during the previous regimes is over, with India in no mood to allow PLA to change the ground situation unilaterally. The Chinese posture towards India in nuclear supplier group, terrorism emanating from Pakistan and increased maritime activity in the Persian Gulf and on the eastern board of Africa are all under notice and New Delhi is no longer squeamish about being a prominent member of QUAD as its agenda is far beyond than challenging China.“As of now, there is no 12th round of military talks on the horizon but the Chinese have been supportive in the Indian fight against Covid after External Affairs Minister Jaishankar spoke to State Councillor Wang Yi. Beijing has taken the action India requested including allowing cargo flights to Spice and Indigo and reinstating some of their own flights for transporting essential Covid related supplies,” said a diplomat.While the Chinese privately communicate that status quo ante will be restored in East Ladakh, Beijing’s public posture lacks trust and is viewed with suspicion on Raisina Hill. China broke trust at Kugrang and Pangong Tso last May, the onus is now on paramount leader Xi to restore it. India is ready to play either way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/year-after-gogra-trespass-pla-dragging-feet-over-restoring-status-quo-ante-101620364563687.html
07-05-2021||Editorials||The hidden legacy of Ajit Singh||Travel across western Uttar Pradesh, and there is, close to 45 years after his death, deep devotion and admiration for Chaudhary Charan Singh — the first prime minister (PM) of India who came from an entirely rural, agrarian background, and the first and only PM so far from the Jat community. It was this legacy that Ajit Singh, referred to as Chaudhary Saheb by his supporters and rivals alike, inherited from his father. A graduate of the Indian Institute of Technology and then the Illinois Institute of Technology, Singh worked in IBM before Charan Singh’s ill health saw him plunge into Indian politics in the mid-1980s.And it was perhaps because of his unique background — of a pragmatism that comes from being rooted to the soil and the exposure that came from a liberal education abroad — that Ajit Singh helped usher in a revolution in India, something that is sadly under-documented. Singh was appointed the industries minister in the VP Singh government in 1989-1990. The era of industrial licensing — or the licence-permit raj — was the still dominant policy consensus. This led to crippling controls over the private sector, where industrialists had to seek bureaucratic permission for every small element of their operations, and had spawned a culture of entrenched corruption. Ajit Singh asked a set of bureaucrats, “Why do we have all these controls?” As economist Rakesh Mohan, who then worked under Singh, has recalled, the minister was clear India could not function this way. This set off an exercise in preparing a new industrial policy blueprint, with an emphasis on decontrolling industry, inviting foreign direct investment, promoting technology, and more — and it was this blueprint which eventually served as the basis for industrial policy reforms of 1991. The fact that AN Verma was the industries secretary under Ajit Singh helped, for Verma was to go on to become the principal secretary to PM PV Narasimha Rao, and push through the changes.Ajit Singh’s political legacy is mixed. He was a marginal player in Uttar Pradesh politics; he shifted political sides so often that he was seen as unreliable; the last decade has seen his party shrink further; and his father’s dream of Muslim-Jat peasant unity was shattered. But Ajit Singh’s real legacy lies elsewhere. It is ironic, in these times when agriculture and industry have been pitted against each other, that a farm leader was there at the beginning of the move to free Indian industry. Ajit Singh died of Covid-19 on Thursday, but his imprint lives on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-hidden-legacy-of-ajit-singh-101620399180503.html
