09-05-2021||Noida||Noida, Ghaziabad together add 1,518 new Covid-19 cases||The Covid-19 death toll in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar surged to 317 on Sunday with 10 more fatalities, while nine more people died of the disease in adjoining Ghaziabad, pushing its toll to 326, official data showed on Sunday.The two districts adjoining Delhi now have a cumulative death toll of 643, according to data released by the state's Health Department for a 24-hour period.Gautam Buddh Nagar recorded 940 new cases during the period, pushing its tally to 51,767 while the number of active cases in the district rose to 8,265, the data showed.Ghaziabad logged 578 new cases that pushed its caseload to 46,711 and active cases to 5,782, it showed.On the brighter side, 1,209 people in Gautam Buddh Nagar and 921 in Ghaziabad were discharged after treatment during the period, taking the overall recoveries to 45,316 and 41,716, respectively.The mortality rate in Gautam Buddh Nagar stands at 0.58 per cent and the recovery rate at 84.07 per cent, while these figures for Ghaziabad were recorded at 0.68 per cent and 87.22 per cent, respectively, according to the statistics.Meanwhile, the number of active Covid-19 cases in UP reached 2,33,981 from 2,45,736 on Saturday as the overall recoveries climbed to 12,54,045 and the death toll surged to 15,464 on Sunday, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-ghaziabad-together-add-1-518-new-covid-19-cases-101620582932974.html
09-05-2021||Gurugram||City-based automobile companies extend shutdown of factories||City-based two-wheeler manufacturer Hero MotoCorp on Sunday decided to extend the shutdown at its manufacturing facilities in Gurugram and Dharuhera, besides other parts of the country, till May 16 in view of the rising Covid-19 cases. The shutdown will also extend to its global parts center (GPC) in Neemrana and its R&D facility in Jaipur, the company said on Sunday. Earlier on Saturday, car maker Maruti Suzuki had also decided to extend the shutdown of its plants till May 16.A spokesperson for Hero MotoCorp said that the company is continuously monitoring the situation and is ready with its business continuity plans to be able to quickly resume and scale up operations as and when the situation improves. “Hero Motocorp had proactively halted the plant operations temporarily in a staggered manner for four days from April 22-May 1, which was then extended till May 9,” a statement released by the company said, adding that all corporate offices of the company have already been in work from home (WFH) mode.Earlier on Saturday, car maker Maruti Suzuki in a letter said that the maintenance shutdown, which was scheduled till May 9, has been extended till May 16. In a statement released on April 28 prior to the first shutdown, Maruti Suzuki said that it uses a small amount of oxygen in its factories while relatively much larger quantities are used by the manufacturers of components. Accordingly, Maruti Suzuki decided to advance its maintenance shutdown, originally scheduled for June 1. Production in all factories will close for maintenance during this period, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/citybased-automobile-companies-extend-shutdown-of-factories-101620582255389.html
09-05-2021||Gurugram||Daily case count falls below 3,000 first time since April 20||The district on Sunday reported 2,842 new Covid-19 cases, the first time it has reported fewer than 3,000 new cases per day since April 20, when the Gurugram recorded 2,344 cases, according to the health department data. Ten deaths were also reported on the day, taking the toll to 587 in the district, while the active case count is at 37,423, as per the data.Appealing to residents to take all precautions, Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said, “Residents should try and stay indoors and follow all possible precautions. Unless it is very important, do not leave the house and use a face mask covering your mouth and nose while going out. People should also ensure that they follow social distancing norms when they go out.” The deputy commissioner further said that residents can dial the round-the-clock Covid-19 helpline number, 1950, for any information. “Apart from this, the district administration has also arranged to provide information through WhatsApp chat bot on 9643277788 mobile number,” he said. Meanwhile, for the third consecutive day, the number of recoveries was higher than the new cases. A total of 3739 positive patients recovered on Sunday, as per the health bulletin. On the testing front, the health department collected 11,064 samples and reported that the results of 2,252 patients were awaited. According to records of the district health department, of the total active cases, 34,888 patients are in home isolation, 153 are in district Covid-19 care centres and 2,382 are currently hospitalised. Meanwhile, on Sunday, a total of 12,526 citizens were vaccinated in Gurugram, with the first dose being given to 8,756 residents and the second dose to 3,770 residents at 76 session sites, a total of 535,518 residents have been vaccinated in the district till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/daily-case-count-falls-below-3-000-first-time-since-april-20-101620582254819.html
09-05-2021||Gurugram||Private hospitals face staff crunch amid spike in cases||Private hospitals in the city are facing a staff crunch in Covid-19 wards as many are quitting their jobs fearing for their lives or due to better offers due to increased demand, officials of hospitals said.Hospital representatives said that with the sharp increase in the number of cases and subsequently, the number of beds, their staff are facing heavy pressure. Many workers also tested positive in the last 20 days and although their symptoms are mild to moderate, the managements are also offering existing staff higher salaries to prevent a crisis.Dr Subhash Khanna, of Kalyani Hospital in Sector 14, said that they are facing a challenge to hire staff for the Covid-19 ward. “We have 30 Covid beds and the existing staff is working hard round-the-clock, but the agencies providing nursing staff has given up as the staff are demanding high salaries for the job. People are taking advantage of the situation and demanding a multifold hike in salary,” he said.Hospitals managements said that besides increasing salaries, they are also offering incentives to retain the staff.Anil Khatana, head of operations, W Pratiksha Hospital in Sector 56, said that they are running short of nursing staff for the last two months. “The nursing staff is the backbone of the hospitals and without sufficient staff, they cannot increase the number of beds. All the agencies and job portals are unable to provide any as the demand has increased and they are demanding exorbitant salaries, which is not feasible. On average, we used to interview two people a day, but nowadays, we are hardly getting one new member in a month,” he said.Representatives of few other hospitals said that the staff is demanding at least a 40% hike in salaries to continue their work and are presenting offer letters from other hospitals, where they are being offered double their current pay.JP Singh, a representative of Samvit hospital on Sohna Road, said that retaining the nursing staff at this time is one of the biggest challenges. “All the staff is working round the clock and risking their lives. They are in demand now and hospitals are forced to accept their demands as there is no other option left. Otherwise, patients admitted to Covid-19 wards will have to be either shifted or will be left unattended,” he said.The hospitals’ recruitment teams are also working more than 12 hours a day to hire nursing staff. They said that even freshers are getting paid more than experienced workers due to the increased demand.Appeals from the administration for volunteers has also largely gone unanswered and the number of beds and Covid care centres has increased across the city, but unable to get nursing staff as per the number of patients.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “The district administration has already provided staff to a few big private hospitals of the city in April when Covid-19 cases were gradually increasing. It included students from nursing colleges. In the government set-ups, we have sufficient staff, but for the new facility being set up at Tau Devi Lal Stadium, the department has asked for doctors, nurses and other people required to handle Covid-19 patients. The district administration has appealed medical students, nurses and retired doctors to come forward as volunteers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/private-hospitals-face-staff-crunch-amid-spike-in-cases-101620582254246.html
09-05-2021||Gurugram||Health dept increases focus on rural pockets||With cases increasing in rural areas, the district administration has deployed 138 health teams to focus on testing, contact tracing and treatment. The district administration started intensive monitoring of rural areas from Saturday, said officials. Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme’s district surveillance officer in Gurugram, said, “As cases are increasing in rural areas also, we are monitoring the situation closely. A total of 138 teams have been constituted for monitoring rural areas in the district. These teams will be focusing on areas falling under seven primary health centres. The teams would visit all the houses and conduct rapid antigen tests of symptomatic patients and also focus on contact tracing.” The rural areas covered by the teams include; Bhondsi, Badashahpur, Palra, Kasan, Bhangrola, Bhora Kalan and Farrukhnagar. The Haryana government on Saturday announced that around 8,000 multidisciplinary teams would be deputed to launch a door-to-door Covid-19 screening drive in rural areas, amid reports of low testing and underreporting of the infections. The teams, led by trainee doctors and health department officials, will have ASHA and anganwadi workers and each team will cover approximately 500 households. In the past two days, the district health department conducted over 1,660 tests with over 25 people testing positive. “We were already conducting tests in rural areas, but with cases rapidly increasing in urban areas, cases are increasing in rural areas also due to movement of locals. Now, even if a person tests negative in a rapid test, the teams will constantly monitor their health, and take samples for RT-PCR testing after a gap of three to four days,” said Sharma. Last week, health department officials had said that Covid-19 cases are controlled in rural areas when compared to urban areas of the district because of lower population density. Residents, however, said that cases are increasing in rural areas, with almost no facilities available. “Locals in villages do not even have access to basic medicines like paracetamol, at times. They are relying on immunity boosting drinks (kadha). It is also not possible to practice home isolation in rural areas as large families live together, due to which most family members end up testing positive,” said a resident of Sohna, requesting anonymity. Gurugram on Sunday reported 2,842 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally of active cases to 37,423. On Sunday, deaths of 10 positive patients were also reported from the district. With this, a total of 587 Covid-19 positive patients have died in the district so far. The recovery rate in the district stands at 75.71%, while the fatality rate is 0.38%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/health-dept-increases-focus-on-rural-pockets-101620582194321.html
09-05-2021||Gurugram||Beneficiaries allege mismanagement of vaccination process||Many vaccine beneficiaries who had registered slots for vaccination at the government-run session sites on Sunday returned without taking their shots as they were unaware of a token system for vaccinations at the primary health centres (PHCs), amid limited availability of vaccines.Officials of the health department, however, said that the problem is mainly among those aged 18-44 who are walking in without registration, as the number of vaccines in their stock is limited.Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer, said, “It is mandatory for people above 45 years, front-line workers and healthcare workers to get themselves registered on Co-WIN , while people who need second dose can directly walk in as they are already registered. Nearly 70% of the allocated stock is for second dose and 30% for first shot. In case of beneficiaries under 18-44 years, online registration along with appointment is a priority.”At the government vaccination centres, people who have got themselves registered are given a token based on which they are vaccinated. At some primary health centres, the registration did not reflect on the computer system, leaving people in a panic. Officials said that people who are walking in are first registered on the database and are only then assigned a token.Residents alleged that the problem has been compounded as private hospitals have not started the vaccine drive.Anand Chawla, a resident of Sushant Lok-1, said that he had a harrowing experience at Tigra PHC on Sunday. “The doctor deployed there denied vaccination even after reaching on time, taking token and waiting in queue for 45 minutes. They said the quota for the day was over and asked me to come on another day. It is already painful to get an appointment for the 18-44 age group, and then this happens. They called the police to send people back home after their quota was over,” he said.Chawla took to the internet to post his experience, following which many residents were critical of the exercise.Ajay Sharma, resident of Tulip Ivory in Sector 70, said, “Logging and getting the appointment is a huge task. For us, it was manageable, but the rural population was facing a tough time and were in panic. Vaccination should be automated and message should be sent to people stating their vaccination date and time.”As per Sunday’s daily bulletin of the district, 8,756 people got their first vaccine dose and 3,770 got their second jab, taking the total vaccination count to 535,518.Health department officials and doctors at PHCs said that many people are coming for vaccination without getting registered and they create a ruckus, forcing officials to vaccinate them.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “The department received over 25,000 doses of Covishield and 6,000 doses of Covaxin on Saturday night. These doses will be given to vaccine beneficiaries above 45 years, who are scheduled for their second dose. Additional 7,500 doses have been allocated for those aged between 18 and 44. Vaccination centres can inoculate between 100 and 300 people every day. At various health centres, footfall has been high, but we can only appeal to people to maintain social distancing as they wait in queues.”Residents said that more people want to get vaccinated due to the recent spike in cases and limited vaccine availability is a concern, due to which arguments also break out at the vaccination sites.Vinod Tayal, a resident of DLF Phase 2, said that he had booked an appointment for taking the second dose of vaccine on May 6 between 10am and noon slot at Sukhrali UPHC-2. “When I went there and showed my booking details to the staff concerned, they refused to accept my booking slot details and asked me whether I had a token issued by them in the morning. Then, a friend informed me that I can go to Nathupur UPHC and get the second dose without a prior booking. I went there with my wife and we got the same. It is totally mismanaged and people are really suffering,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/beneficiaries-allege-mismanagement-of-vaccination-process-101620582136118.html
09-05-2021||Gurugram||Committees to assign remdesivir, ensure oxygen to patients in home isolation||The district administration formed separate committees on Sunday to allocate remdesivir injections to critically ill Covid-19 patients and ensure oxygen availability for patients in home isolation.The order issued by the district administration stated that a four-member committee, headed by additional deputy commissioner Prashant Panwar, will scrutinise the applications for remdesivir twice a day and ensure that the medicine is issued to both private and government hospitals in a transparent manner.As per the directions, hospitals that require this injection can send an email to the committee at remidesivir.gurugram@gmail.com or submit a pro forma in physical form at the office of the civil surgeon.Two officials at the civil surgeon’s office, Surender Singh and Anil Parmar, will ensure communications between committee members for the meeting and also communicate with the hospitals through email and phone, the order issued by deputy commissioner Yash Garg stated.The district administration on Sunday also constituted a three-member committee headed by Rajnarayan Kaushik, an IAS officer, to ensure oxygen cylinders are made available to patients in home isolation. For this purpose, private firms, NGOs and the district Red Cross will work jointly and ensure that cylinders are made available, said officials. It shall also fix the rate at which oxygen cylinders shall be made available to patients, said the order issued by Garg.Apart from delivering oxygen, the Gurugram administration will also distribute Covid-19 kits, containing 15 items such as an oximeter, digital thermometer, steamer, ayurvedic medicines, masks and information booklet, free of cost as a part of the statewide exercise. This is expected to cost around ₹80 lakh, said officials.At present, there are over 37,000 Covid-19 patients who are in home isolation in the district. The kits will also include allopathic medicines such as azithromycin, paracetamol, and vitamins, said officials. A fund of ₹2.46 crore has been earmarked for distribution of these kits across the state and the order issued by the additional chief secretary, health, Haryana has also directed the deputy commissioners to procure these kits at the earliest.Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said, “Workers of health department will ensure that these kits reach patients in home isolation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/committees-to-assign-remdesivir-ensure-oxygen-to-patients-in-home-isolation-101620582135526.html
09-05-2021||Gurugram||Cases per week dip for first time in four weeks||For the first time in over a month, the number of new Covid-19 cases per week decreased, with the district recording 25,860 new cases between May 3 and 9, lower than the 27,358 new cases recorded over the previous week, between April 26 and May 2.Since April 4, there has been a continuous increase in the number of cases per week, with cases increasing by 2% around March-end to around 27% in early May (see box). The last time cases per week dipped was on April 4, when 1,098 cases were recorded between March 29 and April 4, lower than the 1,589 cases recorded between March 21 and 28, according to the health department data.Officials attributed the dip in cases per week to the implementation of a lockdown in Gurugram. On May 1 and 2, Gurugram was among the nine worst-affected districts in the state, due to which the Haryana government initially enforced a weekend lockdown in the nine districts, following which a week-long lockdown was enforced on May 3 across the state.“A combination of lockdown by the Haryana government and the efforts of the district administration and various government bodies in the city are likely to have been a major contributor to this drop in Covid-19 growth along with the support of residents (who are) opting to stay indoors. While this drop is encouraging, we know that the Covid-19 situation is still not completely under control, and continuous efforts are being executed to limits its spread and prevent people from contracting it,” said Dr Yash Garg, deputy commissioner.According to the data, since April 4-11, the weekly percentage increase in cases has consistently remained higher than the preceding week. Between April 26 and May 2, the city saw an increase of 26.48% in cases compared to the preceding week. But this week, between May 3 and May 9, the increase in cases was 19.79%.Data from the daily health bulletin of the district administration also lends support to this recent downward trend.On April 29, the district recorded its highest single-day spike in cases, at 5,042 new cases, but since then, the district recorded more than 4,000 cases in a single day on only four more instances. On Sunday, the city recorded 2,842 cases, the lowest single-day spike in cases since April 20, when the city recorded 2,344 cases.Although the spike in cases has taken a dip, various studies and experts have pegged the second wave of Covid-19 to peak in mid-May or next month.As per both a State Bank of India (SBI) research report and the three-member national Covid-19 supermodel committee, formed by the central government to make projections regarding the spread of the pandemic and follow its trajectory, the second wave is expected to peak in mid-May. However, a report by CLSA, a foreign capital market firm, pegs the spike in June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/cases-per-week-dip-for-first-time-in-four-weeks-101620582134893.html
09-05-2021||Gurugram||Lockdown extended till May 17||The Haryana government on Sunday extended the ongoing lockdown in the state for another week, until May 17, to curb the spread of Covid-19 infections, with officials concentrating on Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonepat districts, which account for almost half of the total number of Covid-19 infections in the state.As per the directions issued by state government officials, only 11 persons will be allowed to attend gatherings, including weddings and funerals. Wedding functions are only allowed at residences and courts with not more than 20 people, while baraat processions were disallowed. Health minister Anil Vij on Sunday evening announced the lockdown through a tweet, stating that the stringent enforcement will continue. Previously, the state government imposed a week-long lockdown in the state from May 3, following a weekend curfew in nine worst-affected districts. Vij, while announcing the extension of the curbs, however, indicated that the nomenclature of the lockdown would be changed and it would now be called a “mahamari alert” or a “Surakshit Haryana”. He also said that a detailed order in this regard will be issued soon. Vij in his tweet at 8.49pm on Sunday wrote, “Mahamari Alert / Surkshit Haryana announced from 10 May to 17 May. Stringent measures will be taken to contain spread of Corona in Haryana. Detailed order to be issued soon.” The tweet by Vij, who also holds the charge of home ministry in the state cabinet, also cleared the confusion regarding the extension of the lockdown as it was set to end at 10am on Monday. A senior district administration official, when asked about the matter, said that they are still awaiting the order. As per the previous lockdown order, the district administration stated that all educational institutes, malls, theatres, restaurants and similar places will remain closed, but industry outside municipal area, those producing essential goods and several others would be allowed to operate. Under the current lockdown, all social gatherings, parties, meetings are disallowed, unless specifically allowed by deputy commissioners. All religious places are closed and religious congregations are not allowed. Hotels, restaurants, food joints, including those in malls, are allowed to operate till 10.30pm only for takeaways. Roadside dhabas and food stalls, and fruit vendors were also allowed to operate but only for takeaways. Most activities are not allowed in the containment zones or large outbreak regions, with only home delivery of food permitted in these areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/lockdown-extended-till-may-17-101620582134311.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police conducts raids in neighbouring states to trace restaurateur Navneet Kalra||The Delhi Police on Sunday intensified the manhunt for businessman Navneet Kalra in connection with the recovery of over 500 oxygen concentrators from his restaurants and conducted multiple raids in neighbouring states, officials said.It is suspected that Kalra has left Delhi along with his family, the police said.Teams have been formed and raids are being conducted in Delhi-NCR and neighbouring states, a senior police officer said.On Friday, 105 oxygen concentrators were recovered from two upscale restaurants in south Delhi's Khan Market area. The restaurants are owned by Kalra.On Saturday, the police transferred the case to the Crime Branch.On Thursday, 419 oxygen concentrators were recovered from another restaurant owned by Kalra and a farmhouse in south Delhi. Four men were arrested during the raids.The oxygen concentrators had been imported from China by a private company.Kalra has been absconding since the raids and his mobile phone is switched off, according to police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-conducts-raids-in-neighbouring-states-to-trace-restaurateur-navneet-kalra-101620581254801.html
09-05-2021||Bangalore||14-day Karnataka lockdown begins today: All you need to know||Among the two dozen Indian states set to undergo lockdown, Karnataka will see stringent curbs starting Monday till May 24 as the Covid-19 disease spread rages in the southern state.Chief minister BS Yediyurappa announced the restrictions last week and said that the second wave of Covid-19 has created havoc across the state as the previous curfews have failed to yield expected results in reducing the daily infections and fatalities.The state was already under curfew from April 27, which was to end on May 12.Karnataka's Covid-19 tally surged to 19.34 lakh as 47,930 fresh infections were recorded while 490 deaths took the cumulative fatalities to 18,776, the health department said on Sunday. Ahead of the complete lockdown in Karnataka, people thronged at the Hubli market for purchasing essential commodities on Sunday.Here is all you need to know about the lockdown in Karnataka:According to the experts in the government formed Technical Advisory Committee on Covid-19, lockdown like measures have been recommended for two weeks to bring down cases. It will also minimise the stress on the health infrastructure and Covid-19 warriors, experts said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/14day-karnataka-lockdown-begins-from-tomorrow-all-you-need-to-know-101620579587969.html
09-05-2021||Patna||Bihar logs 11,259 new Covid-19 cases, 70 related fatalities||Seventy more people succumbed to Covid-19 in Bihar raising the states death toll on Sunday to reach 3,282 though a drop in the positivity rate also caused the active caseload to decrease and the recovery rate to improve.According to the state health department, 11,259 fresh cases were reported compared with the recent past when the number of people testing positive, on an average, stood between 13,000 and 15,000 on a daily basis.The number of active cases now stood at 1,10,804, a fall of nearly 5,000 in the past few days. The recovery rate, which remained under 80 per cent for a couple of weeks, has also reached 80.71 per cent.Altogether 5.91 lakh people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Bihar ever since the pandemic struck in March last year. Out of them, 4.77 lakh have recovered.The day also saw vaccination for those aged between 18 and 44 years of age getting underway.Although it was scheduled to begin on May 1, a delay in supply of vials caused the process to be deferred by a week.The department could not provide the number of people in the aforesaid age-group who received jabs on the inaugural day.The number of people aged above 45 and those in professions like healthcare, who have been vaccinated in the state, has crossed 80 lakhs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-logs-11-259-new-covid-19-cases-70-related-fatalities-101620580230876.html
09-05-2021||Other||11,707 found with ILI symptoms in Prayagraj villages||District and the medical health department’s rapid response teams (RRTs) have identified 11,707 suspected patients having influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms during the five-day mega testing drive launched in 3,178 villages of 23 development blocks of Prayagraj district from May 5, which concluded on Sunday, informed officials.Based on the principle of the test, trace and treat, the aggressive drive was undertaken with the help of special teams of medical and paramedical staff assisted by accredited social health activist (ASHA) workers and Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (ANMs).“This house-to-house survey concluded on Sunday and was undertaken as part of a state-wide effort to identify suspected patients of coronavirus, test them and ensure treatment/medicines/admissions of those found infected and in need. A detailed micro-plan was prepared for this mission, and it was according to this that the exercise was undertaken,” said Dr Rishi Sahai, the district Covid nodal officer.“During the five-day exercise, the teams identified 11,707 with influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms in the rural areas of the district including 1805 detected on May 5, 2520 on May 6, 2867 on May 7, 2371 were discovered on May 8 and 2144 on May 9. Of them, rapid antigen tests and RT-PCR tests of the majority of them have been performed and the rest would be tested till Tuesday,” he said while saying the data of Covid positive cases found among these suspected patients were yet to reach him.During this exercise, the members of RRTs distributed 9,169 medicine kits as well, among the suspected patients including 338 on May 5, 1934 on May 6, 2656 on May 7, 2095 on May 8 and 2146 on May 9, he added.Dr Sahai said over 4,100 rapid response teams (RRTs) scoured the district’s hinterland as part of the house-to-house initiative covering around 6 lakh houses in 3178 villages located in 23 development blocks of the district.“One team was deputed for every 1000 members of the population, consisting of at least two members including a local ASHA or Anganwadi worker or ANM, a school teacher or member of the local nigrani samiti. Each team was dedicated to a specifically designated area undertaking house-to-house visits between 8am and 2pm each day,” he added.“The team members also spread awareness regarding Covid-19 among the people and also explained the ways to protect themselves from the virus. Anyone found with suspected symptoms was listed and sent for testing. They also distributed free medicine kits. The team leaders were required to file a daily report in the set format about the houses surveyed and list of suspected patients found etc till 4pm on the designated surveillance portal (upcovid19tracks.in) and also deposit a copy of this report at the local community or primary health centre,” Dr Sahai said. In the Pratappur development block, around 200 RRTs were active as part of the exercise. The medical superintendent in charge of Pratappur community health centre Dr Sayeed Ahmed, who was overseeing the exercise in the area, said over 55 positive cases were identified in Pratappur in the first two days itself and all had been provided free medical kits and home isolated after due counselling.“The target was to test 100 suspected cases each day,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/11707-found-with-ili-symptoms-in-prayagraj-villages-101620580154902.html
09-05-2021||Other||Medical stores now doubling up as groceries||P+UNE With a strict weekend lockdown in place residents are finding alternate options to buy groceries. Some big medical shops have started selling grocery items, bakery products, ice-creams and various other such items. “There is one 24x 7 medical shop on Satara road where we get almost everything which we buy from a normal grocery shop. There are biscuits, chips, packed food items and many other things,” said Ashutosh Phad, a student living near Swargate. These shops mostly operate round the clock and people rush here not to buy medicines, but these grocery items. Even the civic body or police department won’t take any action against such violators. Shivaji Desai, joint commissioner, Foods and drugs administration, said, “There are complaints received about such medical stores selling food items, but they have a legal food license for it. If needed and found violating the rules the police department or civic body can take necessary action.”Folk artistes to raise Covid1-9 awareness from talukas to municipal areasThe state government has decided to create awareness about Covid-19 through local folk artistes. The state government’s cultural department has issued an order to all local bodies, including the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), to run awareness programmes. The state has sanctioned ₹5 crore for this.The tourism and cultural affairs department under secretary Shailesh Jadhav has issued an order which mentioned folk artistes should be given priority to create awareness from the taluka level to the corporation level. The government has fixed ₹500 per show and one artiste should hold 10 programmes in a seven-day period. In district level, administration will have to give permission to 300 artistes and each district spend Rs13.50 lakh on the awareness programmes. Artists should have to follow all the rules and regulation as mentioned by state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/medical-stores-now-doubling-up-as-groceries-101620577994013.html
09-05-2021||Pune||Rampant exotic plantations have reduced avian diversity across Pune: study||According to a recent study conducted by researchers of the department of Zoology from Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), avian diversity has been reduced in the city to rampant exotic plantations. The study found that original vegetation on the hill of Pune city is home to 86 bird species as compared to the exotic plantation where only 38 bird species are found. The study also revealed that 14 migratory bird species were seen in original vegetation as compared to only four migratory species in exotic vegetation across Pune city. The paper regarding the same was published on May 2 by researchers from Pune in the ‘Tropical Ecology’ by Springer Journal. The study further revealed that exotic plantations have the lower richness and high dominance of woody plant species compared to savanna patches. Currently, original vegetation to the hills in Pune city are under threat of non-scientific plantation forestry, therefore awareness among citizens, policymakers, forest officials are necessary for its conservation, said researchers. Kiran Choudaj, PhD student at department of Zoology at SPPU said that he decided to work on this topic for his PhD thesis and started exploring different reasons for the decline in the number of bird species in exotic plantations. “I carried out work for two years (2017-2019) over the five hills in the city, that are, Chaturshringi, Vetal, Bavdhan reserve forest, Pashan-Baner, Pachgaon-Parvati (Taljai tekdi). During this study, we observed a total of 86 bird species in savanna patches and 38 bird species in exotic plantations. Grassland birds such as Jungle Bush Quail, Jacobin Cuckoo, Shrikes, Indian Roller, White-bellied Minivet, Pipit, Rosefinch, Buntings were absent in exotic plantations. Higher percentage of omnivore birds while lower percentage of predator and herbivore bird species were seen in exotic plantations, as compared to Savanna vegetation,” said Choudaj. He further added that the study observed that there were only four migratory bird species in exotic plantations which was found to be very less as compared to 14 bird species which were seen in original vegetation. “In exotic plantations, Gliricidia (Gliricidia sepium), African Blackwood (Dalbergia melanoxylon) and River Tamarind ( Leucaena leucocephala) were the abundant exotic plant species present. Gliricidia was the most dominant and densely planted species over savanna vegetation. Its allelopathic secretions have herbicidal and insecticidal activities which have reduced grass and herb cover which was present before in those regions. River Tamarind also secretes allelopathy secretions and is regarded as one of the world’s worst invasive plant species. Thus, due to the decrease in the grass-herb cover there is a decrease in the animals that are dependent on it, ultimately leading to decrease in the bird species,” said Choudaj. The guide to the study, Varsha Wankhade, associate professor with the department of Zoology at Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) said that common citizens perceive the savanna patches as of low conservation value compared to the plantations. “One key reason is that the citizens think that these savanna patches are manmade and thus not ancient. The citizens believe in the myth of existence of a ‘thick forest’ sometime back in history, which was degraded by humans and now we get the savanna patches. Emerging research shows that savanna patches are not ‘degraded forests’, savannas existed even before humans started using them. Global and Pune savannas is quite ancient. These remnant savanna patches are slow to recover once destroyed by plantations. Destroyed savanna patches require at least a century or more of time to recover their plant species richness in that case weedy plant species have the ability to thrive in recovering savanna but some of the savanna species may not recover easily. This implies that little savanna patches which have been left must be preserved at any cost and to conserve these patches some of the savanna specialist birds should be used as mascots,” said Wankhade. She added that birds like the Yellow-wattled Lapwing and White-bellied Minivet can be used as canvas for saving these grassy patches. “Awareness and sensitization about these grassy habitats among citizens, planters, managers and policymakers are necessary for the conservation of these unique habitats,” said Wankhade. Kiran Choudaj and Varsha Wankhade published one more article in the journal of Threatened Taxa, titled ‘Changed avian assemblage of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) campus in the last four decades. “In this study, we tried to assess the bird diversity of the SPPU campus and Khadki pond which is adjacent to campus in two time periods 1976 and 2018. In 2018, we failed to notice 34 bird species out of 90 bird species listed for campus and pond in 1976. A major reason for the decline in bird diversity is due to changes in the campus habitat from low scrub jungle, fallow lands and grassland to buildings, roads, and exotic plantations. Increased human settlement surrounding the campus is also one of the contributing factors for the decline in bird species on the campus. Khadki pond was a perennial pond, now transformed into the seasonal pond that has been overtaken by natural vegetation due to blockage of water channels,” said Choudaj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rampant-exotic-plantations-have-reduced-avian-diversity-across-pune-study-101620577575092.html
09-05-2021||Pune||RESQ transit centre treats animals beyond district borders||The forest department and RESQ Wildlife Transit Treatment Centre (TTC Bavdhan), a 35,000 sq. ft. facility which has the capacity to house 120 wildlife animals based on the type of species has now gone beyond Pune city and district in lending their expertise in treating and rescuing animals. The latest animals to be treated were pangolin which was found in Raigad and a hyena in Nashik. According to Rahul Patil, deputy conservator of forest, “The work done at TTC is rapidly getting known through the district now that there have been 70 animals rescued and treated at the centre. The rescue and release of the pangolin from wildlife traffickers who had kept her tied in a jute bag for days, with help from Satara and Junnar forest divisions and the RESQ team travelled a long distance where they hiked deep inside the forest to release the pangolin at a safe and secure location.” The Wildlife Transit Treatment Centre has 16 mammals which includes Indian Hyena, Indian Jackals, Pangolin, Barking Deer and several monkeys, 14 reptiles which includes different species of turtles, tortoises and some injured snakes under recovery and 40 birds - Bonellis Eagles, Eurasian Eagle Owls, Spotted Owlets, Black Shouldered Kites, Parakeets and several others. The team also managed to save 37 Star-Back Tortoises from Pune and Thane Forest Department that were repatriated in Chandrapur near Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) after a 16-hour journey by road. “Several forest departments send animals to us from outside Pune division. Either orphans for special rehabilitate or critical cases needing surgery and intensive post-operative treatment and care,” said Sumedh Tarde, RESQ volunteer. “Wildlife comes to us in very critical condition or as orphans, and their treatment and rehabilitation is challenging. Some are more resilient and some are very sensitive. Our rehabilitation success rate which is based on how many fully recover and go back to their natural habitat varies between 60-85 per cent based on species,” said Neha Panchamia, founder RESQ Charitable Trust.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/resq-transit-centre-treats-animals-beyond-district-borders-101620577393967.html
09-05-2021||Pune||Two arrested after video of minor boys being stripped, molested emerges||Two men were arrested on Saturday while the Pimpri-Chinchwad police are on a lookout for 17 others for stripping and molesting three minor boys over suspicion of their involvement in petty thefts in Pimpri. “We have arrested two people. This incident is from two to three months ago. The investigation is on,” said police inspector Bhojaraj Misal of Pimpri police station. The two arrested were identified as Kapil Taak and Vijay Chavan, both residents of Pimpri area. The acts in the video were allegedly performed in public space with benches that lead to the spot used for Ganesh visarjan near the river road area of Pimpri. The others booked in the case include a man who has previously been accused of murder. The three boys were stripped, hurt on their genitals, assaulted, and dogs were set free near them with an intention of putting them in harm’s way, according to the visuals on the video of the incident that was shot. As per the complaint lodged by the mother of one of the three survivors, the three were subjected to those acts over suspicion of their involvement in a theft at Pimpri vegetable market. The video landed in the custody of the police after which a case was registered. The boys were allegedly warned against telling anyone about the assault and being seen in that part of town. “The case was registered on April 30. Chavan has completed his time in police custody and is now in judicial custody. Kapil Taak was arrested from Nashik two days ago and is in police custody till May 11,” said PI Misal. The rest of the men are on the run from the police. A case under Sections 377 (unnatural sex), 363 (kidnapping), 343 (wrongful confinement for three or more days), 289 (negligent conduct with respect to animal), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation), rioting of Indian Penal Code along with Section 4 and 8 of Protection of Children form Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act, 2012 was registered at Pimpri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-arrested-after-video-of-minor-boys-being-stripped-molested-emerges-101620577333959.html
09-05-2021||Pune||Forest department working to prevent repeat of 2019 flash floods||In order to prevent flash floods this monsoon, the department of forest has taken an initiative to create bunds and check dams atop Taljai Hills. The department has been working on the behest of local corporators and guardian minister and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar who wrote to the authorities to find solutions to avoid 2019 flash floods. “We were approached by the local corporator and some local residents living near Taljai who requested if the forest department could do something to avoid the flash floods that caused destruction in 2019. Initially, we asked the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to look into the matter after conducting a survey, but the authorities said that the hill was in our jurisdiction, hence we thought of an environmental, sustainable and ecological friendly concept that could benefit the entire city,” said Rahul Patil, deputy conservator of forests. According to Patil, the forest department began their survey a month ago and are now clearing the Taljai hill of Gliricidia which is a medium size leguminous tree of zero bio-gradable value and instead plant native plants. “There are JCBs at work also to create small and medium bunds and check dams to help control the water flowing down towards the city. We have around two hectares of these trees to be cleared and plant native plants which will help in percolating rainwater.” Several societies are directly hampered by the water flowing downhill from Taljai hill, Savarkar Society, Sahakar Nagar and others. Suresh Buddhisagar, resident of Savarkar Society said, “We faced problems two years ago due to the illegal compound wall constructions allowed by PMC in the area surrounding us. Until the 70s, our society was the last one to be built officially. Now this area has undergone a lot of changes with several illegal constructions built over natural water outlets of Taljai hills.” According to Buddhisagar, the PMC constructed concrete roads which blocked the water outlets, choking the drainage system. The water now flows on the road consequently causing flood water to rise and breach compound walls, causing the water gush into houses. “This flow further connects to the nallah near Gajanan Maharaj temple. There is no proper provision of maintaining the water overflow. There are number of nallahs in this area which further connects to Ambil Odha. However, due to mismanagement of rainwater disbursement and illegal construction of slums near Taangwala Society, Lakshminagar area resulted in the Ambil odha Crisis. After writing to officials, we finally got the local corporators to look into the matters and the forest department is now building check dams so that the water atop in the quarry at Taljai does not percolate downhill,” said Buddhisagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/forest-department-working-to-prevent-repeat-of-2019-flash-floods-101620577274054.html
09-05-2021||Pune||Indian women’s rugby team captain Vahbiz Bharucha optimistic of the sport’s future||Last month, right in the middle of the pandemic, Pune was at the peak of a devastating debacle due to Covid-19. Regardless of the situation, city-based physiotherapist Vahbiz Bharucha, who is the captain of the Indian women’s rugby team, had to mark her presence in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K). On April 10, a squad of 12 women from the national rugby team, along with 12 other local Kashmiri women players, had come together to accomplish a collective goal at Srinagar’s sprawling TRC turf ground. “For the past few months, the Indian Rugby Football Union (IRFU), aka Rugby India (the nodal body for rugby in India) has been holding multiple discussions with the union sports minister Kiren Rijiju, primarily seeking support to scale up the sport’s position nationally but due to poor representation of the game in mainstream media, Rijiju wasn’t too confident about where the team stood in terms of its performance and merit. He wanted to check whether the players were really promising enough. So, he asked us to show up at Srinagar and play an exhibition match, which would help him make a judgment,” informs Bharucha, when asked about the reason for the team’s J&K expedition. She adds that on behalf of IRFU, the team also made a couple of presentations, and she feels, from the looks of it, Rijiju seemed impressed. “He shared some encouraging updates about the exhibition matches on his social media platforms. This has sent out an optimistic message for us. However, we haven’t yet heard from the ministry in an official capacity,” she said.The women from the team are scattered across different pockets of India, from Delhi to Siliguri, Bhubaneshwar, Kolkata, and Patna, and so on. Back from Srinagar, and Vahbiz, just like the other teammates, has been busy prepping for the nationals. “I try to clock in about two-and-a-half hours of fitness training daily. Rugby demands a lot of speed, stamina, focus, and strength—everything packed into one individual. I focus on running and bodyweight workouts—there’s a lot of endurance, power, agility and speed that I am focusing on,” she marks, adding that the team has a set of coaches in South Africa and Mumbai, and they regularly determine fitness targets and exercise regimens for the girls. The anticipated timeline for the nationals would’ve been somewhere between the end of May to June but there’s no confirmation on that front so far,” she said. Sounding slightly apprehensive, Bharucha said, “We are not sure if the nationals are going to happen, given the Covid-19 havoc in the country. Also, if the matches happen, the funds required would go up significantly as all the safety guidelines, and quarantine rules would have to be adhered to. Let’s see what happens.”For the team, the immediate plan of action may not be too clear but what remains undeterred despite all the odds is the team’s preparedness to hit the ground running. As the captain of the team, Bharucha believes in leading by example. “Thanks to social media, the team is connected. I make sure I regularly post videos and pictures of my workouts, training, and diet. Of course, if need be, I also lend a listening ear to any teammate, who wishes to talk to me about any challenges in achieving the fitness goals,” she said. Bharucha is certain that good times are in store for the game in the coming future, given the rising numbers of women players. “Serious participation and awareness about the sport are going up steadily over the years. Also, the state of Odisha recently struck a partnership with IRFU, with a view to develop rugby as a professional sport in India. This is so reassuring,” she smiled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/indian-women-s-rugby-team-captain-vahbiz-bharucha-optimistic-of-the-sport-s-future-101620577213922.html
09-05-2021||Other||7,380 new Covid-19 cases, 25 deaths on Sunday in Pune district||PUNE Pune distrcit reported 7,380 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours as per the state health department. The district also reported 25 deaths due to the infection. Pune district reported a progressive count of 0.926 million Covid-19 cases, of which 0.815 million have recovered. The death toll stands at 10,107 with 1,00,316 active cases currently under home isolation or undergoing hospital treatment. Pune rural recorded 3,440 new cases on Sunday which took the final count to 2,41,772. With eight more deaths the toll went up to 2,649. Pune city reported 2,110 new cases taking the final count to 4,59,671. With 17 more deaths, the death toll stands at 5,870. PCMC also reported 1,830 new cases, which takes the count to 2,24,681. No more deaths were reported on Sunday in PCMC, so the death toll stands at 1,530.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/7380-new-covid-19-cases-25-deaths-on-sunday-in-pune-district-101620577094060.html
09-05-2021||Pune||PMC ward offices, departments disobey standing committee’s decision on expenditure||Despite Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) standing committee’s decision to cut down 10 per cent amounts from capital works, ward offices and heads of various departments are not following order. Now, the chief account of the corporation has instructed all ward offices and departments to follow the order to raise funds for Covid-19. On the other hand, civic activists have raised questions on spending on health infrastructure in the annual budget allocation. In 2020, PMC had taken a decision to cut down 20 per cent on various developments. Last year, the PMC utilized more than ₹150 crore on the development of health infrastructure related to Covid-19. In 2021-22, the civic body allocated around ₹350 crore to set up oxygen producing plants and oxygen bed Covid centres, purchasing Remdesivir injection, ventilators, and medicines. Most of the funds were diverted from project works. When the standing committee has taken decisions to divert big budget development work, ward offices and various departments are utilizing funds on the minor works such as repairing food paths, changing drainage and water lines, changing paver blocks in each ward office area. Taking cognizance of spending on minors works, PMC chief account has issued an order to all departments and ward offices to consider standing committee decision to cut down 10 per cent development works while floating tenders and carrying out development works. Ulka Kalsakar, PMC chief accountant officer said, “At present, Covid-19 patients are increasing gradually. The state has imposed a partial lockdown. We need funds to control the Covid-19 and use funds to purchase masks, foods for quarantine patients, to spend funds on purchasing medical equipment and provide medical service. We will have to secure a certain amount of funds so that it can be used for medical emergencies.” “Standing committee has already given permission to cut down 10 per cent funds on capital work. However, the order is not followed by the ward officers and department heads. So, we have issued orders to keep in mind while issuing tenders, work orders and issuing tender advertisements. We don’t know how much we will need in the future to spend on health related issues, so it is advisable to make financial arrangements right now,” she added. Civic activist questions spending on health infrastructure On the other hand, civic activists have raised questions on the spending on health infrastructure by PMC. They have said that PMC is spending crores of the budgets on minor and non-essential work such as changing paver blocks, cement concretisation of lanes, seating benches and footpath repair work instead of health infrastructure. Vivek Velankar, civic activist said, “Every year, PMC spends crores of funds on non-essential works. This year, the corporation has approved an annual budget of ₹7,500 crore. It is an inflated budget, and they are also using footpath repair and concretization by lanes. It should stop.” “According to Velankar, due to spending on non-productive work, PMC has embarrassed itself in the high court over the health infrastructure issue. “PMC lawyer submitted an affidavit in Bombay high court that PMC doesn’t have financial capacity to spend on health infrastructure as compared to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Actually, that is not the case. PMC has enough funds, but they are not using it on infrastructure issues,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-ward-offices-departments-disobey-standing-committee-s-decision-on-expenditure-101620577034002.html
09-05-2021||Pune||Covid positive patient dies by suicide in hospital||A Covid-19 infected patient was found hanging in a hospital in Talegaon on Sunday morning. The incident was reported from Maharashtra Institute of Medical Education and Research hospital (MIMER) in Talegaon. The 44-year-old patient had been in the hospital since May 1 and was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 infection, according to the police. “He was in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) for the past few days. He was found in the storeroom in the hospital. A telephone wire was found around his neck and no note,” said senior police inspector Bhaskar Jadhav of Talegaon Dabhade police station. The police suspect that the man had died by suicide due to the infection he was suffering from. However, the exact reason could not be ascertained immediately. The police are verifying whether the man had any financial struggles. He is survived by a wife and two children. He was found by the hospital staff on Sunday morning and the incident was reported to the local police. His death was recorded in an accidental death report at Talegaon Dabhade police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-positive-patient-dies-by-suicide-in-hospital-101620576913985.html
09-05-2021||Pune||House-help arrested for theft||A house-help was arrested by Pune police on Sunday for allegedly stealing from her employer’s house in Kalyani nagar area of Pune on April 28. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Sandeep Thusu (33), a resident of a residential society in Kalyani nagar. “We have arrested the woman but cannot reveal anything just yet. The woman kept going to work at the house even after the theft. The couple suspected what must have happened because nobody else had entered or left their house,” said assistant police inspector Sameer Karpe of Yerawada police station. The complainant has submitted in his complaint that the he was sitting in the hall of the house with his wife while the house help was working in the other parts of the house when she allegedly stole from the bedroom. The woman allegedly entered the bedroom when the couple were not looking and opened the drawer of the wooden cupboard in the bedroom in which the jewellery was kept. The woman allegedly fled with gold jewellery worth ₹3,89,500, according to the police. A case under Section 381 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Yerawada police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/househelp-arrested-for-theft-101620576793970.html
09-05-2021||Pune||Former employee arrested for murder of 65-year-old in Warje||A former employee of the 65-year-old scrap yard owner, who was found dead near her house in Warje Malwadi, was arrested for her murder in the late hours of Saturday. The arrested man was identified as Afsar Aslam Ali (19), a resident of the area where the murder was committed. The woman was identified as Shahabai Arun Shelar (65), a resident of Ramnagar area of Warje. She runs a scrap yard while her son is an assistant sub inspector in the Satara police force. Ali was found sitting inside a City-Link bus in an attempt to leave the state, according to the police. Upon checking his luggage, the clothes he had worn during the murder were found in it. He was arrested by officials of anti-dacoity and vehicle theft unit-1 of Pune police crime branch, according to a statement issued by the Pune police crime branch. Ali worked in Shelar’s scrapyard four to five months ago. He allegedly killed the woman using a square shaped metal pipe by hitting her on the head with it late on Friday night, according to the police. She was found by two workers who work in her scrap yard run out of a tin-shed where she was working when she was attacked. A complaint in the matter was lodged by her policeman son identified as Vitthal Shelar (42) who lives in Ravivar peth area of Satara city. A case under Sections 302 (murder), 460 (all persons jointly concerned in lurking house-trespass or housebreaking by night punishable where death or grievous hurt caused by one of them), 380 (robbery) of Indian Penal Code and Sections 37(1)(3)with135 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Warje Malwadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/former-employee-arrested-for-murder-of-65-year-old-in-warje-101620576734011.html
09-05-2021||Pune||Former Congress minister, son booked for domestic violence||A case of domestic violence was registered on Sunday against Congress leader and former minister Balasaheb Shivarkar his son former corporator Abhijeet Shivarkar based on the complaint of the son’s doctor wife. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Dr Sneha Shivarkar (37) who is married to former corporator Abhijeet Shivarkar (38) and lives with him and his family in a resident of St Lawrence Colony in Wanowrie area of Pune. However, for the past few weeks, the complainant had been living separately from the accused husband. “The complaint had come months ago. It was sent to the Women’s grievance cell for counselling where some sessions must have happened. After that the complaint was sent to us saying counselling is not helping,” said senior police inspector Deepak Lagad of Wanavadi police station. Along with her husband and his father, the two others booked in the case were identified as mother-in-law Kavita Shivarkar (66) and sister-in-law Sonali Pardeshi (40), according to the police. The complainant has claimed that the alleged extra marital affairs of her husband and physical abuse by him led her to lodge a complaint. A case under Sections 498(a) and other relevant sections of Indian Penal Code was registered at Wanowrie police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/former-congress-minister-son-booked-for-domestic-violence-101620576673912.html
09-05-2021||Kolkata||Bengal governor sanctions CBI prosecution of four top TMC leaders||Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, on a request by the CBI, sanctioned the prosecution of Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee, Madan Mitra and Sovan Chatterjee, all of them ministers during the time of the alleged commission of a crime that came to light in the purported Narada sting tapes, a Raj Bhavan official said on Sunday."Honourable governor is the competent authority to accord sanction in terms of law as he happens to be the appointing authority for such ministers in terms of Article 164 of the Constitution," a statement issued by the officer on special duty (communication), Raj Bhavan, said.All four were ministers in the Mamata Banerjee cabinet when the tapes were allegedly made in 2014.Hakim, Mukherjee and Mitra have been re-elected as TMC MLAs in the just-concluded assembly elections, while Chatterjee, who left the TMC to join the BJP, has severed links with both the camps.The statement said that the sanction for prosecution of the four leaders was accorded by Dhankhar "after the CBI had made a request and made available entire documentation relevant to the case to the honourable governor and he invoked his powers under Article 163 and 164 of the Constitution, being the competent authority to accord such sanction".The Narada sting tapes, made public before the 2016 assembly elections in West Bengal, were claimed to have been shot in 2014, wherein people resembling TMC ministers, MPs and MLAs were allegedly seen receiving money from representatives of a fictitious company in lieu of promised favours.The sting operation was allegedly conducted by Mathew Samuel of Narada News portal.The Calcutta High Court had ordered a CBI probe into the sting operation in March, 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-governor-sanctions-cbi-prosecution-of-four-top-tmc-leaders-101620576048592.html
09-05-2021||Other||Azam, son shifted to Lucknow hospital from Sitapur jail 8 days after testing Covid-19 positive||Former Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister Azam Khan and his son Abdullah Azam, lodged in Sitapur district jail for the past many months, were shifted to a private hospital in Lucknow on Sunday on the recommendation of a district-level medical team, said senior officials of the UP prison administration.The senior Samajwadi Party (SP) leader and his son, along with 14 other prisoners, had tested positive for the Covid-19 infection at the Sitapur district jail on May 1 during a routine testing drive for prisoners. The duo was under medical treatment at the jail since then.A senior jail official confirmed that the former minister and his son were taken to Lucknow in an ambulance.He said they were in jail since February 26, 2020, when a Rampur court rejected their bail application in a case related to alleged forgery in age-proof documents of Abdullah Azam.In September 2019, the court had issued summons to Khan, his wife Tazeen Fatima and his son taking cognizance of the charge sheet filed by Rampur police, in which all three were charged with forgery and cheating. On January 3, 2019, local BJP leader Akash Saxena had lodged a complaint alleging that Azam and his wife helped their son in obtaining two fake birth certificates – one from Lucknow and another from Rampur – following which an FIR was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/azam-son-shifted-to-lucknow-hospital-from-sitapur-jail-8-days-after-testing-covid-19-positive-101620574453821.html
09-05-2021||Lucknow||Start post-Covid facility in each of UP’s 75 districts: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday asked the health department to start and operate a post-Covid facility each in the 75 districts of the state. The arrangements in this connection should be made in the next two days, he added at a Covid-19 review meeting here.These hospitals would offer medical and psychological treatment as well as therapy and physiotherapy for patients who suffer post-Covid complications.“There have been cases wherein several of those who have recovered from Covid develop physical health and mental health issues. To deal with such post-Covid problems, all the 75 districts should have post-Covid hospitals where people can get treatment. Depute psychologists and physiotherapists also to these centres. The health department should make arrangements for these in the next two days,” he said.34, 636 more patients recoverIn the last 24 hours, 23,333 new Covid-19 cases were reported across UP while a significantly higher number — 34,636 patients —recovered, the chief minister said. The state currently has 2.33 lakh active cases, 77,000 less than the number of active cases on April 30. So far, a total of 12.54 lakh people had recovered in the state since Covid began in UP last year, he remarked.He also said that UP had conducted 4.30 crore Covid tests so far, including 2.29 lakh tests in the last 24 hours among which 1.1 lakh were RT-PCR tests.“But there is a need to further increase the tests,” he said.Increase hospital bed strength to 100,000He also said, “Considering the improvement in oxygen supply in the state, now the total bed strength in Level-2 and Level-3 hospitals should reach one lakh (100,000). The medical education department is in the process of adding 15,000 more oxygen equipped beds in the state.The state distributed 950 metric tonnes of oxygen across the state in the last 24 hours, he added.Preliminary oxygen auditThe preliminary oxygen audit report suggested that some hospitals’ average oxygen consumption was manifold higher than the optimum usage levels, he said. The health and medical education department should coordinate with such hospitals and help them optimise usage and prevent wastage, he added.VaccinationA total of 1,17,327 people in the age group of 18-44 years were vaccinated in seven high Covid caseload districts of UP since May 1, the chief minister said. The drive for this age group will be launched in 11 more districts of the state from Monday, he reiterated.The state has administered a total of 1.37 crore doses of the Covid vaccines since the vaccination drive was launched on January 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/start-post-covid-facility-in-each-of-up-s-75-districts-yogi-101620573793720.html
09-05-2021||Other||PMC to complete connecting road via Katraj dairy||PUNE The PMC has finally decided to complete the connecting road work via the Katraj dairy. The road will bypass from Trimurti chowk to Maitri chow in Katraj. The road work has been pending since 2017 due to land-related issues. The dairy has a milk outlet on the spot from where the connecting road passes. The civic body has promised that it would pay them ₹1.60 crore as compensation for demolishing eight houses on the road. A fencing wall at the cost of ₹56 lakh would be constructed and the 200-metre road will be constructed at the cost of ₹2.50 crore.Area corporator Yuvraj Beldare who spearheaded the work and had set a target of four months for road completion said, “A lot of follow-up was done and it was due to the intervention of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar that issue was sorted out. Once the road fund is sanctioned, work on the stretch will begin soon.”Beldare said that the issue was stuck due to unreasonable demands of the dairy administration and PMC officials were ready with a win-win plan. Ultimately the issue has been resolved, he claimed.Sanjay Bhosale, an area resident said, “The new road will reduce traffic and sort out the commuting problems of the residents. It’s a positive step in right direction.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-to-complete-connecting-road-via-katraj-dairy-101620573013767.html
09-05-2021||Other||Irregular slot-booking process has 45+ age group fretting over second vaccine dose||PUNE In addition to a short supply of vaccines in the city, Pune’s vaccination drive has also been affected by an irregular slot-booking process. Citizens have complained that the slots do not open at a fixed time and even when they do, they fill up within minutes of opening. Some have stated that bots and apps have been put in place to alert citizens regarding opening of slots which makes it difficult for others to get a vaccination appointment.Since vaccination opened up for those aged between 18 and 44 years from May 1, Pune city has had to shut down vaccination for four days for all those aged above 45 years. This was done primarily because of the vaccine shortage. Although the app has been designed by the central government, local authorities have to open up slots and create sessions at vaccination centres depending on stock. In Pune city, the PMC does not have an official means of communicating with the citizens, unlike Mumbai, which has an official Twitter handle which posts daily updates. On Sunday, additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal stated: “For those aged between 18 to 44 years, Covid vaccination is planned at 6 centres tomorrow (Monday). Covishield will be available at two centres and Covaxin at 4 centres. Appointment/slot booking will start at pm and only citizens who have got prior appointments would be vaccinated. Vaccination is planned for citizens above 45 years of age at 111 centres tomorrow. Covishield will be available at 101 centres and Covaxin will be available at 10 centres. The second dose will be given only to the citizens who have taken the first dose before April 12, 2021 at the 10 centres where Covaxin is available. Citizens who took the first dose before March 22, 2021 will be given priority at centres where Covishield is available. Also, the first dose will be given to 20% of citizens who come as per appointment.”A senior PMC health official said, “The slots are created according to the availability of the vaccine which is not regular. The vaccines which the centre sends are available for those aged above 45, while the ones the state purchases are reserved for those aged between 18-44 years of age, and so, slots are created accordingly. “In rural Pune, the Zilla Parishad has given the authority to taluka heads to book slots depending on vaccine availability. ZP chief executive officer Ayush Prasad said, “Rural areas are not places with nothing. In rural areas like Lonavala, Hinjewardi, Baramati and Chakan, everyone is using smartphones and so people book and see the list online just like everywhere else. The authority to book the slots has been given to the talukas and there is no fixed time, but the mechanism is very efficient in rural Pune.”However, despite all efforts, the district’s vaccination rate has fallen down in comparison to what was expected. While Pune had aimed to vaccinate 0.1 million people daily, on Saturday, only close to 7,000 people got the jab. Aniket Kasabe, who has been looking for a slot said, “As soon as i got the letter I went online to check it but the slots are not opened up. They say it will open up by 8pm but since the past few days I have been glued to my computer to book the slot, but within minutes it says all booked.” Another beneficiary due his second dose, Sushil Joshi said, “There are many people above 45 years of age who are waiting for their second dose of Covaxin. Authorities in Pune are prioritizing the 18 to 44 year age group. This is a waste of the first dose for the 45+ group.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/irregular-slot-booking-process-has-45-age-group-fretting-over-second-vaccine-dose-101620570313513.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Badals, not Capt govt, ruling Punjab: Sidhu||A day after cornering the Punjab chief minister over the formation of a new special investigation team to probe the 2015 Kotkapura police firing case, Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday further sharpened his attack against the government, alleging that there is a “consensus” among legislators that the state is being run by the “Badals” instead of their own party.Referring to the Badals, who led the previous Akali-BJP government in the state, the Amritsar East MLA alleged that the state bureaucracy and police were “acting” as per their “wishes”.“Consensus among MLAs, Badal Sarkar is ruling in lieu of Congress Govt ... Bureaucracy and Police act as per wishes of Badal Family, more often than listening to our MLAs and Party workers. Govt run not for welfare of the People, but for continuing control of Mafia Raj (sic),” alleged Sidhu in a Tweet post on Sunday.The former minister has been critical of his own government ever since the Punjab and Haryana high court quashed a special investigation team (SIT) probe report into the police firing incident, which had taken place in Faridkot district during a protest against the desecration of a religious text and left two men dead. On Saturday, Sidhu had said the government was forced to accept the HC order due to Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s “incompetence”, and claimed that giving six months to the new SIT to compete the probe will further “extend the delay” in delivering justice to the victims.Responding to his unrelenting attack, the Punjab CM had earlier called the Sidhu’s outbursts “total indiscipline”, suggesting that he may be leaving for the Aam Aadmi Party.The Congress had in the run-up to the 2017 assembly polls promised to take strict action against those guilty in the firing case. The new three-member SIT formed on Friday is headed by additional director general of police (vigilance bureau) LK Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/badals-not-capt-govt-ruling-punjab-sidhu-101620568093914.html
09-05-2021||Other||PCB to set-up oxygen plant at Cantonment Hospital; Girish Bapat corporates donate funds||PUNE The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) will set up its own oxygen plant at its Sardar Vallabhai Cantonment General Hospital, funded by a grant of ₹25 lakh from Pune’s BJP MP Girish Bapat. In addition to that, some corporates have pledged additional financial support for the oxygen plant. The plant will ensure round-the-clock oxygen supply to the ICU and patients in need, allowing 350 oxygen beds to be managed successfully. Additionally, the plant will have an oxygen storage tank with a capacity of 0.2 million litres.PCB CEO Amit Kumar said, “The MP will be allotting ₹25 lakh for the new plant. Also, some prominent corporates committed to help us set up the plant. As of today, there are a number of challenges for oxygen cylinder replenishments. The in-house facility will give us strength to serve an increased number of patients at the hospital.” Former PCB vice-president Vinod Mathurawala said that board was purchasing oxygen cylinders at the price of ₹30,000 each with a daily requirement of 125 cylinders.“With the commissioning of the plant, it would become hassle-free as oxygen supply is guaranteed. This will boost the capacity to protect more lives from the Cantonment area,” he said.The PCB hospital has a dedicated Covid treatment ward with a capacity of 125 patients, in addition to 18 beds in the ICU. All the beds are currently occupied.Social activist Manjett Singh Virdi , president of Camp-based MS Virdi foundation said, “The oxygen plant will ensure 24-hour oxygen supply and it will play a key role in the board mission to treat and save lives of patients. We will provide all our support to the administration for this noble task.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pcb-to-set-up-oxygen-plant-at-cantonment-hospital-girish-bapat-corporates-donate-funds-101620568033392.html
09-05-2021||Other||Chicken, mutton vendors beat weekend lockdown with “half-shutter” downs||PUNE Despite a strict weekend lockdown in place in the city, huge crowds were seen outside chicken and mutton on Sunday morning. Even shop owners stayed open with shutters half down or back doors open, which led to crowding outside the shops.Similar scenes were noticed on internal roads, where vegetable vendors drew the crowds. During the weekend, starting from Friday 8 pm till Monday 7 am, all non-essential shops are to remain closed, except medical stores. Milk delivery is allowed in the morning hours. Speaking anonymously, the owner of a mutton shop in Katraj area said, “Sunday is our main day to do business and most of our customers come to buy meat only on Sunday, so we cannot keep the shop shut. Due to this weekend lockdown we are facing a lot of difficulties. On one side customers call us to get meat and then, we have to manage it with shutters down.”There eight chicken and mutton vendors in the Katraj area near the Dattanagar chowk. When the local police came to know about the crowds, they immediately rushed to the spot to close down the shops. “Meat shops should remain open on the weekend, as lots of people plan to eat non-vegetarian food only on weekends. Also vegetable shops and roadside vendors should also be allowed. I got one kg of mutton from my regular shop, but from the backdoor,” said Vipul Alekar a resident of Hadapsar. Another resident, Sachin Alande, said, “We prefer to eat chicken every Sunday, and in this situation protein is a good option. When I went to the nearby shop to buy chicken it was closed, but then I contacted the owner and he called me to another place. Now some restrictions need to be relaxed as the Covid cases are dropping.”Talking about this weekend lockdown restrictions, PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “During weekend only emergency services are allowed and medical shops, all other essential shops or vegetable and fruit vendors should remain closed. If anyone is opening the shops then they will be penalised.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chicken-mutton-vendors-beat-weekend-lockdown-with-half-shutter-downs-101620567493350.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-sarpanch, two sons and daughter die of Covid in Punjab||Coronavirus claimed the lives of an ex-sarpanch of Takipur village in Punjab’s Sangrur district, his two sons and a daughter within a week. Tarlok Singh, 83, and his sons Harpal Singh, 46, and Jaspal Singh, 54, breathed their last in hospital on May 2, 7 and 8, respectively. Meanwhile, Tarlok’s daughter Sukhjit Kaur succumbed to the virus at her in-laws’ house on May 4.“The ex-sarpanch and his two sons were admitted to hospitals in Patiala after testing positive for Covid-19. They died within a short period,” said Dr Anju Singla, senior medical officer, Longowal government hospital. “We have started random sampling in the village, and will escalate the vaccination drive too.”Situated 30 kilometres from Sangrur town, Takipur village is in shock and panic after hearing about the tragedy. “This news has come as a big shock to all of us,” said village sarpanch Dharminder Singh. “The family is quite well-to-do and owns around 100 acres of land.” While Tarlok’s wife had died a few years ago, Jaspal is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter while Harpal is survived by his wife and two sons. Harpal had permanent residency of Italy, but was staying in India for the past three years, said the sarpanch. Jaspal’s daughter lives in Canada. All other family members who are in the village have tested negative for the virus. “I appeal to the residents not to come out unnecessarily. They should wear masks and avoid assembling at common places of the village,” said the sarpanch.Sangrur district on Sunday reported 12 deaths and 166 new Covid-19 cases. Among those dead is the wife of Sangrur civil hospital’s senior medical officer Dr Baljit Singh, who too has tested positive. Amid an unprecedented surge, the number of active cases stands at 1,861.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exsarpanch-two-sons-and-daughter-die-of-covid-in-punjab-101620566713878.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi received 71% of SC-approved oxygen on Saturday, weekly average 76%, says oxygen bulletin||The Delhi government on Sunday said that the national capital received 499 metric tonnes of oxygen on May 8, which is only 71 per cent of the medical oxygen to be delivered by the Centre to hospitals in the national capital daily.The oxygen bulletin was posted on Twitter by Raghav Chadha, the vice chairman of the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) and MLA from Rajinder Nagar.The bulletin also had a section about the weekly average, which said that the average oxygen to be supplied to the national capital as per direction of the Supreme Court in seven days was 700 MT, while the average oxygen supplied to Delhi in the last seven days stands at 533 MT.The oxygen supplied as a percentage of quantity directed by the Supreme Court in the past seven days is 76%, it further added.Delhi's oxygen bulletin for 8th of May 2021 pic.twitter.com/JPo2hFMNMeThe oxygen bulletin also said that the Delhi government received four SOS on Saturday. "Total SOS oxygen supplies on Saturday stands at 15.50 MT," the bulletin said.The Supreme Court had directed the Centre to ensure the availability of 700 MT of oxygen to Delhi on a daily basis. It said that the Centre is under an obligation to ensure a daily supply of the said quantity of oxygen to meet the existing requirements of the national capital and directed that there shall be no reduction in the allocation and availability of medical oxygen to Delhi."We direct the Union of India to remedy the situation forthwith and to ensure that the direction issued by this court for the availability of 700 MT is strictly observed on a daily basis, pending further orders," the bench said in its order passed on May 6 and uploaded on Saturday.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Saturday that Delhi received the court approved amount of oxygen for just one day, and that the Centre has failed to supply even 600MT a day after that. He urged the Centre to streamline its processes and ensure that all states and union territories receive oxygen in better quantities so that states don’t have to fight for oxygen supply.Also Watch: ‘Delhi lockdown extended by a week till May 17’, says KejriwalDelhi witnessed a slight dip in Covid-19 cases with only 13,336 fresh infections were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the health bulletin by the Delhi government released on Sunday.The Covid-19 positivity rate also dropped to 21.67per cent, the lowest since April 17.The Delhi government has extended the ongoing lockdown for another week till May 17. Delhi has been under a lockdown since April 19 in view of the record surge in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-received-71-of-supreme-court-approved-oxygen-on-saturday-says-oxygen-bulletin-101620565167750.html
09-05-2021||Jaipur||Tiger cub killed in Rajasthan’s Ranthambore Tiger Reserve in territorial fight||An eight-month-old tiger cub died at Ranthambore Tiger Reserve (RTR) in Sawai Madhopur district of Rajasthan on Sunday. The cub is suspected to have been killed by another adult tigress T-124, also known as Riddhi, in a territorial fight.A month back on April 1, a five-month-old tiger cub was found dead in Gandhra Deh area of RTR in mutilated condition. In the post-mortem, canine marks were found on its neck and the forest officials then said they suspected it was killed by another tiger.Additional conservator of forest Sanjiv Sharma on Sunday said this cub’s neck was broken and there were many injuries on the body, which was sent for a post-mortem.Sharma said the cub was one of the four born to tigress T-102 in August 2020. He suspected this cub might have separated from her mother last night and entered another tigress’ territory. They suspect that other tigress to be Ridhi, who was spotted moving in the area.“We were on routine patrolling today and spotted two tigers running, little ahead we spotted the cub’s body with a broken neck and injuries and [realised that it had been] dragged,” he said.Another forest official said the area where the cub’s body was found is the juncture of territories of tigress T-102 and T-124. He said four tigresses: T-84 (arrowhead), her two daughters Ridhi (T-124) and Sidhi (T-125), and T-102 (the mother of the dead cub) move in zone 3, 4 and 5 of the RTR. “In RTR, the issue is of territory. The Reserve has crossed its carrying capacity, now either there will be fights related to territory or migration of tigers, which then will be difficult to track outside the protected area,” he said.The official claimed that since November 2020 to January 2021, the daughters of tigress Arrowhead – Ridhi and Sidhi have fought for territory at least five times.Retired IFS Sunanyan Sharma said RTR was overpopulated and the tigers will either move out to other forests; get into territorial fights, which could lead to even deaths; or move towards villages, where they could be poisoned.He said the only solution for effective tiger conservation is relocation, after developing the habitat.RTR’s 76 tigers including 21 cubs and sub-adults live in an area of 1,334 square kms, making it the third most congested habitat for the big cats in India after Corbett National Park in Uttarakhand and Kaziranga National Park in Assam.The ‘Status of Tigers in India-2018’ report said that Rajasthan has witnessed an increase in tiger population by 115% in the last 12 years.In a major setback to tiger conservation in Rajasthan, four tigers including two sub-adults were reported missing from RTR in March 2021. The administration had conducted intensive search for these missing tigers, which were not sighted for the past year, without success.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/tiger-cub-killed-in-rajasthan-s-ranthambore-tiger-reserve-in-territorial-fight-101620563593903.html
09-05-2021||Mumbai||Role of private doctors crucial in fight against Covid-19: Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday stressed on the role of private doctors, specially family physicians, in the fight against Covid-19, saying they can help in early diagnosis of the infection in their patients and facilitate timely treatment for them.Addressing around 700 private doctors from across the state during a meeting held via video conference, Thackeray appealed to them to join hands with the state administration to curb spread of the viral infection.Thackeray said if family physicians keep a check on the treatment of their patients in home isolation and update ward officers regularly, the civic body concerned can make arrangements for their further treatment in a proper way."Family doctors play an important role. If they guide the patients at the initial stage of the infection, it will be helpful to curb the virus spread. They can identify symptoms and check whether a patient is asymptomatic or needs hospitalisation," he said.The CM said family doctors should focus on patients in home isolation so that if required, they can be shifted to hospitals timely.He appealed to private doctors to register themselves with the Covid-19 care centres and jumbo field hospitals in their localities and visit the facilities for consultation.It is necessary to have uniformity in the treatment protocol, he added.Thackeray also said the state's oxygen production capacity is 1,270 metric tonne, but due to the surge in Covid-19 cases, the demand has risen to 1,700 MT."We have prepared short and long-term plans to become self-sufficient in oxygen and the enhanced production capacity of the life-saving gas will be realised soon," he said.During the meeting, the state government's task force of medical experts, comprising Sanjay Oak, Shashank Joshi, Rahul Pandit, Tatyarao Lahane and others, informed private medical practitioners about Covid-19 treatment protocols.They told the doctors about use of steroids, importance of six-minute walk test, how to identify the need for giving oxygen, identifying reduction in oxygen level, treatment of mucormycosis-a fungal infection detected in Covid-19 survivors, use of key anti-viral drug Remdesivir and taking care of patients on ventilators.Thackeray said a paediatric task force is also being set up by the state government as experts are of the view that the third wave of Covid-19 could affect children.Around 700 private doctors participated the virtual meeting on Sunday, while 300 doctors had attended a meeting held some days back via video conference with Thackeray and the task force members, a statement issued by the Chief Minister's Office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/role-of-private-doctors-crucial-in-fight-against-covid-19-uddhav-thackeray-101620561996053.html
09-05-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Covid patient was sold ICU bed for ₹1.3l in Jaipur, nurse arrested||Rajasthan anti-corruption bureau (ACB) caught a male nurse of a private hospital red handed while receiving part payment of the ₹1.30 lakh he had sold an ICU bed for to a Covid-patient in a government hospital in Jaipur.The police suspect that a doctor and a male nurse at the government hospital could also be involved in selling hospital beds to kin of Covid patients needing emergency care. The arrest has underlined the sad reality of black marketing of hospital beds, oxygen cylinders and life saving medicines at a time when an unprecedented rise in Covid infections has created a shortage of these essential medical supplies causing several deaths across the country.The case in Jaipur came to light after a man lodged a complaint with the ACB naming Ashok Gurjar, a nurse at a private hospital, as the man who sold him an ICU bed at the government-operated Rajasthan University of Health Sciences hospital for ₹1.30 Lakh. He said he was made to pay the first instalment amounting to ₹95,000 before his Covid infected wife was admitted to the ICU on Wednesday. She died within 48 hours of her admission on Friday; however, Gurjar kept calling him through the day demanding payment of the remaining ₹35,000 as part of the deal, said an ACB officer.The ACB set up a trap on Sunday evening and Gurjar was caught red-handed while accepting ₹23,000 from the complainant. The bureau said it was investigating the nature of his links with another male nursing staff at the RUHS, who introduced the complainant to Gurjar in the first place. It was also probing the role of a doctor posted in the ICU of the government hospital, who too has been accused of taking his cut of ₹50,000 from the total bribe amount, said the ACB officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-covid-patient-was-sold-icu-bed-for-rs-1-3l-in-jaipur-nurse-arrested-101620561433700.html
09-05-2021||Pune||Your Space: Timely test results will help check Covid-19 spread||Residents are getting the results of RT-PCR, test for diagnosing Covid-19, as late as after five days in some cases, as it has become mandatory for selected workforce and residents are also coming forward to give swab samples. While the delay in getting test results poses risk of spread of the virus, what steps should authorities take to streamline the system and ensure timely delivery of diagnosis report? Increase testing centresDelayed RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test results are causing a lot of hardship to people. Flights are missed and asymptomatic people pose risk of Covid infection spread. The government should set up more testing centres and take steps to speed up the process for timely release of results. Also, they must have rapid antigen testing (RAT) done to identify positive cases and contain the spread. It’s because of the delay that people are resorting to fake reports.Mehzabin Saiyed Zilla parishad should arrange testing campsTo undergo RT-PCR test was a challenge in our neighbourhood. There are private players who were overloaded since the government mandated the test for all staff and vendors. Hardly any private partner was taking samples. The situation improved when the Covid test mandate was removed. The cost charged by private vendors is more than the government regulated rates. Few vendors are charging ₹1,000.We request the zilla parishad to set up more testing centres, mobile vans for RT-PCR and antigen testing near big housing societies or at ward level. This will serve the purpose of getting tests done at the earliest and avoid delays which may worsen with respect to infected residents and their close contacts.We also struggled to get our workforce, housekeeping staff and security tested. Even the gram panchayat team approached us that they will conduct door-to-door test for residents who show symptoms, but later denied due to shortage of staff. We appreciate if testing resources and manpower is increased by the zilla parishad.Girish RaghuwanshiDelay in test results affected our businessFollowing the directive from authorities for mandatory RT-PCR test for hotel staff, we arranged our staff to undergo the Covid test. However, the reports came after four days as the lab cited overload of cases. This long delay affected our business and caused apprehension among staff. It would be better if the agencies concerned launch mobile van facility for carrying out the Covid tests and release results in time.Vaidehi SuryavanshiTest is sometimes bothersome for residentsRT-PCR is just a formality asked by hospitals and families are pressurised to get it done if they want to admit their already sick members. I understand that the medical facilities are also under pressure, but why put that on our heads. It is obvious that a person will seek admission only because his symptoms are worst and yet the hospitals will admit only after the test. Doing the test is fine, but the time lost in getting the result is bad for those suffering. People are afraid and it would be better if the officials ease off on not asking for these tests when the patient is getting worse and symptoms can be visibly seen.Shumita MahajanTest should only be for symptomatic casesGiven the present huge turnaround time for RT-PCR tests, the recent guideline by ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) to enable rapid antigen test (RAT) for non-symptomatic and inter-state travellers should be strictly followed, as RAT is time efficient. RT-PCR should be applied only for symptomatic cases, thereby reducing the load on diagnostic centres. The local authorities should also find viable ways to cut down the time lag between sample collection at hospitals and transporting to the testing lab. Very few hospitals have their own in-house test facility.Hary KurupSelf-discipline should be top prioritySelf-discipline in following the Corona protocol and vaccination is the best way to restrict the spread of Covid. Imposing RT-PCR tests on all and sundry will result in overload of system and might deprive those who urgently need to test. We need to identify and set up micro containment zones and enforce strict regulations for these zones.Col KD Pendharkar (retd)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-timely-test-results-will-help-check-covid-19-spread-101620557173437.html
09-05-2021||Pune||Curtain Call: A solo act play, on stage and online, hits home social message||One of the last plays that I saw live, in a theatre, was “Every Brilliant Thing”. This was in 2019. Weird. Yes. But let’s move on, shall we? Even though it’s nearly two years since I watched it, the play is still fresh in my head. This statement is meant more for the play than my ability to remember things. Adapted from the eponymous play written by Duncan Macmillan and Jonny Donahoe, the Indian version was adapted and directed by Quasar Thakore Padamsee and produced by Toral Shah and Vivek Rao of theatre company QTP. Vivek Madan is the protagonist and the only actor who has rehearsed the play! We’ll get to the details in sometime.Before the play begins, Vivek walks amongst the audience. Chats with them informally. He hands a few people some chits with a seemingly random number written on it and requests them to open it only when he calls out that number. Once everyone has arrived and is seated, he walks to the centre of the stage and addresses everyone and the play starts. Just this structure of interacting with the audience beforehand diminishes the line between pre-show and actual performance. You are a part of the atmosphere from the moment you enter the auditorium. The story starts with a seven-year-old boy, finding out that his mother has just tried to take her own life. It starts with him asking his father a series of “why?”, because naturally a seven-year-old hasn’t understood the reason behind this act. “Every Brilliant Thing” is an interactive piece of theatre. So, Vivek asks an audience member to play his seven-year-old self and he plays his father. The person playing the son just responds with a “why?” to every explanation that Vivek, as a father, can give. Most adults have a hard time understanding what depression is, let alone a seven-year-old child. So, in whatever he grasps from that situation, he starts making a list for his mother. A list of every beautiful thing he has encountered. He decides to make a list of hundred things first. When he realises that there is so much beauty around, he continues with the list well beyond the hundred. While the subject of the play is extremely serious, the writing and presentation isn’t. But it is this combination that hits the message home!The protagonist grows up, makes friends, gets into a relationship, gets married and continues his dialogue with his parents. All other characters are played by members of the audience picked by Vivek. I wasn’t aware about this format till I watched the play and it was one of the best evenings I had experienced in a long time. The crowd that day was sensitive, some were even natural actors. It was a cathartic experience and it made me understand what a few of my friends might be going through in real life. I even gifted a ticket to one of them for the next show.Once we entered the new normal, Quasar and company took this play online. As far as I know, Quasar wasn’t too keen as he belongs to the group of people who doesn’t consider online performances as “theatre”. But he was convinced that the need to discuss this subject during the lockdown was extremely important and they decided to go ahead with a limited run. I bought a ticket for my entire family and watched it with them. The play had been adapted again for the online performance – with Vivek at his house in Bengaluru, Quasar and the technical team in Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur and Lucknow! It was a good show but like any other play, I felt the impact was a lot better when I watched it live.But what was different about the online performance was that after the show there was a two-minute break and the audience was asked to stay behind to have a conversation. And the producers had made sure that the conversation was conducted by a psychologist. This sensitivity towards the material and the subject was new to me! The producers understood that many of the audience members might be isolated, probably out of work and also dealing with their personal demons. They wanted to provide a way if they wanted to vent if the play triggered them in any way. This kind of social responsibility is hard to find.I do not know what the future holds for theatre in general. But if I were to make a list of every brilliant play I have ever watched, I am sure “Every Brilliant Thing” will feature in it till the end.Nipun Dharmadhikari is a storyteller and looks forward to telling them on stage, in front of the camera or in person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-a-solo-act-play-on-stage-and-online-hits-home-social-message-101620556933729.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi extends Covid-19 lockdown till May 17. Check what's allowed, what's not||The Delhi government on Sunday extended the lockdown for another week till May 17 to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the Capital.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) first imposed restrictions to curb the movement of individuals in the territory of NCT Delhi from 10 pm on April 19 to break the chain of transmission amid an unprecedented surge in the number of infections.Also read| Delhi has got SC-mandated oxygen quota only once, urge centre for more: SisodiaAfter the review of the Covid-19 situation in the national capital, it was observed that "the positive cases, as well as positivity rate of Covid-19, is still very high and occupancy (Oxygen supported/ICU beds) in the dedicated Covid-19 Government & Private is also on the higher side," DDMA's order read.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also said that this time a strict lockdown will be imposed as the metro services, which were till now operational for essential service workers will also be suspended.Here's all you need to know about the restrictions:Delhi metro services shall not function during the period. "In the wake of revised guidelines issued today by the Govt. of NCT of Delhi, on the extension of Curfew in Delhi for the containment of Covid-19, the Delhi Metro services on all its Lines shall also remain suspended for passenger/essential services from 10 May till 5:00 AM of 17 May," the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation said.Organising marriage ceremonies at public places, marriage halls, banquet halls, hotels and similar places is completely prohibited. The wedding ceremony can, however, be organised in court or at home with not more than 20 people. Movement for such occasions is only allowed on the production of soft or hard copies of the marriage card.The DJ, sound system, tentage, catering or similar kind of services will not be allowed for the marriage ceremony, the order stated.Also read| Madhya Pradesh: Man attends wedding despite testing Covid-19 positive, FIR filedFollowing Covid-appropriate behaviour like wearing a mask, social distancing is mandatory in all mandis, ISBTs, Railway platforms/Stations as well as at all shops which are providing essential goods & services during the curbs.All other shops dealing with non-essential goods and services are to remain closed. All authorities concerned are required to ensure that no weekly markets are functioning illegally within the jurisdiction of respective District Magistrates, the order read.E-pass is necessary for movement connected to essential goods and services. People going to get vaccinated or for medical emergencies are also exempt and will have to show a valid ID card.Delhi on Sunday reported a decline in new Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours after 13,336 people were found to be infected with the virus, in contrast to over 17,000 on Saturday. 273 people succumbed to the deadly virus in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 19,344, according to the health bulletin.The positivity rate in the Capital stood at 21.67 per cent on Sunday, the bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-may-17-all-you-need-to-know-about-curbs-101620551508622.html
09-05-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Man attends wedding despite testing Covid-19 positive, FIR filed||Madhya Pradesh police filed FIRs against three persons for violating Covid-19 norms in Niwari district.This incident of grave carelessness took place in Niwari's Luharguwan village."We have filed FIRs against two people for organising a wedding ceremony without having taken permission from the administration. We have also filed one FIR against a youth for taking part in the ceremony and concealing the fact that he had been tested positive for the Covid-19," said Jairam Kushwaha, police post-In-Charge, Luharguwan.After the wedding till Wednesday, as many as 60 people from the village got themselves tested. Out of which, more than three dozens have tested positive.Police said that all the main entrances to the village have been barricaded and a surveillance arrangement has been put in place. A proclamation has also been made asking people to keep from venturing out and confine themselves to their homes only.Taking a serious view of the situation, the district administration has declared the village as a red zone.At present, Madhya Pradesh has a total of 95,423 active Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-man-attends-wedding-despite-testing-covid-19-positive-fir-filed-101620552551634.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi records over 13K fresh Covid-19 cases, deaths fall below 300||Delhi on Sunday recorded 13,336 fresh cases of coronavirus disease, pushing the cumulative tally to 1,323,567 as chief minister Arvind Kejriwal extended the lockdown by another week. The national capital's daily death count also fell below 300 on Sunday after 273 fatalities were recorded, the health bulletin showed. A total of 19,344 people have succumbed to the viral disease so far, the bulletin stated.Also read: Lancet blames Centre for Covid-19 crisis, says it ignored warningsThe positivity rate - the proportion of samples that turn positive among all tests conducted - also dipped to 21.67 per cent on Sunday, a sharp decline from 35 per cent recorded last month, indicating reduced spread of the disease among people in Delhi. The national capital's positivity rate rose to its highest at over 35% two weeks back on April 26 but has gradually come down afterward.Authorities on Sunday carried out 61,552 tests, out of which 49,787 were RT-PCR and 11,765 were rapid antigen tests. On Sunday, Delhi's active cases dipped slightly to 86,232 from 87,907 recorded a day earlier. Among the infected, 52,263 people are recovering from the disease in home isolation. The containment zones in Delhi increased to 53,127 on Sunday from 51,338 recorded on Saturday. India’s capital extended its lockdown for another week and adopted stricter restrictions to control a new wave of Covid-19 infections as the country battles the world’s fastest-growing outbreak of the virus.The lockdown, which had been set to end Monday after being extended several times, will now run through the early morning of May 17, CM Kejriwal said in an online briefing.Also read: Delhi Covid-19 lockdown extended till May 17, stricter enforcement promisedDining-in at restaurants will remain prohibited, shopping malls will continue to be shut and employees of businesses outside of essential services will be required to keep working from home. Metro service will be stopped as an additional measure.“The stricter the lockdown, the faster we will be able to control” the virus, Kejriwal said. India on Sunday found 403,736 new virus cases, reporting more than 4,000 Covid-19 deaths for a second day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-over-13k-fresh-covid-19-cases-deaths-fall-below-300-101620552348745.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police launches 'COVI Van Helpline' for senior citizens amid Covid-19||Delhi Police has launched a helpline number for senior citizens who are struggling with their essential needs amid Covid-19.South District Police of the national capital have launched a COVI Van Helpline (012- 26241077) for senior citizens in the neigbourhood amid the coronavirus situation here."After receiving any call for COVI Van, deployed police official on COVI Van with beat officer will go to the house of senior citizens and help them in getting their needs, including any essential item, vaccination and medicines," the Delhi Police statement said on Sunday.The information of commencement of COVI Van has been disseminated in the Greater Kailash -1 area through beat officers and Residents Welfare Association (RWA).All the precautions including - sanitisation, gloves, masks and social distancing - will be taken while and after every visit.The city's Health bulletin released on Saturday said that it recorded 17,364 fresh Covid-19 cases and 332 deaths over the last 24 hours.Delhi's cumulative caseload has reached 13,10,231 including 87,907 active cases and 19,071 related deaths. Delhi recorded a positivity rate of 23.34 per cent and case fatality rate of 1.46 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-launches-covi-van-helpline-for-senior-citizens-amid-covid19-101620551869253.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi Covid-19 lockdown extended till May 17, stricter enforcement promised||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced the extension of the ongoing lockdown in Delhi by another week and promised to tighten its enforcement while ordering complete suspension of metro rail services this week, citing the need to control the unprecedented surge of Covid-19 cases in the capital and scale up the health infrastructure proportionately.“In the last few days, we spoke with large sections of people – men, women, youngsters, traders, etc. The larger public opinion suggests that we cannot let our guards down now. So, we are forced to increase the lockdown by another week for the safety of people,” Kejriwal said, making it clear that saving lives was a bigger priority right now. “If we survive, we can think of economic recovery in later stages,” he said.The current lockdown, which was earlier supposed to end at 5 am on Monday, May 10, has now been extended till 5 am May 17 through an order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) at 12 noon on Sunday. DDMA is chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and CM Kejriwal is its vice chairperson.“We have also decided that now enforcement of the lockdown will be scaled up and metro services will remain completely shut down. I am sure people will follow all regulations,” Kejriwal added.Under the ongoing lockdown imposed since April 20, there are restrictions on general movement of people and economic activities in Delhi, with exemptions for essential services and goods with certain conditions. So far, the metro service was open for people engaged in the delivery of essential services.“On April 20, we were forced to impose a lockdown because of an unprecedented increase in Covid-19 cases. We were also running out of beds, ICUs, etc. On April 26, the positivity rate increased to 35%. After April 26, because of the lockdown, the situation slowly started improving. Positivity rate has now reduced to 23%... We cannot afford to go back to a worse situation from this stage. The situation has to be further controlled,” said the chief minister on Sunday.Delhi recorded 17,364 fresh Covid-19 cases and 332 deaths in the last 24 hours preceding the release of the health bulletin on Saturday. The national capital has lodged a total of 1,310,231 cases including 87,907 active cases and 19,071 related deaths. The test positivity rate for the disease is at 23.34% and the case fatality rate is 1.46%. In the last few days the number of infections recorded daily has come down along with the test positivity rate, making some health experts spot early signs of plateauing of the second wave which paralysed the health infrastructure with shortage of life saving medicines, oxygen, oxygenated beds, ICU beds and ventilators causing several deaths. The chief minister said Delhi had used the lockdown to strengthen the health infrastructure and it needed to continue.“...Now, the oxygen situation has slightly improved with interference of the Supreme court and Delhi high court and cooperation of the central government. The vaccine drive has also been expanded now. All arrangements are in place and turnout is high. There is a shortage of stock but we have sought help from the central government in this regard and we are sure this will be resolved soon,” he said.Apart from suspension of metro services, the DDMA has imposed a complete prohibition on organising any marriage ceremony at any hotel, banquet hall, marriage hall, or a public space. Marriages can happen only in court and in private spaces with (a) maximum gathering of 20 individuals, it said.“DJ, sound system, tentage, catering and similar kind of services will not be allowed for the marriage ceremony. Owners of the marriage halls, banquet halls, hotels, DJs, sound system, tentage, catering and other service providers will have to either return the advance amount paid by the customer for conducting marriage ceremony during curfew period or they will have to mutually agree to organise the marriage on a later date,” said the order.While, under an order issued on April 11, there was already a cap of 50 guests for marriages in Delhi, there was no clarity on how marriage ceremonies even with 50 guests could be organised after the lockdown was imposed on April 20. A senior government official, who did not wish to be identified, said that lack of clarity on the matter was leading to instances of violation of the DDMA orders related to the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-covid-19-lockdown-extended-till-may-17-cm-seeks-stricter-enforcement-101620547572873.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||Mother’s Day: Frontline warrior moms juggle work and family||It’s the second Mother’s Day that will be celebrated during the pandemic. While some may get to be with their mothers today, there are some others whose mothers are frontline warriors, and will head out for a regular day away from their children, to fight the battle against coronavirus. Hear from some such Delhi-NCR based mothers, on how challenging yet fulfilling it has been to juggle home and work during the pandemic. There is fieldwork involved but I try to keep my kids safe: JyotiFor Jyoti, Inspector Investigation at Chanakyapuri, the pandemic has been the toughest part of her 14 year career in Delhi Police. “Even though we were vaccinated on priority, there is always a fear of spreading the infection at home. I was put on announcement duty in various Covid containment areas and small localities. While I sanitise everything the minute I go home, I know I have to go back to work the next day and face the same risk. But it’s a part of the job. Duty is duty,” says Jyoti adding that while her seniors are supportive, spending long hours away from her kids is hard. “I have two daughters — one in 10th and the other in 5th standard — who have been my strength through this time. I wish I could spend more time with them, but they know their mum is a Covid warrior, and they are happy to see me work, which is the best Mother’s Day gift!” she says. As a lactating mother, it’s hard to be away from my baby: Rakhi JohnPosted in the gynaecology Covid ward at AIIMS Delhi, nurse Rakhi John has been doing alternate shifts with her husband, who is also posted at the same hospital. In order to take care of their two daughters — the younger one being barely a year old — John has been juggling between her professional duties and motherhood responsibilities with extreme care. She says, “If my husband does morning shifts, I do evening shifts. I’m constantly worried about infecting my kids, and this is after I wear a PPE kit with masks and shield all day! As a lactating mother, it’s hard to be away from my baby. But amid the pandemic, healthcare workers like us have a responsibility and I can’t shirk away from it! Simply being able to come home each day to my kids in the current scenario feels like a blessing!”It has been 14 months since I got a welcome hug at the door: Dr Sarika Verma “At our dining table we have a ‘no phone rule’. But, over the last one year, I’ve been taking 4-5 calls even when in the middle of dinner as I can’t ignore them. Though my kids are young, they are aware of what I do... It has been 14 months since I got a welcome hug at the door when I’m back from the clinic. They know I’ve to sanitise myself and take bath first,” says Dr Sarika Verma, a Gurugram-based ENT surgeon. “As an ear, nose and throat specialist, we are seeing and treating Covid patients all day. I have a strict process; I wear surgical gown, masks, face shield and gloves. All this is to keep my kids safe since this wave is infecting younger generation as well. I know my kids might have some plans for Mother’s Day, but the fact that they are mature, independent and allow me to do my job without stress, brings me immense joy,” adds Verma.Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mothers-day-frontline-warrior-moms-juggle-work-and-family-101620546255909.html
09-05-2021||Bangalore||'MIA - Missing in Action': Congress slams Yediyurappa over Covid 'mismanagement'||Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala on Sunday slammed the Karnataka government for mismanagement of Covid-19 and said, Yediyurappa government is MIA--"Missing in Action".Taking to Twitter, Surjewala wrote, "In the midst of this crippling bedlam, Yediyurappa Govt is MIA - Missing in Action. Perhaps only concentrated to kath on to "Chair and Crumbs of Power" at any cost - at all cost!"He also mentioned that the number of active cases in Karnataka has nearly doubled from 3 lakh to 5.36 between April 27-May 7."Surge of cases up by 31% to 18.38 lakh by May 7. The number of active cases has nearly doubled from 3 lakh to 5.36 lakhs between April 27-May 7," he tweeted."Bengaluru suffers most with active cases, 24% in 10 days," he added.Accusing the state government of passive approach towards Covid in the state, Surjewala said, "Recovery Rate declines by 28.2% - from 98.1% on Feb 28 to 69.9% on May 8. Bengaluru Urban is even worse - hovers around 61-62%""All this as no beds, no ventilators, no oxygen, no medicines is the norm," he added.Meanwhile, to curb the surge of Covid-19 cases, the Karnataka government on Friday imposed a complete lockdown for two weeks in the state from 6 am on May 10 to 6 am on May 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/mia-missing-in-action-congress-slams-yediyurappa-over-covid-mismanagement-101620544267277.html
09-05-2021||Kolkata||Mamata urges PM Modi to waive taxes on Covid-19 medical equipment, drugs||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting him to waive all forms of taxes and customs duty on equipment and drugs being used to fight the Covid-19 pandemic.Mamata Banerjee also urged Modi to strengthen health infrastructure and augment supplies of equipment, medicines, and oxygen for the treatment of coronavirus-positive patients."A large number of organisations, individuals, and benevolent agencies have come forward to donate oxygen concentrators, cylinders, containers, and Covid-related drugs."Many of the donors have approached the state government to consider exemption of these from customs duty, SGST, CGST, IGST," she said in the letter."As the rate structure falls under the purview of the central government, I would request that these items may be exempted from GST/customs duty and other such duties and taxes to help remove supply constraints of the above-mentioned life-saving drugs and equipment and contribute towards effective management of the Covid pandemic," Banerjee said.She has been attacking the Centre for "failing" to control the spread of the disease in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-urges-prime-minister-narendra-modi-to-waive-taxes-customs-duty-on-coronavirus-covid-19-medical-equipment-drugs-101620543895735.html
09-05-2021||Lucknow||Covid-19: Uttar Pradesh extends partial ‘corona curfew’ till May 17||The Uttar Pradesh government has extended the ongoing partial ‘corona curfew’ in the state till 7am on May 17 amid a rise in the state’s daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), additional chief secretary (ACS) Navneet Sehgal announced on Sunday.The decision, likely taken during a review meeting chaired by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, marks yet another extension of the ‘corona curfew,’ which was initially intended to be a weekend curfew and was to be in effect from 8pm on a Friday to 7am on Monday of the new week. However, on April 29, the government extended the curfew by 24 more hours, till 7am on May 4. It was subsequently extended till May 6 and then till May 10.The state government said that essential and emergency services will continue "as usual." medical services, medicine shops, vegetable shops, groceries, continuous process industries, e-commerce, and vaccination. These relaxations and curbs were in effect in the earlier phases as well.In addition to the curfew, a daily night curfew is also in force in all districts with more than 500 active coronavirus cases.On Saturday, Uttar Pradesh recorded 26,847 new positive cases and 298 related deaths, taking its infection count to 1,480,315, according to a health department bulletin. This includes 1,219,409 recoveries, 245,736 active cases and 15,170 deaths.The state’s Capital city of Lucknow contributed the highest number of new cases and deaths, at 2,179 and 38, respectively. Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Saharanpur and Gautam Buddh Nagar recorded 1,653, 1,518, 1,485 and 1,188 fresh infections respectively. Kanpur saw 23 deaths, while 18 people succumbed to the viral disease in Jhansi. In Meerut, 12 people lost their lives while Allahabad, Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghazipur recorded 11 deaths each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid19-uttar-pradesh-extends-partial-corona-curfew-till-may-17-101620541939133.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi Covid-19 lockdown: Metro services to be shut for a week, starting Monday||Metro services in Delhi will be suspended for a week starting Monday after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal extended the lockdown to control the spread of Covid-19 in the national capital. "This is a dangerous wave, we need to stay indoors to protect lives," the chief minister said in the briefing as he made the announcement.Until now, metro services were exempted from the lockdown restrictions, in effect since April 20, and were functioning with 50% of its capacity. "The lockdown has been extended after thorough consultation with traders, women and youth," said Kejriwal.The restrictions have helped Delhi as the positivity rate has gradually come down and is near 24% now. The positivity rate in Delhi soared to its highest on April 26 when it reached 35%.Kejriwal further said that the Delhi government "used the lockdown period to ramp up health infrastructure in the national capital by introducing more oxygen beds."Last year the metro services were suspended in March when the Centre announced a complete lockdown in the country to control the explosion of Covid-19 cases. The services were resumed from September 7 in a phased opening under the central government’s Unlock 4 guidelines.Speaking on vaccination drive in the city, Kejriwal said, "We've made excellent arrangements at our schools. Youngsters are participating in large numbers. We have a shortage of vaccines but I hope the Central government will help us."The Covid-19 crisis is spiralling in Delhi leading to an acute shortage of medical oxygen and other medical necessities. Though the number of daily cases has dropped from the peak of the fourth wave, the number of fatalities is still hovering above 300.On Saturday, Delhi recorded 17,364 fresh Covid cases and 332 deaths over the span of 24-hours. It was the fifth time in the last six days that the number of new cases remained below 20,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-covid-19-lockdown-metro-services-to-be-suspended-from-monday-101620542323941.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt extends Covid-19 lockdown till May 17||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said his government has decided to extend the lockdown for another week till May 17. Kejriwal added that the government has decided to impose a stricter lockdown this time, as metro services will also be suspended.The chief minister said the decision to extend the lockdown for another week has been taken after thorough consultation with traders, women and youth. While the positivity rate in the national capital has come down to 23% from 35% in the last two to three days, he said, the situation still needs to be improved and taken under control.Also read: Covid-19: Uttar Pradesh extends partial ‘corona curfew’ till May 17He said that the positivity rate in the Capital on April 26 stood as high as 35 per cent and it was after that the cases gradually started declining as the chain of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections began to break.Speaking about the existing Covid-19 curbs in place, Kejriwal said that the Delhi government used the lockdown period to step up the healthcare infrastructure by adding more oxygen beds.Delhi was among the worst-hit states as it suffered from an acute shortage of medical essentials required to combat the destructive second wave of Covid-19. The heavy paucity of oxygen, even in the hospitals, claimed many lives.On oxygen shortage, the chief minister said that the situation of availability of life-saving gas has improved now and SOS calls, reports from hospitals running out of oxygen supply have also declined significantly. He said the high court and Supreme Court's orders and the Centre's assistance helped in the improvement of the situation in the past few days.Kejriwal also spoke of the recently started phase 3 of the vaccination drive. The vaccination drive has been accelerated in Delhi, however, we face a shortage of vaccine supplies, he said, adding that the government has asked for support from the Centre.Also read: Why Covid-19 cases exploding in India? WHO top scientist answersDelhi reported 17,364 new Covid-19 infections and 332 deaths in the last 24 hours on Saturday, according to the health bulletin. In the last six days, the Capital reported less than 20,000 new infections in 24 hours for the fifth straight day.The positivity rate in the national capital, which is currently under lockdown also remained below 25 per cent for the third consecutive day, the Covid-19 dashboard showed.Lockdown in Delhi was imposed on April 20, and since then it has been extended several times to contain the spread of the virus. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader said the number of Covid-19 cases has come down in the last few days but it is important to extend the lockdown to prevent it from deteriorating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-may-17-metro-services-to-be-suspended-101620541369484.html
09-05-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand to start Covid-19 vaccination for 18-44 yrs age group from May 10||The Covid vaccination for people in the age group of 18 to 44 years will begin in Uttarakhand from May 10, informed the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) on Saturday.Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat instructed officials to accelerate Covid-19 vaccination in the state in the wake of a surge in Covid cases. He reviewed the vaccination status through video conferencing in the Secretariat.Meanwhile, the Chief Minister appealed for plasma donation.Rawat said the blood plasma of people who have recovered from Covid is helpful in the treatment of other infected patients. He requested everyone to donate their blood plasma if they have recovered from the virus to save lives.Uttarakhand reported 8,390 new Covid-19 cases and 118 deaths in the last 24 hours, said the state control room on Saturday. With this, the case tally reached 2,38,383. As many as 4,771 patients recovered from the disease in the said period. Meanwhile, the active number of Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand stands at 71,174.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-to-start-covid-19-vaccination-for-18-44-yrs-age-group-from-may-10-101620540912858.html
09-05-2021||Patna||Covid-19 medicines running out in Patna following oxygen crisis||After the shortage of oxygen and oxygenated beds in hospitals, Patna is now battling a scarcity of common medicines required for treatment of mild and moderate cases of Covid-19.While the demand for Paracetamol, Azythromycin, Doxycycline and Ivermectin was considerably high since the beginning of the rapid surge in Covid-19 cases in early April, these were now missing from inventories of many drug retailers for the past one week. Most pharmacists across the capital said they were struggling to meet their daily requirements even when paying whole-sellers or warehouses in advance.Akhilesh Kumar runs a medical store near Phulwari Sharif railway station, said not enough medicines were available for Covid-19 patients in home isolation. “We are getting barely half of [our total] demand from whole sellers at Govind Mitra Road. The stock generally runs out in the afternoon,” he said.An Apollo Pharma retailer located on Ashiyana Road said the situation of supply from Kolkata-based warehouses was no better. “Doxycycline tablets are unavailable for the past two days, while Ivermectin is running out,” said Shankar Kumar, adding he hoped to get some emergency medicines from the local wholesaler the next day.Ramjeet Kushwaha, who owns a medical store near Jagdeo Path, said the supply of Azithromycin and Ivermectin was disrupted for the past one week. “I have never faced a scarcity of basic medicines like this. Even Paracetamol tablets are going off the shelf quite fast...,” he said.Bharati Kumari, a homemaker from Rukanpura, said she had to visit at least five-six drug stores daily to arrange for medicines for her husband who is under treatment in home isolation. “Unlike other medical necessities like oxygen or Remdesivir injections, which are selling at exorbitant prices, medicines are available on maximum retail price (MRP),” she said.the positivity rate has gone up past 15% in the state while recovery has plummeted to 78-79%, increasing the mortality rate.Raids were being conducted across Bihar to stop the black marketing of oxygen cylinders and life saving drugs by unscrupulous traders and middlemen. In another move to check profiteering during the pandemic, the Bihar government on Saturday capped the price for High-Resolution Computed Tomography (HRCT) Scan conducted by private laboratories in the state. HRCT tests assess the extent of viral infection in lungs and damage to tissues to decide the further line of treatment. For single-slice CT machines, the private laboratories can charge ₹2,500 while they can charge ₹3,000 for multi-slice CT machines.The state government had earlier fixed the rates of both AC and non-AC ambulances on complaints of overcharging for the service. As per official data, there are 115,067 active Covid-19 cases in Bihar while the cumulative cases stand at 4,49,063.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/covid19-medicines-running-out-in-patna-following-oxygen-crisis-101620540612374.html
09-05-2021||Kolkata||'Disgusted': Bengal governor says state govt not updating him on law and order||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Saturday said West Bengal chief secretary and state's director general of police (DGP) called on him without any "paper or reports" that were sought from them in connection with the post-poll violence.Dhankhar said in a tweet that he was "in a sense disgusted" with the state government's stance in the matter, and had directed the Chief Secretary and DGP to provide him with a" comprehensive" report."Chief Secretary of Mamata Banerjee government and DGP of West Bengal Police called on me at Raj Bhawan at 6 pm today. Unfortunately, both came without any paper or reports sought. Directed them to send the same without delay. In a sense disgusted with such stance. Hope there is appropriate response now," he tweeted.Dhankhar said in a tweet earlier the he expected the two senior state officials o be comprehensive and update with the state of affairs, particularly with "respect to raging post poll retributive violence and vandalism.""Chief secretary Mamata Banerjee government has been called upon to see me today before 7 PM as ACS of West Bengal failed to impart status report on law and order regarding post-poll violence. He even did not forward reports of DGP, West Bengal police, and CP Kolkata police sent to him on May 3," he said."While State faces worst post-election violence- people being made to pay with their lives and freedom only for having exercised right to vote in a democracy, Chief Secretary of Manata Banerjee government comes up with an alibi for not briefing Governor. Directed him to comply by 7 PM today," Governor said in another tweet.In a statement attached with the tweet, Dhankhar said, "there can be no sane takers for the response of CS (as conveyed to ACS to governor) that since the matter is before HC it will be inappropriate for CS to brief Governor. As per CS stand is as per CM directive."He said West Bengal is facing the "worst post-election violence" where people are being made to pay with their lives and freedom only for having "exercised the right to vote in democratic and state apparatus has virtually abandoned lawful obligation""No input to the constitutional head makes a mockery of the constitution and rule of law. CS stance is shocking to reflect the least and unexpected of a member rpd service to which he belongs. CS be directed to comply and desist from the unconstitutional and undemocratic stand," he added.The MHA has deputed a four-member team, led by an Additional Secretary level official and including a Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) official, to visit the affected areas and assess the ground situation.Violence has been reported in several parts of West Bengal after the results of the assembly elections were declared on May 2. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleged that nine of its party workers have been killed in the post-poll violence. However, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) is denying the allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/disgusted-bengal-governor-says-state-govt-not-updating-him-on-law-and-order-101620536582689.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi records minimum temperature of 23.2°C, two notches below average||The national capital on Sunday morning recorded a minimum temperature of 23.2 degrees Celsius, two notches below the season's average, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.According to Meteorological (MeT) officials, the maximum temperature will be settled around 40 degrees Celsius.The relative humidity was 58%.The weatherman predicted partly cloudy skies during the day.The air quality in the city was recorded in the "moderate" category. The air quality index (AQI) was 121 at 8.05 am, real-time data of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-minimum-temperature-of-23-2-c-two-notches-below-average-101620535230952.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi records over 115,000 new Covid-19 cases in 6 days as lockdown nears end||The ongoing lockdown in Delhi, which was announced by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on April 19 to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), will end in the early morning hours of Monday, unless extended for a third time. The lockdown came into force at 10pm on the very day it was announced, and was originally scheduled to end at 5am on April 26. However, subsequently, it witnessed two week-long extensions, as announced by CM Kejriwal on April 25 and May 1 respectively.Here's a look at the Capital’s Covid-19 numbers thus far from this week, a day before the lockdown's scheduled end. The Delhi government will release figures from the last 24 hours later in the day.(1.) From May 3-8, Delhi saw more than 20,000 fresh infections only once, 20,960 cases on May 5. Throughout the previous week, the city’s Covid-19 tally rose by more than 20,000 cases per day.Also Read | Delhi given large part of foreign aid: Data(2.) The current week began with 18,043 infections on May 3. On May 4,6, 7 and 8, there were 19,953, 19,133, 19,832 and 17,364 cases respectively. Overall, in six days thus far, Delhi’s Covid-19 tally has risen by 115,285 cases or an average of more than 19,000 cases a day.(3.) In comparison, from April 26-May 1, there were 146,837 cases in total or more than 24,000 cases in a day, on average. Additionally, last week’s tally increased by 20,394 cases on May 2.Also Read | Lancet blames Centre for Covid-19 crisis, says it ignored warnings(4.) The number of samples tested in five of these six days has been more than 70,000, except on 61,045 on May 3. This was also the day that the positivity rate, or the number of samples testing positive of the total samples tested in the preceding 24 hours, was at its highest this week, at 29.56%. From May 4-8, the positivity rate stood at 26.73%, 26.37%, 24.29%, 24.92% and 23.34%. In all, 447,947 tests have been conducted this week thus far.(5.) Related fatalities recorded on each day have been 448, 338, 311, 335, 341 and 332 or 2,105 deaths in total. The week also has also seen 117,563 recoveries. The cumulative infection tally stands at 1,310,231 including 1,203,253 recoveries, 87,907 active cases and 19,071 deaths.(6.) As per the latest bulletin by the health department, issued on May 8, the number of beneficiaries vaccinated thus far stands at 3,746,494. Of these, 2,924,708 have been vaccinated with the first dose, while 821,786 have received both the doses. CM Kejriwal has said if Delhi could get 8-8.5 million vaccine doses every month, then the whole city could be vaccinated in the set target of three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-over-115-000-new-covid-19-cases-as-lockdown-nears-end-101620534745408.html
09-05-2021||Patna||Bihar caps price for HRCT scan for Covid-19 patients in private labs||The Bihar government on Saturday capped the price for High-Resolution Computed Tomography (HRCT) Scan conducted by the private laboratories in the state.The State Health Ministry underscored that strict action will follow against the violators under the Bihar Epidemic Diseases Covid-19 Regulations, 2021.HRCT test serves to assess the extent of viral infection in lungs and damage to tissues to decide further treatment line.According to the order issued by the state Health Ministry, for single-slice CT machines, the private laboratories can charge ₹2,500 while ₹3,000 for multi-slice CT machines."The above charges include GST, cost of PPE kits, and sanitizers," the order said.The Bihar government had earlier fixed the rates of both AC and non-AC ambulances in the state.As per the order from the state health and transport department, not more than ₹1,500 can be charged for a small non-AC vehicle up to 50km (including both sides), and for bigger vehicles with AC, it is ₹2,500 maximum.As per official data, there are 1,15,067 active cases of Covid-19 in Bihar while the cumulative Covid cases stand at 4,49,063.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-caps-price-for-hrct-scan-for-covid-19-patients-in-private-labs-101620527547691.html
09-05-2021||Kolkata||With 127 new Covid-19 deaths, West Bengal registers highest single-day toll||West Bengal on Saturday registered its highest single-day Covid-19 deaths with 127 new fatalities, pushing the death toll to 12,203, the health department said.The coronavirus caseload increased to 9,73,718 after the state also recorded its highest one-day spike of 19,436 fresh cases, it said.North 24 Parganas district accounted for the highest number of fatalities at 39 while the city registered 34 deaths, it said.Neighbouring Hooghly district reported 9 Covid-19 deaths, South 24 Parganas (7), Howrah (6), and the rest of the fatalities were from the other districts.Out of the 127 deaths, 50 were due to comorbidities where Covid-19 was incidental.As many as 3,982 fresh infections were reported from North 24 Parganas while there were 3,961 new cases in the city.In the last 24 hours, 18,243 patients have recuperated from the disease in West Bengal and the discharge rate has improved slightly to 85.89%.So far, 8,36,351 people have recovered from the infection.At present, there are 1,25,164 active Covid-19 cases in the state.Since Friday, 63,377 samples have been tested for coronavirus in West Bengal, the bulletin said.Altogether 1,09,05,646 samples have been tested for the infection in the state so far.On Saturday, Dr Smarajit Jana, founder of Durbar Mahila Samanwaya Samiti, an NGO which works for the development and uplift of sex workers of the state, succumbed to Covid-19 at a private hospital.Dr Jana (68), who breathed his last at around 11 AM on Saturday, played a pioneering role in combating the trafficking of women.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee expressed grief over Dr Jana's death.Meanwhile, around 1,00,641 people were vaccinated in West Bengal and no adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) were reported on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/with-127-new-covid-19-deaths-west-bengal-registers-highest-single-day-toll-101620526856382.html
09-05-2021||Jaipur||Nurse takes bribe to arrange ICU bed for Covid patient in Rajasthan, arrested||Rajasthan's Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Saturday arrested a male nurse of a private hospital here for taking a bribe for arranging an ICU bed for a Covid-19 patient at a government facility, an official statement said.The accused has been identified as Ashok Kumar Gurjar, it said.Gurjar, who was working as a nurse with Metro Mas Hospital here, had demanded ₹1.30 lakh from the complainant for arranging an ICU bed and other facilities at the Rajasthan University of Health Sciences (RUHS) for a Covid-19 patient, Director General of Police, ACB, B L Soni said in the statement.The accused had already taken ₹95,000 from the complainant, he said.The complaint was verified and the accused was arrested while he was accepting the instalment of ₹23,000, he added.Gurjar has been booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act and a search is being conducted at his residence, Soni said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/nurse-takes-bribe-to-arrange-icu-bed-for-covid-patient-in-rajasthan-arrested-101620519045105.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||23 Covid-19 patients missing, Delhi's Hindu Rao Hospital says||At least 23 Covid-19 patients admitted at north Delhi’s Hindu Rao Hospital have reportedly gone missing from the hospital between April 19 and May 6, confirmed officials from the hospital administration and the North Delhi Municipal Corporation.Officials from the north corporation, which runs the hospital, said the 23 patients left without informing authorities. The hospital currently does not know whether these patients have taken admission in other Covid hospitals or have gone home.This is not the first time that the Hindu Rao Hospital has reported cases of patients who “left against medical advice.” Last year, between June 27 and July 18, five Covid-19 patients had left the hospital without informing authorities.Mayor of north corporation Jai Prakash said on Saturday the 23 patients did not go missing altogether and left on different dates. “In many cases, patients find better facilities in other hospitals and shift there. This happens in hospitals run by the Delhi government also. The police have been informed so that we can trace the patients as they are Covid positive and can infect others,” said Prakash.Also read | Delhi has got SC-mandated oxygen quota only once, urge centre for more: SisodiaA senior police officer from north district, who did not wish to be named, however, said, “We have not been informed either by the hospital authorities or the concerned civic agency about the missing patients.”Around 800 patients have been admitted to Hindu Rao Hospital ever since it was converted into a dedicated Covid-19 facility on April 19.A senior doctor of Hindu Rao Hospital, who requested anonymity, said poor medical infrastructure and sanitation in the hospital has compelled many patients to move out as soon as they found better facilities. However, in this case, since the hospital does not know whether these patients have actually shifted to other facilities, there is a higher possibility for them to spread the infection. “Around mid-April, when people were desperately running around in search of beds, they were taking admission in any hospital available. But at a time when so many people are dying of the infection, everyone wants the best treatment and facility for their family and most people prefer private hospitals. There is a proper procedure for shifting patients to other hospitals,” said the doctor.Experts said that it was irresponsible of the authorities to be unaware of the whereabouts of Covid-19 patients at a time when the governments are grappling with a large number of cases.“There is a reason why Covid-19 patients are asked to isolate themselves from the people around them. This is a highly contagious disease and we still do not know the ways in which people are getting infected. So, it is imperative to contain the disease,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/23-covid-19-patients-missing-delhi-s-hindu-rao-hospital-says-101620508999812.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi has got SC-mandated oxygen quota only once, urge centre for more: Sisodia||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday said Delhi has received 700 metric tonnes of oxygen, as mandated by the Supreme Court, for just one day, and that the Centre has failed to supply even 600MT a day after that.Addressing a press conference, Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s nodal minister for Covid-19 management, said the city received 577 MT of supply on Thursday and only 488MT on Friday. He urged the Centre to streamline its processes and ensure that all states and union territories receive oxygen in better quantities so that states don’t have to fight for oxygen supply.Also read | Need 26 million more Covid-19 vaccine doses for Delhi: Arvind Kejriwal“It is my humble appeal to the government of India to increase Delhi’s oxygen allocation to 700MT as soon as possible. At present, Delhi requires a minimum of 700MT oxygen supply to cater to the patients admitted in hospitals. Further, an increase in Covid beds and health infrastructure will necessitate a total oxygen allocation of 976MT for Delhi... With this deficit, it would be hard to manage proper supply for all hospitals,” he said.Sisodia said 700MT of oxygen is the “bare minimum” required for Delhi, based on the Centre’s formula for allocating oxygen supply to hospitals and patient-wise data.“During court proceedings, the Centre claimed that India continues to receive a surplus in oxygen, with 10,000MT oxygen produced and 7,000-8,000MT consumed. The Centre told the court that there is no shortage of oxygen,” he pointed out.Watch | ‘Maintain 700 MT oxygen’: Manish Sisodia highlights Delhi’s demand | CovidSenior AAP leader and the party’s national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said the Delhi government has put the demand of 976MT of oxygen for the city aside for now and is focusing on getting at least 700MT from the Centre on a daily basis. “We might not be able to make huge stock reserves of oxygen through this 700 MT, but we will be able to conveniently run the beds that need oxygen,” Chadha said.Union government spokesperson did not respond to requests seeking comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-has-got-sc-mandated-oxygen-quota-only-once-urge-centre-for-more-sisodia-101620508723475.html
09-05-2021||Lucknow||2 lionesses test Covid-19 positive at UP safari||Two lionesses, Gauri and Jennifer, have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at Uttar Pradesh’s Etawah Lion Safari, said two senior officials associated with the safari and the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI)-Bareilly on Saturday.Both the animals have been isolated, and their condition is normal, said Etawah Lion Safari director, KK Singh.On May 5, authorities of Etawah Safari sent samples of eight animals to IVRI for tests after two of them fell sick.Joint director (IVRI-Bareilly), Dr KP Singh, said while Gauri’s report came back positive on May 5, Jennifer tested positive the next day. Other samples were negative. “I am told one of the vets at the safari has also tested positive,” he said.The IVRI has advised the safari to get all of its staff, including food suppliers, tested.According to officials familiar with the matter, in the absence of Covid protocol for infected animals, the treatment of the lionesses has started in consultation with veterinarians. Gauri had 104 degrees fever and Jennifer 105.6 degrees, said the official. It is suspected the transmission of the virus could have taken place through an asymptomatic carrier, said an official.“We will investigate the source of infection,” said the safari director.Earlier, eight Asiatic lions at the Hyderabad zoo tested positive, following which all parks and zoos were shut down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/2-lionesses-test-covid-19-positive-at-up-safari-101620507556894.html
09-05-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 vaccine drive in lurch as Maharashtra waits for more doses from govt||The shortage of Covid-19 vaccine doses is expected to significantly impact the inoculation drive across the Maharashtra on Sunday, said officials familiar with the matter. In a letter to the Centre on Saturday, principal secretary of the state health department, Dr Pradeep Vyas, sought urgent supply of Covaxin as more than 500,000 people, in the above 45 age group, are due for their second dose.Earlier this week, the Centre supplied 1,150,000 doses of Covid vaccines. However, after inoculating 234,578 people on Saturday, 363,753 on Friday and 454,546 on Thursday, the state has almost exhausted its stock.Also read | PM Modi hails Maharashtra Covid-19 handling, says CMODr DN Patil, state immunization officer, said, “We have almost exhausted the existing stock of 1,150,000 lakh doses we received over the last one week. We are expecting the fresh stock of more than 3 lakh (300,000) on Monday. We have been following with the Centre for the stock of more than 5 lakh (500,000) Covaxin doses for the people waiting for their second dose. The number of centres to be operated depend on the stock we receive from the Centre.”On Friday, state public health minister Rajesh Tope claimed that if the Centre failed to provide them the fresh stock of Covaxin, they will be left with no option but to divert the stock meant for the 18-44 age group. “Out of 900,000 doses we received in the last two days, less than 100,000 doses are left. This has hindered implementation of vaccination drive,” he had said.Minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said the Centre’s failure in supplying the adequate doses of vaccines in due time has left many in a lurch. “The Centre has been operating the vaccination drive through CoWIN app and has the data of the people due for the second dose, despite it there is no supply... It is unacceptable that lakhs of people are left in distress waiting for their second dose,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-vaccine-drive-in-lurch-as-maharashtra-waits-for-more-doses-from-govt-101620507302528.html
09-05-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt will consider importing Covid-19 vaccines: CM Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday said his government will consider importing Covid-19 vaccines to ensure that people in the state are inoculated against the viral disease at the earliest.Speaking at a high-level meeting held to review the Covid-19 situation in the state, the chief minister stressed the need to accelerate the pace of vaccination to stem the spread of the pandemic and bring down the fatality rate.Gehlot said all options should be considered to ensure the availability of vaccines in the state.The state government will also consider importing vaccines as there is a need to inoculate the state's residents against Covid-19 at the earliest, he said.The chief minister also directed officials to conduct special campaigns to generate awareness about the vaccination drive in rural areas as the pandemic is spreading very fast in villages.Health machinery should be fully activated in rural areas to prevent its spread and provide immediate treatment to those infected, he said.To generate awareness, Gehlot said, maximum participation of all state government personnel and panchayat level representatives should be ensured.It is too late by the time people from villages arrive in cities for treatment. In such a situation, a door-to-door survey and distribution of medicine kits should be carried out, he said.This will enable timely examination of symptomatic patients and it will be easier to save lives by providing medicines at the initial stage of the infection, he added.Gehlot said experts are also anticipating a third wave of Covid-19 that could be more deadly. It is feared that it will affect children more.In view of this, infrastructure should be strengthened in children's hospitals. Intensive care facilities like NICU and PICU, etc., should be strengthened in these hospitals, he said.Health Minister Raghu Sharma suggested setting up oxygen plants at children's hospitals, too, to prepare the state for the potential third wave of the pandemic.Rajasthan recorded 160 Covid-19 fatalities and 17,987 fresh cases on Saturday that pushed the death toll to 5,506 and the infection tally to 7,38,786, according to an official report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-govt-will-consider-importing-covid-19-vaccines-cm-ashok-gehlot-101620506601788.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||6 nitrogen plants in Punjab to converted into oxygen units by May 30||The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has identified six nitrogen producing plants in the state which will be converted into oxygen units. Three units are located in Dera Bassi and one each in Barnala, Nangal, and Tonsa and they will relocated to different hospitals in the state by May 30. . “We are working out the modalities with the owners of these privately owned (nitrogen) plants,” said PPCB member secretary Krunesh Garg, adding that Prime Minister’s Office is coordinating with the board to make these plants operational at the earliest. Through these units, the state government is targeting daily production of 5MT, enough to fill 500 cylinders of 10-litre capacity. As many as 45 such plants have been identified countrywide for conversion and the Central Pollution Control Board is coordinating to import equipment from Germany. Punjab Health Systems Corporation (PHSC) has identified three hospitals in Mohali, one each in Barnala, Nawanshahr and Nangal where these plants will be set up. All these hospitals are privately owned. According to principal secretary industries and commerce, Alok Shekhar, these plants should ideally be ready in two to three weeks. As per the plan, these plants will supply oxygen to the hospitals concerned and also fill cylinders for supply to other hospitals. The state’s daily requirement for oxygen is 280MT. “These plants will add negligible amount of life-saving oxygen, but a beginning has been made. We are also seeking capacity addition from the Centre,” said an officer in PHSC. There are 19 oxygen plants in the state out of which three are in Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Faridkot, and remaining 16 of varying capacities in other parts of the state. Oxygen plant a thrust area The Punjab government has declared oxygen production a thrust area as per the business development policy of 2017. “Our government has given approval for including oxygen production a thrust area for the state and we are giving a slew of sops for these units,” said Alok Shekhar. The promoters of these plants will get a waiver in GST, property tax, besides tax exemption in external development charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/6-nitrogen-plants-in-punjab-to-converted-into-oxygen-units-by-may-30-101620506350169.html
09-05-2021||Other||As district gasps for oxygen, Moga police hoards 5 cylinders for own facility||Even as the district grapples with a shortage of life-saving oxygen gas for Covid-19 patients, Moga police have hoarded five oxygen cylinders at a special quarantine facility set up for cops.The facility at SSMD Ayurvedic College and Hospital in Duaneke village of Moga has 30 beds and five oxygen cylinders – but no cops in quarantine. In other parts of the district, however, there are 192 Covid patients currently on oxygen support at various government and private hospitals. With just 150 cylinders in its possession currently, the district health department is struggling to meet the demand for oxygen. Moga’s current oxygen requirement is 4.7 MT a day, against which it is getting only 3.5 MT. Oxygen plants based in Mandi Gobindgarh are ready to supply the life-saving gas to the district to meet the requirement, but the non-availability of empty cylinders is posing a challenge. When HT contacted, the supervisor of the quarantine facility for cops, inspector Gurpreet Singh, who is the station house officer of City police station, confirmed that the facility has 30 beds and five oxygen cylinders. “More can be arranged as per requirement. This facility is only for cops,” he said. SSMD Ayurvedic College and Hospital’s principal Dr PC Singla said the five oxygen cylinders at the facility have a combined capacity of 33 litres. Moga civil surgeon Amarpreet Kaur Bajwa said, “Doctor’s prescription is mandatory for getting oxygen supply. Besides that, I cannot say much. It is up to the administration as they are regulating the oxygen supply.” Sub-divisional magistrate Satwant Singh, who is the nodal officer for management of oxygen supply in the district, said, “One cannot possess an oxygen cylinder without a doctor’s prescription. I will look into the matter immediately.” Senior superintendent of police Harmanbir Singh did not respond to repeated calls and messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-district-gasps-for-oxygen-moga-police-hoards-5-cylinders-for-own-facility-101620505990894.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura firing case: Fix shorter timeframe for probe, says Bajwa||Congress’ Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa on Friday demanded that the state government should pass an order to fix a shorter timeframe for the newly constituted SIT to probe the Kotkapura firing case. “The Punjab and Haryana High court, on whose directions this SIT has been constituted, gave a timeframe of six months in its order, which means that the investigation should be concluded before that. There is no restriction on the state government to fix a timeframe of less than six months i.e. one month,” Bajwa said in a statement. The senior Congress leader said the new SIT chief and its members should be relieved of their present postings so they can focus on the Kotkapura case. “All these officers are posted in different districts and therefore, an expeditious investigation is not possible. They would also be neglecting their duties pertaining to their present postings. Hence, these officers should be transferred out from their present postings temporarily and be posted at Faridkot only as members of the SIT to expeditiously probe the case,” said Bajwa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kotkapura-firing-case-fix-shorter-timeframe-for-probe-says-bajwa-101620505630490.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Army sets up Covid hospitals in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh||In a statement, the Western Command said that apart from contributing 108 doctors, 14 nursing officers and 205 paramedics in various hospitals set up by the DRDO, it is setting up 100-bed Covid hospitals in Chandigarh, Patiala and Faridabad, where patients with mild to moderate symptoms can be treated. The three hospitals are to be inaugurated and opened for public by May 10, as per the statement.In a recent virtual meet with the Chief of Western Command Lt Gen RP Singh, Punjab chief minister (CM) Captain Amarinder Singh had shared his concerns over the rising infections in major cities of Punjab and sought the Western Command’s assistance to manage the crisis. Following the request of the chief minister of Punjab and other states, the Western Command, which has footprints in Jammu & Kashmir, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh and Delhi, started the process of setting up various Covid-related facilities.As per the Western Command’s statement, its paramedics are being re-oriented towards Covid care. Presently, 33 paramedics are deployed at Government Rajendra Hospital, Patiala, SVBP Hospital at Delhi and another 100 paramedics are to be deployed shortly at various locations. To tide over the shortage of oxygen in the region, a dedicated team of Army electronics and mechanical engineers are working to resuscitate the oxygen plant under Bhakra Beas Management at Nangal, the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/army-sets-up-one-hospital-each-in-punjab-haryana-chandigarh-for-covid-treatment-101620505270484.html
09-05-2021||Other||Drug racket busted at Amritsar jail, 4 held||Police on Saturday busted a heroin-smuggling racket being run from the Amritsar Central jail, allegedly by notorious gangster Harwinder Singh alias Mannu.Four persons, including a woman, were arrested and 300gm heroin, two country-made pistols of .32 bore, ₹5.25 lakh drug money, two luxury cars (Honda Amaze and Hyundai Verna) and an internet dongle were seized from their possession. The accused have been identified as Vijay Masih of Kalanaur, Robin Masis of Kala Afghana, and gangster Mannu’s cousin Ranjit Singh alias Jeetu and sister Rajwinder Kaur. Police said Vijay and Robin were hired by Mannu, who is lodged at the Amritsar jail and is facing a dozen criminal cases. Mannu, a resident of Kotli Surat Malhi village of Batala, also has links with smugglers based in Pakistan, they said. “Vijay and Robin had been smuggling heroin into various villages on Mannu’s instructions. The proceeds of the smuggled heroin were being submitted to Mannu’s sister Rajwinder,” said Batala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Rashpal Singh, adding that their teams were on duty to bring Mannu on production warrant. He said the drug money was recovered from Rajwinder’s house after the confessional statements of Vijay and Robin, who were arrested with 300 gm heroin, two pistols and two cars. He said alleged that Jeetu was coordinating between Vijay and Rajwinder. A case under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and Arms Act has been registered against the accused in Batala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drug-racket-busted-at-amritsar-jail-4-held-101620504910116.html
09-05-2021||Other||7 months on, one held for ASI’s murder in Tarn Taran||Victim Gurdeep Singh, 57, who was posted at the Civil Lines in Tarn Taran, was gunned down by two unidentified bike-borne men after he resisted their snatching bid near Kakka Kandiala village. The accused, who has landed in the police net, has been identified as Jobanjit Singh alias Bobby of Bandala village in Tarn Taran. As per the police, Jobanjit had carried out the crime along with one Lovedeep Singh of None village. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale said a team, led by deputy superintendent of police (DSP-PIB) Ravisher Singh, had tracked down the accused with the help of technical evidence. He added that after the crime, the duo had left the state to avoid being traced. “We laid a trap to bring Jobanjit to Jalandhar. As soon as he reached here, we arrested him,” said the SSP.As per the deceased cop’s son, Manpreet Singh, 19, who was present at the scene of crime, the duo had waylaid them when they were on their way back home. “When the accused tried to snatch my mobile phone, my father fought back. One of the accused shot my father thrice and then assaulted me with an iron rod,” said Manpreet. The case against the accused was registered under Sections 302 (murder) and 379-B (snatching with force) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Tarn Taran Sadar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/7-months-on-one-held-for-asi-s-murder-in-tarn-taran-101620504670525.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||No question of sabotaging farmers’ agitation: Capt||Chief minister (CM) Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday reiterated that no violation of the weekend lockdown or other restrictions would be allowed at any cost, given the current grim situation in the state, and that there was no question of sabotaging the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s farm laws, which his own government was vehemently opposed to. “There are lives at stake, saving them is our priority. It is the responsibility of every Punjabi to save them,” said the CM while urging BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) and BKU (Ekta Dakaounda) leaders to not twist his Friday’s comments on the issue. Amid the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha’s call to oppose the weekend lockdown, the CM had on Friday asked the DGP to strictly enforce all weekend restrictions and not allow any violation at any cost. Nobody can be allowed to play with the lives of the people, he reiterated on Saturday. “Leaders of the two organisations had misinterpreted my statement and questioned my intentions towards the ongoing farmers’ stir,” said the CM, adding, “How can my government go against the interests of the farmers when it was the first in the country to move the amendment laws in the Vidhan Sabha to annul the draconian laws?” Appealing to the farmers to extend support and cooperation to the state government in its endeavour to combat the Covid crisis, Amarinder said the lives and safety of the people of Punjab were of paramount importance to his government. He added that the state government would continue to stand with the farmers in their fight against the central laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-question-of-sabotaging-farmers-agitation-capt-101620504370050.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder seeks Radha Soami Satsang’s help in fight against Covid||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday sought the support of Radha Soami Satsang Beas in the state’s fight against Covid-19, directing all deputy commissioners to coordinate with authorised representatives of the sect in this regard. In a letter to sect chief Gurinder Singh Dhillon, the CM urged him to make all branches available with the Radha Soami Satsang Beas for the treatment of Covid patients, along with attendants deputed for the purpose. He also requested Dhillon to extend help in the form of medicines and other relief material for Covid-affected persons across the state. While the state government was making efforts to ensure best possible medical care for Covid patients, the constantly spiralling cases warranted unstinted support from religious institutions, NGOs and other such organisations, the CM said. The CM said experts had warned that the next wave would be even more dangerous, which necessitated the collective efforts of all in the battle against coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-seeks-radha-soami-satsang-s-help-in-fight-against-covid-101620504130088.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s daily cases cross 9,000-mark||For the first time since the virus outbreak, the caseload crossed the 9,000-mark in Punjab on Saturday, recording 9,100 fresh cases. With this, the Covid tally has soared to 4,33,689 in the state. The state also reported 171 Covid-related fatalities, taking the death toll to 10,315, according to a bulletin released by the state government. A maximum of 19 deaths were witnessed in Ludhiana followed by 17 each in Muktsar and Bathinda, 13 in Amrtisar, 11 each in Jalandhar and Sangrur, 10 in Mohali and nine in Fazilka. As per the media bulletin, 1,223 fresh cases were detected in Ludhiana, 1,168 in Mohali, 672 in Jalandhar, 620 in Patiala, 610 in Amritsar, 706 in Bathinda, 528 in Fazilka, 462 in Pathankot and 416 in Muktsar. Mohali recorded the highest positivity rate where 28.91% samples were found positive. Other districts with high positivity rate include Rupnagar 24.41%, Mansa 21.50%, Muktsar 20.97%, Fazilka 20.26% and Bathinda 19.87%. So far, the infection has killed 10,315 people in the state, where the number of active cases stands at 71,948.A total of 9,086 persons are on oxygen support and 288 on ventilator support. A total of 77,280 people were administered on Saturday, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabs-daily-cases-cross-9000mark-101620503710118.html
09-05-2021||Mumbai||Urgently need Covaxin doses: Maharashtra to Centre||The state has written a letter to the Centre, asking for the urgent supply of Covaxin doses as more than 500,000 people, from the age group of above 45 years, are due for their second dose. The state’s inoculation drive is expected to be massively hit on Sunday, if the new stock does not reach by morning, Dr Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary of the health department, wrote to the ministry of health and family welfare. The letter also said that since the Centre had told them to not retain the buffer stock for the second dose, the state did not reserve it.State public health minister Rajesh Tope had said on Friday that if the Centre failed to provide them with a fresh stock of Covaxin, they will be left with no option, but to divert the stock meant for the age group of 18-44 years. After the Centre supplied 1,150,000 doses during this week, the state has now run out of stock. Many vaccination centres were shut down on Saturday owing to the shortage of doses, while most of them will not operate on Sunday as well.After inoculating 234,578 people on Saturday, the state is almost exhausted with the vaccine stock. The state inoculated 4,54,546 and 3,63,753 people on May 6 and 7 respectively.“Out of 900,000 doses received in the past two days, fewer than 100,000 doses are left with the state. This has hindered implementation of the vaccination drive,” Tope had said on Friday.The central government has assured Maharashtra of 2,300,000 doses of vaccine until May 15, of which 1,150,000 have been delivered in the first week of May. “We expect the remaining stock to be delivered this week, but there is no clarity on the time line, which makes it difficult for us to plan and transport the doses to remote places,” said an official from health department.Minority affairs minister Nawab Malik, of the NCP, said that the Central government’s failure in supplying the adequate doses in due time has left many in the lurch. “The Centre has been operating the vaccination drive through CoWIN app and has the data of the people due for the second dose. Despite it, there is no supply of the doses required. It is unacceptable that lakhs of people are left in distress waiting for their second dose,” he said.Dr DN Patil, state immunisation officer, said, “We have almost exhausted the existing stock of 1,150,000 lakh doses we received over the last one week. We are expecting the fresh stock of more than 3 lakh on Monday morning. We have been following with the Central government for the stock of more than 5 lakh Covaxin vials for the people waiting for their second dose. The number of centres depends on the stock we receive from the Centre.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/urgently-need-covaxin-doses-maharashtra-to-centre-101620503649546.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 in Delhi: Fewest new infections in a day since April 15, positivity rate falls to 23.3%||The Capital added 17,364 new Covid-19 infections on Saturday, the fewest since April 15, when the city logged 16,699 cases. Further, in what may be seen as a hopeful sign, Delhi’s test positivity rate continued its slow, but steady, decline, dipping to 23.3% on Saturday, with over 74,000 samples collected in the previous 24 hours.The positivity rate, which is an indicator of the spread of the infection, shot up to 36% on April 22, during the peak of the current surge of the infections.The World Health Organization recommends a positivity rate below 5% for two weeks for an infection to be considered under control in a region.The city also reported 332 deaths due to the infection on Saturday’s bulletin, taking the toll to 19,071. The infection has claimed over 300 lives every day for 17 days now, with the toll crossing 400 on three days.The seven-day average case fatality ratio (CFR) – proportion of positive people who die of the infection – has also started inching upwards, standing at 1.82% as on Saturday. The cumulative CFR – calculated on the basis of total cases and deaths reported in the city since the pandemic began – stood at 1.46%.Also read | Need 26 million more Covid-19 vaccine doses for Delhi: Arvind KejriwalWith fewer cases and more recoveries, the number of active cases in the city dipped below 90,000 for the second time in a fortnight, and was the lowest on Saturday in this period.On Saturday evening, 99.2% of the 5,661 ICU beds in the city were occupied, while 92.6% oxygen beds were taken, the state government’s health dashboard showed. The Delhi government plans to set up 1,200 makeshift ICU beds for Covid-19 patients, as part of its plans to tackle the fourth wave of infections.Meanwhile, state health minister Satyendar Jain inspected the bed expansion work at GTB Hospital. “Inspected the extension of the GTB 500-bedded ICU hospital. Work at this hospital is almost complete. Remaining final touches will be completed in a day or two,” tweeted Jain.Health experts said Delhi’s infection numbers must be treated cautiously.“This is a good sign, but we have to approach it with cautious optimism. Some of the mathematical models have shown that Delhi is likely to reach the peak of infections earlier than the whole country because the number of cases in Delhi were very high and the numbers started going up before they did for the country. So, that is what might be happening. We need to see a downward trend for at least a few days before we say anything. Also, the decline has to be accompanied by persistent high testing,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at ICMR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-in-delhi-fewest-new-infections-in-a-day-since-april-15-positivity-rate-falls-to-233-101620503237243.html
09-05-2021||Other||Want complete lockdown in Ludhiana, 17-hr curfew will not suffice: Industry||Though the industry has been demanding that trading hours of shops selling essential items be curtailed, the district administration’s announcement of a 17-hour curfew has not gone down well with its stakeholders, who want a complete lockdown. On Friday, the district administration had announced a 17-hour curfew in Ludhiana starting May 10 (Monday), under which all shops will be allowed to stay open from 5am to noon. Industrialists say lockdown in other states of the country had affected their output and while payments were stuck, stocks were piling up even as labour was leaving in hoards. In his latest orders, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma had said all industries will continue to function and labour and employers will get curfew passes. Barring a few sectors such as chemists, emergency medical facilities and milk vendors, all shops, including those selling essential items, will remain open till noon, after which curfew will be imposed. Chamber Of Commercial And Industrial Undertakings (CICU) general secretary Pankaj Sharma said the government was turning a blind eye to the large number of labourers leaving the district on a daily basis in private buses, which were choked. “If the government wants factories to run, they should encourage the labour to stay back. How will we run our units if labour continues to leave? There should be complete lockdown for at least one week,” Sharma said, adding that a partial lockdown will not reap any benefits as the restricted timings will lead to panic buying, especially when it will be close to noon. “Everyone will rush to shops between 10am and noon. Who will open their shops at 5am?” asked Sharma. United Cycle Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) president DS Chawla said the small and medium scale industry was unable to generate financial resources as at least 15 states, which the industry caters to, are under lockdown. “A number of industrialists have died of Covid recently. The government should impose complete lockdown. I appeal every industry to take care of their employees. The labour is our asset,” he said. As per Badish Jindal, chairperson of the Federation of Punjab Small Industries Association, there is bound to be unprecedented rush during the relaxed hours, which will accelerate the spread. “We have requested the chief minister to impose complete lockdown for the industry as we no longer have any markets amid the lockdown in other states,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/want-complete-lockdown-in-ludhiana-17-hr-curfew-will-not-suffice-industry-101620503050507.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||Need 26 million more Covid-19 vaccine doses for Delhi: Arvind Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said Delhi’s current stock of vaccines against coronavirus will last only five to six days, and urged the central government and manufacturers to expedite the supply of doses so that every adult in the national capital can be inoculated within three months.Giving a breakdown of figures, Kejriwal said Delhi has received 4 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines so far and it requires at least 26 million more doses to inoculate its entire adult population of around 15 million in the next three months. Out of these, nearly 20 million doses will be needed for the around 10 million people in the age group of 18-44 in Delhi.“Today a major obstacle we are facing is that of vaccine scarcity. If we get adequate doses, we will be able to vaccinate the entire Delhi in three months,” the CM said at a digital news briefing.Delhi is currently in the grip of its fourth and worst wave of Covid-19 infections that has overwhelmed the city’s health care infrastructure, leaving people to scramble for hospital beds and crucial medical supplies such as liquid oxygen and life-saving drugs in recent weeks.Also read | SC task force to audit oxygen usage nationwideOn Saturday, Delhi added 17,364 cases and 332 deaths.Amid this public health crisis, the eligibility for India’s vaccination drive, which began on January 16, was expanded to cover all adults under phase 3 from May 1. However, most states said they were not able to purchase shots for the 18-44 age group and won’t be able to kick off the third phase of the drive on time.In this phase, the central government is supposed to provide vaccines to states/UTs for inoculating people aged 45 and above. For younger adults in the 18-44 age group, state governments and private hospitals directly procure shots from vaccine makers.While some private hospitals in Delhi began vaccinations for younger adults from May 1, the Delhi government only started doing so from May 3.While the Delhi government is in the process of increasing the number of schools -- which are presently being used as vaccination centres for younger adults -- from 100 to about 300, Kejriwal said scaling up Delhi’s capacity will still not be possible if the city does not get around 8 to 8.5 million vaccine doses every month.“Delhi’s population is 2 crore. About 1 crore people are in the age group of 18-45, approximately 50 lakh are under 18, and another 50 lakh are older than 45. So, those above 18 years are roughly 1.5 crore. These 1.5 crore people have to be given 3 crore vaccines, which is our requirement. From these 3 crore vaccines, the Delhi government, as of now, has received approximately 40 lakh vaccines. Therefore, we need 2 crore 60 lakh additional vaccines,” he said.Also read | Delhi records slight dip in daily Covid-19 casesThe chief minister further said this is the minimum number of doses that Delhi needs and the actual requirement is likely to be higher because many people from the neighbouring cities and towns of Noida, Ghaziabad, Sonepat, Faridabad and Gurugram are also coming to the Capital to take the jab.“In fact, more doses will be required since people from the NCR and other neighbouring areas are coming to Delhi to get vaccinated. But the minimum requirement of Delhi must be met with. Thus, I appeal to the central government that sufficient vaccines be made available to us,” he added.As per government data at 10am on Saturday, Delhi had a stock of 771,860 doses of vaccines, out of which 339,080 doses are those procured by the city administration for those between 18-44 years and 432,780 are from the central government, meant for those 45 years old and above.On average, for the last seven days, the city has been administering 63,511 shots per day, according to the daily health bulletin.With the current stock remaining as is without getting replenished and the same rate of daily vaccinations, the Delhi government will run out of shots 12 days from Saturday: May 20.Delhi government officials, however, said on condition of anonymity that they expect to receive vaccines from manufacturers and the Centre soon as orders have already been placed. The officials did not give details about the timeline or number of vaccines they are likely to receive.Around 79,800 recipients were administered the jab on Friday, according to the government’s health bulletin issued on Saturday. Later in the evening, government officials updated the figure to 114,657.Overall, 3,746,494 “cumulative beneficiaries” had been vaccinated in the city, the bulletin said.“To vaccinate every adult in three months, we have to administer 80-85 lakh vaccines every month. It means we need to administer 3 lakh vaccines daily. Today, we are already administering 1 lakh vaccines in 100 schools (and other centres). This will be increased to 300 schools. So, we can easily increase our capacity to 3 lakh vaccines per day. But in the end, it will all depend on how much and how quickly vaccines are delivered to us,” Kejriwal said.Delhi has enlisted schools, which are closed down due to the pandemic, to inoculate younger adults, while government-run medical facilities are for the older age groups.Watch | Blood clots in Covid patients: Top doctor decodes early signs & prevention﻿On Saturday, the vaccination drive at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) hospital, run by the central government, was delayed by an hour in the morning “due to shortage of vials”, according to the hospital spokesperson Smriti Tiwari.The hospital is a vaccination centre only for those who are 45 years and above. A senior doctor, who did not want to be named, said, “The vaccine doses are distributed by the district officials. There were no leftover vaccines in the hospital today and there was a delay in getting the vials from the administration.”The hospital has a capacity to store vaccines for a couple of days.Several other states too have brought up the issue of limited vaccine supplies. The Maharashtra government, which is also facing the issue, said earlier this week it is “constantly” following up with the Centre to provide vaccine doses for inoculating people aged 45 and above.Kejriwal on Saturday also appealed to all experts and the Centre to arrange vaccines for those below 18 years of age.”We are particularly concerned about children. Youngsters and children under 18 cannot get vaccinated right now. I appeal to all experts and the Centre to arrange a vaccine for them too so that they can also get inoculated,” he said.To be sure, most vaccines against Covid-19 have only conducted clinical trials involving adults. Canada is the only country in the world to have approved the Pfizer-BioNtech’s Covid-19 vaccine for adolescents as young as 12. The US and Europe are expected to do so shortly.Experts say the current lockdown and adherence of Covid-appropriate behaviour will slow the spread of the virus, but vaccinating entire populations is key to fighting the pandemic as a long-term measure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/need-26-million-more-covid-19-vaccine-doses-for-delhi-arvind-kejriwal-101620502214866.html
09-05-2021||Other||India could resist Covid-19 onslaught due to system created by Nehru-Gandhi: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena has taken pot shots at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government and said that the country was able to resist the onslaught of the Covid-19 pandemic due to the system created by Jawaharlal Nehru and Indira Gandhi over the decades.“Today India is able to bear the onslaught of this pandemic due to the system created by Gandhi-Nehru or else the population of 125 crore would have been destroyed,” the Sena said in its mouthpiece Saamna.The mouthpiece also slammed the Central government for continuing its ambitious Central Vista Project despite the pandemic. The Central Vista project involves the construction of a new Parliament building, a common Central Secretariat, along with residences of the Prime Minister (PM) and vice-president, and a revamp of the 3-km-long Rajpath, from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate.“Poor countries are offering help to India as per their capacity, but our honourable PM is not ready to stop the ₹ 20,000 crore Central Vista Project,” the editorial stated.“Bangladesh has sent 10,000 Remdesivir vials as donation, while Bhutan has sent medical oxygen. Even countries such as Nepal, Myanmar and Sri Lanka have also offered help to ‘Aatmanirbhar [self-reliant]’ India,” taunted the Sena. The Sena-led Maharashtra Government has been in constant friction with the Central government over the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and its support to the state’s fight against the outbreak.The editorial said that UNICEF (United Nations Children’s Fund) has declared that the world faces threat from India’s Covid-19 pandemic and has appealed to all the countries to offer help to India.It further stated that earlier countries such as Rwanda, Pakistan and Congo used to face similar problems and procure help from other countries. “Today we are facing this problem due to the wrong policies pursued by the current rulers,” said the editorial.Criticising the Central government further, the editorial stated that it was getting censured regularly by the Supreme Court for its inept handing of this pandemic. It further went on to dub the Central government as “insensitive”, stating that instead of forming a panel of all main political parties, it is more interested in cornering West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee even today.“Had this been a sensitive and nationalist government, it would not have focussed on political gains or losses but would have constituted a committee of all major parties to deal with such a calamity. But they are more concerned about an incident where a minister’s car was pelted stones in West Bengal,” the editorial stated. Describing the Union health ministry as a complete failure, the editorial further stated, “BJP MP (Member of Parliament) Subramanian Swamy has demanded that Nitin Gadkari, who is one of the active Union ministers, be given the charge of health ministry. This aptly proves the failure of the ministry.” The editorial concluded by stating that Modi should tackle the current situation without indulging in politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/india-could-resist-covid-19-onslaught-due-to-system-created-by-nehru-gandhi-shiv-sena-101620502509419.html
09-05-2021||Other||Maratha quota: Maharashtra govt to form rtd judges’ panel to suggest way ahead||The Maharashtra government on Saturday announced to appoint a committee under two retired high court (HC) judges to review the recent Supreme Court (SC) judgment over the Maratha reservation and suggest the way forward. The committee, comprising five-six other members including laws officers, is expected to submit its report in two weeks to the state government.The Maharashtra government also asked chief secretary Sitaram Kunte to review the recruitments which have been affected owing to the verdict. According to the officials from the state government, there are more than 3,000 employees who have been recruited between November 2018 and September 2020 when the law was in force. The decision over according them permanent recruitment has to be taken. “There are thousands of employees who were recruited on the basis of the reservation given in 2014, but are currently out of job because it was later struck down by the Bombay HC. Kunte has been asked to take a call on them with deliberations from the secretaries of other departments,” said an official from the general administration department.The Marathas were given 12% and 13% quota in education and government jobs, respectively, under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018. On Wednesday, SC quashed it, stating that people from the community cannot be declared educationally and socially backward just to bring them in the reserved category. The five-judge SC bench also refused to refer the 1992 Indra Sawhney judgment that set a 50-% cap on reservation to a larger bench for reconsideration.The state cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation, headed by public works department minister Ashok Chavan and comprising other senior ministers, held a meeting to take a call on future course of action. “The committee under retired HC judges will study the SC verdict minutely and give their observations and available legal remedy on the reservation. The state government will take its decision after the report is submitted in two weeks. The decision over filing the review petition before the five-judge [SC] bench will also be taken based on the report,” said Chavan.The state government is also tapping the option of requesting the central government to intervene, as the judgment stated that the right to accord the reservation is with Centre after the 102nd Constitutional amendment. “Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will write to the President and prime minister, requesting them to take steps required for the reservation. The Centre has time and again clarified that the powers of the states have not been nullified even after the amendment, though the SC order has stated otherwise,” said Chavan.Urban development department minister and member of the cabinet sub-committee Eknath Shinde said that the government was committed to continue the benefits to the Marathas. “We have already rolled out the sops to the community in terms of scholarship, freeships, hostel facilities and financial assistance for entrepreneurship. They will further be streamlined,” he said.Legal experts have opined that the state government has very limited options left on the issue. “The review petition before the same [SC] bench would not help as there should be some other ground than the ones that have been exhausted. Even if the Maharashtra government requests the Centre for the reservation, the ratification of the backwardness of the Marathas would be a task as the quantifiable data submitted by the state backward class commission has not been accepted by the top court. The state can think of an entirely new law by weeding out the lacunae in SEBC Act, 2018, but it too will be subject to legal scrutiny,” an official from Mantralaya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maratha-quota-maharashtra-govt-to-form-rtd-judges-panel-to-suggest-way-ahead-101620502389399.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||16-year-old girl eloping to Amritsar with cousin rescued at Ludhiana railway station||A 16-year-old Bathinda girl, who was allegedly eloping to Amritsar with her cousin, was rescued at the Ludhiana railway station on Friday evening.The teen and her 21-year-old cousin were intercepted by a team of the Childine helpline deputed at the station, following which the Bathinda police were informed.“Both the girl and the man belong to Bathinda. Presenting themselves as siblings, they approached the Childline team for help in getting tickets for Amritsar. The girl tried to mislead the team saying she was 19 years old,” said Kulwinder Singh Dangon, co-ordinator, Childline, Ludhiana railway station.But, the team was able to verify her real age as 16 and established the man accompanying her was her maternal uncle’s son. Their parents and the police in Bathinda were informed, Dangon added.As the girl was not feeling safe in returning home with her parents, the child welfare committee sent her to the Children’s Home at Dham Talwandi Khurd, while her cousin was handed over to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/16yearold-girl-eloping-to-amritsar-with-cousin-rescued-at-ludhiana-railway-station-101620502269927.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn probing ‘excess’ oxygen use by private hospital||The Chandigarh administration has initiated an inquiry against a private Covid hospital for consuming an “abnormal” quantity of oxygen, which is being supplied to it from the centrally-allocated quota of 20 metric tonnes (MT). Officials said on Saturday that an inquiry has been marked against Eden Hospital in Industrial Area, Phase 2, which has been using 400 oxygen cylinders everyday.They added that previously, a private hospital had been found using 400 cylinder per day, while another hospital of around the same capacity was using about 90 cylinders.However, Dr Sanjiv Bansal, the hospital’s owner, denies any foul play and said that oxygen is being utilised according to the needs of patients.“The oxygen consumption is high, as some Covid patients need a very large quantity of it. Some suffer from Happy Hypoxia, in which oxygen saturation drops to 50 or 60, without the patient being aware of it. In such cases, immediate hospitalisation and high quantity of oxygen is needed. Why will our hospital waste such an important resource?,” he added. A UT spokesperson said, “It has been decided that a detailed inquiry will be carried out and action will be taken against the hospital authorities as per the findings of the probe.”Senior doctors say that some reasons for oxygen wastage could be leakage in pipelines and outlets, valves left open and oxygen masks not fitted property over the face of the patients.“The consumption of each private hospital was determined with regard to capacity and beds reserved for Covid patients. Even senior doctors from the government hospitals could not find out the possible reason for such high consumption by the hospital. It seems almost impossible to consume such a quantity, even if all the patients were on ventilators,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-probing-excess-oxygen-use-by-private-hospital-101620502209904.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||PGIMER and Chandigarh admn fight over oxygen||Amid rising medical oxygen demand and limited supply, a fresh war of words erupted between the Chandigarh administration and Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research on Saturday, leading to intervention by Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore late at night.The PGIMER on Saturday said it has received a communication from a private vendor in Dera Bassi that it has been directed by the Chandigarh administration not to supply medical oxygen gas cylinders to the premier institute till further instructions.“As per the information received, this was directed by a team from Chandigarh administration, headed by Mr Yashpal Garg; Mr Jasjit Singh, director of industries; Mr Manjit Singh, nodal officer, Chandigarh; and other senior officials, during their visit to Anesthetic Gases Pvt Ltd, Dera Bassi, on Saturday (sic),” the PGIMER said in a release.The institute added that considering the Covid-19 patient load and the incessantly increasing demand of medical oxygen, this kind of directive can lead to further panic in the already “catastrophic” situation. “Therefore, PGIMER leadership immediately flagged the issue to the higher authorities and expects an immediate resolution to avoid turning the already pressing situation into a crisis,” stated the release.Responding to this, UT adviser Manoj Parida said the administration is already giving 20 MT oxygen to the PGIMER out of “our quota of 40 MT”. “No more oxygen or cylinders can be given without disrupting the functioning of our government and private hospitals assigned to us. The PGIMER has requested the Government of India to enhance their quota from 20MT to 40MT. The UT administration has forwarded and strongly supported this,” he said.The PGIMER administration shot back that it has been designated as a Covid hospital of the UT and is allocated a quota of 20 MT oxygen to meet its requirements.“As on date, we at the PGIMER have already reached the consumption of 20 MT per day in view of the consistent surge in the patient load. Therefore, it may not be possible to increase the COVID bed strength in case the oxygen allocation is not enhanced with immediate effect,” it said.‘Can’t increase beds’Meanwhile, explaining the situation, Yashpal Garg, nodal officer for oxygen supplies in Chandigarh, said the administration has been assigned a total quota of 40 MT oxygen, which includes 20 MT exclusively for the PGIMER. Of the remaining 20 MT quota, 17 MT oxygen is given directly to GMCH-32, GMSH-16 and the dedicated hospital in Sector 48 while 3 MT is given to a private vendor in Dera Bassi to refill oxygen cylinders of all government and private hospitals. “On Saturday, when a team of senior officials visited the plant, despite clear instructions to the vendor that the quota provided is to be used for specific hospitals, it was observed that some cylinders of the PGIMER were also being filled... This was in gross violation of directions of the UT administration,” said Garg, adding that consequently directions were issued to fill PGIMER cylinders only from its quota of 20MT to avoid any disruption of supply to other hospitals.Badnore intervenesMeanwhile, the Punjab government also stopped the supply of oxygen to the PGIMER from a plant in Mandi Gobindgarh.Dr Ashok Kumar, official spokesperson, PGIMER, said the institute used to get around 60 cylinders from the private vendor, but the supply was stopped by the Punjab government “with reasons best known to them”.None from the Punjab government was willing to comment on the issue.Amid the two developments, Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore shared a message on Twitter late at night, stating that hospitals including the PGIMER are being closely monitored. “#PGIMER is lifesaver & premier health institute of Northern India; won’t let down its request; will see there is no O2 shortage (sic),” he said in the message, while also thanking the Haryana government for apparently arranging 3 MT oxygen for the PGIMER.Not the first tussleThe UT administration and PGIMER have been at loggerheads since the beginning of the outbreak. While the administration has demanded that the premier institute should increase its capacity to deal with the situation, the latter wants more beds to be created at other hospitals . The two had a tussle over conducting a sero-survey in the city and conversion of the Infosys Sarai into a Covid hospital as well. The administration had last year formally written to the PGIMER to take steps to convert the Infosys Sarai on its campus into a Covid facility. However, the institute had said that the focus is to cater to patients already admitted at its dedicated Covid wards, which have almost 400 beds. The facility was finally handed over to an NGO to run a Covid Care Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pgimer-and-chandigarh-admn-fight-over-oxygen-101620501731462.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Digging for storm drains leaves 700 BSNL connections dead in Ludhiana||Digging for a storm sewerage project at Rani Jhansi Road has left nearly 700 phone and internet connections, including the police emergency helpline, dead.BSNL officials found underground cables in the area damaged after complaints about the police helpline number (112) not working.“We received information about the helpline not working on Saturday morning. On reaching Rani Jhansi Road to inspect the matter, we found the cables uprooted. We immediately diverted the calls to the helpline and started the repair work,” said BSNL SDO Kanwaljit Singh Shanker, adding that all connections should be restored by Sunday evening. “The contractor with the civic body had sought permission to carry out digging along the road for the Smart City project, but was also illegally digging the stretch diagonally, damaging underground cables,” said Shanker.Notably, three such incidents have taken in place in the past one month, with cables also being damaged near Aarti Cinema Chowk and Malhar Road due to civic body projects.MC’s superintending engineer (SE) Rahul Gagneja said SE Ravinder Garg was in-charge of these issues, but the latter was not immediately available despite repeated attempts.Local councillor Narinder Sharma Kala said he had told the contractor to find out why the cables were uprooted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/digging-for-storm-drains-leaves-700-bsnl-connections-dead-in-ludhiana-101620501730387.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Kolkata man dies in roof collapse in Punjab’s Kharar||A 35 -year-old man from Kolkata, who was on a visit to his uncle’s house here, died after the mud roof of his house collapsed in Mamupur village of Gharuan, Kharar, on Saturday.The deceased has been identified as Varinder Singh.Station house officer of Gharuan, Shamsher Singh, said that the victim and his mother were on a visit to the house of Rashpal Singh, Varinder’s maternal uncle. When the incident took place at around 2.30pm, the other family members were sitting outside the house. The villagers managed to pull the victim out and rushed him to Kharar civil hospital, where he was declared brought dead. Singh said the body has been kept at civil hospital’s mortuary and Varinder’s other family members will arrive from Kolkata on Monday.Sub-divisional magistrate of Kharar, Himanshu Jain, said the house had a kacha roof which collapsed as it got weak over time. The man died of suffocation after getting trapped under the debris. Noone else was injured. The family has refused to get a postmortem conducted, said Jain.Harmohan Singh Sandhu, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in-charge of Sri Chamkaur Sahib, has demanded better housing for the financially-backward. He alleged that the state government has not released funds under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana and sought full compensation for the victim’s family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kolkata-man-dies-in-roof-collapse-in-punjab-s-kharar-101620501612287.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Three held for stabbing 24-yr-old to death in Panchkula||Three men were arrested on Saturday for stabbing a 24-year old man to death during a party at Kharak Mangoli on May 6.The accused are Gaurav and Amit from Kharak Mangoli and Anil from Manimajra. The have been arrested for the murder of Karan, a resident of Kharak Mangoli.The case has been registered based on the complainant of Kajal, 22, the deceased’s wife. She said that her husband had gone out at night and when he did not return, she searched for him and found him at a party in a nearby house .“I saw that while my husband was dancing, he ended up in a scuffle with the accused, who stabbed him to death. When I shouted, they threatened me as well,” she stated in the FIR.Kajal said that she stayed near the body till 4am. She went home in the morning and called her in-laws, who then informed the police.The case has been registered under Sections 148, 149, 302, 506, 188, 269 and 270 of Indian Penal Code and Section 51B of Disaster Management Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-held-for-stabbing-24-yr-old-to-death-in-panchkula-101620501611224.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Street vendor on the run after kidnapping, raping minor girl in Ludhiana||A street vendor allegedly kidnapped a 17-year-old girl from Rod village of Meharban and raped her at the Government Primary School near her house. An FIR was lodged against the accused, identified as Gagan alias Gagu, 22, of Phagwara, on Saturday following a complaint by the father of the girl, who is a Class-9 student.The complainant, a hosiery worker, stated that during the midnight of May 2, they found their daughter missing from her bed and started searching for her. After a while, they found her lying unconscious at the local Government Primary School and rushed her to the hospital. On gaining consciousness, the teenager narrated the incident to her parents on May 7. According to her, on May 2 she heard someone knocking at their door. When she opened it, she found Gagan standing there. He allegedly made her sniff something, following which she fainted. The accused had then taken her to the Government Primary School, where he raped her and fled the spot.ASI Balbir Singh, who is investigating the case, said the accused lived at his aunt’s house in Rod village and sold pickles in the streets. A case under Section 376 ( rape) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the accused. A hunt is on to nab him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/street-vendor-on-the-run-after-kidnapping-raping-minor-girl-in-ludhiana-101620501610126.html
09-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Uncertainty looms over HSC exams in absence of govt decision||Barely three weeks before the scheduled exams, HSC (Class 12) students in the state are still unsure about whether or not their exams will take place amid high Covid-19 infections and the resultant lockdown. Students said the state government’s delay in declaring the status of exams is causing severe anxiety and confusion at the last minute. “We have been studying for the entire year and still do not have any clarity on whether or not exams would take place offline. The government should not wait anymore and should announce its decision immediately,” said an HSC aspirant. On April 12, the state government had postponed HSC exams to the end of May and SSC exams to June. However, following CBSE’s decision to cancel Class 10 exams and a similar decision from ICSE, IGCSE and IB there was growing pressure to cancel exams from students and parents to ensure equivalence across boards which is key at the time of admissions to colleges. On April 20, Class 10 exams were declared cancelled by the state government and students will now be marked based on internal assessments. However, the government continued to say that HSC exams will be conducted as per the schedule. Over the last several days, the education department has been holding numerous consultation meetings with various stakeholders including schools, teachers and parents to come up with a formula for internal assessments. However, a decision on the formula and the conduct of Class 12 exams is yet to be arrived at. “Meetings are on and an announcement in this regard will be made soon,” said an official from the education department. Many students urged the education department to cancel exams for Class 12 altogether. They also participated in a Twitter storm recently with a hashtag- #cancel12thboardexams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-uncertainty-looms-over-hsc-exams-in-absence-of-govt-decision-101620501489331.html
09-05-2021||Other||UP records 26,847 fresh Covid-19 cases, 298 more deaths||Uttar Pradesh on Saturday reported 26,847 fresh Covid-19 cases and 298 more deaths, according to official data. The state capital witnessed new 2179 cases and 38 deaths.The state’s overall infection count has now gone up to 14,80,315 and the death toll has touched 15,170 since the pandemic began early last year, the data showed.“In the past 24 hours, 34,731 patients — 7884 more than new cases in the same period — were discharged, while a total of 12,19,409 patients have recovered in the state till now,” said Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary (information) at a press conference.At present, there are 2,45,736 active cases (patients) under treatment in the state which is far below 3,01,833, the number of active cases on May 1. The fall in active cases is the result of the aggressive test, treat and trace policy of the state, he said.Among the fresh cases, Lucknow reported the maximum 2179, Meerut 1653, Saharanpur 1485, Gautam Buddha Nagar 1188, Kanpur 863, Varanasi 794, Jhansi 632, Ghaziabad 564 and Prayagraj 451.The state capital reported 38 deaths, Kanpur 23, Jhansi 18, Meerut 12, Prayagraj, Gautam Buddha Nagar and Ghazipur 11 each, Saharanpur 9, Sonbhadra 7 and Varanasi 4, according to the state health department data.“Lucknow has till now reported 2,25,923 Covid-19 cases of which 1,98,109 recovered and the recovery rate is 87.68%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general association of international doctors. Lucknow currently has 25,748 active cases under treatment, a majority of whom are in home isolation.Of the total active cases in the state, 1,93,426 are in home isolation and 8,759 admitted to private hospitals. The remaining are in government Covid care facilities.Till now, the state has tested over 4.27 crore (4,27,24,305) samples, including 2,23,155 in the past 24-hours. About 84,000 more RT PCR samples have already been sent to the labs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-records-26-847-fresh-covid-19-cases-298-more-deaths-101620501489850.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man held for raping 17-year-old step-daughter||A 39-year-old man has been arrested for raping and impregnating his 17-year-old step-daughter.The girl’s five-month pregnancy came to light after the Childline helpline received a call from a Manuke village resident about it. A team reached the village and counselled the girl to lodge a police complaint, but she was reluctant, said Mamta Chaudhary district coordinator of the helpline.As the girl is a minor, Chaudhary herself notified the police, who arrested her step-father on Saturday. “He has been booked under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 6 (aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act,” said sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur, SHO, Hathur police station.She said the accused was a labourer. He got married to the girl’s mother in 2011 and had a 10-year-old son with her. Following his arrest, the minor girl recorded her statement in court and her custody was handed over to her mother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-held-for-raping-17-year-old-stepdaughter-101620501430416.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Contagion claims 19 lives in Ludhiana, 1,223 test positive||Showing no signs of easing, the Covid-19 pandemic claimed 19 more deaths in Ludhiana on Saturday, while 1,223 people also tested positive. The latest casualties, youngest of whom was a 38-year-old man, pushed the district’s toll to 1,528, while the caseload climbed to 65,266.At 11,368, the active cases continued to remain over the 11,000 mark for the third day in a row. Though the recoveries rose to 52,370 (80.24%), the figure trailed behind the national average of 81.9%.Through May so far, the district has logged over 1,000 cases every day, clocking 10,680 infections, and also lost 153 residents to the contagion. The male deceased among Saturday’s fatalities were a 75-year-old from Raikot, a 67-year-old from Macchiwara, a 65-year-old from Mundian Kalan, a 61-year-old from Chhapar, a 59-year-old from Samrala, a 49-year-old from Gurdev Nagar, two aged 48 from Shimlapuri and Jamalpur, and a 38-year-old from Khanna.The women who died were a 73-year-old from Gurdev Nagar, a 65-year-old from Kidwai Nagar, a 62-year-old from Mullanpur, three 60-year-olds from Ekjot Nagar, Punjab Mata Nagar and Anadpuri, a 55-year-old from Miller Ganj, a 50-year-old from Field Ganj, and two aged 53 from Kalgidhar Marg and Tibba.As many as 2,000 beds, including 1,804 at private hospitals, across the district are occupied, leaving the health infrastructure grappling with bed crunch. Civil surgeon Dr Kiran Gill Ahluwalia urged residents to come forward for testing if they noticed any Covid-like symptoms, so that timely treatment could be started and precious lives be saved by reining in the spread of the virus. She also requested people to limit their movement outside and also get vaccinated at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/contagion-claims-19-lives-in-ludhiana-1-223-test-positive-101620501310417.html
09-05-2021||Mumbai||Olive Ridley nesting sites in Maharashtra double since 2020, up five times since 2015||The number of turtle nesting sites along Maharashtra’s coastline has doubled this year as compared to 2020, according to data by Maharashtra forest department’s Mangrove Foundation. During nesting season (which runs from December to March), a total of 451 nesting sites were recorded through field observations, up from 288 during the same period last year.Of these, the majority were recorded in Ratnagiri district, where 277 nesting sites were seen (up from 148 last year). This was followed by Sindhudurg, where 146 nesting sites were seen (as against 68 last year). In Raigad, which is the only other district where sea turtles are found to regularly nest, the number went up from 15 last year to 28 in the current season. The proportion of nesting sites across these three districts is in line with past data up to 2015, as provided by the mangrove foundation.In fact, data shows a significant increase in the number of nesting sites in over the past six years. In 2017, for example, only 75 nests were recorded across these three districts. That figure has shown steady improvements, year on year. While there are four species of sea turtles recorded in Maharashtra, Olive Ridleys are the only one that nest in the state and have widest population distribution. While officials and experts unanimously agreed that the development is a positive one, they did not reveal specific reasons for the same.“It will require more study to understand why there has been a sudden jump this year, but my hunch is that this is a result of more than a decade of conservation efforts by the state. Hatchlings that were released from these same areas a few years ago are now coming back to lay their eggs as mature adults,” said Harshal Karve, a marine biologist with the Mangrove Foundation.Karve explained that sea turtle conservancy has been a focus of not only the government, but also NGOs and local communities since the early 2000s. The movement can be attributed almost singularly to the work of an NGO named Sahyadri Nisarga Mitra (SNM), which started a marine turtle conservation program in 2002 in Ratnagiri’s Velas village. Since then, a range of measures to conserve turtles have been implemented, including removal of ‘ghost’ fishing nets from deeper waters and setting up of turtle treatment and rehabilitation centres in multiple districts.In 2018, a compensation scheme for fishermen under the Wildlife Protection Act was also implemented, which provides cash incentives to fishermen who may inadvertently catch sea turtles while fishing. So far, a total of 146 sea turtles have been released under the scheme, including 90 Olive Ridleys, 51 green sea turtles, three hawksbill turtles, and two leatherback turtles. A marine respondent group comprising forest department officials was also set up around this time to coordinate faster response to stranded cetaceans in Maharashtra, a significant majority of which includes Olive Ridleys.This is not the first time that such a sudden increase in Olive Ridley nesting sites has been seen in the state. A similar doubling was also observed between 2017 and 2018, when the number of observed nests increased from 153 to 303. Notably, 2017 was the year in which the mangrove foundation stepped in as the state’s nodal authority overseeing turtle conservation efforts. The first capacity building workshop among locals and officials was conducted at the Regional Coconut Research Centre, Ratnagiri on 4th February, 2017. Others, however, said that the spurt -- which has followed a year of halted developmental and commercial activities around the world -- may be due to a more complex interplay of factors. A kasavmitra (or ‘turtle friend’) employed with the mangrove foundation speculated that reduced fishing activities during the lockdown, which were further affected by rougher weather conditions at sea , have likely played a role in reducing Olive Ridley deaths as bycatch, allowing a larger number of females to reach their nesting grounds. “It cannot be ruled out. If a slowdown in fishing is responsible, then it is worrying because we are finally getting a sense of how much risk commercial fishing poses to Olive Ridleys. We will have to wait till next year and see, whether resumption of fishing brings the numbers down again,” they said.It also remains to be seen whether the increase in nesting sites this year translates to the release of more hatchlings back into the sea after birthing season, which typically lasts between April and May. In 2020, the ‘hatchling success rate’ -- or proportion of turtles which survive the nesting period -- stood at a six year low of 39% (down from 57% the previous year). “We have begun releasing turtles from our hatcheries, but the final results will be available only at the end of the month,” said Karve.Varad Giri, a herpetologist who has been closely involved in sea turtle conservation in Maharashtra, said the trend is undoubtedly a positive one. “Of course, reduced human activity during the pandemic may have played a role in the current increase, but the long-term increase in nesting sites is entirely due to community participation, which NGOs like Sahyadri Nisarga Mitra have been able to facilitate in districts like Raigad, Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri. Where turtle eggs were once being poached, they are now actively protected and cared for by citizens. The involvement of people outside of usual interest groups, such as government officials or researchers, is what has made the program successful,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/olive-ridley-nesting-sites-in-maharashtra-double-since-2020-up-five-times-since-2015-101620501249349.html
09-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Fudged data to reduce number of deaths, Fadnavis alleges||Hours after Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi lauded the Maharashtra government over the handling of the pandemic and days after the Supreme Court (SC) applauded for Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for its Covid-19 management, leader of Opposition in Legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis has alleged that Mumbai civic body was manipulating the data on infection rate and the number of deaths.Fadnavis, in his three-page letter dated April 8, has said that the BMC has put the Covid deaths in the non-Covid deaths category to reduce the number of deaths due to infection. He said that when the death percentage for ‘death due to other reasons in the rest of Maharashtra in the second wave is 0.7%, it’s as high as 39.4%. Fadnavis said that this is because the Mumbai civic body put the Covid-19 deaths in other category violating the norms of WHO and ICMR. “The deaths out of accident, suicide, murder or cancer patients of the fourth stage can be categorised in non-Covid deaths even if they were tested positive. But the BMC is misusing the category by putting the Covid-19 deaths in this category to manipulate the numbers,” he said stated.Fadnavis has also alleged that even during the first wave, the BMC fudged the data in a similar fashion. He said that when the death percentage for ‘death due to other reasons in the rest of Maharashtra in the second wave is 0.7%, it’s as high as 39.4% (in Mumbai). He also alleged that the infection rate data is being manipulated by increasing the percentage of the rapid antigen test instead of RT-PCR.Congress has hit back at Fadnavis by saying that the BJP leader has not been able to digest the praises showered by the prime ministers. “When the second wave started on February 10 this year, there were total 313,000 active patients and 11,400 deaths, which rose to 671,000 active patients and 13,687 total deaths as of today. There are 2,287 deaths in 3 months of the second wave, which translates into 0.7%, which is the lowest in the world. Even if other than Corona deaths are added to the Corona deaths, the rate would be 0.8% again the lowest in the world. Instead of raising fingers at the state government the BJP leaders should treat their stomach pain and pay attention to the false statistics given in BJP-ruled states like Gujarat,” said Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-fudged-data-to-reduce-number-of-deaths-fadnavis-alleges-101620501069345.html
09-05-2021||Other||Oxygen demand rose three-five times in second wave, says Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said that the total medical oxygen demand in the state during the first wave of Covid-19 was approximately 300 metric tonnes per day and it had now increased by three to five times during the second wave. “During the first wave, the demand was approximately 300 metric tonnes per day while on Friday alone the state supplied nearly 1,000 metric tonnes of oxygen across the state. The demand has risen manifold in the second wave as many patients are now needing oxygen support,” said Yogi Adityanath in Moradabad and Bareilly, according to a state government statement.“Special plans have been made as the demand for oxygen has grown many times, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi has approved 61 new oxygen plants for UP. The process is on to set up one oxygen plant in every district by the sugarcane department,” he added.It was Yogi’s first visit outside the state capital since he recovered from Covid last week. He visited Mordabad and Bareilly for the Covid review of all the districts in the two administrative divisions. To review the work of the nigrani samitis (surveillance committees), he visited Manoharpur village in Moradabad. He asked the members of surveillance committees and the RRTs (rapid response teams) regarding the antigen tests conducted at Manoharpur village. The committees reported that one person was found positive in the village during the special testing drive. The chief minister interacted with the Covid positive person while maintaining social distancing.About the nigrani samitis and the village surveillance drive, Yogi said, “At present, more than 60,000 committees are working under the special screening campaign in around 97,000 revenue villages of the state. Door-to-door rapid antigen tests are being conducted on a massive scale.”He also reviewed the availability of medical kits and gave proper instructions to the officers. A state government statement said that the government on May 5 launched a five-day testing drive to identify symptomatic patients and provide them medical aid.Later, talking to reporters, Yogi said Covid-19 cases declined significantly in the state since May 1. “Total active cases were around 3 lakh on April 30. Within eight days, from May 1 to 8 the cases have decreased by 65,000. So far, more than 3,500 cases have reduced in Moradabad under the action plan of Covid management,” he said.“There were doubts that Covid-19 positive cases will touch the one lakh-mark by May 5, and today is May 8. The count of fresh cases on Saturday stands at 26,847. The second doubt was that cases will increase during the panchayat polls. The panchayat elections ended on April 29, and there has been a continuous drop in the number of cases,” he underlined.Along with officials, he inspected the facilities at the Integrated Command and Control Centre in Moradabad and Bareilly. He also reviewed the arrangements being made at the centres to tackle the Covid-19 situation in the district.“It is a disaster and not an ordinary disease. Sometimes, all kinds of resources fall short in such pandemic. While many big nations are getting battered in this epidemic, we are fighting it strongly with the support of the central government. With collective efforts, we shall overcome this disaster,” Yogi Adityanath said.He also said the state government had directed each district administration to give priority to Covid positive patients.Talking about the vaccination drive for 18-44 age group people, Yogi said that the drive will be launched in several more districts, including Moradabad on Monday. He asked Moradabad district administration to prepare well for the launch. The drive was launched in Bareilly on May 1 along with six other UP districts, including Lucknow.Yogi asked officials of the districts in Moradabad division and Bareilly division to scale up Covid management resources--beds, human resource etc. (WITH AGENCY INPUTS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/oxygen-demand-rose-three-five-times-in-second-wave-says-yogi-101620500949369.html
09-05-2021||Other||Lockdown in Kerala begins, CM Vijayan says situation tough||Thiruvananthapuram: In a bid to contain the Covid surge, the Kerala government imposed an eight-day lockdown from Saturday. The curbs will remain in place still May 16. The state on Saturday recorded a high of 41,971 cases with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 28.25%. Addressing mediapersons through a virtual meet chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said the second wave was really challenging and the government will do everything possible to save lives. “Situation is really tough during the second wave. Though we face shortage of doses we started vaccinating people below 45 years. The government is keeping a strict tab on oxygen situation and availability of hospital beds,” he said. In the morning he held a series of meetings with heads of various departments to spruce up the ongoing fight against the pandemic. “Experts say in the second phase of virus strain is deadly. So we all will have to take extra caution,” he said requesting people to remain at home and follow directives of the state health ministry in letter and spirit. Experts have warned recently that the double mutant variant or SARS-COV2 lineage B.1. 617 is found to be prevalent here. They said it was almost similar to the one reported in Maharashtra (Amaravati strain) and it was at least twice infectious as earlier variants. Earlier the state had confirmed the presence of mutant strains from United Kingdom and South Africa. Experts said the double mutant variant is dangerous than UK and African variants. As cases soar the government imposed a complete down as the weekend restrictions and curbs failed to check the rising graph. This will be extended till May 16 midnight and the government said it is likely to be extended further after gauging the situation. Around 25,000 additional policemen have been deployed to ensure adherence to lockdown norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lockdown-in-kerala-begins-cm-vijayan-says-situation-tough-101620500889233.html
09-05-2021||Other||Decision on lockdown in Maharashtra likely to be next week||Maharashtra recorded 53,605 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday and 864 deaths, taking the tally to 5,053,336 and toll to 75,277, even as the state government in deliberating on various options over the lockdown which will end on May 15 at 7.00am.The state had imposed the lockdown across Maharashtra from April 22 and extended it from 7.00am on May 1 till May 15. In eight districts where there has been a surge in Covid-19 cases, there is a complete lockdown, where citizens can step out only for medical emergencies.Health minister Rajesh Tope said that various options are being explored by the government which will be finalised next week. “We are recording 50,000-60,000 cases daily. These figures are not declining, but are stable. We have various options such as extending the lockdown or to continue with restrictions only in those areas where the cases are increasing,” said Tope, adding that in 12 of the total 36 districts, the Covid-19 cases have re reduced, of which is a positive thing in the battle against the virus.According to Dr Ameet Mandot, director, Parel’s Gut Clinic, the government is faced with a Hobson’s choice. “It will be very difficult call for the government as it concerns the lives as well as livelihood of citizens. The middle path would be to open in a staggered manner in places like Mumbai where the positivity rate is low and Covid-19 cases have been controlled,” said Dr Mandot. “However, the authorities should enforce strict adherence of Covid-19 protocols so that there is no surge in areas where there is a partial opening,” he added.Meanwhile, the state has complained to the Central government about the Karnataka government stopping 50 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen from a steel plant in Bellary meant for Kolhapur and other parts of western Maharashtra.“The Centre needs to keep politics aside and save the lives of people in places such as Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara, Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri which have been affected by the blockade imposed by the Karnataka government,” said minister of state for home Satej Patil.The state recorded 82,266 recoveries on Saturday and conducted 260,751 tests. Currently there are 628,213 active patients across the state, of which Pune tops the list with 106,829 patients, followed by Nagpur (62,159) active patients.Mumbai has reported the highest death toll in the state with 13,713 deaths, followed by Pune (10,024).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/decision-on-lockdown-in-maharashtra-likely-to-be-next-week-101620500829837.html
09-05-2021||Other||TRS former MLA arrested in lawyer couple’s murder case: Police||Hyderabad Telangana Police on Saturday arrested Peddapalli zilla parishad chairman and Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) former legislator Putta Madhukar in connection with the murder of an advocate couple in broad day light in Peddapalli district on February 17. According to police, they took Madhukar into custody from Bhimavaram town in Andhra Pradesh’s West Godavari district in the early hours on Saturday. He was brought to Ramagundam police commissionerate later in the evening. A statement from Ramagundam police said Madhukar was absconding from his house in Peddapalli for the last 10 days after switching off his mobile phone. Police said they are questioning the leader to find out why he had gone underground and to where. On February 17, high court advocates Gattu Vamana Rao (53) and his wife P V Nagamani (50) were waylaid and hacked to death by some miscreants at Kalvacharla village in Ramagiri block while they were returning after a court case at Manthani, according to police, who had earlier questioned Madhukar in connection with the couple’s murder. Ramagundam police said Vamana Rao’s father Kishan Rao has recently lodged another complaint in connection with the murder, suspecting it was abetted by Madhukar. “Based on the complaint, police have taken the zilla parishad chairman into custody for questioning,” the statement said. Madhukar represented Manthani assembly constituency from the TRS ticket between 2014 and 2018. In December 2018 assembly elections, he lost to D Sridhar Babu of the Congress. According to police, Madhukar’s nephew Bittu Srinu and his followers, who were accused in the murder of the advocate couple, are in judicial custody. On April 6, following a direction from Telangana high court, which has taken suo motu cognizance of the murder case, police registered a case against Madhukar’s wife and Manthani municipal chairperson Putta Shailaja for allowing Bittu Srinu to use her mobile phone to make a video call with someone from the court premises. A police official from Ramagundam said on condition of anonymity that Madhukar was also a close associate of senior TRS leader and former state health minister Eatala Rajender, who was sacked from the cabinet by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao following allegations of encroachment of lands assigned to Dalits in Medak district. “It is suspected that Madhukar was also involved in various land transactions in Karimnagar district along with Eatala. We are also probing this angle,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/trs-former-mla-arrested-in-lawyer-couple-s-murder-case-police-101620500829284.html
09-05-2021||Other||Why Karnataka had to extend curbs||Bengaluru: Halfway through the first lockdown, the Karnataka government on May 7 announced fresh curbs which would come into effect from May 10. Experts say the government was left with no choice as even seven days after imposing a lockdown, the number of Covid-19 cases in the state did not show a downward trend. The state on Saturday reported 47,563 new Covid cases and 482 deaths out of which Bengaluru alone logged 21, 354 cases and 285 fatalities.Even senior cabinet members didn’t hold themselves back to acknowledge the failure of the lockdown. While announcing the fresh lockdown measures on Friday, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said: “Since the 14-day partial lockdown imposed by the state from April 27 failed to yield the desired result in containing the spread of the virus, we are forced to enforce stringent restrictions.” A similar opinion was shared by the Karnataka health minister who said the lockdown has been a failure. “I needn’t say how this ‘Janata curfew’ has been ineffective with congregations continuing. The trend is not limited to Bengaluru; districts, too, have failed to see its strict implementation. The result is not to our expectation,” he told reporters on Friday. So, where did the government go wrong? Several stakeholders responsible for enforcing the restrictions said that the lockdown was a knee-jerk reaction that was not well thought out. “For starters, the government didn’t call it a lockdown, and used terms like curfew, lockdown like restrictions, since it didn’t want to cause a panic. Looking at the measures implemented, it wasn’t a complete lockdown either. This showed that it was a half-hearted measure,” said a senior IAS officer on the condition of anonymity. “The government allowed several industries, garment industries and private companies to operate during this lockdown. To give an example of Bengaluru, the Peenya industrial area alone employs close to 900 thousand people and close to 500 thousand people work in the garment industries. This a large population still roaming on the streets and many using this privilege for non-work-related activities,” said the officer. A senior police officer in Bengaluru said that one of the biggest complaints received from various police stations was the overcrowding and travel between 6 am to 10 am window for buying essential services. “Even though the government had allowed people to purchase essential commodities, there were no restrictions on vehicle movement. People just assumed on their own that they had a free pass between 6 am to 10 am. When we stopped them, they would say they were going to shop,” said the deputy commissioner of police rank officer. He further added that the number of exceptions in the lockdown rules made enforcement difficult. “Since there were several categories of the people who were allowed to travel, such as employees of various industries and offices, the numbers on the streets were large and it was difficult for the police to effectively enforce the lockdown,” he added. The IAS officer said the big list of exceptions in the lockdown rules made it clear that the government wanted to please all. “The government extended the window for grocery stores from 6 am to 10 am to 6 am to 6 pm, is an example of non-commitment towards the lockdown,” he said. Dr Giridhar Babu, an epidemiologist and member of the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) also felt the containment measures in the state had failed. “The containment efforts are failing in Bengaluru. The test positivity and tests per million are inversely related. With raging infections, the testing per million is decreased over a period of time. At the same time, mitigation measures (irrespective of what we call whether curfew or semi-lockdown) are incomplete and ineffectively implemented. As a result, there is no benefit in reducing the speed of transmission. This is the opposite of what Bangalore model was known for,” he tweeted on Saturday. Meanwhile, all eyes are on the fresh lockdown announced between May 10 to May 24. Unlike the first, in the second lockdown, there are restrictions on the movement of people between 6 am to 10 am the window to buy essentials. “Several people misused this and started moving around freely, leading to crowds on the streets. Since we raised an objection to this, the rules have been changed,” said the senior police officer. In the fresh set of curbs, the government has banned people from using private vehicles to purchase groceries, parcels from hotels and liquor shops. The new lockdown mandates that it should be done by foot to avoid people travelling long distances during the window. Most importantly, all industries, garment factories and offices have been shut during this period. “The strict implementation of the lockdown is key to controlling the spike in the Covid-19 cases in the state. We will know how serious the government and the people are about preventing the virus when we see the traffic on the roads from Monday,” said the member of the TAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/why-karnataka-had-to-extend-curbs-101620500769303.html
09-05-2021||Other||K’taka goes Mumbai way in Covid fight||Bengaluru: Taking a cue from Mumbai’s fight against Covid-19, the Karnataka government has announced decentralisation to fight the spread of the virus in the city. In an order issued on May 7, the government has ordered to set up Ward Decentralised Triage and Emergency Response (DETER) Committees for Covid-19 management in all 198 wards in Bengaluru. The main goal of this step is to ensure the hospitalisation of Covid-19 patients is not delayed and those who require oxygen find support within two hours. In the order issued on Friday, Manjunath Prasad, the principal secretary of the revenue department and member secretary of the state executive committee said that decentralisation will help provide better supervision for ward-level Covid-19 activities. In the new system, Wad DETER committees (WDC) will run in coordination with the ward committees, volunteer residents’ welfare associations, civil society organisations and disaster support initiatives. Open-source technology platforms will be utilised to operationalise WDC functioning, and a suitable online platform will be used by the BBMP to support this. The WDCs will be responsible for resource mapping the ward i.e. identifying general practitioners, mapping existing RWAs, colonies, apartments, slums, NGOs working in the public health sector, mobilise citizen volunteers, and upload all medical facilities, including primary health centres, Covid-19 care centres, hospitals and nursing homes, and testing centres. The current system, response to Covid-19 in the city is controlled by the helpline number 1912 and zonal level helplines for each of the BBMP’s eight zones. The change in policy takes a leaf from their counterparts in Mumbai. “Ward level Community Triage is seen as a successful intervention in many cities including Mumbai. Currently, there is a delay in informing the test results to the patient due to the centralised ICMR process followed by BU number generation process,” reads the order by the Karnataka government. “To reduce delay in (Covid test) results and avoid panic, positive cases are relayed to the triage coordinator directly from the PHC throughout the day. The triage coordinator will delegate numbers to relevant citizen volunteers. The volunteers must be trained to do triage to identify persons who need to be admitted to ICU and those who require hospitalisation or should be sent to Covid care centres or isolated at home,” reads the order. As per the order, the committees will be responsible for helping people access hospital beds. The data of those in ICU, hospital, CCC or at home will be maintained by the triage centre. The order also mentions an exit strategy to reduce the bed turnaround time in hospitals. Limiting hospital admissions to people with severe illness and shifting those with moderate illness to CCCs in five days, are part of this strategy. The WDCs will also conduct bed audits thrice a day and prioritise admissions to those who need it the most. Apart from this, the WDCs will be responsible for contact tracing and testing, identify cases under home isolation and offer support, ensure maximum vaccination coverage by holding vaccination drives, hyper-local IEC (information-education-communication) on Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, using pulse oximeter, prone position to improve oxygen levels etc. The printed IEC material in multiple languages should be distributed to all grocery stores in the ward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ktaka-goes-mumbai-way-in-covid-fight-101620500709226.html
09-05-2021||Other||PM lauded Maharashtra government on its fight against Covid-19: CMO||Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi on Saturday spoke to Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray over phone to take a stock of the Covid-19 pandemic situation in the state and reportedly appreciated the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government’s efforts in combating the second wave of the pandemic. Many eyebrows in the political circles were raised after Modi showered praises on the MVA government in the backdrop of the frequent clashes between the state and Centre and also leaders from both the sides over Covid-19 management.According to the statement issued by chief minister’s office, Modi lauded the government for its handling of the second wave. “He took information from the CM about the steps being taken by the state government for the management of Covid-19. The CM apprised the PM about the measures planned by the state in anticipation of a potential third wave of the pandemic,” the statement said.Thackeray also requested PM for the additional allotment of oxygen for Maharashtra amid the shortage it has been facing. “PM Modi and the Centre have been guiding Maharashtra in its fight against the virus since beginning and it has proven beneficial too. Expressing his gratitude for it, the CM also thanked Modi for accepting some of the recommendations the Maharashtra government made,” the statement further read.Modi’s gesture of praising Maharashtra has however surprised many in the political circles amid the frequent wars of words between the central and state governments over the supply of Covid-related aid. The recent clashes between Union ministers Harsh Vardhan and Prakash Javadekar and state health minister Rajesh Tope and others over vaccine supply had triggered a controversy. Tope and other MVA leaders have also been targeting the Centre for the alleged discrimination over the supply of oxygen to the state.State Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, including leaders of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis and Pravin Darekar, have been continuously targeting the state government over its handling of the pandemic. The BJP leaders had alleged corruption in the setting up jumbo Covid centres and had targeted the state government for its failure in constructing adequate facilities ahead of the second wave. Thackeray, on two earlier occasions, had complained to the PM about the state BJP leaders politicising the issue of pandemic.A Congress leader, while expressing his surprise to the development, said, “But what else is left with him, considering that the BJP-led state governments’ failure in combating the pandemic. We have been very transparent in terms of cases and deaths unlike other states.”Political analyst Prakash Akolkar said that by praising Thackeray, Modi has indirectly taken a pot shot at Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal.“Delhi and Mumbai, the political and financial capitals of the country, are always compared with each other. By praising Thackeray, Modi has taken a dig at Kejriwal. Also in a way, it’s a slam to Fadnavis and Darekar who keep targeting the Thackeray government on every Covid-related issue. I also feel that on a personal level, Modi and Thackeray share cordial relations and seldom attack each other,” he said.Earlier this week, the Supreme Court had applauded the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) oxygen and bed management.Meanwhile, Thackeray also wrote a letter to the PM, seeking permission to develop a separate app for vaccination to avoid the malfunctioning of the CoWIN platform. He said that the Centre can also develop dedicated CoWIN apps for each of the states to avoid such glitches. The Maharashtra CM has also requested Modi to design a medical framework by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) under which the Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) of the respective states can procure vaccine stock from other countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pm-lauded-maharashtra-government-on-its-fight-against-covid-19-cmo-101620500649292.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||From preparing food to delivering medicines, Shimla’s Good Samaritans walk the extra mile||With the number of patients in home isolation rapidly increasing as the second wave of infections sweeps through Himachal Pradesh, Good Samaritans in Shimla, the capital city of the hill state, are walking the extra mile to ensure Covid patients want for nothing, be it home cooked food or medicines.With many areas inaccessible by road in Shimla, it is difficult to reach chemists shops and eateries and as such many people are volunteering to deliver such essentials at patients’ doorstep. Vipin Kalta, 29, a technician at a local clinical labour rotary, besides collecting patients’ blood samples at his routine job also supplies cooked food and delivers medicines to patients.Kalta, whose entire family had been infected in 2020, says, “I go to patients’ homes to collect their blood samples and know from first-hand experience the difficulties they face when suffering from Covid. One my clients told me that he was unable to get cooked food as few restaurants in Shimla provide home delivery, so my wife and I decided to prepare food for Covid patients. I deliver food to nine patients a day.”Katla had also donated his plasma after recovering from the infection.Four days ago, Hotel Himland East proprietor Umesh Akre, 73, started a service to deliver food to Covid patients. “My phone is flooded with requests for homemade food,” says Akre, adding, “The situation is grim.”“On the first day, we delivered food to 40 patients near the Khalini bus stand, Chotta Shimla, and Kanlog. Now, I am receiving calls from far off places requesting food “ says Akre.Though they are facing difficulty delivering food in areas inaccessible by roads, Akre says they have asked youngsters to volunteer to help deliver food.Almighty Blessing, a non-profit organisation that runs langars for patients and attendants at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) is also delivering food to Covid patients with the help of Himanshu Chauhan, a 26-year-old tattoo artist.“We started the home delivery service only a few days ago but are receiving more calls every day. We need more volunteers,” says philanthropist Sarabjeet Singh Bobby of Almighty Blessing. Chauhan walks nearly 7km on foot to deliver food to patients from his residence in Sanjauli to Chaura Maidan “These days there is no work, so I decided to devote myself to social service in this hour of crisis,” says Chauhan, who owns a shop in Sanjauli .There are nearly 1,500 Covid patients in home isolation in Shimla who are registered with the government hospital. However, the numbers are expected to be much higher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/from-preparing-food-to-delivering-medicines-shimla-s-good-samaritans-walk-the-extra-mile-101620500589865.html
09-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Woman poses as civic vaccine official, robs 74-year-old of ₹3.1 lakh||Worli police launched a hunt for an unidentified woman who posed as a civic staff and under the pretext of carrying vaccination drive for elderly citizens, gained entry at a 74-year-old woman’s house in Worli on Wednesday. The woman then threatened the senior citizen at knifepoint and fled with cash and jewellery worth ₹3.10 lakh. The complainant, Swati Patil, and her nine-year-old grandson Sarvagya were alone at their house at the time while her son and daughter-in-law were out on work. Around 12 noon, a woman arrived at their residence and asked Patil if she had received Covid vaccine and under the pretext of completing some procedure gained entry in the house, a police officer said.“The accused asked for a glass of water and the moment Patil turned to fetch it, the accused took out a knife, threatened to kill her and robbed her of cash and jewellery. She then tied and gagged the senior citizen and her grandson before escaping,” the officer said. Patil somehow managed to get to the window and screamed for help. A passer by noticed and helped them. The family then reported the matter to police.Police suspect that the accused was aware that the victim was alone at home during afternoon hours, which helped her commit the crime swiftly. “A case has been registered against the unidentified woman under sections 342 (wrongful confinement), 392 (robbery), 334 (causing hurt) and 506(2) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. Multiple teams have been formed to locate her. The elderly woman and the kid are safe,” said Anil Koli, senior inspector of Worli police station. Police have begun investigation and are checking their records of criminals matching the description of the robber. “There is no CCTV around the society and our men are checking if any CCTV of the adjacent streets captured the suspect woman’s movements,” Koli said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-woman-poses-as-civic-vaccine-official-robs-74-year-old-of-3-1-lakh-101620500469276.html
09-05-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC reprieve for owners of land near Kolshet air force station||In a reprieve for owners of properties in the vicinity of Kolshet air force station in Thane, the Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday struck down communications issued by the station commander which imposed restrictions on development of nearby properties falling within 750 metres of approach and take of funnel zone of heliport at the defence establishment.The division bench of justice RD Dhanuka and justice VG Bisht struck down the communications after noticing that two notifications issued under provisions of the Works of Defence Act, 1903 imposed no fetters on development of properties lying beyond 100 metres from boundary wall of the air force station, but the station maintained that no construction of multi-storied building was permitted in the funnel zone of their heliport.The court was hearing a petition filed by Runwal Constructions. The developer had moved HC last year after the air force authorities repeatedly refused their requests for no objection certificate (NOC) to construct a ground-plus-10 storey building at about 500 metres from the station, but the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), which approved the developers plans in August 2019, insisted for an NOC from the air force station before starting the construction.The developer contended that under the statutory notifications issued under the Works of Defence Act, restrictions on constructions were imposed only to the extent of 100 metres from the compound wall of the air force station, and therefore the authorities could not have extended the restrictions on the development of properties beyond 100 metres by issuing executive instructions.“In our view, reasonable restrictions can be imposed on a citizen’s rights guaranteed under Article 19(1)(g) and Section 300A, only by enacted law,” said the bench.“The only way to impose restrictions on enjoyment of the property in the vicinity of a defence establishment is by invoking powers under the Works of Defence Act, 1903,” it added and struck down the communications, issued by way of executive instructions.Defence authorities had opposed Runwal’s petition contending that the plot in question was within 500 metres from the air force station where Indian Air Force is operating a helipad which is extensively used for military operations, training purposes and is also earmarked for movement of VVIPs like the prime minister.The operation of heavy helicopters require flight path to be clear of any obstruction up to 750 metres and a mandated glide slope of 3 degree on approach would provide height of 39.3 metres above the ground at a distance of 750 metres from helipad landing point. The safety requirement warrants that there should be a safety margin of 50 metres between any obstruction and the mandated glide slope. Therefore, to ensure safety of helicopters no construction can be permitted in the flight path of heliport to the extent of 750 metres.They added that the NOC for the project was denied because substantial part of the plot comes within flight take-off and landing path of heliport.The contentions, however, failed to impress upon the bench. HC said defence authorities exercised their right of restriction by issuing notifications of February 14, 2007 and January 13, 2010 by clearly specifying that all areas falling within 100 metres of the air force station need to maintain restrictions.It is relevant to note here that the notifications came to be issued after considering all relevant factors pertaining usage of the air force station and following due process as prescribed under provisions of the Works of Defence Act. The said notification still hold and therefore any restrictions imposed, contrary or in addition to the notifications, would be illegal and contrary to the law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-reprieve-for-owners-of-land-near-kolshet-air-force-station-101620500349952.html
09-05-2021||Mumbai||Patient dumped on sidewalk, BMC sacks two paramedical staff||After a video was widely circulated on social media showing a senior citizen, who was getting treatment at KEM Hospital in Parel, left unattended on a side walk, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said two contractual paramedical employees have been removed from duty for not doing their duty. The unidentified patient was admitted to KEM Hospital for stomach pain. The resident doctor attending to him referred him to a senior doctor to see if surgery was needed for his ailment on Friday, according to the civic body. Two paramedics were given the responsibility of taking him to the new hospital building for examination by the senior doctor. Later, a citizen brought to the administration’s notice that a patient from the hospital was left unattended outside gate 6, which leads to the hospital mortuary. The patient was then moved back to the ward where he was being treated. The hospital administration set up an enquiry into the matter and pulled out CCTV footage to find ou how the patient ended up outside the gate, BMC said in a statement. According to CCTV footage, two contractual employees walked the patient out through the passage near the morgue and abandoned him outside gate 6. KEM hospital administration said no carelessness has happened on the hospital’s part. A civic official said, “The two contractual staff were given a show-cause notice, after which they have been removed from duty.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/patient-dumped-on-sidewalk-bmc-sacks-two-paramedical-staff-101620500349316.html
09-05-2021||Other||Mumbai: 104-year-old man from Palghar beats Covid||A 104-year-old man, a Palghar resident, has recovered from Covid-19, making him the oldest survivor of the virus in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), according to a government official.Centenarian, Shyamrao Ingle was admitted to the Rural Hospital, Palghar a few days ago, after testing positive for Covid-19.“The patient had slight breathlessness, which improved after treatment. His food intake also improved after being low initially,” said the official. Palghar district collector Dr Manik Gursal presented a bouquet to the patient after his discharge. He said the grit and strong willpower showed by the patient, as he fought through the infection, was commendable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-104-year-old-man-from-palghar-beats-covid-101620500290908.html
09-05-2021||Other||Father in ICU, son helps install Ambala oxygen plant||After successfully helping to install pressure awing adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plants in Sonepat and Karnal, Prof Joginder, who teaches electronics at Gateway College of Education, has now installed a 1,000-l oxygen plant in Ambala.“We completed the process soon after state health minister Anil Vij visited to inspect the plant on Wednesday but I had to leave for Sonepat as my father is infected and admitted in ICU,” he said.Joginder, 35, who volunteered in installation of the plant in Sonepat, was later roped in by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar for help in five other plants. The equipment for the plants were allotted under PM Care Fund earlier this year.The company that was allotted the installation task in state couldn’t send their technicians due to a sudden surge in Covid cases and some other issues.“One of my friends died due to scarcity of oxygen in Delhi last month and I got to know about the situation in Sonepat. I approached the health department and offered my services for free,” the professor said.“I have been assured every possible help by the CM for earliest intervention at any of the plant. The process to operationalise rest of the three plants in Faridabad, Hisar and Panchkula has now been taken over by the company but I’ll be there to supervise them,” he added.Last year, Joginder had assembled/repaired multiple automated sanitisation machines for hospitals and government offices in Sonepat region. An expert in fire safety techniques, the professor has provided its training at many educational institutes.Ambala civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh, in a statement on Friday, said that after a dry run, the plant is fully operational and has a capacity to provide oxygen at 200-l per minute.“It will provide gas equivalent to 45 jumbo cylinders and through this, direct supply will be given to additional 45 beds that have been provided at the trauma centre in city,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/father-in-icu-son-helps-install-ambala-oxygen-plant-101620500289829.html
09-05-2021||Mumbai||Elections proved to be good for helicopter industry: Operators||The 2021 elections proved beneficial for the growth of the helicopter industry. Helicopter flights operated for around 45 days exclusively for election purpose with more machines being used from March till mid-April, as compared to pre-pandemic elections, said operators. Rajan Mehra, chief executive officer of Club One Air, said he saw a healthy growth of around 25% in March and April but added that elections were not the only reason for this increase in bookings. “There was increased travel to Dubai, Maldives and Europe, especially in the days before most countries announced travel bans from India due to the second wave. During elections, the most prominent increase was noticed for the Northeast and West Bengal, which contributed to around 40% of election flying, followed by Chennai, Karnataka and Puducherry,” Mehra said. However, according to Gulab Singh, chairman of Saarthi Airways which operated helicopters only to West Bengal, the elections in the five states were dull when compared to previous ones. “We had around 250 flights in around 45 days. We had lesser rallies this time. Majority of the election flying was over by the first week of April,” Singh said.Data collected from various private helicopter operators reveal that around 2,500 hours of flying took place in about 45 days during elections. According to the data sourced by operators, the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) used 11 aircraft, followed by Congress and Trinamool Congress with six helicopters each, for campaign. Helicopter services were flying to Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam during March and April, whereas it continued for a longer period in West Bengal. According to Captain Uday Gelli, president of Rotary Wing Society of India (western region), the situation was normal with respect to flying in March as Covid-19 cases remained in control during the month. He said the industry could do a better business this election season. “Initially in May, no one talked about the pandemic and hence flying was in full swing then. Rotary Wing Society of India estimates that during elections, helicopter operators seem to have flown three times more than the earlier elections, with the southern states seeing flying for 20 days while West Bengal saw flying for 45 maximum days. Corporate helicopters were also used for election flying, and it is estimated that they would have flown about 400 hours of the total 2,500 hours. Single-engine helicopters, too, were used but in a very limited way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elections-proved-to-be-good-for-helicopter-industry-operators-101620500290282.html
09-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: NCB arrests ex-army officer from Zambian with Heroin worth ₹26 crore||The Mumbai zonal unit of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested a former army official of Zambia from Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA), Mumbai and seized more than 4kgs of heroin, worth approximately ₹26 crore, hidden in the cavities of his trolley bag.The accused, Kenith Mulowa, 42, is a retired army officer from Lusaka, Zambia. He travelled from Addis Ababa in Ethiopia to Dubai, from Dubai to Delhi, and then Delhi to Mumbai. He had arrived in India on a business Visa.In order to evade getting caught while travelling with the bag with contraband, he deliberately left it at the Dubai airport and arrived in Mumbai via Delhi. He then lodged a missing bag’s complaint at CSMIA and went to a hotel in Juhu for stay. As NCB officers had already received inputs about Mulowa’s suspicious involvement in drugs trafficking, they kept a close watch on his movements from airport to hotel and hotel to airport for two days. On Friday when Mulowa arrived at the airport entry area to collect his bag, he was apprehended by NCB officers. On examining the bag, the NCB team found three packets of heroin weighing around 4kg from hidden cavities. The seized drugs could be from Afghanistan, said NCB investigators.“The accused is a Zambian ex-army officer and was injured in combat operation. He retired from the army on medical grounds. His wife and four kids live in Lusaka. This was the third time Mulowa had arrived in India and we are checking if he smuggled drugs on his previous visits,” said Sameer Wankhede, zonal director of NCB.African drug traffickers, according to NCB, are no longer using ordinary citizens as mules and are roping in ex-army personnel for trafficking narcotics as they are trained professionals and are hard to crack during investigation, Wankhede said.The senior Indian Revenue Services (IRS) officer added that amid the extensive crackdown by anti-narcotics agencies on African nationals trafficking cocaine, drug rackets have now switched to smuggling heroin, mostly cultivated in Afghanistan, and bringing it to India via the air route. The usual route of smuggling heroin has mostly been from Afghanistan to Pakistan and then to India through the porous border or from Afghanistan to Pakistan then to Sri Lanka by sea route. It is smuggled in India mostly via Chennai,” Wankhede said.According to NCB officers, due to Covid-related movement restrictions imposed across various nations, the demand of heroin, a highly addictive narcotic, has increased and thus its rate has also gone up. The drug now cost around ₹6 crore per kg in the illicit market, from ₹5 crore per kg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-ncb-arrests-ex-army-officer-from-zambian-with-heroin-worth-26-crore-101620500229863.html
09-05-2021||Mumbai||Class 10 internal assessments: Maharashtra edu dept holds feasibility study||More than two weeks after the Maharashtra government declared the cancellation of SSC (Class 10) exams, the education department on Saturday, asked schools to fill out a survey form indicating whether or not marking students on internal assessments will be feasible. The department has also sent out another survey form asking for feedback on the conduct of entrance exams for first-year junior colleges (FYJC), a plan that it has been mulling over the last few days after receiving suggestions to that effect. Officials from the state education department did not respond to calls and messages.Nearly 17 lakh students appear for the SSC exam from across nine divisions in the state every year. This year, due to rising Covid-19 infections in the state and the resultant lockdown, the government decided to cancel the exams and announced the same on April 20. State education minister Varsha Gaikwad had announced that students will be marked based on internal assessments.After a series of deliberations and discussions with various stakeholders including educationists, schools, teachers and parents, the education department has now asked schools to give their suggestions and objections on the proposed marking criteria for students. “This survey is conducted to know if there should be an internal assessment on a school level and the schools are prepared for that or not. Internal assessment will be based on online classes, WhatsApp-based teaching and assessment, online tests, term examinations, practice tests. Schools which didn’t undergo these processes will assess their students’ performance based on performance if the student is in 9th class,” stated the survey brief. The department has been mulling several options like considering cumulative scores of students over the years, conducting entrance exams and adding seats for junior college admissions this year. Another survey has sought responses from students on the conduct of common entrance test (CET) for FYJC admissions. “All the aspirants will be eligible for this CET which would have multiple-choice questions. There will be only one paper of 100 marks consisting of questions of all the subjects and the duration of the paper will be 2 hours. This offline test is planned in July 2021 or after the decrease of the spread of Covid-19 in every school following SOPs of Covid-19 break the chain regulations” stated the form while inviting responses. All schools in the state including government, non-government, aided, unaided, self-financed can participate in the survey and can indicate whether or not they can mark students based on internal assessments.Schools, however, said forms have added to unnecessary confusion. “First, the government decided that students will be marked on internal assessments. Now when they ask schools, everyone is going to say yes, because there is no other logical answer after exams are cancelled. Besides, this form is widely circulated on social media and anyone can fill it. Why can’t it be done formally through an online portal?” said a principal.Vikas Garad, deputy director, Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training said that the survey was only conducted to take feedback and the final decision will not be dependent only on the survey results. “We just want to know if schools are in a position to give us details of internal assessments and whether they have such data. If we look at the responses so far, majority of them have said yes. Similarly, majority students have said they will be okay with entrance exams,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/class-10-internal-assessments-maharashtra-edu-dept-holds-feasibility-study-101620500229203.html
09-05-2021||Other||Amid surge in cases, Kashi admn distributing free Covid medicine kits||When Vandana Devi (30), a resident of Basani in Badagaon area of Varanasi who was having corona-like symptoms of cough, cold and fever for the past few days, heard that Covid medicines were given free-of-cost at the Primary Health Centre (PHC) she didn’t wasted a moment to get the same. “I immediately visited the Badagaon PHC where the doctor gave me the Covid kit having several drugs. He also told me in detail how to take these medicines,” she said.Similarly, another local Deepak Kumar (22), also having Covid symptoms got the free kit at Badagaon PHC. The Covid kit (having all necessary drugs for treatment of Covid) distribution is part of district administration’s drive to ensure that symptomatic people or those waiting for their Covid test report in rural and urban areas get the medication as soon as possible. The step has been taken in the wake of rapid surge in corona cases in the district during the second wave. The temple city so far has over 12,000 actives Covid cases and has reported over 600 fatalities ever since the outbreak of the pandemic.District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said in the drive, which was started from May 1, so far about 55,000 kits have been distributed in both urban and rural areas.“While 25,000 kits have been distributed in urban areas through urban PHCs and Rapid Response Teams (RRTs) 30,563 kits have been dispensed in rural pockets through PHCs and community health centres (CHCs),” he added.Elaborating about the kit, additional chief medical officer (ACMO) Dr Sanjay Rai said it comprises medicines like Azithromycin, Ivermectin, Paracetamol, pills of vitamin D-3, vitamin C, zinc and B Complex. “It is being distributed among suspected Covid patients and those with symptoms of Covid-19. Over 40 teams, including 20 Rapid Response Teams, several teams of Asha workers, are deployed in rural pockets for distributing the kits. Heath staff at PHcs have also been roped in to distribute the kits,” Rai said. He added that “While using public address system, the teams ask the locals to collect the kits from the RRTs or from the nearest health centre in their respective area between 8am and 5pm daily.”The district has 32 PHCs and nine CHCs. Medical officer in charge, PHC, Badagaon, Dr Sher Mohammad said around 9000 medical kits have been distributed in the villages in the area in the last one week. However, Satyanarayan Patel, a resident of Sinnghpur village in nearby Sarnath area, said he hasn’t got the Covid kit so far. Another resident of Nai Bazar area in Sarnath area Pappu Mishra said the Rapid Response Team was yet to visit his locality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-surge-in-cases-kashi-admn-distributing-free-covid-medicine-kits-101620500169903.html
09-05-2021||Mumbai||41% Covid beds across Mumbai hospitals vacant; BMC to ramp up infra for Covid cases in kids||The steady decline in the number of Covid-19 cases reported daily in Mumbai for the past few days has resulted in 41% of the 23,209 Covid beds across hospitals being vacant, as of Saturday morning. A total of 9,675 beds, 4,787 oxygen beds, 180 intensive care unit (ICU) beds and 32 ventilator beds are now vacant. Meanwhile, the BMC will now begin to ramp up its hospital beds and infrastructure for children and infants, projecting rising Covid-19 infections in kids during a possible third wave. Mumbai on Saturday recorded 2,664 Covid-19 cases and 62 deaths, taking the toll to 673,235 and the tally to 13,713. There are 52,874 active Covid-19 cases in the city, as of Saturday. Mumbai on Friday conducted 33,378 tests, which have shown Saturday’s cases with a positivity rate of 7.9%. So far, Mumbai has conducted a total of 5,677,780 Covid-19 tests. Mumbai on Friday reported 3,040 cases while on Thursday the city had recorded 3,028 cases. On Wednesday it reported 3,882 cases, on Tuesday it reported 2,554 cases, and on Monday it reported 2,624 cases. In the past eight days, since May 1, Mumbai has reported a total of 24,764 Covid-19 cases, as opposed to 77,207 cases reported in the first eight days of April. On April 4, Mumbai reported its highest ever spike in a single day so far: 11,206 Covid cases. Throughout April, Mumbai has reported a total of 233,698 cases. To equip hospital infrastructure for paediatrics and ensure enough hospital beds are available for children and infants in a possible third wave of Covid-19, BMC had a discussion with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday, its preparedness on this front. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of BMC’s public health department said, “Four points were discussed. BMC will partly convert existing maternity wards in hospitals into paediatric Covid beds; private paediatric hospitals have been asked to get ready with the infrastructure to handle Covid-19 cases in children and infants; three maternity homes, one each in Island City, eastern suburbs and western suburbs will be made into dedicated Covid-19 hospitals for children; and the new jumbo facilities will have separate wards for kids who are Covid-19 positive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/41-covid-beds-across-mumbai-hospitals-vacant-bmc-to-ramp-up-infra-for-covid-cases-in-kids-101620500169316.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||Court sets aside order to release O2 concentrators for use by police||A Delhi court on Saturday set aside an order directing the release of 12 oxygen concentrators seized by the city police for use by police officers and judicial officers.Setting aside the May 5 order by the Metropolitan Magistrate (MM), principal district and sessions judge Narottam Kaushal said, “The MM, in his zeal to provide life saving machines to front line workers i.e. the Delhi Police and to his judicial fraternity, was so dazzled that he forgot that a judge on account of the office he occupies has to act & behave like a self-less, dispassionate saint.”“He has to rise above the interests of self and his ilk. Benevolent and well-intended, his act may be; the same cannot breach the Constitutional provisions of equality. On the touchstone of these morals & principles of law, MM seems to have faltered,” the judge said in his order.Also read | Covid-19 in Delhi: Fewest new infections in a day since April 15, positivity rate falls to 23.3%Additional Public Prosecutor (APP) V K Swami, appearing for the state, argued that “the oxygen concentrators should be released to such facilities where they could be used round the clock for those who needed it the most”.On May 5, MM Anuj Bahal had ordered the release of 12 oxygen concentrators seized from two accused persons, Vinay Agarwal and Akash Vashist.The court noted that the MM was greatly influenced by the fact that two judicial officers had lost their lives in battle with Covid-19. “One of them being his own brother colleague with whom he shared the corridors. As I pen down this order, the judicial fraternity has lost one more officer, who also succumbed to Covid-19 virus,” the judge noted.The court asked the Investigating officer (IO) to move a fresh application before the District Magistrate who, according to the directions of the Delhi high court, would release the seized concentrators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/court-sets-aside-order-to-release-o2-concentrators-for-use-by-police-judicial-officers-101620499509783.html
09-05-2021||Delhi||Crime branch to probe recovery of 524 oxygen concentrators from 3 restaurants||The Delhi Police on Saturday said that the case pertaining to the recovery of 524 oxygen concentrators from three restaurants and a private firm’s godown has been transferred to the crime branch, even as Navneet Kalra, the owner of the restaurants who was allegedly involved in the purported hoarding and black marketing of concentrators, is still on the run.Police officers, who asked not to be named, said that teams have been making efforts to track Kalra, whose cellphone’s last location, they said, was in Uttarakhand before it was switched off. The cellphones of people who are close to Kalra have been put on electronic surveillance and a close vigil is being kept on their movements as well, the officers said.HT tried to contact Kalra on Saturday through calls and text messages but he could not be reached for comment.After recovering oxygen concentrators from the firm’s godown, police also arrested Gourav Khanna, the 47-year-old chief executive officer (CEO) of Matrix Cellular company from Gurugram on Friday in connection with the alleged cheating, criminal conspiracy, hoarding and black marketing case that was registered by the south district’s Lodhi Colony police station. Khanna is the fifth person to have been arrested in the case.The other four include the company’s business head, manager and a sales executive, and the manager of Nege & Ju restaurant, from where the first batch of 32 oxygen concentrators, a carton of thermal imagers and a carton of N95 masks were recovered.Also read | Police raid Khan Market restaurants, seize O2 devices“Khanna was overseeing the import of oxygen concentrators and their sale at high prices. The private firm (Matrix Cellular) was being used to import oxygen concentrators and they were being sold through ’Xpect Everything’, an online portal,” deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said after Khanna’s arrest on Friday.On Saturday, all the files and documents related to the case were handed over to the crime branch team that will further investigate the case to establish the entire nexus behind the alleged hoarding and black marketing of oxygen concentrators. According to police, the accused were selling oxygen concentrators, costing around ₹20,000, for around ₹70,000 using fake price tags. Police said that the 524 seized concentrators were among 650 such machines that were imported from China and Hong Kong earlier this month.“Apart from tracing the remaining 126 concentrators that were already sold, the investigating team will also look into rumours that the illegal trade started in October-November and many such devices were sold in the past five-six months. Khanna’s questioning may help the investigators piece together the missing links in the case and also identify other players who were involved ,” said an officer, requesting not to be named.According to the police, of the 524 seized oxygen concentrators, 96 were recovered from Khan Chacha restaurant and nine from Town Hall restaurant, both in Khan Market, following raids on Friday. The remaining 419 were recovered from Nege & Ju restaurant-cum bar in Lodhi Colony and the Matrix Cellular company’s godown in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur two days before.“All oxygen concentrators have been imported and acquired by paying applicable import duties, GST / IGST and all sales are done through on their mobile app, and payments are received through online banking channels,” said Samudra Sarangi, lead counsel for Matrix.“The charges of black marketing and hoarding are not only baseless in law, but also irresponsible in such times when Matrix should be focused on fixing the demand-supply gap for oxygen concentrators. Unfortunately, Matrix is victim of police excess and will follow the due legal process to defend itself and its employees to the fullest extent. Matrix has complete faith in our justice system and trusts that the Courts will protect the unjustly victimised,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/crime-branch-to-probe-recovery-of-524-oxygen-concentrators-from-3-restaurants-godown-101620499509196.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Pak-backed narco-terror module busted in Kharar||Acting on disclosures made by arrested gangster Gavi Singh, Punjab Police on Saturday busted a cross-border drug and weapon smuggling racket with the arrest of his five accomplices from a flat in Kharar. Police also recovered 1.25kg heroin, two .32 calibre pistols, a .30 calibre Chinese pistol and 23 live cartridges besides three vehicles, including a Toyota Fortuner, Mahindra Scorpio and Hyundai Verna, during the raid at the flat at Urban Homes-2 in Kharar. A close aide of wanted gangster Jaipal, Gavi Singh, alias Vijay, was arrested in Jharkhand on April 26, in a joint operation of the Organised Crime Control Unit of Punjab Police and the Mohali police. Those arrested on Saturday have been identified as Karanbir Singh, Harmanjit Singh, Gurjaspreet Singh and Rawinder Iqbal Singh of Tarn Taran district besides Samuel, alias Sam, of Ferozepur, a close aide of Gavi who reportedly handled the distribution of heroin smuggled from Pakistan. Dinkar Gupta, director general of police (DGP), Punjab, said that Samuel was staying with Gavi in Jamshedpur and had managed to fly to Delhi just before his arrest.‘Smuggled 500kg heroin, weapons from Pak’The DGP said that during his interrogation, Gavi revealed that he had smuggled over 500kg heroin along with weapons from Pakistan and supplied them to Punjab, Delhi and Jammu and Kashmir over the past two-and-a-half years. Gavi is also learnt to have made a large number of financial transactions with individuals and entities based in India, Pakistan and Afghanistan through the Hawala route as well as through import and export companies based in New Delhi. “He also acquired a forged Indian passport from a travel agent and was planning to settle in Portugal,” said the DGP, adding that Gavi’s various bank accounts and properties have been identified and shared with the agencies concerned for further action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pakbacked-narco-terror-module-busted-in-kharar-101620499329814.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala court allows NRI couple to adopt minor siblings||In a rare instance, an Ambala court has allowed an NRI couple to adopt minor siblings — their nephew and niece — after the children’s stepmother refused to accept them. The siblings’ paternal uncle who is of Indian origin holds a permanent visa of New Zealand while his wife is a citizen of the country. The minors — a 13-year-old boy and his 11-year-old sister — reportedly get along well with the couple who had come to India in 2019. The separate applications were cleared by the court of Sangeeta Rai Sachdev, additional principal judge (family court) on May 3 and May 5, almost one-and-a-half months after it was moved by the couple in March.As per the orders, the judge, while approving the adoption said it was in the interest of both the children and fresh documents will be prepared by the authorities. The biological father had no objection to the adoption, the order reads.“The man had married another woman almost after six months after the death of his first wife in 2010 and has a 10-year-old boy with his second wife. Apparently, their second mother refused to accept them and the children do not relate to her as their mother. They are being cared by their grandparents, who cannot sustain the burden of this responsibility at this age,” the order read.Sukhvinder Singh Nara, the couple’s counsel said that as per the process, proper verification through Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA) and an in-camera consent from the children was taken by the court.“The Ambala court issued the guidelines under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act and Hague Convention On Protection of Children And Cooperation In Inter-country Adoption, to which India and New Zealand are signatories,” Nara said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-court-allows-nri-couple-to-adopt-minor-siblings-101620499089741.html
09-05-2021||Other||Kotkapura firing case: New SIT product of Capt incompetence, says Sidhu||In yet another tirade against chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, this time over the constitution of a new special investigation team (SIT) to probe the 2015 Kotkapura firing, former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu said the government was forced to accept the high court order due to his (CM’s) “incompetence”.Giving six months to the new SIT to compete the probe will further “extend the delay” in giving justice, the Amritsar East MLA said on Saturday. The state government on Friday constituted a new three-member (SIT), headed by additional director general of police (vigilance bureau) LK Yadav, to probe the Kotkapura case. The SIT will complete the investigation within six months. The high court on April 9 had quashed a report in the case by an earlier Punjab Police SIT, headed by IG (now retired) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh and asked the government to form a new SIT. In a series of tweets, the Congress leader hit out at the CM, who also holds the home portfolio, saying: “Sad !! Due to incompetence of the home minister, govt is forced to accept orders of the high court, which the people of Punjab are standing up against. Giving 6 months to new SIT, extends the delay of govt’s biggest poll promise, unfortunately up to next elections code of conduct.”“Injustice caused by deliberate delay is betrayal of people’s mandate. After multiple inquiry commissions, SITs and passage of 6 years, evidence has weakened while accused have gained in wisdom, making their defence stronger due to repetitive investigations on the same matter,” Sidhu said in another tweet. The cricketer-turned-politician has been critical of his own government after the Punjab and Haryana high court quashed the earlier probe report into the firing case. He had accused Amarinder of evading the responsibility in the case. Last month, he blamed “one person” for having colluded with the culprits of 2015 sacrilege cases, without naming the CM. Reacting to the criticism, the CM had termed Sidhu’s outbursts “total indiscipline” and said he may be leaving for the AAP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sidhu-at-it-again-attacks-capt-over-new-sit-in-kotkapura-case-101620491168695.html
09-05-2021||World||China probed weaponising coronaviruses in 2015: Reports||Chinese scientists allegedly investigated weaponising coronaviruses five years before the Covid-19 pandemic and may have predicted a World War III fought with biological weapons, according to media reports referring to documents obtained by the US State Department.According to ‘The Sun’ newspaper in the UK, quoting reports first released by ‘The Australian’, the “bombshell” documents obtained by the US State Department reportedly show the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) commanders making the sinister prediction.US officials allegedly obtained the papers which were written by military scientists and senior Chinese public health officials in 2015 as part of their own investigation into the origins of Covid-19.Chinese scientists described SARS coronaviruses — of which Covid-19 is one example — as presenting a “new era of genetic weapons”.The PLA papers referenced seem to fantasise that a bioweapon attack could cause the "enemy's medical system to collapse".It references work by US Air Force colonel Michael J. Ainscough, who predicted World War III may be fought with bioweapons.The paper also includes musing that SARS —which hit China in 2003 — could have been a man-made bioweapon deliberately unleashed by "terrorists".They reportedly boasted the viruses could be “artificially manipulated into an emerging human disease virus, then weaponised and unleashed in a way never seen before”.The document lists some of China's top public health figures among the authors and has been revealed in an upcoming book on the origins of COVID, titled ‘What Really Happened In Wuhan’.China reported the first Covid-19 case in the central Chinese city of Wuhan in late 2019 and since then the deadly disease has become a pandemic, affecting more than 157,789,300 people and over 3,285,200 deaths worldwide.Tom Tugendhat MP and Australian politician James Paterson said the document raises major concerns about China's transparency on the origins of Covid-19.Tugendhat, chairman of the House of Commons Foreign Affairs Select Committee, was quoted in ‘The Sun’ as saying: "China’s evident interest in bioweapons is extremely concerning. Even under the tightest controls these weapons are dangerous."This document raises major concerns about the ambitions of some of those who advise the top party leadership.”Peter Jennings, the executive director of the Australian Strategic Policy Institute (ASPI), told news.com.au that the document is as close to a “smoking gun” as we’ve got.“I think this is significant because it clearly shows that Chinese scientists were thinking about military application for different strains of the coronavirus and thinking about how it could be deployed,” said Jennings.“It begins to firm up the possibility that what we have here is the accidental release of a pathogen for military use,” added Mr Jennings.He also said that the document may explain why China has been so reluctant for outside investigations into the origins of Covid-19.“If this was a case of transmission from a wet market it would be in China’s interest to co-operate … we’ve had the opposite of that.”Questions remain over the origins of the deadly virus after a much derided World Health Organisation (WHO) probe earlier this year, with the organisation ordering a further investigation which factors in the possibly of a lab leak.Most scientists have said there is no evidence that Covid-19 is manmade — but questions remain whether it may have escaped from a biolab in Wuhan — the Chinese region where the pandemic originated.China is known to have been carrying out high risk "gain of function" research at the Wuhan Institute of Virology (WIV) — which is near the outbreak's ground zero at the Huanan Seafood Market.There is no evidence so far to suggest it was intentionally released by China.Meanwhile, in Beijing, the state-run Global Times newspaper slammed The Australian for publishing the article to smear China.An academic book that explores bioterrorism and possibilities of viruses being used in warfare was interpreted as a conspiracy theory by The Australian, which deliberately and malignantly intends to invent pretexts to smear China, Chen Hong, a professor and director of the Australian Studies Center at East China Normal University, told the newspaper."It is a shame for anti-China forces in Australia to back their own ideology against China at the expense of basic professional journalistic ethics, conspiring to twist the real meaning of the book," Chen said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-probed-weaponising-coronaviruses-in-2015-reports-101620579770648.html
09-05-2021||World||Queen's cousin, Prince Michael of Kent, offers to sell access to Putin: Report||An investigative report by British media said Sunday that Queen Elizabeth II’s cousin, Prince Michael of Kent, was willing to use his royal status for personal profit and to seek favors from Russian President Vladimir Putin.The undercover investigation by the Sunday Times and Channel 4 saw reporters posing as investors of a fake South Korean gold company seeking contacts in the Kremlin to further its business in Russia.Prince Michael, 78, allegedly told the reporters by Zoom that he would give their company his royal endorsement in a recorded speech for a $200,000-fee. He added that he was happy to use his home in Kensington Palace as a backdrop for the endorsement.The royal’s business partner, Simon Reading, also reportedly told the fake investors that Michael could be hired for 10,000 pounds ($14,000) a day to make “confidential” representations on behalf of the fictitious gold firm, House of Haedong, to Putin.“If he (Prince Michael) is representing the House of Haedong, he could mention that to Putin and Putin would find the right person who is interested in South Korea or interested in gold,” Reading reportedly said. “It just opens the door, you know, which is so helpful.”He went on to describe Michael as “Her Majesty’s unofficial ambassador to Russia”, and that tension between the U.K. and Russia has not affected his relationship with Putin.Responding to the report, Michael’s office said he “has no special relationship with President Putin” and that the two men last met in 2003. The royal “earns his own living through a consultancy company that he has run for over 40 years.”“Lord Reading is a good friend, who in trying to help, made suggestions which Prince Michael would not have wanted, or been able, to fulfill,” his office said.Prince Michael and his wife, Princess Michael of Kent, aren't working royals and receive no public funds, but they are involved in some public duties including representing the queen at some engagements. Michael has represented the queen at state funerals in India, Cyprus and Swaziland in the past, according to the monarchy’s website.His biography said Michael is connected to Russia through his maternal grandmother, and is the first member of Britain’s royal family to learn Russian. He is involved in charity work in Russia and is patron of the Russo-British Chamber of Commerce.Reading said he regretted his “over-promise” in trying to facilitate an introduction to Michael.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/queens-cousin-prince-michael-of-kent-offers-to-sell-access-to-putin-report-101620578340073.html
09-05-2021||World||Siberian doctor who treated Kremlin critic Navalny goes missing, police say||A Siberian doctor who treated Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny after he collapsed on a flight in Russia last year has gone missing, Russian police said on Sunday.Police in the Omsk region, about 2,200 km (1,370 miles) east of Moscow, said physician Alexander Murakhovsky had left a hunting base in a forest on an all-terrain vehicle on Friday and had not been seen since.It said that emergency services, drones, a helicopter and volunteers on the ground had joined the search effort.Murakhovsky was the head doctor at the hospital in the Siberian city of Omsk that treated Navalny, President Vladimir Putin's most prominent critic. Murakhovsky was subsequently promoted to the post of regional health minister.After tense negotiations with the authorities, Navalny was airlifted to Germany from Omsk for further treatment.Laboratory tests in three European countries, confirmed by the global chemical weapons watchdog, established that Navalny had been poisoned with a Soviet-style Novichok nerve agent.The Kremlin has repeatedly rejected any suggestion that Russian authorities tried to kill Navalny. He was jailed in February on what he said were trumped up charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/siberian-doctor-who-treated-kremlin-critic-navalny-goes-missing-police-say-101620577900666.html
09-05-2021||World||China’s envoy announces rollout of Covid-19 support for India through Red Cross||China’s envoy on Sunday announced the rollout of equipment and $1 million in cash assistance through the Chinese Red Cross to back India’s Covid-19 response, though people familiar with developments said that New Delhi has made no response to Beijing’s formal offer to provide support. Ambassador Sun Weidong said in a string of tweets that the Red Cross Society of China had provided 100 oxygen concentrators, 40 ventilators, other supplies and the cash assistance to the Indian Red Cross Society through the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies. India has so far rebuffed offers of Covid-19-related assistance from only two countries – Pakistan and China – and the people cited above said on condition of anonymity that the government has no role in transfers of equipment and aid between the Indian Red Cross Society and the Red Cross in another country. “The government has no say in equipment or aid provided by the Chinese Red Cross to the Indian Red Cross. As things stand, there has been no formal response to China’s offer of assistance,” one of the people cited above said. Sun tweeted: “The first batch of 100 oxygen concentrators, 40 ventilators & other anti-epidemic supplies donated by the Red Cross Society of China (#RCSC) arrived in India today by Chinese cargo flight from Chengdu, China.” He added, “RCSC also decided to provide $1 million in cash assistance to the Indian Red Cross Society through International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies to help India fight against #Covid-19.” Sun said in another tweet: “Nothing in the world is more precious than people’s lives. The rights to subsistence & development are the basic human rights of paramount importance. Actions of RCSC shine the humanitarian spirit and highlight the purpose of dedication and protection of human life & health.” In recent days, Chinese officials and diplomats have used social media to play up the supply of thousands of oxygen concentrators and other oxygen-related equipment to India by Chinese firms. They have also highlighted that Chinese companies had stepped up the production of such equipment to meet India’s needs. The people pointed out that this equipment was being supplied by Chinese companies under commercial contracts with Indian firms. During a phone conversation with Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi on April 30, external affairs minister S Jaishankar emphasised the importance of China’s transport corridors and cargo flights remaining open to facilitate the movement of materials needed for India’s Covid-19 response. Even before the devastating second wave of Coronavirus infections hit India, officials had insisted that ending the military standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh sector is a prerequisite for restoring normal bilateral ties in all other spheres. The officials had also made it clear that relations could move forward in other spheres only after disengagement and de-escalation on the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-envoy-announces-rollout-of-covid-19-support-for-india-through-red-cross-101620577574501.html
09-05-2021||World||US turning corner on pandemic, says White House Covid-19 coordinator||The United States is closer to getting the coronavirus pandemic under control and health officials are focused on the next challenge: getting more Americans vaccinated, the White House Covid-19 response coordinator Jeff Zients said on Sunday."I would say we are turning the corner," Zients said in an interview with CNN's "State of the Union."Zients said about 58% of American adults have received at least one coronavirus vaccine shot. The task now is to continue building confidence in vaccines and get enough Americans vaccinated to mitigate the spread of the virus and its variants, he said.U.S. health officials are aiming to meet President Joe Biden's goal of 70% of American adults having at least one shot by the July 4 U.S. Independence Day.Zients said reaching that goal could help the country reach a sustainable low level of infections.About 46% of all Americans have received at least one coronavirus vaccine shot, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. (Graphic on global vaccinations) https://tmsnrt.rs/3tUM8taDr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said another surge in coronavirus infections would be unlikely if the Biden goal is met or exceeded."The larger proportion of the population that's vaccinated, the less likelihood that in a season like the coming fall or winter you're going to see a significant surge," Fauci said on NBC' "Meet the Press.""That's the reason why vaccinations are so important. That's the wild card that we have now that we didn't have last fall or the last winter."Zients defended the latest masking guidelines from the CDC, which recommends that fully vaccinated people should still wear masks at crowded outdoor events or when they go indoors in public settings with other people who may not be vaccinated.Some health experts have questioned whether the CDC guidelines are too strict, and that removing the indoor mask mandate for fully vaccinated people could encourage confidence in the vaccines. That move would not, however, protect unvaccinated people from contracting the virus from a carrier who has been vaccinated.The CDC guidelines will over time allow more people to take off their masks, Zients said, while acknowledging Americans' mask fatigue."We're getting there," Zients said. "And the light at the end of the tunnel is brighter and brighter. Let's keep up our guard."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-turning-corner-on-pandemic-says-white-house-covid-19-coordinator-101620576349515.html
09-05-2021||World||Facebook rules are ‘shambles,’ oversight board co-chairman says||Facebook Inc.’s internal rules for banning content are a “shambles,” and the company needs to fix the process to have credibility in enforcing them, a member of the social media giant’s independent content oversight board said.The comments by Michael McConnell, the panel’s co-chairman, follow its decision last week to leave in place a ban on former President Donald Trump for his posts surrounding the storming of the US Capitol by his supporters on Jan. 6.“Their rules are a shambles,” McConnell said on “Fox News Sunday.” “They are not transparent. They are unclear. They are internally inconsistent.”“We gave them a series of recommendations about how to make their rules clearer and more consistent,” McConnell said. “The hope is that they will use the next few months to do that and then, when they come back and look at this, they will be able to apply those rules in a straightforward way.”Facebook upheld its ban on Trump for six months. The company suspended his account after Trump encouraged his supporters to storm the Capitol in what became a deadly attempt to stop the counting of Electoral College votes for President Joe Biden. The ban was originally temporary, but was changed to an indefinite suspension the following day.‘Egging On’McConnell also said Trump’s posts were a “plain violation of Facebook’s rules” against praising dangerous individuals and organizations during a time of violence.During the Jan. 6 riot, Trump “issued these statements which were just egging on -- with perfunctory asking for peace, but mostly, he was just egging them on to continue,” McConnell said.Members of both parties in Congress have called for breaking up large tech companies, arguing that they exert monopolistic power on the marketplace, censor certain voices, and hold back innovation. Conservatives, including Republican Senator Josh Hawley of Missouri, have called for breaking up Facebook over Trump’s ban.Private CompanyMcConnell, a constitutional law professor at Stanford University and former federal judge, dismissed concerns that Facebook was violating Trump’s First Amendment rights by leaving the ban in place, saying the social media giant is a private company.“He’s a customer,” McConnell said. “Facebook is not a government and he is not a citizen of Facebook.”A lack of consistency and transparency around Facebook’s content rules do, though, contribute to questions about bias and unfairness, he said.“Fairness and consistency are absolute bedrocks of freedom of expression rules,” McConnell said. “If Facebook simply let Mr. Trump off the hook completely, it would not be equal treatment of everyone because all users of the platform are subject to the same set of rules, and that includes Mr. Trump.”McConnell dismissed concerns from Hawley and others that he and other members of the oversight board are “toadies” for Facebook because the company’s CEO Mark Zuckerberg appointed them.“I’ve gotten to know these 20 people around the world and the danger that they are toadies for Facebook is just about zero,” McConnell said, referring to the other members of the board. “Many of them have spent their careers criticizing Facebook. We are not beholden to Facebook.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-rules-are-shambles-oversight-board-co-chairman-says-101620576002835.html
09-05-2021||World||Palestinians fear loss of family homes as evictions loom||When Samira Dajani's family moved into their first real home in 1956 after years as refugees, her father planted trees in the garden, naming them for each of his six children.Today, two towering pines named for Mousa and Daoud stand watch over the entrance to the garden where they all played as children. Pink bougainvillea climbs an iron archway on a path leading past almond, orange and lemon trees to their modest stone house.“The Samira tree has no leaves,” she says, pointing to the cypress that bears her name. “But the roots are strong.”She and her husband, empty nesters with grown children of their own, may have to leave it all behind on Aug. 1. That's when Israel is set to forcibly evict them following a decades-long legal battle waged by ideological Jewish settlers against them and their neighbors.The Dajanis are one of several Palestinian families facing imminent eviction in the Sheikh Jarrah neighborhood of east Jerusalem. The families' plight has ignited weeks of demonstrations and clashes in recent days between protesters and Israeli police.It also highlights an array of discriminatory polices that rights groups say are aimed at pushing Palestinians out of Jerusalem to preserve its Jewish majority. The Israeli rights group B'Tselem and the New York-based Human Rights Watch both pointed to such policies as an example of what they say has become an apartheid regime.Israel rejects those accusations and says the situation in Sheikh Jarrah is a private real-estate dispute that the Palestinians have seized upon to incite violence. The Foreign Ministry did not respond to questions submitted by The Associated Press. A top municipal official and a settler group marketing “residential plots” in Sheikh Jarrah did not respond to requests for comment.Settler groups say the land was owned by Jews prior to the 1948 war surrounding Israel's creation. Israeli law allows Jews to reclaim such lands but bars Palestinians from recovering property they lost in the same war, even if they still reside in areas controlled by Israel.Samira Dajani's parents fled in 1948 from their home in Baka — now an upscale neighborhood in mostly Jewish west Jerusalem. After several years spent as refugees in Jordan, Syria and east Jerusalem, which was then controlled by Jordan, Jordanian authorities offered them one of several newly built homes in Sheikh Jarrah in exchange for giving up their refugee status.“I have beautiful memories from this house," says Dajani, now 70, recalling how she played with the other children in the close-knit neighborhood, where several other Palestinian refugee families had also been resettled. “It was like heaven after our exodus."Things changed after Israel captured east Jerusalem, along with the West Bank and Gaza, in the 1967 Mideast war, and annexed it in a move not recognized internationally. The Palestinians want all three territories for their future state and view east Jerusalem as their capital.In 1972, settler groups told the families that they were trespassing on Jewish-owned land. That was the start of a long legal battle that in recent months has culminated with eviction orders against 36 families in Sheikh Jarrah and two other east Jerusalem neighborhoods. Israeli rights groups say other families are also vulnerable, estimating that more than 1,000 Palestinians are at risk of being evicted.The Dajanis and other families have been ordered to leave by Aug. 1. A Supreme Court hearing in the case of another four families that was to be held on Monday was postponed for at least a month. If they lose the appeal, they could be forcibly evicted within days or weeks.A woman from another family in Sheikh Jarrah said it was “an inhumane act” to take away someone's home. She invited her parents to move in with her and her husband if they are evicted from the home where she was born and raised, but her father refused.“He said there is no way I’m leaving this neighborhood unless I’m dead," she said, requesting anonymity for fear of retribution by Israeli authorities. "It’s been 65 years that he’s lived in this neighborhood.”Israel views all of Jerusalem as its unified capital and says residents are treated equally. But east Jerusalem residents have different rights depending on whether they are Jewish or Palestinian.Jews born in east Jerusalem are automatically granted Israeli citizenship, and Jews from anywhere else in the world are eligible to become Israeli citizens.Palestinians born in east Jerusalem are granted a form of permanent residency that can be revoked if they spend too much time living outside the city. They can apply for Israeli citizenship but must go through a difficult and uncertain bureaucratic process that can take months or years. Most refuse, because they do not recognize Israel's annexation.Palestinians are also treated differently when it comes to housing, which will make it difficult for the Sheikh Jarrah families to remain in Jerusalem if they are evicted.After 1967, Israel expanded the city’s municipal boundaries to take in large areas of open land where it has since built Jewish settlements that are home to tens of thousands of people. At the same time, it set the boundaries of Palestinian neighborhoods, restricting their growth.Today, more than 220,000 Jews live in east Jerusalem, mostly in built-up areas that Israel considers to be neighborhoods of its capital. Most of east Jerusalem’s 350,000 Palestinian residents are crammed into overcrowded neighborhoods where there is little room to build.Palestinians say the expense and difficulty of obtaining permits forces them to build illegally or move to the occupied West Bank, where they risk losing their Jerusalem residency. Israeli rights groups estimate that of the 40,000 homes in Palestinian neighborhoods, half have been built without permits and are at risk of demolition.In part due to the protests, Israel has come under international pressure over Sheikh Jarrah, with both the United States and the European Union expressing concern. Rights groups say the government can halt or postpone the evictions if it wants to.In the meantime, Samira Dajani has planted her spring flowers in small pots that she'll be able to take with her if she is forced from her home in August. The trees named for her and her siblings will have to stay. She says she tries not to think about it.“I don’t feel sad or scared, I feel angry," she said. “God willing, these will not be our last days here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/palestinians-fear-loss-of-family-homes-as-evictions-loom-101620575720940.html
09-05-2021||World||‘No doubt’ US has undercounted its Covid-19 deaths: Anthony Fauci||There’s “no doubt” the U.S. has undercounted its number of deaths from Covid-19, which now stand at over 581,000, President Joe Biden’s top medical adviser said.But Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” that a University of Washington analysis published May 6 that the true toll is probably over 900,000 is “a bit more than I would have thought.”“Sometimes the models are right on line, sometimes they’re a bit off,” he said.With the U.S. vaccination pace slowing, Fauci said using “trusted messengers” will be an important way to overcome hesitancy in some communities and get the nation closer to an 80% vaccination rate.“It could be sports figures, it could be entertainment figures, it could be clergy or it could be your family doctor,” he said.He spoke hours after celebrities from Prince Harry to Jennifer Lopez appeared on a TV and streaming special about the importance of vaccines. Biden and the first lady also recorded remarks for the event, as did Pope Francis.The wider use of walk-in clinics or pharmacies is another major strategy to “get that last group of people who seem to be recalcitrant,” Fauci said, by making the process easier.Looking ahead, if the U.S. reaches Biden’s current goal of 70% or more people having at least one shot by July 4, “you may see blips, but if we handle them well, it is unlikely that you’ll see the kind of surge that we saw in the late fall and the early winter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-doubt-us-has-undercounted-its-covid-19-deaths-anthony-fauci-101620572340044.html
09-05-2021||World||UK to allow entry from 12 ‘green list’ countries, territories starting May 17. Here’s the list||The British government on Friday released new guidance on travel restrictions as the country approaches the third phase of the four-step roadmap out of lockdown. The United Kingdom announced a new “green list” of countries and territories where people will be allowed to travel from May 17 without having to quarantine on their return.Britain has classified countries in three categories - green, amber and red. The classification is partly based on the Covid-19 situation in those countries and the success of their vaccine rollout. India continues to be on the UK’s red list as it is witnessing a deadly second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Individuals who have been in a country or territory placed on the red list in the last 10 days will be allowed to enter Britain only if they have British or Irish nationality, or have residence rights in the UK but only on the condition of mandatory quarantine in a government-approved hotel for 10 days. Others will be refused entry to the UK.Also Read | Covid-19: Canada closely looking at UK move to place India on ‘red list’People arriving from amber list countries or territories will have to quarantine at home or at the place of their stay for 10 days. They also have to take a Covid-19 test on or before the second day and on or after the eighth day of their quarantine period.A dozen countries and territories have been placed on the green list which puts the least number of restrictions on travellers. Those arriving in England from territories on the green list must take a Covid-19 test on or before the second day of their arrival. The traveller won’t need to quarantine unless the test result is positive.Here’s the UK's green list of countries and territories:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-to-allow-entry-from-these-green-list-countries-territories-starting-may-17-101620570816174.html
09-05-2021||World||Vietnam says new Covid-19 outbreak threatens stability||Vietnam reported 102 new Covid-19 infections on Sunday as the Southeast Asian country battled a fast-spreading outbreak which Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh said threatened political stability if not brought under control.The new cases raised the total to 3,332 since the pandemic began, with 35 deaths, the Ministry of Health said.Vietnam has been praised for its record in containing its outbreaks quickly through targeted mass testing and a strict, centralised quarantine programme.But a new outbreak emerged late last month and has spread rapidly in the country, infecting 333 people in 25 cities and provinces, including the capital Hanoi, and leaving around 10 hospitals under lockdown."The risk for the outbreak to spread nationwide is very high," Chinh said on Sunday. "We need to deploy stronger measures to curb the outbreak."If the outbreak spread nationwide, it would affect political stability, people's health and the National Assembly and People's Council elections, and the consequence would be unpredictable."Chinh said coronavirus infections in neighbouring countries has put pressure on Vietnam, adding that illegal immigrants were among the prime sources of the virus.Of the 102 new cases, 92 were transmitted locally, the health ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vietnam-says-new-covid-19-outbreak-threatens-stability-101620570659487.html
09-05-2021||World||EU doesn't renew order for AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine||The EU Commission did not renew its order for AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine, the European Union's Internal Market Commissioner said Sunday.“We have not renewed the order for after June. We'll see what will happen next,” Thierry Breton told French radio France Inter.The announcement comes one day after the European Union cemented its support for Pfizer-BioNTech's vaccine by agreeing to a massive contract extension for a potential 1.8 billion doses through 2023.Two weeks ago, the EU launched legal proceedings against AstraZeneca for allegedly failing to respect the terms of its contract with the 27-nation bloc.The AstraZeneca vaccine had been central to Europe's immunization campaign and a linchpin in the global strategy to get vaccines to poorer countries since it is cheaper and easier to use than the Pfizer vaccine. But the slow pace of deliveries has frustrated the Europeans and they have held the company responsible for partly delaying their vaccine rollout.Across the Channel, Britain has made the AstraZeneca vaccine the centerpiece of its successful vaccination campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-doesn-t-renew-order-for-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-101620567333394.html
09-05-2021||World||Bangladesh turns down jailed former PM Khaleda Zia's request to fly abroad||Bangladesh on Sunday rejected a petition by jailed former Prime Minister Khaleda Zia to go abroad on a medical visit, saying "there is no judicial provision that permits a jailed convict to go abroad for treatment".The 76-year-old chief of main Opposition Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP), who is serving a 17-year jail term on charges of embezzling foreign donations, has been temporarily released from prison amidst the Covid-19 pandemic.Zia contracted the virus in early April. As per the doctors, she has now tested negative for the infection and is recovering at a hospital here."There is no judicial provision that permits a jailed convict to go abroad for treatment," Home Minister Asaduzzaman Khan told a news briefing on Sunday, hours after the Law Ministry turned down a petition on her behalf seeking permission to fly abroad for further treatment.Officials said the Law Ministry reviewed the legal scope and barriers for Zia's visit abroad and sent its opinion to the minister.The government officially turned down the application after Zia's doctors said she had tested negative for the virus."The third phase test has found her COVID-19 negative but she is now in hospital for post COVID-19 treatments," said Zia's doctor and BNP vice chairman AZM Zahid Hossain.Doctors close to the family said uncontrolled diabetes and arthritis had complicated the former prime minister's treatment."It is a matter of hope that she is showing a sign of progress, though her health condition requires her to stay in CCU (critical care unit) of the hospital," said BNP secretary general Mirza Fakhrul Islam Alamgir."You know she is suffering from different ailments many of which aggravated due to her imprisonment and age," he added.Zia tested positive for coronavirus on April 11 and was admitted to a private hospital on April 27 after she had trouble breathing. She was shifted to the hospital's critical care unit on May 3.On May 6, Zia's younger brother Shamim Eskandar met the home minister seeking permission for Zia's treatment abroad. The application was forwarded to the Law Ministry.Zia is serving a 17-year prison term in two graft cases since February 8, 2018.She was sent to jail by a local court on charges of embezzling foreign donations meant for an orphanage, named after her slain husband and president Ziaur Rehman, during her premiership between 2001 and 2006.Rehman, a military ruler-turned-politician, was the founder of the BNP.She was convicted in another corruption case later the same year, though her party claims both cases are politically motivated.In March 2020, Zia was released from jail for six months on condition that she would stay at home, amid the coronavirus outbreak. In March, the Bangladesh government extended the suspension of the sentence for a second time by six months.Zia has served thrice as the premier of Bangladesh since 1991. Her party suffered a miserable defeat in the 2018 elections bagging only six seats in the 300-seat parliament.Her conviction on "moral turpitude" charges de-barred her from contesting the polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bangladesh-turns-down-jailed-former-pm-khaleda-zia-s-request-to-fly-abroad-101620566495339.html
09-05-2021||World||Saudi Arabia backs India-Pakistan dialogue to resolve issues such as Kashmir||Saudi Arabia has welcomed the decision by India and Pakistan to observe a ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) and backed a dialogue between the South Asian rivals to address all outstanding issues, including the Kashmir dispute. The kingdom’s position was articulated in a joint statement issued by Pakistan and Saudi Arabia late on Saturday after a meeting between Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman and visiting Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan. It came against the backdrop of speculation about the role being played by Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to foster dialogue between New Delhi and Islamabad. Khan was on an official visit to Saudi Arabia during May 7-9. Pakistan Army chief Gen Qamar Bajwa too visited Saudi Arabia last week. Both Bajwa and Khan held meetings with the Saudi crown prince and the talks were seen as part of Pakistan’s efforts to normalise strained relations with Saudi Arabia. The joint statement said the Saudi crown prince “welcomed the recent understanding reached between the military authorities of Pakistan and India regarding ceasefire at the Line of Control (LoC), which is based on a 2003 understanding between Pakistan and India”. It added that Saudi Arabia and Pakistan “emphasised the importance of dialogue between Pakistan and India to resolve the outstanding issues between the two countries, especially Jammu and Kashmir dispute, to ensure peace and stability in the region”. However, a readout issued by the Saudi side on the meeting between Khan and the crown prince made no mention of India or the Kashmir issue. There was no immediate response from Indian officials to the joint statement. There has been speculation about the role played by Saudi Arabia and the UAE to reduce tensions between India and Pakistan since the 2019 Pulwama suicide bombing, which triggered a tense military standoff. The UAE envoy to the US, Yousef Al Otaiba, confirmed last month that his country played a role in bringing together India and Pakistan for talks aimed at calming tensions over the Kashmir issue and getting bilateral ties “back to a healthy level”. It is understood that senior Indian and Pakistani security officials have met in London and Dubai for secret talks in recent months. The surprise decision by the Indian and Pakistani armies to recommit themselves to the 2003 ceasefire on the LoC from February 25 is seen as the outcome of these contacts. During the Pakistani prime minister’s visit to Saudi Arabia, the two sides reviewed all aspects of bilateral cooperation and discussed regional and international issues. They agreed to intensify contacts and cooperation between government officials and the private sector, and the crown prince assured Khan of Saudi Arabia’s continued support for his vision to transform Pakistan into a modern welfare state. Both sides also expressed satisfaction at cooperation in military and security ties, and agreed to augment collaboration to achieve mutually agreed goals, the joint statement said. The two sides said an “inclusive, broad-based and comprehensive political settlement” is the only way forward in Afghanistan. They also signed several agreements on establishing a Saudi-Pakistan Supreme Coordination Council, combating illicit trafficking in narcotics and drugs and financing projects in energy, hydropower, infrastructure and transport and communication.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/saudi-arabia-backs-india-pakistan-dialogue-to-resolve-issues-such-as-kashmir-101620569834268.html
09-05-2021||World||China to create 'line of separation' at Mount Everest summit on Covid-19 fears||China will set up "a line of separation" at the summit of Mount Everest to prevent the mingling of climbers from Covid-hit Nepal and those ascending from the Tibetan side as a precautionary measure, Chinese state media reported on Sunday.Everest base camp on the Nepalese side has been hit by coronavirus cases since late April. The Nepalese government, starved of tourism revenue, has yet to cancel the spring climbing season, usually from April to early June before the monsoon rains.It was not immediately clear how the line would be enforced on the summit, a tiny, perilous and inhospitable area the size of a dining table.A small team of Tibetan climbing guides will ascend Everest and set up the "line of separation" at the summit to stop any contact between mountaineers from both sides of the peak, Xinhua news agency reported, citing the head of Tibet's sports bureau.A group of 21 Chinese nationals are en route to the summit on the Tibetan side, Xinhua reported.The Tibetan guides will set up the separation line ahead of their arrival, the state-run news agency said, without describing what the line would look like.It was also unclear whether the Tibetan guides would be the ones enforcing the "separation", or whether they would remain in the so-called death zone, where many lives have been lost due to a dearth of oxygen, to hold the line.The top of the 8,848-metre peak is a small mound of snow with barely enough space for half a dozen climbers and guides at any one time.China has not allowed any foreign climbers to ascend from the Tibetan side since the outbreak of the new coronavirus last year due to infection concerns.Tourists in the Everest scenic area in Tibet are also banned from visiting the base camp on the Tibetan side.Mainland China on Sunday reported 12 new Covid-19 cases on May 8 - all of which involved travellers arriving from overseas - up from seven a day earlier. Nepal reported 9,023 new cases on Friday, the country's biggest one-day increase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-to-create-line-of-separation-at-mount-everest-summit-on-covid-19-fears-101620566113157.html
09-05-2021||World||Florida weighs allowing limited harvest of goliath grouper||Florida may lift its three-decade ban on catching and killing goliath grouper. Wildlife officials say the coastal fish's numbers have recovered sufficiently from near-extinction to allow a limited harvest, but the proposal is strongly opposed by environmentalists who say it is still at risk.On Wednesday, the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission will consider a staff proposal to allow 100 goliaths to be caught and kept annually during a four-year period. Supported by fishing groups, the proposal calls for a lottery to issue $300-per-week licenses that allow each recipient to catch and kill one goliath, with proceeds funding research of the species.The goliath almost died off in the 1980s from overfishing and pollution and is not allowed to be caught in any other state or federal waters.The fish is a favorite of underwater photographers for its docile demeanor and mammoth size — adults typically weigh 400 pounds (180 kilograms) but can exceed 800 (360 kilograms). While the species' population is unknown, state officials believe it has grown enough to allow the limited catch.“Goliath is a recovering stock, becoming more abundant in parts of Florida, especially on artificial reefs,” the commission staff wrote in its recommendation.That's a contention disputed by those who oppose lifting the fishing ban. They point to major die-offs over the past decade from cold weather and other causes.“The (wildlife commission) claims the population is growing, but that is just not possible,” said Christopher Koenig, who along with his wife, Felicia Coleman, has studied goliaths for almost 30 years. Koenig and Coleman are both retired marine biologists with Florida State University.Coleman also points out that the goliath contains high levels of the neurotoxin methylmercury, making it dangerous to eat, particularly for children and pregnant women.“Why would you open? You are endangering people,” she said.The goliath once ranged over a wide swath of ocean territory, from the Carolinas to the Caribbean and the Atlantic Ocean off Brazil, but its numbers dropped sharply starting in the 1960s. By 1990, when Florida banned its catch, it was almost gone.First, it was overfished — the goliath is easy to catch, living in known locations and spawning at specific spots. Florida’s proposal would prohibit catching the fish at spawning sites and during spawning season, which lasts from July to September.Also, the goliath's first six years are spent hiding among mangroves, trees that grow in shallow coastal waters. Many mangroves have been lost to development and pollution, limiting where juveniles can grow.Today, the goliath is found mainly off South Florida. Adults live in reefs and shipwrecks, digging holes that provide hiding spaces for other fish.A limited harvest “would provide a unique recreational fishing opportunity in Florida,” the wildlife commission staff wrote. In 2018, the commission, which then had five of its current members, pushed aside a similar proposal.The proposal limits the size of goliaths that could be killed to a range of 4 to 6.5 feet (1.2 to 2 meters) and 70 to 200 pounds (32 to 90 kilograms) — that’s a young adult of 7 to 10 years. Outside that range they would be released, just like all goliaths caught now are supposed to be, though poaching is a problem. Goliaths have a lifespan of 35 years or more.Coastal Conservation Association Florida, a recreational fishing group, believes the goliath's numbers can handle the limited catch, said Trip Aukeman, its advocacy director.“The fishery looks healthy and there should be some kind of harvest open to recreational fishermen,” Aukeman said. A limited catch would provide scientists with samples to ascertain the species' health, he said.Some fishermen also argue a large goliath population depletes snappers and other game fish, but Koenig and Coleman disagree, saying goliaths primarily eat crabs and less-prized fish.Aukeman agrees methylmercury is an issue, saying his group advocates lowering the minimum and maximum size at which the goliath can be kept. Those younger fish would be less likely to be toxic and could be eaten.“I don’t believe they should be caught just to get a picture — they need to be used,” Aukeman said.But Koenig and Coleman say the goliath's future is too precarious to allow any harvest.They argue that the fish's numbers remain below historic levels and appear to be plateauing or decreasing, and that it is susceptible to mass die-offs. One danger is that juveniles under 6 years are vulnerable to frigid weather — Koenig and Coleman say a prolonged cold snap that hit South Florida in 2010 killed 95% of that age group.All ages are susceptible to red tide, a toxic algae bloom that spreads over massive areas. Outbreaks occur naturally but are also spurred by fertilizer runoff and sewage.Harvest opponents say instead of catching goliaths, Florida should use the fish to lure scuba divers to the state. A 2016 University of Miami survey of out-of-state divers showed they would pay more than $300 for an outing to a goliath congregation site, not including what they would spend for hotels, restaurants and other area establishments.Gerald Carroll, who owns a Palm Beach County dive center, said trips to see goliaths account for 25% of his revenue. They are popular with divers because they don't flee, and with guides because they stay at the same reefs and wrecks.“It is very easy for us to arrange trips to go see them, and when we jump in the water, even if there are 10 or 15 divers, they don't get scared away,” Carroll said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/florida-weighs-allowing-limited-harvest-of-goliath-grouper-101620564468077.html
09-05-2021||World||Covid-19: Bangladesh suspends flights from Nepal||Bangladesh on Sunday announced it is suspending flights from Nepal amid a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases in the Himalayan nation.The ban will be effective from Monday, according to Bangladesh's Civil Aviation Authority of Bangladesh (CAAB)."In order to reduce the risk of further spreading of coronavirus from the increasingly affected friendly countries, it has been decided to place Nepal in the list of Group A of the circular under reference," a notice by the CAAB read."This circular will be effective from May 10 2021 until further notice and all other instructions in the circular under reference will apply in this regard," it added.Earlier on May 1, the CAAB issued a circular imposing special conditions on travel to 38 countries, considering the risk of Covid-19 transmission, Dhaka Tribune reported.According to the circular, countries have been categorized under three groups-- A, B and C -- for transporting passengers.For countries under Group A, no incoming or outgoing passengers will be allowed to and from Bangladesh.Nepal is reeling under the second wave of coronavirus.On Sunday, the country reported 8,777 new cases of coronavirus infection. With this, the Covid-19 caseload has reached 394,667 on Saturday taking the tally close to 400,000.The countrywide Covid-19 mortality toll stands at 3,632. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-bangladesh-suspends-flights-from-nepal-101620564388676.html
09-05-2021||World||Sadiq Khan re-elected as London mayor. But this YouTube prankster got nearly 50,000 votes just for ‘vibes’||Labour Party candidate Sadiq Khan was re-elected as Mayor of London on Saturday after beating Conservative rival Shaun Bailey in a close contest. Khan, son of a Pakistani immigrant bus driver, won 55.2% of the popular vote but only after entering a run-off with Bailey as neither of them managed to get a majority in the first round of voting.While Sadiq Khan, the first Muslim mayor of England’s capital, was seen as the favourite throughout the campaign, the highlight of the day was a British YouTube prankster who received nearly 50,000 votes. Niko Omilana, best known for comedy videos and pranks on YouTube, secured 2% of the total votes polled, pushing actor Laurence Fox to sixth place.Omilana, a self-proclaimed Supreme Leader of the Niko Defence League (NDL), had released a manifesto in which he promised that the British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will be “forced to shush”. The manifesto included pledges to employ more policemen for parliament “where all the real criminals are” and ban Prince Andrew, who came under scrutiny for his ties to convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein, from going “within 4 mile radius of any school”.“Anyone who clapped for the NHS but still voted Conservative will be forced to participate in an annual purge,” the manifesto posted on Omilana’s Twitter account reads. Niko Omilana’s manifesto post has been retweeted more than 14,000 times so far.MY FULL MANIFESTO #NikoForMayor pic.twitter.com/6OE9qmugd6Also Read | Sadiq Khan wins second term as London mayor after close contestThe 23-year-old prankster received 49,628 votes in the first round, more than what over a dozen of mayoral candidates secured. After the final results were declared, Omilana said that other candidates put millions into their campaigns but the NDL beat them just with “vibes”, something he had repeatedly claimed to bring to London as a mayor.WE CAME 5TH!!! WE ARE THE BIGGEST INDEPENDENT PARTY IN LONDON, PEOPLE PUT MILLIONS INTO THEIR CAMPAIGNS AND WE BEAT THEM WITH VIBES! BIG UP EVERYONE WHO SUPPORTED AND BIG UP THE NDL #NikoForMayor pic.twitter.com/fm46a3ZkhDLondon has more than six million registered voters for the mayoral election that normally takes place every four years. The recently-concluded election was originally scheduled for May 2020 but was postponed due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The voting took place on May 6, 2021, as the nation witnessed a decline in Covid-19 cases following an aggressive vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/this-youtube-prankster-won-nearly-50-000-votes-in-london-mayoral-election-101620562623452.html
09-05-2021||World||Egypt offers to cut compensation claim for blocking of Suez canal||Egypt offered to reduce claims by a third for compensation from owners of the container ship that blocked the Suez Canal in March, Suez Canal Authority Chairman Osama Rabie told MBC Masr channel television channel.The canal authority said it would reduce the claims for compensation to $600 million from $900 million, according to Rabie. The SCA also offered payment terms to owners of the Ever Given container ship but they have yet to respond, he said.An Egyptian court granted the Suez Canal Authority’s request for the seizure of the vessel in mid-April as compensation talks dragged on. The blockage roiled shipping markets because hundreds of vessels had to wait for the canal -- which can shave two weeks off a journey between Asia and Europe -- to reopen.The canal authority has said compensation is needed to cover losses of transit fees, damage to the waterway during the dredging and salvage efforts, and for the cost of equipment and labor.The 400-meter-long Ever Given is owned by Japan’s Shoei Kisen Kaisha Ltd. and was being chartered by Taiwan’s Evergreen Line when it got stuck in the southern end of the canal for six days.Egypt Suez Canal revenue increased by 2.8% in the first four months of 2021 to $1.96 billion compared with with $1.9 billion a year earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/egypt-offers-to-cut-compensation-claim-for-blocking-of-suez-canal-101620558641129.html
09-05-2021||World||Putin reviews Russian military might as tensions with West soar||President Vladimir Putin reviewed Russia's traditional World War Two victory parade on Sunday, a patriotic display of raw military power that this year coincides with soaring tensions with the West.The parade on Moscow's Red Square commemorating the 76th anniversary of the Soviet Union's victory over Nazi Germany in World War Two featured over 12,000 troops and more than 190 pieces of military hardware, including intercontinental ballistic missile launchers, and a fly-past by nearly 80 military aircraft under cloudy skies.Putin, who has been in power as either president or prime minister since 1999, stood beside Soviet war veterans on a review platform set up on Red Square."Unfortunately there are once again attempts to deploy many things from the ideology of the Nazis, those who were obsessed with a delusional theory on their exclusiveness. And not only (by) all sorts of radicals and international terrorist groups," Putin said in what appeared to be a common denunciation of the West but what the Kremlin said was aimed at the rise of neo-Nazism in Europe."Russia will again and again uphold international law, but at the same time we will firmly protect national interests (and) ensure the security of our people."This year's parade precedes parliamentary elections in September and comes at a time when Moscow's relations with the West are acutely strained over issues ranging from the conflict in Ukraine to the fate of jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny.The United States and Russia have expelled each other's diplomats in recent months in a series of retaliatory moves and Moscow and EU member states have been involved in a similar tit-for-tat diplomatic dispute.Sunday's parade follows a massive show of Russian military force near the borders of Ukraine and in Crimea, which Russia annexed from Kyiv in 2014, and an uptick in fighting in eastern Ukraine between Russian-backed separatists and Ukrainian government forces.Moscow said the build-up, which alarmed the West, was a training exercise in response to activity by the NATO military alliance and Ukraine. It has since ordered a withdrawal of some troops.Smaller military parades took place on Sunday in cities across Russia and in annexed Crimea, and at Russia's Hmeymim air base in Syria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/putin-reviews-russian-military-might-as-tensions-with-west-soar-101620562245644.html
09-05-2021||World||Nepal reports 8,777 new Covid-19 cases; tally reaches 394,667||Nepal reported 8,777 new cases of coronavirus, taking the nationwide tally to 394,667, while the death toll rose to 3,720 with 78 fatalities, health officials said on Sunday.Currently, there are 88,160 active coronavirus cases in the country, health ministry spokesperson Dr Jageshwor Gautam said.While 6,730 patients are admitted in hospitals, 81,430 are in home isolation, he said.As many as 4,022 patients have recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours, Gautam said, adding that the recovery rate stands at 76.7 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-reports-8-777-new-covid-19-cases-tally-reaches-394667-101620562198262.html
09-05-2021||World||Pakistan records over 3,700 fresh Covid-19 infections, 118 related deaths||The worsening Covid-19 situation in Pakistan does not seem to abate just yet, as the country recorded 3,785 new cases in the last 24 hours.With the 118 new deaths, the total coronavirus death toll in Pakistan reached 18,915. However, the total Covid-19 cases reached 58,026 on Sunday.Citing the official data by the National Command and Operation Centre (NCOC), Geo News reported that 40,736 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours out of which 3,785 tests came positive.Meanwhile, in order to curb the rising number of coronavirus infections, Pakistan has imposed a 10-day countrywide lockdown from May 8.The Pakistan government has already declared May 8 to 15 as Eid holidays and now there will be a complete ban on unnecessary movement of people and gathering of any kind at any place during these 10 days of lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-records-over-3-700-fresh-covid-19-infections-118-related-deaths-101620560503084.html
09-05-2021||World||Chinese rocket debris falls into Indian Ocean||The remains of a Chinese rocket crashed into the Indian Ocean on Sunday with much of the debris burning up during the re-entry into the earth’s atmosphere, China’s space agency said.The coordinates, cited by the China Manned Space Agency (CMSA) and shared by official news agency, Xinhua, pointed to the location of the impact near the Maldives islands.“The debris of the last stage of the Long March-5B Y2 carrier rocket re-entered the atmosphere at 10.24 a.m. on Sunday (Beijing Time),” Xinhua reported, adding: “The vast majority of the device burned up during the re-entry, and the rest of the debris fell into a sea area with the centre at 2.65 degrees north latitude and 72.47 degrees east longitude.”The Long March-5B Y2 rocket, carrying the Tianhe module, the first and core module for the construction of China’s space station, launched from the Wenchang Spacecraft Launch Site on the coast of the southern island province of Hainan on April 29.The re-entry of the debris of the Chinese rocket into the earth’s atmosphere drew strong criticism from Nasa, which said China was failing to “meet responsible standards”.“Spacefaring nations must minimise the risks to people and property on Earth of re-entries of space objects and maximise transparency regarding those operations,” Nasa administrator Bill Nelson said in a statement released on the space agency’s website on Sunday.“China is failing to meet responsible standards regarding their space debris,” he added.Chinese state media dismissed the criticism, saying the so-called “uncontrolled re-entry” of China’s rocket debris a groundless, false accusation.Quoting observers, the Global Times said it is “completely normal for rocket debris to return to Earth and has been a common practice carried out by global participants in the aerospace field, including China and the US”.“It is common practice across the world for upper stages of rockets to burn up while reentering the atmosphere,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, Wang Wenbin, told a regular media briefing on May 7.“To my knowledge, the upper stage of this rocket has been deactivated, which means most of its parts will burn up upon re-entry, making the likelihood of damage to aviation or ground facilities and activities extremely low,” Wang said at the time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-rocket-debris-falls-into-indian-ocean-101620560773461.html
09-05-2021||World||CDC limits reviews of vaccinated individuals infected with Covid-19, spurring concerns||Federal health officials this month decided to limit how they monitor vaccinated people who have been infected with Covid-19, drawing concern from some scientists who say that may mean missing needed data showing why and how it happens.At the end of April, more than 9,000 Americans were reported to be infected after being vaccinated, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). While that’s a tiny percentage of the 95 million people fully inoculated at the time, researchers still want to find out what specific mechanisms may be spurring the infections.Rare breakthrough cases are expected since no vaccines are 100% effective. But tracking and sequencing the cases helps in figuring out who may be more at risk, whether new variants evade the vaccines and when protection from the shots begins to wane. At the same time, those infected -- some of whom are suffering widespread medical issues, even if they’re not hospitalized -- say they feel lost as a result of the lack of information.“We shouldn’t be narrowing the focus, we should be broadening and develop a systematic plan,” said Eric Topol, director of the Scripps Research Translational Institute in La Jolla.At the start of May, the CDC shifted from monitoring all reported breakthroughs to only those that result in hospitalization or death, Tom Clark, head of the vaccine evaluation unit for the CDC’s vaccine task force, said in an interview. The goal of the new strategy, according to the agency: maximize the quality of data collected on cases.The CDC made the shift because the data collected so far on breakthroughs don’t show worrying patterns, suggesting the focus should be on the most severe cases, Clark said. He added that the agency has planned other vaccine studies, including one with a network of health centers, to compare disease severity and frequency of variant infections between vaccinated and unvaccinated people.“I don’t think we’re missing out on this data,” Clark said. “It’s just sort of a package of how we’re looking at these questions.”Michael Kinch, a former drug developer who’s now associate vice chancellor at Washington University in St. Louis, says as much information as possible should be recorded on breakthroughs. Cases that don’t rise to hospitalization are still important to track, he said, since symptoms that aren’t as severe for someone could eventually lead to hospitalizations. Non-life-threatening symptoms can impact someone’s life greatly, and evolve over time, Kinch said.“It’s essential that we stay on top of this,” he added. “If we let our guard our down, we will pay the price.”Huge PriceIn late March, several days after she began feeling headaches and light-headedness, Melissa Muldoon, a 35-year-old resident of Buffalo, New York, went on a run and lost consciousness.Muldoon was taken to an emergency room, where she took a Covid-19 test, she said in an interview. The next day, it came back positive more than a month after she had been fully vaccinated. A week later, she began developing new symptoms, she said, including a loss of smell for certain foods, a racing heart and muscle twitches.She said some health professionals questioned how much of a role Covid played, given she was inoculated. But Muldoon wonders how it could be anything else given the quick onset and combination of symptoms.“I’m anxious about what happens if there’s no answer,” she said, “and it just keeps up with random problems or strange things happening with my body that I haven’t experienced before.”What’s KnownWhat’s known so far about breakthroughs is encouraging for the vaccination effort, scientists say, with current research indicating that people in breakthrough cases tend to be either asymptomatic or to have only mild symptoms. Scientists have also detected infectees that don’t spread Covid to others. But little else is known. Clinical trials weren’t designed to study how the vaccines perform in specific subgroups and people with certain medical conditions weren’t included, said Lee Harrison, a professor of medicine and epidemiology at the University of Pittsburgh.At a more granular level, the specific mechanisms that explain how breakthroughs occur should be further investigated, said Alex Greninger, assistant director of the clinical virology laboratories at the University of Washington Medical Center. The conventional thinking is that those who mount less of a response to vaccines would be more susceptible to getting breakthroughs infections, he said. But Greninger said he’s seen a few cases where people developed strong immune responses to the vaccines, yet still got infected.Link to VariantsScientists are also trying to figure out whether a disproportionate number of breakthroughs are linked to variants. However, studying all this is difficult given that number of cases is small and some may not be detected at all since many are asymptomatic or have only mild symptoms, said Stefan Green, co-principal investigator at the Regional Innovative Public Health Laboratory at Rush University.Green said he’s also seen in a few cases that viral loads are too low to conduct whole genome sequencing on, similar to what some other researchers have found.Breana Landon, a 23-year-old Utah resident, has also been experiencing ongoing symptoms.Landon tested positive for Covid in late March after being fully vaccinated, she said. It was her second time testing positive. In the first time she was infected last fall, before getting vaccinated, she had respiratory problems that developed into pneumonia. This time, she experienced a whole new set of symptoms, including persisting heart palpitations and pain.‘Dead End’“I feel a little lost, almost, kind of at a dead end,” Landon said in an interview. She recognized it’s possible she never fully recovered from the first round of Covid, but she had gotten multiple negative tests before she tested positive again.When she called with her local health department, they told her she probably got infected with a variant but didn’t ask further, she said. “They didn’t want to do a PCR test, do any sequencing on it or research it further, which made me feel even more at a dead end,” Landon said. “I mean, isn’t this something we want to look into? We’re in the middle of a pandemic, and don’t we want to research this and find out what’s going on?”Jenny Johnson, a public information officer at the Utah Department of Health, said the agency encourages people to get the appropriate PCR testing within 48 hours of a positive rapid test. Tracking down samples for sequencing is challenging since they’re taken from PCR tests, which is up to the individual to take, she said.Treading CarefullyThose who experience breakthroughs also feel like they must tread carefully even when talking about their experiences.Muldoon posted about her situation on Facebook because she wanted to hear from others with similar symptoms. But she said, “I felt conflicted talking about it because I don’t want it to seem like I’m encouraging people not to get vaccinated.”Peyton Azar felt similarly about her breakthrough experience. The 21-year-old is on immunosuppressants for a kidney transplant and has had to go to the emergency room for the common cold before, she said. Yet when she got Covid after vaccination in early April, she felt only mild cold-like symptoms.She’s always appreciated vaccines in general, she said. “I think getting Covid with the vaccine and seeing how mild it was, I appreciate it even more.”Even then, “I’ve been scared that someone will take this information and be like, ‘oh well I heard of a girl who got Covid even after she got vaccinated, so the vaccines don’t work.’ ”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cdc-limits-reviews-of-vaccinated-individuals-infected-with-covid-19-spurring-concerns-101620558894009.html
09-05-2021||World||Death toll soars to 50 in school bombing in Afghanistan's capital Kabul||Grieving families buried their dead Sunday following a horrific bombing at a girls’ school in the Afghan capital that killed 50 people, many of them pupils between 11 and 15 years old.The number of wounded in Saturday's attack climbed to more than 100, said Interior Ministry spokesman Tariq Arian. In the western neighborhood of Dasht-e-Barchi, families buried their dead amid angry recriminations at a government they said has failed to protect them amid repeated attacks in the mostly Shiite Muslim neighborhood.“The government reacts after the incident, it doesn’t do anything before the incident,” said Mohammad Baqir, Alizada, 41, who had gathered to bury his niece, Latifa, a Grade 11 student the Syed Al-Shahda school.Three explosions outside the school entrance struck as students were leaving for the day, said Arian. The blasts targeted Afghanistan’s ethnic Hazaras who dominate the Dasht-e-Barchi neighborhood, where the bombings occurred. Most Hazaras are Shiite Muslims. The Taliban denied responsibility, condemning the attack and the many deaths.The first explosion came from a vehicle packed with explosives, followed by two others, said Arian, adding that the casualty figures could still rise.In the capital rattled by relentless bombings, Saturday's attack was among the worst. Criticism has mounted over lack of security and growing fears of even more violence as the U.S. and NATO complete their final military withdrawal from Afghanistan.The Dasht-e-Barchi area has been hit by several incidents of violence targeting minority Shiites and most often claimed by the Islamic State affiliate operating in the country. No one has yet claimed Saturday’s bombings.In this same neighborhood in 2018, a school bombing killed 34 people, mostly students. In September 2018 a wrestling club was attacked killing 24 people and in May 2020 a maternity hospital was brutally attacked killing 24 people, including pregnant women and infants. And in October 2020, the Kawsar-e-Danish tutoring center was attacked, killing 30 people.Most of the attacks were claimed by the Islamic State affiliate operating in Afghanistan.The radical Sunni Muslim group has declared war on Afghanistan’s Shiites. Washington blamed IS for a vicious attack last year in a maternity hospital in the same area that killed pregnant women and newborn babies.Soon after the bombing, angry crowds attacked ambulances and even beat health workers as they tried to evacuate the wounded, Health Ministry spokesman Ghulam Dastigar Nazari said. He had implored residents to cooperate and allow ambulances free access to the site.Arian, the Interior Ministry spokesman, blamed the attack on the Taliban despite their denials.Bloodied backpacks and schools books lay strewn outside the Syed Al-Shahda school. In the morning, boys attend classes in the sprawling school compound and in the afternoon, it's girls' turn.On Sunday, Hazara leaders from Dasht-e- Barchi met to express their frustration with the government failure to protect ethnic Hazaras, deciding to cobble together a protection force of their own from among the Hazara community.The force would be deployed outside schools, mosques and public facilities and would cooperate with government security forces. The intention is to supplement the local forces, said Parliamentarian Ghulam Hussein Naseri.The meeting participants decided that “there is not any other way, except for people themselves to provide their own security alongside of the security forces,” said Naseri, who added that the government should provide local Hazaras with weapons.Naseri said Hazaras have been attacked in their schools, in their mosques and “it is their right to be upset. How many more families lose their loved ones? How many more attacks against this minority has to occur in this part of the city before something is done?"One of the students fleeing the school recalled the attack, the girls' screams of the girls, the blood.“I was with my classmate, we were leaving the school, when suddenly an explosion happened, “ said 15-year-old Zahra, whose arm had been broken by a piece of shrapnel.“Ten minutes later there was another explosion and just a couple of minutes later another explosion,” she said. “Everyone was yelling and there was blood everywhere, and I couldn’t see anything clearly.” Her friend died.Most of the dozens of injured brought to the EMERGENCY Hospital for war wounded in the Afghan capital, “almost all girls and young women between 12 and 20 years old,” said Marco Puntin, the hospital's programme coordinator in Afghanistan.In a statement following the attack, the hospital, which has operated in Kabul since 2000 said the first three months of this year has seen a 21 per cent increase in war-wounded.Even as the IS has been degraded in Afghanistan, according to government and US officials, it has stepped-up its attacks particularly against Shiite Muslims and women workers.The attack comes days after the remaining 2,500 to 3,500 American troops officially began leaving the country. They will be out by Sept. 11 at the latest. The pullout comes amid a resurgent Taliban, who control or hold sway over half of Afghanistan.The top U.S. military officer said Sunday that Afghan government forces face an uncertain future and possibly some “bad possible outcomes” against Taliban insurgents as the withdrawal accelerates in the coming weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/death-toll-soars-to-50-in-school-bombing-in-afghan-capital-101620559367195.html
09-05-2021||World||Tripadvisor removes ‘fun for the family’ review of Auschwitz Museum, a site of Nazi concentration camp||Travel website Tripadvisor removed an offensive review of the Auschwitz Museum in Poland and apologised for what it called the “initial miss” after facing backlash on Twitter. The Auschwitz Memorial, which preserves the site of the former Nazi concentration camp, tweeted on Thursday, saying the Massachusetts-based travel website denied the request to take down a review that described the experience as “fun for the family."The Auschwitz Museum posted a screenshot of the response from Tripadvisor after they reported the review. “We have completed our investigation into your concern and have also evaluated all other aspects of the review in question. the review complies with our submission guidelines and will remain published on Tripadvisor,” the reply read.We have reported this review of the @AuschwitzMuseum posted on @TripAdvisor. 'This place was great went there with my newborn babys to test the chamber but they came out deformed. But its fun for the family.'According the company, it complies with their submission guidelines. pic.twitter.com/JEHuLaTKxPAlso Read | Auschwitz museum says 'damage done' by New Yorker articleOver 1.1 million men, women and children were killed at the former Nazi concentration and extermination camp during World War II. The vast majority of Jews murdered during Adolf Hitler’s regime were brought to gas chambers. Tripadvisor’s reluctance to remove the review sparked a huge backlash on social media as users said it was not a good look for the review platform.“That is awful @TripAdvisor have you properly read this and considered the implication and intent of that review?” wrote a user. “Well, either this was reviewed by a computer or a human being who works at @TripAdvisor needs to be fired,” read one of the comments.After public outcry, Tripadvisor removed the review and released a statement, saying the company used "a blend of technology and people" to screen the reviews. However, It didn’t clarify whether a machine or a person was involved in the initial decision.“In this case, our initial screening failed to identify this review as promoting intolerance. Through our escalation process, this review was removed. We always aim to get it right the first time and we apologize to the Auschwitz Memorial and Museum and the Jewish community at-large for this initial miss," the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tripadvisor-removes-fun-for-family-review-of-auschwitz-museum-after-outrage-101620556707164.html
09-05-2021||World||Boris Johnson calls for UK talks after Scottish nationalists win||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Sunday invited the leaders of the U.K.’s devolved nations for crisis talks on the union after Scotland’s pro-independence party won its fourth straight parliamentary election.Nicola Sturgeon, leader of the Scottish National Party, said the election results proved that a second independence vote for Scotland was “the will of the country” and that any London politician who stood in the way would be “picking a fight with the democratic wishes of the Scottish people.”The United Kingdom is made up of England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, with devolved governments in the latter three.Johnson congratulated Sturgeon on her re-election, but said to the leaders of the devolved governments that the U.K. was “best served when we work together.” The letter invited the leaders to a summit to “discuss our shared challenges and how we can work together in the coming months and years to overcome them.”Final results of Thursday’s local elections showed that the SNP won 64 of the 129 seats in the Edinburgh-based Scottish Parliament. Although it fell one seat short of securing an overall majority, the parliament still had a pro-independence majority with the help of eight members of the Scottish Greens.Sturgeon said her immediate priority would be steering Scotland through the coronavirus pandemic. But she said an independence referendum was “now a matter of fundamental democratic principle.”Johnson has the ultimate authority whether or not to permit another referendum on Scotland gaining independence. He wrote in Saturday’s Daily Telegraph that another referendum on Scotland would be “irresponsible and reckless” as Britain emerges from the pandemic. He has consistently argued that the issue was settled in a 2014 referendum where 55% of Scottish voters favored remaining part of the U.K.Proponents of another vote say the situation has changed fundamentally because of the U.K's Brexit divorce from the European Union, with Scotland taken out of the EU against its will. In the 2016 Brexit referendum, 52% of U.K. voters backed leaving the EU but 62% of Scots voted to remain.When asked about the prospect of Johnson agreeing to a second Scottish referendum, Cabinet Office minister Michael Gove said Sunday “it’s not an issue for the moment” and that the national priority is on recovering from the coronavirus pandemic.“If we get sucked into a conversation about referenda and constitutions then we are diverting attention from the issues that are most important to the people in Scotland and across the United Kingdom,” Gove told Sky News.“Instead of concentrating on the things that divide, let’s concentrate on the things that unite," he added.The Scotland results have been the main focus of Thursday's array of local elections across Britain. In Wales, the opposition Labour Party did better than expected, extending its 22 years at the helm of the Welsh government despite falling one seat short of a majority.Labour's support also held up in some big cities. In London, Mayor Sadiq Khan handily won a second term. Other winning Labour mayoral candidates included Steve Rotherham in the Liverpool City Region, Andy Burnham in Greater Manchester and Dan Norris in the West of England region, which includes Bristol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-johnson-calls-for-uk-talks-after-scottish-nationalists-win-101620555391268.html
09-05-2021||World||'Stop clashes': Pope Francis calls for end to violence in Jerusalem||Pope Francis on Sunday called for end to violence in Jerusalem, inviting parties to seek solutions in order to respect the multicultural identity of the Holy City."Violence breeds violence, stop clashes", he told pilgrims who gathered Saint Peter Square in Rome.Clashes erupted between Palestinian protesters and Israeli police outside the Old City of Jerusalem on Saturday as tens of thousands of Muslim worshippers prayed at the nearby Al-Aqsa Mosque on Islam's holy night of Laylat al-Qadr.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/stop-clashes-pope-francis-calls-for-end-to-violence-in-jerusalem-101620556442962.html
09-05-2021||World||Maldives police say key suspect in Nasheed attack arrested||Maldives police said Sunday they arrested a person believed to be the prime suspect in an explosion that critically wounded the country's former president and which was blamed on Muslim extremists.Police said they now have three of four suspects in custody. Thursday's blast targeted Mohamed Nasheed, currently the speaker of Parliament, who is recovering in a hospital after multiple surgeries.Police did not give details on the latest suspect or his background, but in a text message confirmed that they believe he is the person whose pictures were released Saturday as authorities sought public assistance identifying him. The fourth suspect remains at large.Officials blamed Islamic extremists for the attack, although investigators still don’t know which group was responsible. Two of Nasheed’s bodyguards and two apparent bystanders, including a British citizen, were also wounded.Nasheed has been an outspoken critic of religious extremism in the predominantly Sunni Muslim nation, where preaching and practicing other faiths are banned by law. He has been criticized by religious hard-liners for his closeness to the West and liberal policies.Hospital officials said Nasheed, 53, remains in an intensive care unit after initial life-saving surgeries to his head, chest, abdomen and limbs. A relative tweeted early Sunday that Nasheed had been able to have long conversations with some family members.Shrapnel from the blast damaged Nasheed's intestines and liver, and a piece of shrapnel broke his rib and had been less than a centimeter (0.4 inches) from his heart, hospital officials said.Officers from the Australian Federal Police were assisting with the investigation, following a request from the Maldives. A British investigator was also set to arrive in the Indian Ocean archipelago on Sunday.Nasheed was the first democratically elected president of the Maldives, serving from 2008 to 2012, when he resigned amid protests. He was defeated in the subsequent presidential election, and was ineligible for the 2018 race due to a prison sentence, but has remained an influential political figure.He has championed global efforts to fight climate change, particularly warning that rising seas caused by global warming threaten the archipelago nation’s low-lying islands.The Maldives is known for its luxury resorts but has experienced occasional violent attacks. In 2007, a blast in a park in the capital wounded 12 foreign tourists, and was also blamed on religious extremists.The Maldives has one of the highest per capita numbers of militants who fought in Syria and Iraq alongside the Islamic State group.Authorities announced in January that eight people arrested in November were found to have been planning to attack a school and were in the process of building bombs in a boat at sea. Police said the suspects conducted military training on uninhabited islands and recruited children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/maldives-police-say-key-suspect-in-nasheed-attack-arrested-101620553858827.html
09-05-2021||World||British novelist Paul Pickering evokes India in new book 'Elephant'||The elephant culturally symbolises India more than any other country and British novelist Paul Pickering says the pachyderm in his new novel has her roots in India.According to the author, his book "Elephant" is an affirmation of "I am my voice"."And my voice is as big as an elephant, which in turn is as big as creation. In the love story between Natasha and the man in Paris, the novel explores the interface between fact and fiction; the man in Paris uses the story of the elephant to get Natasha to go back to her first love, her voice, poetry," he says.In a country house in England, a precocious teenage exile from revolutionary Russia sets down his adventures on paper, beginning with his first ball in St Petersburg and how he frees a huge African elephant from a cruel circus.But a hundred years later, an American academic feels the boy may have invented the elephant as the only kind and uplifting being in dark times."This fast moving story is on the side of the individual and against nationalism, authoritarianism, scapegoating, fake news and the cancel culture that seeks to obliterate the boy at the heart of the story from history and that is why he commits it to paper," Pickering told PTI.Enfolding the love story and the journey is the "Elephant", which Natasha realises is the raw power of the universe; yet always looking for a good outcome in line with the survival of the planet.The book, published by Salt Publishing, spans two historical periods which correspond to the end of the rational modern (with the mass use of the machine gun) and the end of the postmodern and poststructuralist (with the rise of the internet), to a new metamodernism, a new, again individual-based, existentialism.Pickering says an Indian elephant being tormented by a trainer saves the boy's life and after the African elephant's calf is taken from her for a warlord's banquet, an Indian elephant kills her trainer by tearing him in two."… In a philosophical sense, in the way that she is on a higher plane and towers over everything, the elephant of my story has her roots in India," he says.Pickering, who authored the highly-acclaimed novel "Over the Rainbow", says that book is about the stories "we tell ourselves and others, and how the Afghans have always told better stories to defeat the British".He also says he wants to come to India to "write a novel based on the story of my wife's great aunt, a post-colonial story".According to Pickering, not only do Indian writers often have a far better command of the language, but, "looking from outside, also possibly understand the English character better, especially in its slightly chaotic and hopelessly diminished post-imperial role".His favourite is Vikram Seth, whose prose, he says, is the "envy of anyone writing in English". He also likes the "complex simplicity of Arundhati Roy in 'The God of Small Things', which stands up for the individual against scapegoating cancel culture"."If Salman Rushdie can be classed as an Indian writer I admire the Shakespearean sweep of his novels and an ability to mix genres, to combine comedy, love stories and tragedy in the same book," he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/british-novelist-paul-pickering-evokes-india-in-new-book-elephant-101620550421925.html
09-05-2021||World||EU suspension of CAI is a setback to Merkel’s pro-China policies||In European Union Parliament, there is a saying that their human rights policies are so tight that they can fit into bonnet of a BMW car. The EU’s suspension of ratification of Comprehensive Agreement on Investment (CAI) with China has not only sounded a death knell of the agreement but is a strong rebuff to German Chancellor Angela Merkel pro-China polices of the past 15 years.“The investment agreement is as good as dead despite the EU officially stating that it is suspended for now. Many EU diplomats including some from Germany were sceptical from the beginning but the last straw was the Chinese sanctioning of European Parliament members, including the entire human rights committee,” said a senior diplomat in EU. The sanctions were imposed in retaliation to the EU sanctioning four Chinese officials and the Xinjiang Public Security Bureau for their alleged involvement in operating so-called education camps in Muslim-dominated Xinjiang province. It is the European Parliament that must approve the CAI and with its members sanctioned, such a decision becomes untenable.While Germany, and to some extent France, were behind the CAI’s conclusion in December last year, the fact that it set a low ambition bar on Chinese aggression against Taiwan, Hong Kong and human rights abuses in Xinjiang, had led to strong opposition from the Greens and Liberal members of European Parliament. The EU media and other pressure groups had also highlighted similar concerns. Many hinted that the CAI was moving till now mainly as it was a personal project of the German Chancellor and would lose steam eventually once see demits office in September this year. Chancellor Angela Merkel, with an eye on German auto business, not only pushed the agreement during its EU presidency in 2020 but is also now seen as someone who is staunchly opposing TRIPS waiver on vaccines as she wants US-European companies to export these vaccines on commercial basis rather than give up on IPR even in the time of biggest health crisis in 100 years.The suspension of CAI comes at a time when the EU has decided to reopen trade and investment negotiations with India after a long hiatus of eight years, primarily because a high ambition bar was maintained for New Delhi. This was done despite India being a democracy with strong laws on human rights, labour and strong commitment to rules based international system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-suspension-of-cai-is-a-setback-to-merkel-s-pro-china-policies-101620550857183.html
09-05-2021||World||China reluctant to clear $6 billion loan for CPEC project over debt concern||China has shown reluctance to clear a USD 6 billion loan for the single largest project under the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) due to the growing concern over mounting debt.The cost of the Mainline-I (ML-I) railway project was initially USD 9 billion but later it was reduced gradually to USD 6.8 billion. According to a report in The Express Tribune, Chinese authorities are wary of Pakistan's ability to service its debt."Beijing conveyed its concerns during a meeting held on March 30 to discuss financing modalities of the project," the Pakistan government officials said as per the report."The Chinese side have sought clarification regarding the possibility of raising further debt by Pakistan during currency of the IMF program. The Pakistani side clarified that debt situation is being monitored and there is no restriction under the programme to raise debt for viable projects," Deputy Chairman Planning Commission of Pakistan Dr Jehanzeb Khan told the Pakistan daily.Amid lack of progress on several CPEC projects, subtle signs of unease have emerged between the two countries over the future direction and funding of mega projects, under increasing scrutiny of media and the public.According to a report published in Modern Diplomacy, the outcome of recent meetings between the two countries reveals significant scaling down of Pakistan's expectations regarding the inclusion of more projects under CPEC phase II.Fabien Baussart in an opinion piece for Modern Diplomacy last month had said, "While the country has for long portrayed USD 6.8 billion Main Line-I project to be the main artery of the Pakistan Railways and tried to convince China for financing the project, the Chinese side has tried to avoid any commitment for funding."Pakistan has been unable to secure any favourable consideration including the concessionary loan at an interest rate of one per cent, said Baussart while adding that China is only willing to offer a mix of commercial and concessional loans to fund the rail project backed by suitable guarantees by Pakistan.In 2015, China announced an economic project in Pakistan worth USD 46 billion. With the CPEC, Beijing aims to expand its influence in Pakistan and across Central and South Asia in order to counter the influence of the United States and India.The CPEC would link Pakistan's southern Gwadar port (626 kilometres west of Karachi) in Balochistan on the Arabian Sea to China's western Xinjiang region. It also includes plans to create road, rail, and oil pipeline links to improve connectivity between China and the Middle East.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-reluctant-to-clear-6-billion-loan-for-cpec-project-over-debt-concern-101620551689005.html
09-05-2021||World||Elon Musk says he is first SNL host with Asperger's syndrome||Elon Musk kicked off his "Saturday Night Live" debut by declaring himself to be the first person with Asperger's syndrome to host the US comedy sketch show."Or at least, the first person to admit it," he said.In his opening monologue, the eccentric tech entrepreneur behind Tesla and SpaceX offered an explanation for some of his past eyebrow-raising behavior."Look, I know I say or post strange things but that's just how my brain works. To anyone I've offended I just want to say, I reinvented electric cars and I'm sending people to Mars in a rocket ship," he said. "Did you think I was also going to be a chill, normal dude?"Musk has previously drawn criticism for moves like publicly mocking the US Securities and Exchange Commission and calling a cave diver who rescued boys trapped in Thailand a "pedo guy".But on SNL, the billionaire took swipes at his own expense. He joked about his tweets, his son's unusual name -- X Æ A-12 -- and that time he smoked weed on Joe Rogan's podcast.And of course, as a big booster of cryptocurrencies, he once again enumerated the benefits of dogecoin.Pressed on what exactly dogecoin is, Musk called the cryptocurrency -- which now has a market value of around $72 billion -- "an unstoppable vehicle that's going to take over the world".But then he agreed that actually "it's a hustle".For the second time in a week, the world's second-richest person seemed to drive the value of the digital asset. Not long after its recent surge after Musk's Twitter endorsement, it was sent on a brief tailspin during his SNL performance.It dropped to as low as 49 cents during the broadcast after a pre-show high of about 74 cents, according to CoinDesk.During the show, cast members wondered aloud why exactly the tech billionaire would want to join their set.With a segment of a Chinese rocket re-entering Earth's atmosphere around the time of the live broadcast, they concluded that the spaceman "needed an alibi."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/elon-musk-says-he-is-first-snl-host-with-asperger-s-syndrome-101620551921756.html
09-05-2021||World||Fire at Syrian oil refinery extinguished after leakage||Firefighters extinguished a blaze Sunday in a distillation unit at one of Syria’s two oil refineries, Syrian state TV reported.No one was hurt, but the fire caused some damage to the facility, a refinery official said. The TV named the cause of the fire as crude oil leakage from one of the pumping stations at the Homs Oil Refinery in the central province of Homs.The fire came amid a series of mysterious attacks on vessels and oil facilities in Syria over the past months. The war-torn country has been suffering from fuel shortage in recent months.Head of Homs Oil Refinery Suleiman Mohammed told state TV that the distillation unit that caught fire is one of four at the refinery.In addition to the refinery in Homs, Syria has another one near the coastal town of Banias. Both are government-run and operating.Syria’s oil resources are mostly outside of government controlled areas.Syria controls some small oil and gas fields in the country’s center but most of the country’s large fields in the east are controlled by U.S.-backed Kurdish-led fighters. This has made Damascus reliant on Iran for fuel.The U.S. Treasury sanctions have targeted a network that spanned Syria, Iran and Russia responsible for shipping oil to the Syrian government.In late April, Syria’s oil ministry said a fire erupted in an oil tanker on its coast after what it said was a suspected drone attack.In January, an explosion in an oil tanker outside a state fuel distribution company in Homs caused massive fire. The minister of oil told Syrian state TV at the time that seven tankers caught fire but there were no civilian casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fire-at-syrian-oil-refinery-extinguished-after-leakage-101620549686662.html
09-05-2021||World||Vaccine deserts: Some countries have no Covid-19 jabs at all||At the small hospital where Dr. Oumaima Djarma works in Chad's capital, there are no debates over which coronavirus vaccine is the best.There are simply no vaccines at all.Not even for the doctors and nurses like her, who care for Covid-19 patients in Chad, one of the least-developed nations in the world where about one third of the country is engulfed by the Sahara desert.“I find it unfair and unjust, and it is something that saddens me,” the 33-year-old infectious diseases doctor says. “I don’t even have that choice. The first vaccine that comes along that has authorization, I will take it.”While wealthier nations have stockpiled vaccines for their citizens, many poorer countries are still scrambling to secure doses. A few, like Chad, have yet to receive any.The World Health Organization says nearly a dozen countries — many of them in Africa — are still waiting to get vaccines. Those last in line on the continent along with Chad are Burkina Faso, Burundi, Eritrea and Tanzania.“Delays and shortages of vaccine supplies are driving African countries to slip further behind the rest of the world in the Covid-19 vaccine rollout and the continent now accounts for only 1% of the vaccines administered worldwide,” WHO warned Thursday.And in places where there are no vaccines, there's also the chance that new and concerning variants could emerge, said Gian Gandhi, UNICEF’s COVAX coordinator for Supply Division.“So we should all be concerned about any lack of coverage anywhere in the world,” Gandhi said, urging higher-income countries to donate doses to the nations that are still waiting.While the total of confirmed Covid-19 cases among them is relatively low compared with the world's hot spots, health officials say that figure is likely a vast undercount: The countries in Africa still waiting for vaccines are among those least equipped to track infections because of their fragile health care systems.Chad has confirmed only 170 deaths since the pandemic began, but efforts to stop the virus entirely here have been elusive. Although the capital's international airport was closed briefly last year, its first case came via someone who crossed one of Chad's porous land borders illegally.Regular flights from Paris and elsewhere have resumed, heightening the chance of increasing the 4,835 already confirmed cases.The Farcha provincial hospital in N’Djamena is a gleaming new campus in an outlying neighborhood, where camels nibble from acacia trees nearby. Doctors Without Borders has helped supply oxygen for Covid-19 patients, and the hospital has 13 ventilators. The physicians also have plenty of Chinese-made KN95 masks and hand sanitizer. Still, not a single employee has been vaccinated and none has been told when that might be possible.That was easier to accept at the beginning of the pandemic, Djarma said, because doctors all around the world lacked vaccines. That has changed dramatically after the development of shots in the West and by China and Russia that have gone to other poor African countries.“When I hear, for example, in some countries that they've finished with medical staff and the elderly and are now moving on to other categories, honestly, it saddens me,” Djarma said. “I ask them if they can provide us with these vaccines to at least protect the health workers.“Everyone dies from this disease, rich or poor,” she says. “Everyone must have the opportunity, the chance to be vaccinated, especially those who are most exposed."COVAX, the U.N.-backed program to ship Covid-19 vaccines worldwide, is aimed at helping low- and middle-income countries get access. A few of the countries, though, including Chad, have expressed concerns about receiving the AstraZeneca vaccine through COVAX for fear it might not protect as well against a variant first seen in South Africa.Chad is expected to get some Pfizer doses next month if it can put in place the cold storage facilities needed to keep that vaccine safe in a country where temperatures soar each day to 43.5 degrees Celsius (110 degrees Fahrenheit).Some of the last countries also took more time to meet the requirements for receiving doses, including signing indemnity waivers with manufacturers and having distribution plans in place.Those delays, though, now mean an even longer wait for places like Burkina Faso, since a key vaccine manufacturer in India scaled back its global supply because of the catastrophic virus surge there."Now with global vaccine supply shortages, stemming in particular from the surge of cases in India and subsequently the Indian government’s sequestration of doses from manufacturers there, Burkina Faso risks even longer delays in receiving the doses it was slated to get,” said Donald Brooks, CEO of a U.S. aid group engaged in the Covid-19 response there known as Initiative: Eau.Front-line health workers in Burkina Faso say they’re not sure why the government hasn’t secured vaccines.“We would have liked to have had it like other colleagues around the world,” says Chivanot Afavi, a supervising nurse who worked on the front lines of the response until recently. “No one really knows what this disease will do to us in the future.”In Haiti, not a single vaccine has been administered to the more than 11 million people who live in the most impoverished country of the Western hemisphere.Haiti was slated to receive 756,000 doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine via COVAX, but government officials said they didn’t have the infrastructure needed to conserve them and worried about having to throw them away. Haitian officials also expressed concerns over potential side effects and said they preferred a single-dose vaccine.Several small island nations in the Pacific also have yet to receive any vaccine, although the lack of outbreaks in some of those places has meant there is less urgency with inoculation campaigns. Vanuatu, with a population of 300,000, is waiting to receive its first doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine later this month, but it has recorded only three cases of coronavirus, all of them in quarantine.At the Farcha hospital in Chad, nine health care workers have gotten the virus, including Dr. Mahamat Yaya Kichine, a cardiologist. The hospital now has set up pods of health care worker teams to minimize the risk of exposure for the entire staff.“It took almost 14 days for me to be cured,” Kichine says. “There were a lot of caregivers that were infected, so I think that if there is a possibility to make a vaccine available, it will really ease us in our work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vaccine-deserts-some-countries-have-no-covid-19-jabs-at-all-101620550405438.html
09-05-2021||World||Singapore tests thousands as unlinked Covid-19 cases persist||Singapore will test thousands of people for Covid-19 as the number of infections unlinked to current clusters continued to rise.Three Changi Airport employees and a junior college student were among those who registered positive for the virus in recent days, the health ministry said late Saturday. The government will expand testing to all workers at two of the airport’s terminals and its Jewel shopping mall, and all students, staff and visitors at the junior college.Singapore has seen 10 cases per week of unlinked cases in the community in the past two weeks, the government said Saturday. On Sunday, it reported an additional 10 new infections, five of whom are unlinked to previous cases.The Ministry of Education said about 2,200 people associated with Victoria Junior College will undergo swab tests by Monday, while just over 100 people who are close contacts will be quarantined.The health ministry didn’t provide the number of people who will be tested at Changi Airport Terminal 1 and Terminal 3, and Jewel. There was no immediate reply to emails to the ministry outside of business hours seeking those figures.The threat had been easing for Singapore until a few weeks ago when new clusters started to emerge including cases with the variant of Covid-19 first detected in India. Tighter social-distancing measures kicked in for the country on Saturday with officials saying they were necessary to prevent a harsher lockdown similar to one last year.A rise in unlinked cases in Singapore could jeopardize a planned travel bubble with Hong Kong, scheduled to begin on May 26. According to the terms of the agreement, the air-travel corridor will be closed for two weeks if the seven-day moving average of the daily number of unlinked local cases is more than five in either city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-tests-thousands-as-unlinked-covid-19-cases-persist-101620549885570.html
09-05-2021||World||On 76th WWII Victory Day, Putin vows to 'firmly' defend Russian interests||President Vladimir Putin on Sunday vowed that Russia will "firmly" defend national interests and denounced the return of "Russophobia", as the country marked the 76th anniversary of victory in World War II.His speech to thousands of soldiers and veterans on Red Square came at the start of an annual parade that sees hundreds of pieces of military hardware roll through the streets of Moscow."The Soviet people kept their sacred oath, defended the homeland, and freed the countries of Europe from the black plague," Putin told the gathered crowd."Russia consistently defends international law. At the same time, we will firmly defend our national interests to ensure the safety of our people," Putin said.The Russian leader also denounced what he called a creeping return of ideologies of the time, when "slogans of racial and national superiority, of anti-semitism and Russophobia, became ever more cynical".The state-run RIA Novosti agency reported that more than 12,000 military personnel would take part in Sunday's parade in the Russian capital, as well as some 190 pieces of military equipment and 76 fighter jets and helicopters.Victory Day parades, which only became an annual event after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, also took place Sunday in dozens of cities across the nation.During Putin's two decades in power, the public holiday has taken on increasing importance in projecting Russia's renewed military might.A survey this week by state-run pollster VTsIOM showing that 69 percent of Russians view it as the most important holiday on the calendar.A third of respondents told VTsIOM they would take part in the celebrations, while a fifth said they would watch on television.- Tensions with the West -The commemorations of the 76th anniversary of the 1945 victory come as tensions with the West have reached near Cold War times in recent weeks.Russia has seen its diplomats expelled from a clutch of European countries over espionage scandals, as the United States and the European Union levied new sanctions on Moscow over the treatment of jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny and allegations of hacking and cyber attacks.Moscow has stepped up military activity abroad, intervening on behalf of Bashar al-Assad's regime in Syria's civil war. It is also widely seen as backing pro-Russian separatists in eastern Ukraine.Tensions in the conflict, which erupted after Moscow annexed Crimea in 2014, have also soared in recent weeks.Clashes between the government and separatists have been intensifying since January in a conflict which has claimed more than 13,000 lives.Russia last month amassed 100,000 troops near Ukraine's borders and in Crimea, its biggest buildup since 2014, though it quickly announced a drawdown in what many saw as a test for new US President Joe Biden.Earlier this week, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken flew to Kiev in a show of support for Ukraine against Russia, and before an expected summit between Putin and Biden next month.On Saturday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky travelled with European diplomats to the pro-Russian breakaway eastern region of Lugansk to commemorate the end of WWII.emg/bp||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/on-76th-wwii-victory-day-putin-vows-to-firmly-defend-russian-interests-101620549681968.html
09-05-2021||World||Putin on WWII Victory Day says will 'firmly' defend Russian interests||President Vladimir Putin on Sunday promised that Russia will "firmly" defend national interests and denounced the return of "Russophobia", as the country marked the 76th anniversary of victory in World War II."Russia consistently defends international law. At the same time, we will firmly defend our national interests to ensure the safety of our people," Putin told thousands of military personnel and veterans gathered on Red Square.He also denounced what he called a creeping return of ideologies of the time, when "slogans of racial and national superiority, of anti-semitism and Russophobia, became ever more cynical".Putin's speech came at the start of an annual parade that sees military hardware roll through the streets of Moscow.The state-run RIA Novosti agency reported that more than 12,000 military personnel would take part in Sunday's parade in the Russian capital, as well as some 190 pieces of military equipment and 76 fighter jets and helicopters.Victory Day parades, which only became an annual event after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, also took place Sunday in dozens of cities across the nation.The public holiday is central to the Russian calendar, with a survey this week by state-run pollster VTsIOM showing that 69 percent of Russians view it as the country's most important.A third of respondents told VTsIOM they would take part in the celebrations, while a fifth said they would watch on television.During Putin's two decades in power, the holiday has taken on increasing importance in projecting Russia's renewed military might."The Soviet people kept their sacred oath, defended the homeland and freed the countries of Europe from the black plague," the Russian leader said Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/putin-on-wwii-victory-day-says-will-firmly-defend-russian-interests-101620546239151.html
09-05-2021||World||Third arrest in manhunt after Maldives bomb attack||A third man has been arrested following the attempted assassination of Maldives' former president Mohamed Nasheed, police said Sunday, as they renewed an appeal for more information about another suspect.The democracy pioneer and climate activist was seriously hurt after a bomb attack in the capital Male on Thursday night that also injured a British national and two others, which police have blamed on "religious extremists"."We can confirm that a third individual has been arrested in connection with the May 6 attack early today," police said in a statement.No further details about the man were released.Police also appealed for more information about another man seen in the area where a motorcycle that the bomb had been rigged to was parked.The owner of the motorcycle as well as another man were arrested on Saturday.The bomb detonated as Nasheed walked to his car.Family members tweeted that the 53-year-old ex-president, now the parliament's speaker, remained in the intensive care unit of a hospital.But he was able to speak to close relatives on Saturday after no longer needing life support, they added. There was no immediate update on his condition from the hospital.Nasheed underwent 16 hours of surgery to remove shrapnel from his body and doctors said one shard narrowly missed his heart.There has been no claim of responsibility for the attack, but officials from Nasheed's Maldivian Democratic Party (MDP) have alleged that religious extremists and political interests could be involved.The Indian Ocean archipelago of 340,000 people is Muslim majority and in October 2019 police arrested a suspected Islamic State recruiter accused of sending dozens of Maldivians to Syria.The same man was accused of setting off a homemade bomb that wounded 12 Chinese tourists in Male in September 2007.Nasheed ended decades of one-party rule in the Maldives and became its first democratically-elected president in 2008, only to be toppled in a military-backed coup in 2012.He is known internationally as a champion in the fight against climate change and rising sea levels that he says threaten to submerge the nation of 1,192 coral islands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/third-arrest-in-manhunt-after-maldives-bomb-attack-101620546267180.html
09-05-2021||World||Macron vows to revive Covid-hit French economy, with an eye on re-election bid||President Emmanuel Macron’s plans for bringing France out of the pandemic aren't just about resuscitating long-closed restaurants, boutiques, and museums. They are also about preparing his possible campaign for a second term.A year before the next presidential election, Macron is focusing on saving jobs and reviving the pandemic-battered French economy as his country inches out of its third partial lockdown.The centrist president's ability to meet the challenge will be significant for his political future and for France — which is among the world's worst-hit nations with the fourth-highest number of reported Covid-19 cases and the eighth-highest death toll at more than 106,000.While he has not officially declared his candidacy, Macron has made comments suggesting he intends to seek reelection. And he has pushed recent legislation on issues that potential rivals on the right and the left hold dear, from security to climate change.Pollsters suggest Macron, who four years ago became the youngest president in French history, has a good chance of winning the presidency again in 2022 despite his government’s oft-criticized management of the pandemic and earlier challenges to his policies, from activists protesting what they see as social and economic injustice to unions angry over retirement reforms.The coronavirus reopening strategy Macron unveiled this month calls for most restrictions on public life to be lifted June 30, when half of France's population is expected to have received at least one vaccine shot. With up to 3 million people in France getting vaccinated each week, the government plans to allow outdoor areas of restaurants and cafes, as well as museums and nonessential shops, to resume operating on May 19.In an interview with French media, Macron said he would visit France’s regions over the summer “to feel the pulse of the country" and to engage with people in a mass consultation aimed at “turning the page of that moment in the nation’s life.”“No individual destiny is worthwhile without a collective project,” he said, giving the latest hint about a potential reelection bid.At the moment, all opinion polls show Macron and Marine Le Pen, the far-right leader he beat in a presidential runoff election in 2017, again reaching the runoff next year. The polls also forecast that Macron would defeat National Rally leader Le Pen again, though by a smaller margin.Macron, 43, a former economy minister under his predecessor, Socialist President Francois Hollande, has characterized his policies as transcending traditional left-right divides. He was elected on a promise to make the French economy more competitive while preserving the country's welfare system.Macron’s government includes major figures previously belonging to the conservative party The Republicans, including his prime minister and the finance and interior ministers.French politics expert Luc Rouban, a senior researcher at the National Center for Scientific Research. said the president's immediate goal “is to show he is still able to continue implementing his project, which has more or less been stopped by the health crisis.”Macron's recent priorities demonstrate he also is trying to attract voters from the moderate right and the moderate left, the same ones who helped him win the first time, Rouban said.Macron is “undermining the field of The Republicans by strengthening security laws, taking measures to protect the French against terrorism, reinforcing security also in urban areas, increasing police and justice staff,” he said.At the same time, Macron needs to show he is addressing inequality, economic mobility, and other social justice issues that are important to France's left-wing, Rouban said.Last month, the president decided to do away with France’s elite graduate school for future leaders, the Ecole Nationale d’Administration. He said his alma mater would be replaced with a more egalitarian institution.In the French newspaper's interview, Macron also praised the country's benefits for low-income workers, who since 2019 have received up to 100 additional euros ($120) per month.Macron’s public image appears to have partially recovered from the drubbing it took at the height of the “yellow vest" movement, which started in late 2018 to oppose a fuel tax and grew into a weekly anti-government protest targeting alleged social and economic injustice. At the time, critics angry over Macron eliminating a wealth tax labeled him the “president of the rich.”But Macron’s popularity in recent months has remained relatively stable, with an approval rating between 30% and 46%, higher than his predecessors Hollande and Nicolas Sarkozy had after four years in office.Frédéric Dabi, deputy director-general of the polling organization IFOP, said Macron’s support appears “very solid.” Polls show his policies are satisfying most of his 2017 supporters, and 30% to 50% of voters from the traditional right- and left-wing parties.During the virus crisis, Macron applied a “whatever it takes” strategy based on state intervention to save jobs and businesses, including a massive partial unemployment program and subsidized child care leave. The government also approved a two-year 100 billion-euro ($120 billion) rescue plan to revive the economy.Macron promised there would be no tax increases to repay the debt, which soared last year to 115.7% of gross domestic product.Despite strong opposition from unions about planned changes to the pension system and unemployment benefits, he has pledged to keep reforming “until the last quarter of an hour” of his five-year term, which runs out in May 2022.Recent polls show no strong rival emerging so far from mainstream French parties amid divisions on both the right and the left. But at this stage, the field remains wide open.As Macron himself proved in 2017, when he shot from a wild-card candidate to the presidency in less than four months, anything could happen in the next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/macron-vows-to-revive-covid-hit-french-economy-with-an-eye-on-re-election-bid-101620543246361.html
09-05-2021||World||Indo-Canadian documentary filmmaker wins lifetime achievement award at Hot Docs||Filmmaker Lalita Krishna, who has been making documentaries for over 20 years, has become the first person from the Indian-Canadian community to win a prestigious lifetime achievement award at Hot Docs, North America’s biggest documentary film festival.Toronto-based Krishna, who grew up in Kolkata and worked in Delhi’s advertising sector before moving to Canada, has been named winner of the Don Haig Award.The 28th edition of the popular film festival, an 11-day-long affair, is taking place virtually this year due to Covid-19 protocols. It concludes on Sunday.Krishna told HT the award was particularly meaningful as it’s “given to the body of work over a period of time and so it recognises a producer who’s contributed over a span of time”. Just as Don Haig, an Oscar-winning Canadian filmmaker was known for mentorship, the award involves naming an emerging female filmmaker who would receive a cash prize courtesy the Don Haig Foundation. The recognition is special for Krishna because she said it meant “paying it forward” and her choice for the cash prize is Bangladeshi director Elizabeth D Costa. D Costa was assistant director of the documentary film Bangla Surf Girls, produced and directed by Krishna, which premiered at Hot Docs this year. The film is about three young girls from Cox’s Bazar in Bangladesh, who find escape from social restrictions in surfing the waves of the Bay of Bengal. Recalling the making of Bangla Surf Girls, Krishna said, “She (D Costa) happened to mention this and I said, ‘You know, you should do it and I’ll help you with it,’ and then she was hesitant because she’s never done a film on her own before. So I said, ‘We will make it happen,’ and that’s how we kind of stayed with it. It’s been a four-year journey and we are here today.”Hot Docs programmer Mariam Zaidi described the film as a “touching coming-of-age story of resistance” that will have the viewer “cheering for every wave and hurdle these young women overcome”. In the citation for the lifetime achievement award recipient, Hot Docs noted, “Passionate about diversity and inclusion, Lalita’s films reflect her strong belief in empowering underrepresented voices.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indocanadian-documentary-filmmaker-wins-lifetime-achievement-award-at-hot-docs-101620543192749.html
09-05-2021||World||Nasa slams China over irresponsible standards regarding space debris||Hours after China confirmed on Sunday that debris from its largest rocket Long March 5B had disintegrated over the Indian Ocean and landed near Maldives, American space agency Nasa slammed the Chinese administration for failing to meet 'responsible standards' regarding space debris. "It is clear that China is failing to meet responsible standards regarding their space debris," Nasa administrator Bill Nelson, a former senator and astronaut who was picked for the role in March, said in a statement after the re-entry.Remnants of China's largest rocket, the Long March, which was launched last week, re-entered the Earth's atmosphere on Sunday morning and disintegrated over the Indian Ocean, the country's state-sponsored media network, the China Central Television (CCTV), reported, citing the China Manned Space Engineering Office.Also Read: China's rocket debris disintegrates over Indian Ocean, lands near MaldivesAccording to the coordinates provided by Chinese officials of the rocket's point of impact, the debris now lies west of the Maldives archipelago. The US Space Command had confirmed the re-entry of the rocket over the Arabian Peninsula but said the current location of the debris was unknown.Earlier, the news had sparked fears over where the large 18-tonne segment of the Chinese rocket was going to come down, leading to a renewed panic over possible damage and casualties amid the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Uncertainty over the rocket's orbital decay and China's failure to issue stronger reassurances in the run-up to the re-entry fuelled anxiety."Spacefaring nations must minimize the risks to people and property on Earth of re-entries of space objects and maximize transparency regarding those operations," the Nasa administrator said, adding that all spacefaring nations must act responsibly to ensure the long-term sustainability of such outer-space activities.Notably, the Long March was the second deployment of the 5B variant since its maiden flight in May 2020. Last year, pieces from the first Long March 5B fell on Ivory Coast, damaging several buildings. No injuries were reported.“Spacefaring nations must minimize the risks to people and property on Earth of re-entries of space objects and maximize transparency regarding those operations. It is critical that China and all spacefaring nations and commercial entities act responsibly and transparently in space to ensure the safety, stability, security, and long-term sustainability of outer space activities,” the statement issued by Nasa read.China's state-sponsored media, including the tabloid 'The Global Times', had however dismissed concerns about the rocket debris being potentially dangerous and "out of control" as "Western hype".Organisations have become more careful about their spacecraft design ever since the Nasa space station 'Skylab' fell from orbit in July 1979 and landed in Australia, leading to most countries seeking to avoid such uncontrolled re-entries ever again.(With inputs from Reuters)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nasa-slams-china-over-irresponsible-standards-regarding-space-debris-101620537862631.html
09-05-2021||World||Colonial hackers stole data Thursday ahead of shutdown||The hackers who caused Colonial Pipeline to shut down the biggest U.S. gasoline pipeline on Friday began their blitz against the company a day earlier, stealing a large amount of data before locking computers with ransomware and demanding payment, according to people familiar with the matter.The intruders, who are part of a cybercrime gang called DarkSide, took nearly 100 gigabytes of data out of the Alpharetta, Georgia-based company’s network in just two hours on Thursday, two people involved in Colonial’s investigation said.The move was part of a double-extortion scheme that is one of the group’s hallmarks. Colonial was threatened that the stolen data would be leaked to the internet while the information that was encrypted by the hackers on computers inside the network would remain locked unless it paid a ransom, said the people, who asked not to be identified because the information isn’t public.The company didn’t immediately respond to requests to comment on the investigation. It said earlier that it “proactively took certain systems offline to contain the threat, which has temporarily halted all pipeline operations, and affected some of our IT systems.”Colonial’s decision late Friday to shut down a pipeline that is the main source of gasoline, diesel and jet fuel for the East Coast, without saying when it would reopen, represents a dangerous new escalation in the fight against ransomware, which President Joe Biden’s administration has identified as a priority.It’s not clear how much money the attackers demanded or whether Colonial has paid. Ransomware demands can range from several hundred dollars to millions of dollars in cryptocurrency. Many companies pay, often facilitated by their insurers.AXA SA, one of Europe’s top insurance companies, said this week that it would break with that trend and stop offering policies in France that reimburse customers for payments made to ransomware hackers, which could be the first in the industry, the Associated Press reported.Cyber-attacks have disrupted the operations of other energy assets in the U.S. in recent years. Last year, the Department of Homeland Security revealed that an attack brought down an unnamed natural gas compressor facility for two days. In April 2018, several natural gas pipeline operators had service interruptions because of the hack of a third-party provider whose technology enables electronic communications between the entities.The theft of Colonial’s data, coupled with the detonation of ransomware on the company’s computers, highlights the leverage that hackers often have over their victims in these kinds of cases. The company said FireEye Inc.’s Mandiant digital forensics division is assisting with the investigation.The White House said that Biden was briefed on the incident Saturday morning.A series of major cyber-attacks in recent weeks also underscored the brazenness of the attackers and the challenges of tackling the problem of ransomware.In a matter of days, attacks were revealed against the police department in Washington, D.C. , where the hackers threatened to release information about police informants to criminal gangs; the Illinois Attorney General’s office, which had been warned about weak cybersecurity practices in a recent state audit; and San Diego-based Scripps Health, where medical procedures were canceled and emergency patients diverted to other hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/colonial-hackers-stole-data-thursday-ahead-of-shutdown-101620534913925.html
09-05-2021||World||US calls for immediate end to violence in Afghanistan; condemns school attack||The United States on Saturday (local time) condemned the attack near a school in Afghanistan capital Kabul, which left 53 people dead and several others injured."The United States condemns the barbarous attack near a girls' school in Kabul, Afghanistan. We offer our condolences to the victims, many of whom were children, and their families. We call for an immediate end to violence and the senseless targeting of innocent civilians," said US State Department spokesperson Ned Price."We will continue to support and partner with the people of Afghanistan, who are determined to see to it that the gains of the past two decades are not erased," he added.The death toll from a series of blasts at a school in Kabul rose to 53 on Saturday, a source in the Ministry of Public Health told Sputnik.At least three blasts happened near Sayed-ul-Shuhada High School in west of Kabul on Saturday afternoon, TOLO News reported citing the Interior Ministry.The attack started with a car bomb explosion and was followed by two rocket attacks, sources said. No group or individual has so far claimed responsibility for the blasts. Moreover, the Taliban denied involvement in the attack.This comes after US President Joe Biden had said that the United States will withdraw all its troops from Afghanistan before the 20th anniversary of the September 11 terror attacks.Meanwhile, as the United States' "war on terror" enters a new phase as President Joe Biden has begun withdrawing all US forces from Afghanistan, al-Qaeda has claimed that its war with America is far from over.In an exclusive interview with CNN conducted through intermediaries, an al-Qaeda official said that "war against the US will be continuing on all other fronts unless they are expelled from the rest of the Islamic world".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-calls-for-immediate-end-to-violence-in-afghanistan-condemns-school-attack-101620525880660.html
09-05-2021||World||Iraq's heritage battered by desert sun, rain and state apathy||One of the world's oldest churches is crumbling deep in Iraq's desert, another victim of years of conflict, government negligence and climate change in a country with a rich heritage.After Pope Francis made a historic visit to Iraq in March, many Iraqis hoped that busloads of tourists would flock to Al Aqiser church southwest of the capital Baghdad.But in a country that has been battered by consecutive conflicts and economic crises, the church -- like Iraq's numerous Christian, Islamic and Mesopotamian relics -- has been left to weather away.All that remains of Al Aqiser, which has stood in Ain Tamr for more than 1,500 years, are crumbling brick and red earthen walls.Archaeologist Zahd Muhammad blamed this on "climate conditions, the fact that under Saddam Hussein the area was transformed into a military firing range and the lack of regular conservation".Ain Tamr mayor Raed Fadhel said upkeep is a question of budget."Such maintenance requires an enormous amount of money, but we only get meagre funds" from the federal government, he said.Some 60 kilometres (38 miles) further east, Shiite shrines in Karbala attract millions of pilgrims each year.But these potential visitors fail to stop by Iraq's numerous ancient churches, its Mesopotamian cities and the fabled "ziggurat" pyramid-like structures of Babylon, a UNESCO World Heritage site, residents and officials say.Missed opportunitiesAbdullah al-Jlihawi, who lives in Diwaniya province bordering Karbala, told AFP he believes that "foreigners care more about our heritage than we do"."Until the 1980s, an American university led excavations here, there were plenty of job opportunities," he said."Our parents and grandparents worked on those sites, but all that stopped in the 1990s" with the international embargo against Saddam's regime.Diwaniya's governor, Zuhair al-Shaalan, boasts of the province's more than 2,000 historic sites and sees in each a potential economic windfall.But almost 20 years since the 2003 US-led invasion that toppled Saddam's dictatorship, promising democracy and prosperity, Iraqis are still waiting to for an economic upturn.Diwaniya is home to Nippur, the ancient Sumerian city and jewel of Iraq's glorious Mesopotamian past with its temples, libraries and palaces.Seven thousand years ago Nippur, now in southern Iraq, was one of the main religious centres of the Akkadians and later the Babylonians.Much of that site was looted after Saddam's fall from power by armed bandits and many others destroyed by jihadists who seized swathes of Iraq in 2014 until their defeat three years later."Investing in these sites would create jobs in our province, which is poor and has few investment opportunities," Shaalan said.But there is another problem beyond renovation and preservation, Jlihawi said. If they came, "where would the tourists go?" he asked."There's nothing for them -- the roads haven't been paved since the 1980s, the electricity poles are from the 1970s," in a country with chronic shortages of electricity and water.Energy-rich Iraq suffered due to a decline in world oil prices and has been struggling with rising prices, high unemployment and poverty, which doubled last year to 40 percent amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Returned to dust Historical sites in the central province of Kirkuk are also in a sad state of disrepair and "neither authorities nor private organisations are doing anything for heritage", said resident Muhammad Taha.He pointed to the 3,000-year-old citadel and the "qishla", an Ottoman-era garrison, where chunks of mosaics have crumbled while sections of wall threaten to crash down.Like Nippur, the citadel's deterioration could mean it might not be promoted from UNESCO's Tentative List of heritage sites to the coveted World Heritage List.Local authorities said frequent heavy rains that batter the mountainous region are to blame.Iraq is one of the countries most vulnerable to climate change, according to the United Nations.Galloping desertification in a country where desert already covers 50 percent of the territory is threatening human and animal life, and has sounded death knells for Mesopotamian sites as well as recent constructions.Abdullah al-Jlihawi from Diwaniya recalled that between the 1960s and the 1980s archeological ruins "were protected by the green belt".But trees that had blocked the wind were burned, blasted apart by shelling during successive Iraqi wars or felled to make way for new towns.Scorching summer temperates above 50 degrees (122 Fahrenheit), dust storms and heavy winter rains have also dealt blows to Iraqi heritage.And many fear that sites built with bricks made thousands of years ago by Mesopotamian labourers will one day soon turn back into dust.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iraqs-heritage-battered-by-desert-sun-rain-and-state-apathy-101620525564352.html
09-05-2021||World||3 hurt in shooting in Florida's Aventura Mall: Police||A shooting at an upscale South Florida shopping mall that erupted from a fight between two groups of people left three persons injured Saturday afternoon and sent anxious shoppers fleeing, police and local reports say.Live aerial television news footage showed people scattering outside the Aventura Mall after reports of gunfire. Law enforcement vehicles could be seen converging outside the complex and blocking roads.Aventura Police said two groups of people had begun fighting, sparking the shooting.One individual in one of the groups produced a gun, and an individual in the other group also drew a gun and fired the weapon, said an Aventura police spokesman, Michael Bentolila, in briefing reporters on live television.Police said the three people injured were being treated at hospitals and their injuries were not life-threatening.Aventura Police later tweeted that authorities had “several suspects" in custody who were being questioned by detectives. Police had no immediate report on what touched off the incident and did not immediately release the identities of those in custody or injured.After the shooting, all patrons and employees were escorted from the shopping complex and officials were restricting access to the mall until further notice, police said.Aventura City Manager Ron Wasson told The Miami Herald that authorities were sweeping the area in case someone dropped a firearm.“They just want to make sure if someone might have dumped a weapon, we don’t miss it,” he told the newspaper.Videos shared on social media community forums show officers who appeared to be taking a man in custody outside the mall. Other footage showed shoppers running out of the stores or seeking cover.Luke Lockart, 22, said he was in Armani Exchange, checking out, when he heard screaming and things falling over because people were running into the store and knocking over mannequins.“They were trying to hide anywhere they could because no one knew what was going on,” said Lockart, who works in real estate.The staff at the store eventually locked the doors and asked people to go into a back room, he said. Police and first responders were running through a nearby hallway within minutes. “They were on top of it,” Lockart said.He followed updates on social media, saying “it was a very uneasy feeling” as he spent more than an hour in the store before police escorted everyone out.Aventura Mall bills itself on its online site as a premier shopping destination in the Miami area and South Florida.In May 2020, two people were wounded and taken to a hospital after an argument led to a shooting inside the same mall. Aventura police said that shooting also followed an argument in a department store in the complex.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/3-hurt-in-shooting-in-florida-s-aventura-mall-police-101620521730267.html
09-05-2021||World||Scottish National Party to 'push' for referendum on independence from UK||The Scottish National Party won its fourth straight parliamentary election on Saturday and insisted it will push on with another referendum on Scotland's independence from the U.K. even though it failed by one seat to secure a majority.Final results of Thursday's election showed the SNP winning 64 of the 129 seats in the Edinburgh-based Scottish Parliament. The result extends the party's dominance of Scottish politics since it first won power in 2007.Other results from Super Thursday's array of elections across Britain emerged Saturday, including the Labour Party's victory in the Welsh parliamentary election. Labour's Sadiq Khan was also reelected mayor of London.The election with the biggest implications was the Scottish election, as it could pave the way to the break-up of the United Kingdom. The devolved government has an array of powers but many economic and security matters remain within the orbit of the British government in London.Though the SNP won the vast majority of constituencies, it failed to get the 65 seats it would need to have a majority as Scotland allocates some by a form of proportional representation. Though falling short, the SNP will be easily able to govern for the five-year parliamentary term with the eight members of the Scottish Greens, who also back Scottish independence.SNP leader and Scotland's first minister, Nicola Sturgeon, said her immediate priority would be steering Scotland through the coronavirus pandemic and that the legitimacy of an independence referendum remains, SNP majority or not.“This is now a matter of fundamental democratic principle,” Sturgeon said. “It is the will of the country.”U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson, the leader of the Conservative Party, would have the ultimate authority whether or not to permit another referendum on Scotland gaining independence. Johnson appears intent on resisting another vote, setting up the possibility of renewed tensions between his government and Sturgeon’s devolved administration.The prime minister wrote in the Daily Telegraph newspaper published Saturday that another referendum would be “irresponsible and reckless” in the “current context” as Britain emerges from the pandemic.He has consistently argued that the issue was settled in a September 2014 referendum, when 55% of Scottish voters favored remaining part of the U.K. Proponents of another vote say the situation has changed fundamentally because of Brexit, with Scotland taken out of the European Union against its will. In the 2016 Brexit referendum, 52% of the U.K. voted to leave the EU while 62% of Scots voted to remain.Sturgeon said it would be wrong for Johnson to stand in the way of a referendum and that the timing is a matter for the Scottish Parliament.There's been growing talk that the whole issue may end up going to court, but Sturgeon said the “outrageous nature” of any attempt by the British government to thwart the democratic will of Scotland would only fuel the desire for independence.“I couldn't think of a more powerful argument for independence than that,” she said.The Scotland results have been the main focus since an array of local and regional elections took place Thursday across Britain, in which around 50 million voters were eligible to vote.In Wales, the concluded vote count showed Labour doing better than expected as it extended its 22 years in control of the Welsh government despite also falling one seat short of a majority. Mark Drakeford, who will remain first minister, said the party will be “radical” and “ambitious.”Ballots continue to be counted from local elections in England, which already have been particularly good for Johnson’s Conservative Party, notably its victory in a special election in the post-industrial town of Hartlepool for a parliamentary seat that Labour had held since 1974.That win extended the party’s grip on parts of England that had been Labour strongholds for decades, if not a century. Many seats that have flipped from red to blue voted heavily for Brexit. The speedy rollout of coronavirus vaccines also appears to have given the Conservatives a boost even though the U.K. has recorded Europe's highest COVID-related death toll at 127,500.For Labour's new leader, Keir Starmer, the Hartlepool result was a huge disappointment and has led to another bout of soul-searching in a party that in 2019 suffered its worst general election performance since 1935.Starmer said he would soon set out a strategy of how it can reconnect with traditional voters. He hasn’t given details though is thought to be considering a rejig of his top team, starting off with removing his deputy, Angela Rayner, from her roles of party chair and campaign coordinator.Though Labour is clearly losing ground in its traditional heartlands, its support held up in other parts of England, such as the big cities.In London, Sadiq Khan won a second term in elections delayed by a year because of the pandemic. He secured 55.2% of the vote once second preference votes were counted, beating his Conservative rival Shaun Bailey got 44.8%. Khan's winning margin was down slightly on last time.The party also won other mayoral races, including Steve Rotherham in the Liverpool City Region, Andy Burnham in Greater Manchester and Dan Norris in the West of England region, which includes the city of Bristol.The Conservatives' Andy Street, meanwhile, was reelected as mayor of the West Midlands, which includes the city of Birmingham.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/scottish-national-party-to-push-for-referendum-on-independence-from-uk-101620520594255.html
09-05-2021||World||Three including a 4-year-old injured in Times Square shooting||A shooting in New York's bustling Times Square has injured two women and a four-year-old girl, in an incident US authorities were still scrambling to understand, police said Saturday.The incident took place just before 5:00 pm local time (9:00 pm GMT), at the intersection of 7th Avenue and 44th Street, a NYPD spokesperson told AFP.The three victims were hospitalized in Manhattan, and their lives were not in danger, he added.No arrests have yet been made, and police said the "investigation is still ongoing," without giving further details.Times Square, one of New York's tourist hotspots before the pandemic, has changed since theaters all closed in March 2020.According to a recent report by the Times Square Alliance, the neighborhood business association, the area recorded 25 violent crimes in the first quarter of 2021, up from 17 in the same period of 2020.At the end of March, a video of an assault on an older woman of Asian descent shocked the neighborhood.A man with a criminal record, who lived in a hotel near Times Square that had become a reception center for the homeless, was arrested and charged.Neighborhood theaters are set to start reopening on September 14, however, and the mayor of New York, Bill de Blasio, recently announced a major campaign to revive tourism from June.Shootings in New York have sharply increased since the summer of 2020 and the protests against the police violence that followed the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis, official data show.Crime in general was up 30 percent over the same period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/three-including-a-4-year-old-injured-in-times-square-shooting-101620520325752.html
09-05-2021||World||Dozens injured in fresh round of clashes in Jerusalem||Dozens more people were injured Saturday as Israeli police fired water cannon and rubber bullets to disperse Palestinian protesters in annexed east Jerusalem, a day after fierce clashes at the city's Al-Aqsa mosque.The fresh violence, a day after more than 200 people were wounded at the mosque, prompted international calls for an end to the violence.Police said they dispersed the protest in the Sheikh Jarrah neighbourhood where demonstrators had thrown stones at security forces.On the border with the Gaza Strip, troops fired tear gas toward Palestinian protesters, as officials said three incendiary balloons were launched into Israel, causing fires but no injuries.In Jerusalem, police said they made three arrests for attacks on officers, while Palestinians reported 13 other arrests earlier in the day.The Palestinian Red Crescent reported 53 people were injured in Saturday's clashes in Jerusalem.AFP journalists in Jerusalem said Israeli riot police had fired rubber bullets, sound grenades and water cannon on Palestininans Saturday, some of whom threw projectiles at the police. One officer received a head injury, said police.On Friday, riot police stormed Al-Aqsa mosque compound, after they said Palestinians threw rocks and fireworks at officers.Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu defended the police actions."Israel is acting responsibly to ensure respect for law and order in Jerusalem while allowing freedom of worship," he said in a meeting of security officials.The violence was the worst in years at Al-Aqsa, Islam's third-holiest site after Mecca and Medina, located on the site Jews revere as the Temple Mount.A focal pointPalestinians have held nightly protests in Sheikh Jarrah against an attempt by Israeli settlers to take over Arab homes.On Saturday, protesters chanted, waved Palestinian flags and threw stones before police moved in.Dozens of Arab Israeli protesters also gathered across Israel in solidarity with Sheikh Jarrah residents, holding up signs that read "the occupation is terrorism".A reporter for Israeli public TV tweeted footage of a Jewish driver whose car was attacked with stones and windows shattered at the entrance to Sheikh Jarrah Saturday.Police blocked buses filled with Arabs headed for Jerusalem from northern Israel, saying they would not be allowed "to participate in violent riots".Instead, hundreds marched on highways leading to the city.Thousands of worshippers stayed on at Al-Aqsa on Saturday for Laylat al-Qadr (Night of Destiny), a peak of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan.The Islamist movement Hamas, which rules Gaza, urged Palestinians to remain at Al-Aqsa until Ramadan ends, warning that "the resistance is ready to defend Al-Aqsa at any cost".Outside the Damascus Gate entrance to Jerusalem's Old City, Palestinians set fire to a barricade before police on horseback dispersed the protesters.'Extreme concern'The Quartet of envoys from the European Union, Russia, US and the United Nations expressed "deep concnern" over the violence. "We call upon Israeli authorities to exercise restraint," they wrote.The United States -- an Israeli ally whose tone has toughened under US President Joe Biden -- said it was "extremely concerned" and urged both sides to "avoid steps that exacerbate tensions or take us farther away from peace"."This includes evictions in east Jerusalem, settlement activity, home demolitions and acts of terrorism," the State Department said.The European Union called on the authorities "to act urgently to de-escalate the current tensions," saying "violence and incitement are unacceptable and the perpetrators on all sides must be held accountable".Russia voiced "deep concern", calling the expropriation of land and property in the occupied Palestinian territories including east Jerusalem "a violation of international law".Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas said he held the Israeli government responsible for the unrest and voiced "full support for our heroes in Al-Aqsa".Yair Lapid, an Israeli politician attempting to form a coalition government to replace Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, backed the police."The state of Israel will not let violence run loose and definitely will not allow terror groups to threaten it," he tweeted.'Barbaric attack'The Al-Aqsa clashes drew sharp rebukes across the Arab and Muslim world.Turkey's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan denounced Israel as a "cruel terrorist state" in a speech in Ankara Saturday, calling on the United Nations to intervene to "stop the persecution".Jordan condemned Israel's "barbaric attack" and Egypt, Turkey, Tunisia, Pakistan and Qatar were among Muslim countries that blasted Israeli forces for the confrontation.Israel also drew criticism from Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates, two countries that signed normalisation accords with the Jewish state last year.Iran called on the United Nations to condemn the Israeli police actions, arguing that "this war crime once again proved to the world the criminal nature of the illegitimate Zionist regime".Tensions are expected to remain high in Jerusalem.Israel's supreme court is to hold a new hearing in the Sheikh Jarrah case on Monday, when Israelis mark Jerusalem Day to celebrate the "liberation" of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dozens-injured-in-fresh-round-of-clashes-in-jerusalem-101620519088111.html
09-05-2021||World||Sadiq Khan wins second term as London mayor after close contest||Sadiq Khan was re-elected as Mayor of London but only after an unexpected surge in support for his main rival threatened to give Boris Johnson’s Conservatives their biggest prize of this week’s British elections.As the incumbent Labour Party candidate, Khan was the runaway favorite to win the contest and keep his job but Shaun Bailey ran a closer-than-expected second, narrowing the gap in the polls in the final days of the contest.As the results came in during the day on Saturday, Khan held on to a lead that was at times as slim as 2 points. In the end, he won by 55.2% to 44.8%.“I’m proud to have won an overwhelming mandate today,” Khan said after the result was announced. But London is “deeply divided,” he said, with the scars of Brexit “yet to heal” and “economic inequality” getting worse.The result will be a relief rather than a source of jubilation for the U.K.’s main opposition party after a set of results across the country that its own leader described as bitterly disappointing.Khan won his first term in 2016, becoming the capital’s first Muslim mayor. His predecessor, Johnson himself, had stepped down to focus on a political career that eventually saw him become prime minister.As mayor, Khan has power over transport policy including fares on London’s bus and subway system, local taxes, and policing. He will set targets for housing and building projects and acts as a corporate hub. In the run-up to the vote, Khan promised to be the most pro-business mayor the city has ever seen. That is the kind of messaging to appeal traditional Tory voters.London Mayor Candidates Pitch Business Credentials Ahead of PollKhan, 50, is one of eight children born to Pakistani immigrants and lived in a deprived neighborhood of south London. Since becoming mayor he has been a vocal critic of Johnson’s government, notably over Brexit, and has clashed repeatedly over how to pay for the subway service that has been struggling financially.For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2021 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sadiq-khan-wins-second-term-as-london-mayor-after-close-contest-101620519217303.html
09-05-2021||World||'Lost true friend': Barack Obama announces death of former US 'first dog' Bo||Former US President Barack Obama on Saturday (local time) announced the death of Bo, the Portuguese water dog who became the first presidential pet in the Obama White House.Taking to Twitter, Barack Obama said that the family has "lost a true friend and loyal companion" and that Bo was "a constant, gentle presence in our lives".Today our family lost a true friend and loyal companion. For more than a decade, Bo was a constant, gentle presence in our lives—happy to see us on our good days, our bad days, and everyday in between. pic.twitter.com/qKMNojiu9V"He tolerated all the fuss that came with being in the White House, had a big bark but no bite, loved to jump in the pool in the summer, was unflappable with children, lived for scraps around the dinner table, and had great hair," the former US President said."He was exactly what we needed and more than we ever expected. We will miss him dearly," he said in another tweet.He was exactly what we needed and more than we ever expected. We will miss him dearly. pic.twitter.com/CHweCxwJ7aSharing happy memories of life with Bo on social media, former First Lady, Michelle Obama revealed that cancer was the cause of death of "our best friend"."This afternoon was a difficult one for our family. We said goodbye to our best friend--Bo--after a battle with cancer. We are grateful for the love you showed him over the years. Please hug the furry members of your family a little closer tonight--and give them a belly rub from us," she tweeted.Bo arrived at the White House as a 6-month-old puppy in April 2009, a gift from Senator Edward M Kennedy of Massachusetts and his wife, Victoria, to the first children, Malia and Sasha Obama, reported The New York Times.The former first dog was known for cavorting on the South Lawn in front of the White House press corps, barking at news conferences and attracting fan mail from children across the country.In 2013, Bo was joined at the White House by a second Portuguese water dog, Sunny, after Michelle Obama said that Bo needed more interaction with other dogs, according to NYT."As a family, we will miss Bo dearly. But we are thankful that he lived such a joyful life full of snuggles, games of fetch and evenings spent lying on the couch," said Michelle Obama.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lost-true-friend-barack-obama-announces-death-of-former-us-first-dog-bo-101620518726258.html
09-05-2021||World||‘Bomb attack on ex-Maldives President linked to Islamic extremists’||A top official in the Maldives said on Saturday that Islamic extremists were responsible for an explosion that critically wounded former president Mohamed Nasheed earlier this week, as police said they arrested two of four suspects.Hospital officials said on Saturday that Nasheed, 53, was conscious and no longer needed breathing support, but remains in an intensive care unit after initial life-saving surgeries to his head, chest, abdomen and limbs.Prosecutor general Hussain Shameem told reporters that investigators still don’t know which extremist group was behind Thursday’s attack. Police announced that two men were arrested in connection with the attack, and released a photo of a person they said is the main fugitive suspect. No group has claimed responsibility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bomb-attack-on-ex-maldives-president-linked-to-islamic-extremists-101620513691980.html
09-05-2021||World||At least 30 killed in Afghan terror attack||A bomb exploded near a girls’ school in a majority Shia district of west Kabul on Saturday, killing more than 30 people, many of them young pupils between 11 and 15 years old.“More than 30 students and other countrymen have been killed, and over 50 more were wounded. The toll is rising.” interior ministry spokesman Tareq Arian told reporters.The bombing, apparently aimed to cause maximum civilian carnage, adds to fears that violence in the war-wrecked country could escalate as the US and NATO end nearly 20 years of military engagement.Residents in the area said the explosion was deafening. One, Naser Rahimi, told The Associated Press he heard three separate explosions, although there was no official confirmation of multiple blasts.Rahimi said the explosion went off as the girls were streaming out of the school at around 4.30pm local time.In Dasht-e-Barchi, angry crowds attacked the ambulances and even beat health workers as they tried to evacuate the wounded, health ministry spokesman Ghulam Dastigar Nazari said.Also read | Taliban terrorists capture key dam in AfghanistanHe implored residents to cooperate and allow ambulances free access to the site. Images circulating on social media purportedly showed bloodied school backpacks and books strewn across the street in front if the school, and smoke rising above the neighbourhood.At one nearby hospital, Associated Press journalists saw at least 20 dead bodies lined up in hallways and rooms, with dozens of wounded people and families of victims pressing through the facility.Both Arian and Nazari said that at least 50 people were also wounded, and that the casualty toll could rise. The attack occurred just as the fasting day came to an end.Authorities were investigating the attack but have yet to confirm any details. While no one has claimed responsibility for the bombing, the Afghan Islamic State affiliate has targeted the Shia neighbourhood before. The radical Sunni Muslim group has declared war on Afghanistan’s minority Shia Muslims.Meanwhile, the Taliban denied any responsibility, while condemning the attack. Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid told reporters in a message that only the Islamic State group could be responsible for such a heinous crime.Mujahid also accused Afghanistan’s intelligence agency of being complicit with IS, although he offered no evidence.Afghan President Ashraf Ghani blamed the Taliban.“The Taliban, by escalating their illegitimate war and violence, have once again shown that they are not only reluctant to resolve the current crisis peacefully and fundamentally, but by complicating the situation,” Ghani said.The top US diplomat in Kabul, Ross Wilson, called the blast “abhorrent”, tweeting: “With scores murdered, this unforgivable attack on children is an assault on Afghanistan’s future, which cannot stand.”The European Union delegation in Afghanistan condemned what it said was a “despicable act of terrorism”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-30-killed-in-afghan-terror-attack-101620512754357.html
09-05-2021||World||Nasa captures sound of chopper blades on Mars||First came the amazing pictures, then the video. Now Nasa is sharing sounds of its little helicopter humming through the thin Martian air.Nasa’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory in California released this first-ever audio on Friday, just before Ingenuity made its fifth test flight, a short one-way trip to a new airfield.During the fourth flight a week earlier, the low hum from the helicopter blades spinning at more than 2,500 revolutions per minute is barely audible. It almost sounds like a low-pitched, faraway mosquito or other flying insect.That’s because the 1.8-kg helicopter was more than 80 metres from the microphone on the Perseverance rover. The rumbling wind gusts also obscured the chopper’s sound. Scientists isolated the sound of the whirring blades and magnified it, making it easier to hear.“This is a very good surprise,” said David Mimoun, a professor of planetary science at Institut Superieur de l’Aeronautique et de l’Espace in Toulouse, France, and science lead for the SuperCam Mars microphone on board Perseverance. “We had carried out tests that told us the microphone would barely pick up the sounds,” he added.Ingenuity, the first powered aircraft to fly at another planet, arrived at Mars on February 18, clinging to Perseverance’s belly. Its first flight was April 19. After proving itself more robust, it will now embark on a new mission: to scout ahead of Perseverance to assist in its hunt for ancient life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nasa-captures-sound-of-chopper-blades-on-mars-101620505144644.html
09-05-2021||World||Scotland's nationalist government set to be shy of majority||Scotland's governing Scottish National Party was poised Saturday to win its fourth straight parliamentary election, but the party's anticipated inability to secure a majority could complicate its ambition to hold another referendum on the country's independence from the UK.With 68 constituencies counted, the SNP had won 57 of the 129 seats in the Edinburgh-based Scottish Parliament and was on clear course to extend its dominance of Scottish politics.However, because Scotland allocates some seats by a form of proportional representation, the party looks set to fall just short of the 65 seats it would need to have a majority. Based on the latest results, the BBC forecast that the SNP would end up with 63 seats.The party's leader, First Minister Nicola Sturgeon, conceded as much late Saturday afternoon, saying it wasn't a big surprise given the electoral system in place in Scotland."I've always said a majority is a long-shot,” Sturgeon said.Sturgeon said the immediate priority on her return to power would be steering Scotland through the coronavirus pandemic but that the legitimacy of an independence referendum remains, SNP majority or not. The Scottish Greens, who also back a referendum, were set to pick up parliament seats.“It looks as if it is beyond any doubt that there will be a pro-independence majority in that Scottish Parliament, and by any normal standard of democracy that majority should have the commitments it made to the people of Scotland honored,” Sturgeon said.In a September 2014 referendum, 55% of Scottish voters favored remaining part of the United Kingdom.UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson, the leader of the Conservative Party, would have the ultimate authority whether or not to permit another referendum on Scotland gaining independence. So far, Johnson has refused to countenance another vote, setting up the possibility of renewed tensions between his government and Sturgeon’s devolved administration.The prime minister wrote in the Daily Telegraph newspaper published Saturday that another referendum would be “irresponsible and reckless” in the “current context” as Britain emerges from the pandemic.Sturgeon said it would be wrong for Johnson to stand in the way of a referendum and that the timing is a matter for the Scottish Parliament.“I would say two things: Firstly you’re not picking a fight with the SNP, you’re picking a fight with the democratic wishes of the Scottish people,” she said. “And secondly, you will not succeed.”There's been growing talk that the whole issue may end up going to court, but Sturgeon said the “outrageous nature” of any attempt by the British government to thwart the democratic will of Scotland would only fuel the desire for independence.“I couldn't think of a more powerful argument for independence than that one,” she said.The Scotland results have been the main focus since an array of local and regional elections took place Thursday across Britain, where around 50 million voters were eligible to vote.In Wales, the concluded vote count showed the Labour Party doing better than expected in the parliamentary election as it extended its 22 years in control of the Welsh government. The party retaining its grip on power after winning half of the seats, just one short of a majority. Mark Drakeford, who will remain as first minister, said the party will be “radical” and “ambitious” in government.Ballots continue to be counted from local elections in England, which already have been particularly good for Johnson’s Conservative Party, notably its victory in a special election in the post-industrial town of Hartlepool for a parliamentary seat that the main opposition Labour Party had held since 1974.The win extended the party’s grip on parts of England that had been Labour strongholds for decades, if not a century. Many seats that have flipped from red to blue voted heavily in 2016 for Britain’s departure from the European Union. The speedy rollout of coronavirus vaccines also appears to have given the Conservatives a boost even though the UK has recorded Europe's highest coronavirus-related death toll at 127,500.For the Labour Party and its new leader, Keir Starmer, the Hartlepool result was a huge disappointment and has led to another bout of soul-searching in a party that in 2019 suffered its worst general election performance since 1935.Starmer said he took full responsibility for the party’s defeat in Hartlepool, adding that he would soon be setting out a strategy of how it can reconnect with its traditional voters. He didn’t give further details.Though Labour is clearly losing ground in the traditional heartlands, its support held up in many other parts of England, such as the big cities. The party won a series of mayoral elections, including Steve Rotherham in the Liverpool City Region and Andy Burnham in Greater Manchester. And Dan Norris was elected as the mayor of the West of England region, which includes the city of Bristol.London Mayor Sadiq Khan, also a Labour member, is expected to win a second term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/scotlands-nationalist-government-set-to-be-shy-of-majority-101620498441058.html
09-05-2021||India||Bengal sees sharp dip in post-poll violence, MHA team visits districts||Bengal witnessed a sharp fall in post-poll violence on Sunday with no killing or arson being reported from any part of the state, even as the four-member team of the Union home ministry visited parts of Birbhum and Hooghly districts in a chopper.The Birbhum district police arrested 13 people in connection with the murder of a Trinamool Congress (TMC) worker at Khairasol on Friday night. “Eleven of these men were remanded in judicial custody while two were sent to police custody by the local court,” a district police officer said on condition of anonymity.Bengal has been witnessing violence ever since the assembly poll results were declared on May 2. The TMC bagged 213 seats against the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) 77. Polls were held in 292 of the state’s 294 assembly seats as two candidates of two seats in Murshidabad district died of Covid-19. Polls in these constituencies will be held again later.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Friday that 16 people were killed since May 2 and announced a compensation of ₹2 lakh for each of the affected families.The Calcutta high court on Friday set up a five-judge bench headed by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal to hear a public interest litigation related to post-poll violence. The petition was filed by advocate Anindya Sundar Das. The state has been directed to file an affidavit on Monday, specifying areas where violence took place and steps taken by the government.The MHA team arrived in Kolkata on Thursday and met the home secretary and also called on Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar at Raj Bhawan on Friday.Dhankhar had been speaking against the violence since May 2 and tweeting every day.On Sunday, when the state observed the 160th birth anniversary of Rabindranath Tagore without any public celebration, Dhankhar raised the issue even while paying homage to the Nobel laureate.“Tribute to composer of NATIONAL ANTHEM, great philosopher & writer, Nobel Laureate, Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore on his birth anniversary. Unleashing of violence @MamataOfficial on those who exercised right to vote was not his dream. Let’s resolve to realize his dream,” he tweeted.The governor also tweeted that BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari, who defeated Banerjee at Nandigram in East Midnapore district, called on him.“Senior leader @SuvenduWB called on me at Raj Bhawan & expressed deep concern at alarming law and order @MamataOfficial and exodus of people even outside state. He asserted gruesome killings and rampant & unchecked destruction of property by ruling party members was planned,” wrote the governor, tagging the chief minister.CPI(M)’s youth front leader Minakshi Mukherjee, who contested the Nandigram seat, led a peace procession in the constituency on Sunday. “We are appealing to supporters of all political parties to maintain peace and tranquility,” she said.BJP leader Swapan Dasgupta, who lost from Tarakeswar in Hooghly district, lodged a police complaint on Sunday saying 260 people have been injured in political violence and many have fled from their homes. Dasgupta also alleged that ration shops were being given lists of BJP workers so that they are deprived of free ration till they join the TMC.“Having suffered such a heavy loss, BJP leaders are making fictitious allegations across the state,” said TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-sees-sharp-dip-in-post-poll-violence-mha-team-visits-districts-101620584175002.html
09-05-2021||India||WB Governor accords sanction against 3 sitting MLAs of TMC in Narada sting||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankar on Friday accorded prosecution sanction to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against three current MLAs - Madan Mitra, Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, and one former party leader Suvon Chatterjee, in the Narada sting operation case, a development which will empower the central agency to file a chargesheet against them, people familiar with the development told HT. Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim are set to take oath as ministers in Mamata Banerjee’s cabinet on Monday. Madan Mitra won the election last week from Kamarhati seat in Bengal. Apart from the sanction granted by the Bengal governor on Friday against three TMC MLAs and disgruntled Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvon Chatterjee, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) has also granted sanction against a 2004 batch promotee IPS officer – SMH Mirza in the Narada case. Mirza was arrested by CBI in September 2019 in the case. When contacted about the West Bengal governor giving sanction against three TMC MLAs, party’s Member of Parliament Saugata Roy said – “I cannot comment on it. It’s a legal matter”. Officers cited above said CBI had sent a request against the four state leaders in January this year after completion of investigation. A statement issued by Raj Bhavan, Kolkata, said “Governor of West Bengal accorded sanction for prosecution in respect of Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee, Madan Mitra and Suvon Chatterjee, for the reason that all of them at the relevant time of commission of crime were holding the position of ministers in the government of West Bengal.” The Governor’s office added that he is the competent authority to accord prosecution sanction against ministers in the state. “The impression generated in some quarters of the media that sanction has come to be accorded because these persons at the relevant time were members of the West Bengal Legislative Assembly is factually untenable. The premise of the sanction as indicated is that these persons at the relevant point of time of commission of crime were holding the position of ministers in the government of West Bengal,” added the Raj Bhavan statement. The case pertains to about a dozen TMC politicians and West Bengal bureaucrats allegedly caught on tape accepting money from a journalist posing as a representative of a private company ahead of the assembly election in 2016. CBI had registered a First Information Report (FIR) in April 2017 in the matter against 12 TMC leaders on the orders of the Calcutta High Court. Governor Jagdeep Dhankar’s sanction to prosecute three TMC MLAs and Suvon Chatterjee comes at a time when CBI’s request to prosecute three Trinamool MPs - Saugata Roy, Prasun Banerjee, and Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar and former TMC parliamentarian - Suvendu Adhikari, who joined BJP and fought and won the Nandigram seat against Mamata Banerjee, is pending with the Lok Sabha speaker since April 2019. According to section 19 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, prosecution sanction is mandatory before filing a chargesheet against a public servant else courts won’t take cognizance of the charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wb-governor-accords-sanction-against-3-sitting-mlas-of-tmc-in-narada-sting-101620583094889.html
09-05-2021||India||PM Modi dials Nitish Kumar, reviews Covid-19 scenario in Bihar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi took stock of Bihar’s Covid-19 situation from chief minister Nitish Kumar during a series of phone calls he had with chief ministers and heads of union territories on Sunday. PM Modi in his telephonic conversation took updates on the Covid-19 situation in the state and the various steps being taken to tackle the pandemic by the state government. There was, however, no official statement issued by the chief minister’s office till late evening about the matters discussed between the PM and Kumar during the telephonic conversation. “The PM had interacted with the CM on the Covid-19 situation in the state. There were discussions on it,” said a senior bureaucrat.When contacted, principal secretary to the chief minister Deepak Kumar, did not comment about the meeting or about the issues discussed. The chief minister, in a series of tweets, in the evening urged people to come together to fight the pandemic by maintaining all Covid-19 protocols and extending support to the government. He also thanked the frontline workers including police, medical staff, nurses and sanitation staff for working hard patiently during the pandemic. Bihar continues to witness rising cases of Covid-19 over the past few weeks. The new infections dropped marginally to 11,259 even as 67 people died during the last 24 hours on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-dials-nitish-kumar-reviews-covid-19-scenario-in-bihar-101620581474841.html
09-05-2021||India||Amit Mitra to be Bengal finance minister for 3rd time, new cabinet to have mix of seniors, debutants||He did not contest the recently concluded Bengal polls, yet economist Amit Mitra will be sworn in as state finance minister for the third time on Monday alongside many senior leaders and a few debutants as part of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s new cabinet. Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders said that till Sunday evening, Banerjee had prepared a list of 24 cabinet ministers and 19 ministers of state. Though she did not declare their portfolios, Mitra, party leaders said, would be in charge of the finance department. Among the senior leaders who will make it to the cabinet again are Subrata Mukherjee, Partha Chatterjee, Firhad Hakim, Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, Bratya Basu, Soumen Mahapatra, Javed Khan and Moloy Ghatak. There are speculations in the TMC that Subrata Mukherjee, who served as panchayat minister, may be given a different portfolio that focuses on urban affairs. TMC leaders said Birbaha Hansda, the Santhali movie actress who won the Jhargram seat and Becharam Manna, who won the Singur seat, are likely to be made ministers of state. Another prospective minister is former Indian cricketer Manoj Tiwary who bagged the Shibpur seat in Howrah district. Mitra, a former Secretary General of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), was a lawmaker from the Khardah assembly seat in North 24 Parganas for two consecutive terms but did not contest the recently concluded polls in which the Trinamool Congress bagged 213 seats against the Bharatiya Janata Party’s 77. Polls were held in 292 of the state’s 294 assembly seats as two candidates at two seats in Murshidabad district died of Covid-19. Polls in these constituencies will be held again later. Incidentally, the Khardah seat fell vacant even before the poll results were announced on May 2. TMC’s Kajal Sinha, who won the seat, died of Covid-19 days after the election. “With the party winning 213 seats, Mitra can contest and emerge as a winner from any seat, including Khardah which he earlier held. Mamata Banerjee, too, has to contest again as she lost from Nandigram in East Midnapore district. Finding two seats for them is not a big issue,” a top TMC leader told HT on condition of anonymity. Since two ministers in the last government joined the BJP prior to the polls there are departments such as forest, that Rajib Banerjee held, or Transport, held by Suvendu Adhikari, for which Banerjee has to find ministers with experience, TMC leaders said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-mitra-to-be-bengal-finance-minister-for-3rd-time-new-cabinet-to-have-mix-of-seniors-debutants-101620579374560.html
09-05-2021||India||Supreme Court-appointed task force holds first meeting, members give suggestions to increase oxygen production||The first meeting of the 12-member National Task Force of top medical experts to formulate a methodology for allocation of oxygen to states and union territories for saving lives of Covid-19 patients was held on Sunday, people aware of the development said. The task force was constituted on the directions of the Supreme Court.At the meeting, the members commended the significant amount of work done by the various ministries and departments of the Centre in augmenting the oxygen production capacities as well as in ensuring its efficient distribution, the people cited above said.The members of the task force also provided specific suggestions for further increasing oxygen production and availability, managing the demand side of medical oxygen, and parametres on which individual health facilities could ensure economy in use of medical oxygen, people aware of the meeting said on condition of anonymity.Amid the worst wave of Covid-19 infections, which has overwhelmed healthcare facilities across the country, demand for medical oxygen has soared, and several states have sought more oxygen from the Centre, which is in charge of allocating what has become the most precious medical commodity right now.Ordering the constitution of the task force in its May 6 order which was uploaded on the Supreme Court on Saturday, a bench of justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah said that the Union Cabinet Secretary will be its convenor and may nominate an officer not below the rank of Additional Secretary to depute for him, when necessary.The members of the task force include Dr Bhabatosh Biswas, former Vice-Chancellor, West Bengal University of Health Sciences, Kolkata; Dr Devender Singh Rana, Chairperson, Board of Management, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Delhi; Dr Devi Prasad Shetty, Chairperson and Executive Director, Narayana Healthcare, Bengaluru; Dr Gagandeep Kang, Professor, Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore, Tamil Nadu; Dr J V Peter, Director, CMC; Dr Naresh Trehan, Chairperson and Managing Director, Medanta Hospital and Heart Institute, Gurugram, Dr Rahul Pandit, Director, Critical Care Medicine and ICU, Fortis Hospital, Mulund and Kalyan (Maharashtra); Dr Saumitra Rawat, Chairman & Head, Department of Surgical Gastroenterology and Liver Transplant, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital; Dr Shiv Kumar Sarin, Senior Professor and Head of Department of Hepatology, and Director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS), Delhi; and Dr Zarir F Udwadia, Consultant Chest Physician, Hinduja Hospital, Breach Candy Hospital and Parsee General Hospital, Mumbai.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and Union secretary (MoRTH) Giridhar Aramane were also present at the meeting along with NITI Aayog member Dr V K Paul, AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria, ICMR chief Dr Balram Bhargava and Dr Sunil Kumar DGHS, Union health ministry as special invitees.The top court made 12-point terms of reference which include assessing and making recommendations for the entire country based on the need for, availability and distribution of medical oxygen and to facilitate auditing by sub-groups within each state and union territory (UT).The top court said that the task force will constitute sub-groups/committees of each state/UT for auditing and will comprise of an officer of the state/UT government not below the rank of secretary to the state government, an officer of the Centre not below the rank of additional/joint secretary and two medical doctors in the state/UT concerned including at least one with administrative experience of managing the medical facilities of a hospital and a representative from the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO).The bench clarified that the purpose of the audit is not to scrutinise the decisions made in good faith by doctors while treating their patients but to ensure accountability in respect of the supplies of oxygen provided to every state/UT.The bench said that the task force shall also submit its recommendations from time to time to the court and requested it to take up the pressing issue of determining the modalities for providing oxygen expeditiously within a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scappointed-task-force-hails-centre-proposes-managing-demand-side-of-oxygen-101620578684192.html
09-05-2021||India||71% of India's new Covid-19 cases found in 10 states||Maharashtra, Karnataka and Delhi are among 10 states that account for 71.75 per cent of the 4,03,738 new Covid-19 cases registered in a day, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday.The other states in the list of 10 are Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan, and Haryana.Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 56,578. It is followed by Karnataka with 47,563 while Kerala reported 41,971 new casesA total of more than 30.22 crore tests have been conducted so far across the country while the daily Covid-19 positivity rate stands at 21.64 per cent, the ministry said.India's total active caseload has reached 37,36,648 and now comprises 16.76 per cent of the country's total infections. A net increase of 13,202 cases has been recorded in the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours.Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Haryana, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh cumulatively account for 82.94 per cent of India's total active cases, the ministry stated."The National Mortality Rate has been falling and currently stands at 1.09 per cent," the ministry said.Besides, 4,092 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours.Ten states account for 74.93 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (864). Karnataka follows with 482 daily deaths.Twenty states and UTs have deaths per million population lower than the national average (176), while 16 states and UTs have deaths per million population higher than the national average, the ministry highlighted.India’s cumulative recoveries have surged to 1,83,17,404 with 3,86,444 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours. Ten states account for 75.75 per cent of the new recoveries.The ministry said the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 17 crore.Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Karmataka, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Bihar and Andhra Pradesh account for 66.78 per cent of the cumulative doses given so far in the country, the ministry said.Cumulatively over 17.84 lakh beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years have received their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine.More than 20 lakh vaccination doses were administered in the last 24 hours.As on Day-113 of the vaccination drive (May 8), 20,23,532 vaccine doses were given.Across 16,722 sessions, 8,37,695 beneficiaries were vaccinated for first dose and 11,85,837 beneficiaries received their second dose of vaccine.The ministry said the global community is extending a helping hand to support India's efforts to meet the challenges and requirements of the unprecedented surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in the second wave of the global pandemic.The Centre has been ensuring the global aid is being effectively and promptly allocated and delivered to states and UTs to supplement their efforts during this critical phase, the ministry said.It said 6,608 oxygen concentrators, 3,856 oxygen cylinders, 14 oxygen generation plants, 4,330 ventilators/ Bi PAP/C PAP and more than 3 lakh Remdesivir vials have been delivered or dispatched, so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/71-of-india-s-new-covid-19-cases-found-in-10-states-101620577361588.html
09-05-2021||India||Puducherry CM Rangasamy tests positive for Covid-19; to be treated in Chennai||Puducherry chief minister N Rangasamy on Sunday tested positive for coronavirus.A spokesman of the Health Department told PTI that Rangasamy underwent an examination at the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College Hospital here Sunday and tested positive for the virus.The spokesman said that Rangasamy was stable and had preferred to get treatment at a private hospital in Chennai.He left for Chennai in the evening.Rangasamy assumed office as the Chief Minister on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puducherry-cm-rangasamy-tests-positive-for-covid-19-to-be-treated-in-chennai-101620577688817.html
09-05-2021||India||Supreme Court to hear plea on Covid-19 protocol violation in Kumbh mela, Assembly elections||The Supreme Court will on Monday will hear the Public Interest Litigation filed by Noida-based Advocate-on-Record (AOR), Sanjai Kumar Pathak, seeking directions for strict enforcement of Covid-19 pandemic guidelines and for action against all those who had allegedly violated protocols during Assembly elections in several states and the Kumbh Mela.A three-judge bench of the Apex Court, headed by Justice Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, and also comprising Justices Nageshwar Rao and Ravindra Bhat will hear the petition filed by the advocate Pathak who filed the plea on April 16.Pathak, had in his plea filed before the Apex Court, sought immediate strict directions to the Union of India (UOI) and the state of Uttarakhand to withdraw all the advertisements inviting people to Haridwar for Kumbh, keeping in view the worrisome facts and figures of coronavirus pandemic.He also sought that the Central, Uttarakhand government and the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) be directed immediately to clear the mass gathering from Haridwar city as soon as possible and prescribe a safety protocol with respect to the people returning from Kumbh to their homes.The petitioner further sought a direction from the Top Court to the Central and state government, to not encourage or promote any gathering or event inconsistent with the spirit and object of the COVID guidelines and or orders issued by the UOI and NDMA.Another direction, sought through the plea is that the Election Commission of India (ECI) should issue direction to the concerned authorities in the states where elections are being held to strictly enforce Covid guidelines against the candidates, campaigners and public during the election process and to take appropriate action against the violators in accordance with law.Pathak, in his petition a copy of which was accessed by ANI, sought directions to the authorities to identify the violators of Covid-19 guidelines during the election process and to take appropriate action against them in accordance with law."On April 16, 2021, India reported more than 2 lakh new cases of Covid-19 positive patients. The health infrastructure is crumbling in many states. Hospitals and crematoriums are running out of space. Shortage of essential drugs is reported from many cities," Pathak said in his petition.Kerala, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu, Assam and West Bengal Assembly elections were held. The respondent number, 4, the ECI, had not been able to enforce the Covid-19 Rules and regulations during the political rallies and campaigning, Pathak said in his petition.The Union Home Minister, the Chief Ministers of respective states and host of star campaigners could be seen flouting the COVID-19 norms, Pathak said in his petition.As India witnesses its highest surge in Covid-19, since the onset of the Covid pandemic, but visuals had surfaced of lakhs of devotees crowding in Haridwar, Uttarakhand, for Kumbh Mela and in the election rallies in States, ignoring the most basic of Covid-19 protocols, Pathak added.Even though the disease is currently spreading at breakneck speed across the country, the Indian railways had organised 25 special trains to facilitate congregation and to link Haridwar Kumbh Mela to various locations for the pilgrims as per certain media report, the plea read further.The Union health minister blamed the heightened spread of Covid-19 on ordinary citizens, saying that they "became very careless" and were no longer following social distancing norms, Pathak claimed in his petition, filed before the Supreme Court.On the one hand, poor people on the street are often punished and treated violently by the police and executive authorities for individual violations of Covid-19 rules and regulations in the name of strict enforcement, on the other hand, the authorities are not only permitting but facilitating and promoting congregation of people in the events like Kumbh-2021 and Election rallies, Pathak in his petition said.It is visibly clear that two separate and mutually inconsistent standards are being adopted by the authorities in dealing with the citizens of India, Pathak said in his petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-plea-on-covid-19-protocol-violation-in-kumbh-mela-assembly-elections-101620575957358.html
09-05-2021||India||Jailed activist Natasha Narwal’s father Mahavir Narwal dies of Covid-19||Pinjra Tod activist Natasha Narwal’s father Mahavir Narwal died of the novel coronavirus infection on Sunday, family sources said.Natasha was arrested in May last year for allegedly being part of a premeditated conspiracy in the northeast Delhi riots in February that year. She has been booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.The activist has been lodged in Tihar Jail here.“Mahavir Narwal was not able to speak to his daughter who is in jail. His son, Aakash, who is also Covid-19 positive, was there with him in Rohtak,” sources close to the family said.Left activists and civil society groups had recently demanded that “political prisoners” be released from jails in view of the surge in coronavirus cases.“Extend my deep condolences to Natasha and her brother Aakash. The terrible injustice of the system in which a daughter wrongly locked up for a year unable to see her father even for a final farewell,” CPI(M) politburo member Brinda Karat said.Women’s rights activist and CPIML politburo member Kavita Krishnan also lashed out at the government and said it was “torture” forcing “feminists” to be in prison while their loved ones die of Covid-19.“This is so bloody cruel & sadistic: it's a form of torture to keep political prisoners jailed during a pandemic, forced to suffer not only prison, but the pain of being away from loved ones who are dying. Natasha's brother also has Covid-19,” she said on Twitter.Activist Harsh Mander too condoled Mahavir Narwal’s death."Where there's suffering, my daughter will be there. I'm proud of her". This hero, Mahavir Narwal, father of Natasha in jail for the CAA protests, supports her, with courage hard to find. "I hope she' not in jail so long she doesn't see my face". He died just hours ago of Covid (sic),” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jailed-activist-natasha-narwal-s-father-mahavir-narwal-dies-of-covid19-101620577513771.html
09-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu logs 28,897 new Covid-19 cases; Sterlite to produce O2 from May 11||Tamil Nadu's coronavirus spike continued unabated with 28,897 fresh cases being recorded in a single day, pushing the total caseload to 13.80 lakh while 236 deaths in the last 24 hours took the toll to 15,648. The state government said the Sterlite Copper plant in Tuticorin district would commence production of oxygen from May 11 onwards. According to a medical bulletin on Sunday, 23,515 people were discharged today, taking the total recoveries to 12,20,064 and leaving 1,44,547 active infections. The state capital accounted for 7,130 new infections, totaling 3,90,589 till date. The metropolis also leads in the number of fatalities with 5,209 deaths. The number of samples tested today was 1,53,790, pushing the cumulative number of specimens examined so far to 2.40 crore. Besides Chennai, Chengalpet added 2,279 cases, Coimbatore 2,509 Thiruvallur 1,768, Madurai 1,068, Kancheepuram 1,089 while the remaining 31 districts clocked new infections in triple digits. Cuddalore reported 478, Dharmapuri 353, Dindigul 351, Erode 691, Kallakurichi 280, Kanyakumari 515, Karur 291, Krishnagiri 485, Nagapattinam 211, Namakkal 216, and Ramanathapuram 136 followed by others. Among the 236 deceased, 47 of them were without comorbidities, which include a 18 year old boy from Tuticorin, who succumbed to the virus due to 'COVID-19 pneumonia'. As many as 28 people who tested positive today were returnees from various destinations. Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu said the Vedanta-owned Sterlite Copper plant would produce 35 metric tonnes of oxygen at its facility in Tuticorin fromMay 11 and double its production later. "We have asked them to increase production to 70 metric tonnes. They (the company) told us that they will be able to give information on May 12..," he told reporters here. On April 26, an all-party meeting convened by the previous AIADMK government resolved to allow the plant to produce oxygen for a four-month period, paving the way for partial reopening of the copper smelter plant closed in 2018 over pollution concerns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-logs-28-897-new-covid-19-cases-sterlite-to-produce-o2-from-may-11-101620577205782.html
09-05-2021||India||Freedom fighter and INA veteran Lalti Ram passes away at 100||Freedom fighter and veteran of the erstwhile Indian National Army (INA) Lalti Ram passed away on Sunday, according to a Haryana government statement.He was 100.Lalti Ram's last rites were performed at his native village Dubaldhan in Haryana's Jhajjar district with full state honours in the presence of officers from the administration, the statement issued here said."Lalti Ram, who was 100 years old and a respected freedom fighter, breathed his last on Sunday," it said.Condoling the freedom fighter's death, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted, "Saddened by the demise of INA veteran Lalti Ram Ji. His courage and contributions to India's freedom struggle will never be forgotten. I recall my interactions with him. Greats like him have left an indelible mark on India's history."Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and BJP state president O P Dhankar condoled the demise of Lalti Ram.In 2019, Lalti Ram had presented a cap of the pre-Independence INA to Prime Minister Narendra Modi at an event to mark the 75th anniversary of the proclamation of the 'Azad Hind Sarkar' by freedom fighter Subhas Chandra Bose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/freedom-fighter-and-ina-veteran-lalti-ram-passes-away-at-100-101620575489632.html
09-05-2021||India||CM Mamata seeks GST waiver on Covid-19 equipment, already done tweets Sitharaman||With coronavirus infections in Bengal continuing to surge on Sunday, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman told chief minister Mamata Banerjee through 16 tweets that the goods and services tax (GST) exemption the CM sought on donated medical equipment and medicines already exists. Banerjee wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday that “a large number of organisations, individuals and benevolent agencies” were ready to donate oxygen concentrators, cylinders, cryogenic storage tanks, tankers, tank containers and Covid-19 related drugs but have approached the state government seeking exemption from customs duty and GST on these items. Responding to this, Sitharaman took to Twitter on Sunday afternoon. “A list of items for Covid-19 relief granted exemption from IGST for imports was issued on 3rd May’21. These were given exemption from Customs Duty/health cess even earlier. Hon. CM @MamataOfficial may notice that items in your list are covered,” the finance minister wrote. “Full exemption from Customs duties, including IGST, is already available to ALL COVID-19 relief material (not confined to a list) imported by @IndianRedCross for free distribution in the country. With effect from 3 May, 2021, full exemption from all duties has been provided to Remdesivir injections, Remdesivir API, and for a chemical for the manufacture of this drug. Also to Medical Oxygen, equipment used for the manufacture, storage and transportation of oxygen, equipment used for providing oxygen therapy to Covid-19 patients such as Oxygen Concentrators, ventilators, non-invasive oxygen masks etc. Also to Inflammatory diagnostic kits and reagents for Covid-19 testing and Covid-19 vaccines. ” Sitharaman wrote in subsequent tweets.“This exemption applies to all above mentioned goods when imported free of cost for free distribution in the country by any entity, state govt, relief agency or autonomous body on the basis of a certificate issued by a state government. In order to augment the availability of these items, government has also provided full exemption from basic customs duty and health cess to their commercial imports,” Sitharaman tweeted. She pointed out that GST applies to domestic supplies and commercial imports. “GST at rates varying from 5% (on vaccines), 12% (COVID drugs, oxygen concentrators) is applicable to domestic supplies and commercial import of these items. If IGST ₹100 is collected on an item, ₹50 accrues to the Centre and the States each as CGST and SGST respectively. Further 41% of the CGST revenue is devolved to states. So out of a collection of ₹100, as much as ₹70.50 is the states’ share,” she wrote. “If full exemption from GST were given, the domestic producers of these items would be unable to offset taxes paid on their inputs and input services and would pass these on to the end consumers by increasing their price. Covid-19 vaccines are being provided free of cost by the GoI to those who are 45 years of age & above and to all frontline workers. On government supplies, GST is also paid by the government. From the GST collected on vaccine, half is earned by the Centre and the other half by the states. Further, 41% of Centre’s collections also get devolved to the states,” the tweets said.“So states end up receiving almost 70% of the total revenue collected from vaccines. In fact, a nominal 5% GST is in the interest of the domestic manufacturer of vaccine and in the interest of the citizens. If full exemption from GST is given, vaccine manufacturers would not be able to offset their input taxes and would pass them on to the end consumer/citizen by increasing the price. A 5% GST rate ensures that the manufacturer is able to utilise ITC and in case of overflow of ITC, claim refund. Hence exemption to vaccine from GST would be counterproductive without benefiting the consumer,” Sitharaman wrote. As Bengal recorded 19,441 new cases and 124 deaths on Sunday, the 160th birth anniversary of Rabindranath Tagore was observed in Bengal on Sunday without any celebration, the traditional live performances and mass gathering. PM Modi paid homage to the bard by writing tweets in Bengali and English. “On Tagore Jayanti, I bow to the great Gurudev Tagore. May his exemplary ideals keep giving us strength and inspiration to build the India he dreamt of,” wrote the Prime Minister. Banerjee held a brief official event at Rabindra Sadan in Kolkata where Tagore’s photograph was garlanded. The chief minister joined some of her ministers who sang a couple of songs Tagore composed. Brief events were held at Visva Bharati University that Tagore founded in Birbhum district, his ancestral house at Jorasanko in north Kolkata and at Rabindra Bharati University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-mamata-seeks-gst-waiver-on-covid-19-equipment-already-done-tweets-sitharaman-101620574875710.html
09-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Centre says news of Covaxin approval for children is fake and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covaxin approved for children above 12 years? 'Fake', says CentreThe Centre has rubbished the reports claiming that the government has approved Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for children above the age of 12. Read More'Need 83 lakh Covid doses every month': Kejriwal explains 3-month plan to CentreAiming to vaccinate citizens of the national capital by July this year, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday sought an increase in vaccine doses supplied to the city-state in a letter to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan. Read MoreSaudi Arabia backs India-Pakistan dialogue to resolve issues such as KashmirSaudi Arabia has welcomed the decision by India and Pakistan to observe a ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) and backed a dialogue between the South Asian rivals to address all outstanding issues, including the Kashmir dispute. Read MoreWill the remainder of IPL 2021 be held in India? BCCI chief Sourav Ganguly gives major updateThere has been talk regarding the resumption of the Indian Premier League 2021 after it was cancelled mid-way into the tournament due to Covid-19. Read MoreMasaba Gupta, Neena Gupta ring in ‘maa divas’ together in fuss-free silhouettesMaking us go gaga over their glam look as they brought in the Sunday cheer, Indian designer Masaba Gupta and her actor-mother Neena Gupta had fans hooked over their fuss-free silhouettes as they rang in “maa divas” aka Mother’s Day together. Read MoreTwinkle Khanna shares photo of socially-distanced Mother’s Day with Dimple Kapadia, fan wants to see her embroideryTwinkle Khanna gave her Instagram followers a sneak peek into her socially-distanced Mother’s Day celebration with her mother Dimple Kapadia. Read MoreWatch: India receives 3 oxygen generators, 1000 ventilators arrive from UKIndia received Covid-19 medical aid from the United Kingdom on May 9. The flight carrying oxygen generators and ventilators landed in Delhi. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-centre-says-news-of-covaxin-approval-for-children-is-fake-and-all-the-latest-news-101620573099931.html
09-05-2021||India||Protest farmers work on immunity, seek Covid vaccination, organise oxygen langars||Desi 'kaadha' and lemonade have become the most consumed beverages among farmers protesting against the new Central agricultural laws at three Delhi borders for nearly six months now, even as the raging coronavirus pandemic claims hundreds of lives daily and leaves thousands sick.They have also added multi-vitamin and zinc tablets as supplements hoping to improve their immunity against the virus, but are resolved not to yield ground until their demands -- a repeal of the three contentious farm laws and a new one guaranteeing MSP on crops -- are met.But, they say, they are open to Covid-19 vaccine jabs.Hundreds of farmers, chiefly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, continue to encamp Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur border points of Delhi despite "a few" of them being removed after testing positive for Covid-19 and some symptomatic protesters undergoing medication."There are no such cases of coronavirus here at Singhu border. The farmers are taking care of themselves by consuming 'kaadha' (a traditional Indian hot beverage mixed with herbs and spices to boost immunity) and multi-vitamins. The situation at the border area is normal, as it was earlier. There is nothing to worry about," said Sukhwinder Singh, a farmer.Farmer leader Kulwant Singh, who hails from Punjab, said a vaccination centre is being operated at a hospital at the Singhu border."One of our leaders tested positive for the Covid-19. He has recovered and is now doing well. Those who are showing symptoms are getting tested for the virus. The farmers at the border are taking a healthy diet. The vaccination process is underway at a hospital near the border. I got my first jab in Punjab. To get the next dose, I will go back to the state," Kulwant said.At Tikri and Ghazipur, the protestors said they have demanded for a vaccination facility but the government has not responded to their appeal yet. They added they are firmly resolved to stay put at Delhi's borders, and are making arrangements to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour among crowds."We demanded the authorities to install a vaccination centre at Tikri border so that we could get the vaccine but nothing has happened so far," another farmer leader Buta Singh said, claiming the situation at Tikri "is normal".At Ghazipur on Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border, not more than three farmers stay in bigger camps now which used to house many more before the second wave of coronavirus began.The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), which is leading the charge there, recently arranged around 500 cots to ensure social distancing among the farmers when they sleep.Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait, who has got the first dose of vaccine, is also on the ground at Ghazipur leading his supporters, with all of them consuming 'kaadha' three to four times a day and lemonade too, BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik said."Thankfully, there has been no Covid positive case here till now. Some people had some health issues and they have got medication. Protestors are drinking 'kaadha' and 'nimbu paani' to improve immunity, several are taking multi-vitamins and zinc pills too," he told PTI.He said, "If you come to Ghazipur, you will see how amazingly normal the situation here is" despite the situation in Delhi, Ghaziabad and Noida looking so grim because of the deadly second wave.Malik said the BKU is also helping the oxygen langars, which provide oxygen cylinders to needy Covid patients, with whatever support the farmers union can extend."We are dealing with the situation and hoping the government would soon make some arrangement to get all farmers vaccinated," he said, but added, "that does not mean we are going away without the Centre accepting our demands."Hundreds of farmers have been camping at Delhi's borders since November 2020 with their demands that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price for crops.However, the government, which has held multiple rounds of formal dialogue with the protestors, has maintained that the laws are pro-farmer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protest-farmers-work-on-immunity-seek-covid-vaccination-organise-oxygen-langars-101620569700643.html
09-05-2021||India||Covaxin approved for children above 12 years? 'Fake', says Centre||The Centre has rubbished the reports claiming that the government has approved Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for children above the age of 12. Indigenously-developed Covaxin is among the vaccines approved by India's drug regulator for emergency use and is being administered as part of the nationwide vaccination drive."A tweet has claimed that Bharat Biotech's vaccine, Covaxin, has been approved for children above 12 years. #PIBFactCheck: This claim is #Fake. No such approval has been given by the Government of India. Currently, citizens above the age of 18 are eligible for #COVID19Vaccination," the Press Information Bureau (PIB) tweeted from its fact check handle.A tweet has claimed that Bharat Biotech's vaccine, Covaxin, has been approved for children above 12 years.#PIBFactCheck: This claim is #Fake. No such approval has been given by the Government of India. Currently, citizens above the age of 18 are eligible for #COVID19Vaccination pic.twitter.com/qdzBSfwllqThe PIB tweet also posted a screenshot of the news which claimed that the Covaxin has been approved for children.Covaxin is developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech in association with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the National Institute of Virology (NIV).Besides Covaxin, India approved the emergency use authorisation for two other vaccines Covishield and Sputnik V for its inoculation program against Covid-19.The Centre has liberalised the vaccination drive for phase three and allowed states, private hospitals and industrial establishments to procure the doses directly from manufacturers.Last week, the Union health ministry said in a statement that more than 17 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been so far provided free of cost to states and union territories.The country had started the Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16 with two vaccines - Covaxin and Covishield.The second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive to inoculate people above 60 years and those over 45 with comorbidities against the coronavirus began on March 1. The third phase began on April 1 for all above 45 years of age, while people aging above 18 to 45 became eligible for inoculation in the next phase which commenced on May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-approved-for-children-above-12-years-fake-says-centre-101620572804060.html
09-05-2021||India||No metro, 20 people in weddings: Delhi to see stricter lockdown till May 17||Amping up its efforts to bring deadly spread of Covid-19 under control, Delhi is set to witness a stricter lockdown starting Monday. Unlike previous lockdown, imposed since April this year, this lockdown will be enforced to tackle Covid-19 fiercely and bring the cases down further.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday singled out extra measures the government will take in the next phase of lockdown and said that this will be a stricter lockdown with suspension of Metro train services and prohibition of wedding ceremonies at public places.Stating that even though Covid-19 cases and positivity rate have come down in the last few days, Kejriwal said any leniency at this stage would squander the gains achieved so far in the current wave of the pandemic.In a revamped and stricter lockdown, marriages in Delhi will be held at home or in courts with not more than 20 people, according to an order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).The government has ordered a complete prohibition on marriage ceremonies at public places, banquet halls, hotels and similar places during the period.Service providers or owners of hotels, banquets, marriage halls, sound system, DJ, catering will have to return the advance payments for marriages during the lockdown or will have to mutually agree on a later date for the ceremonies, the order by the Delhi government said.The Delhi government had been forced to impose lockdown amid a steep rise in Covid-19 cases on April 19. Although the cases have come down and positivity rate has reduced from the high of 35 per cent on April 26 to 21.67 per cent now, but strictness is needed, Kejriwal said.Authorities including local administration, police, civic bodies and Mandis will be responsible for ensuring Covid-19-appropriate behaviour at inter-state bus terminals, railway stations, wholesale vegetable and fruit markets and shops providing essential goods, it said.In order to break the chain further and reducing footfall in public spaces, the services of Delhi Metro will also be suspended during the lockdown. The Metro trains were so far operating with 50 per cent seating capacity and ban on standing commuters."The restrictions need to be upheld for some time more. Otherwise, we will lose whatever we have achieved till now. As I have mentioned earlier, this is an extremely difficult period, the second wave is quite deadly, with many losing lives. First and foremost, we have to save lives.”The lockdown scheduled to end at 5 am on Monday will now be extended up to May 17 morning.Movement on the roads will also be closely monitored during the lockdown.Police authorities will ensure effective checking of persons and vehicles on the roads by putting adequate number of pickets with the objective to prevent unnecessary movement of people on roads during curfew, the DDMA said."Delhi Police will also ensure that movement of individuals and vehicles should be allowed strictly as per the guidelines/ protocols prescribed in the curfew order."Kejriwal cited feedback from many stakeholders and said that the opinion was in favour of extending lockdown for another week."We must remember Jaan Hai Toh, Jahan Hai...this time, the lockdown will be stricter and the Delhi Metro will not ply from tomorrow," he said in an online briefing.Lockdown was imposed on April 20 amid rise in Covid-19 cases. Positivity rate touched 35 per cent but with cooperation of the people, it now stands at around 21 per cent, he said.Delhi on Sunday recorded 13,336 fresh cases of coronavirus disease, pushing the cumulative tally to 1,323,567. The national capital's daily death count also fell below 300 on Sunday after 273 fatalities were recorded, the health bulletin showed. A total of 19,344 people have succumbed to the viral disease so far, the bulletin stated.The positivity rate - the proportion of samples that turn positive among all tests conducted - also dipped to 21.67 per cent on Sunday, a sharp decline from 35 per cent recorded last month, indicating reduced spread of the disease among people in Delhi. The national capital's positivity rate rose to its highest at over 35% two weeks back on April 26 but has gradually come down afterward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-metro-20-people-in-weddings-delhi-to-see-stricter-lockdown-till-may-17-101620565968248.html
09-05-2021||India||Maharashtra records 48,401 new Covid-19 cases, 572 deaths in the last 24 hours; Mumbai cases dip further to 2,395||Maharashtra recorded 48,401 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, taking the state-wide total tally to 51,01,737, the state government's health bulletin said on Sunday. The death toll in the last 24 hours increased by 572; the overall toll now stands at 75,849. This marks a decline from the 53,605 Covid cases and 864 deaths recorded on Saturday and is due to the lesser number of samples tested.According to state government's health bulletin, 2,47,466 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, as against 2,60,751 samples on Saturday and 2,68,912 on Friday. A total of 2,94,38,797 samples have been tested for Covid-19 till date, the health bulletin showed.Financial hub Mumbai recorded 2,395 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, witnessing a decline from the 2,664 cases the city had recorded a day before. The capital city did, however, record a slightly higher death toll on Sunday, after 68 people succumbed to the virus as compared to 62 deaths recorded on Saturday. The death toll in Mumbai now stands at 13,781. As per the city's health bulletin 47,416 number of cases are currently active in Mumbai. 3,375 patients have also recovered in the last 24 hours, bringing the city's recovery rate to 91%.60,226 individuals were also discharged after being cured across the state. A total of 4,407,818 individuals have been cured in the state till date.Nagpur, which is the second worst hit district in the state reported 3,104 new cases and 73 deaths. A total of 17,835 samples were tested in Nagpur alone.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray participated in a virtual conference with 700 private doctors from all over the state, urging them to play an active role in the state's fight against Covid-19. Thackeray also said that experts have opined a third wave of Covid-19 has the potential to affect children and keeping this mind the government has started to set up a paediatric task force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-48-401-new-covid-19-cases-572-deaths-in-the-last-24-hours-mumbai-cases-dip-further-to-2395-101620570472408.html
09-05-2021||India||Nirav Modi's appeal against extradition awaits UK High Court judge decision||Fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi, whose extradition to India was ordered last month by UK Home Secretary Priti Patel in the estimated USD 2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case, has filed an application for permission to appeal against the order in the High Court in London.The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) confirmed an appeal has been lodged but a High Court judge who will make a decision on the matter is yet to be assigned.“The matter has not been sent to a judge for consideration on the papers,” the Administrative Division of the Royal Courts of Justice in London said this week.In the first instance, a High Court judge will make a decision “on the papers” submitted for the appeal and determine if there are any grounds for an appeal against the Home Secretary’s decision or the Westminster Magistrates Court February ruling in favour of Modi’s extradition to India to face charges of fraud and money laundering.Following that decision, there is scope for the defence team to seek an oral hearing to plead their case. There are no certain time-frames for the legal processes involved, which could take months.“We are waiting to see if they do apply for permission to appeal. If they are allowed to appeal then we would contest any appeal proceedings on behalf of the GOI (government of India),” a CPS spokesperson had said earlier.Meanwhile, 50-year-old Modi remains behind bars at Wandsworth Prison in south-west London since his arrest over two years ago on March 19, 2019.In his ruling in February, District Judge Sam Goozee said that the diamond merchant has a case to answer before the Indian courts and that the bars to extradition under UK law do not apply in his case.As part of a very comprehensive judgment, the judge concluded that he was satisfied that there is evidence upon which Modi could be convicted in relation to the conspiracy to defraud the PNB.“A prima facie case is established,” he said, in relation to all counts of charges brought by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) -- including money laundering, intimidation of witnesses and disappearance of evidence.The court had also accepted that while Modi's mental health had deteriorated due to the lengthy incarceration in a London prison, exacerbated by the Covid-19 pandemic, his risk of suicide did not meet the high threshold to conclude that it would be "unjust or oppressive" to extradite him.Modi is the subject of two sets of criminal proceedings, with the CBI case relating to a large-scale fraud upon PNB through the fraudulent obtaining of letters of undertaking (LoUs) or loan agreements, and the ED case relating to the laundering of the proceeds of that fraud. He also faces two additional charges of "causing the disappearance of evidence" and intimidating witnesses or “criminal intimidation to cause death”, which were added on to the CBI case.As witnessed in the extradition case of former Kingfisher Airlines chief Vijay Mallya -- who remains on bail in the UK while a “confidential” matter, believed to be related to an asylum request, is resolved -- there is still some way to go before Modi can be moved from Wandsworth Prison in London to Barrack 12 Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai and face trial in India. PTI AK SCY SCY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirav-modi-s-appeal-against-extradition-awaits-uk-high-court-judge-decision-101620568776758.html
09-05-2021||India||Covid-appropriate behaviour, vaccination main shields against all mutants, future waves: Experts||With the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic ravaging the country and concerns being raised about a possible third wave, experts caution that the next wave could be less severe if people keep following Covid-appropriate behaviour and a large portion of the population is vaccinated.According to the Union Health Ministry data released on Sunday morning, India recorded 4,03,738 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, pushing the country's cumulative tally to 2,22,96,414, while the death toll climbed to 2,42,362 with 4,092 daily deaths.There has been a sharp surge in infections over the past couple of months, making the second wave much worse than the first one that began in early 2020 and peaked in the last quarter of that year before the tally hit a trough in the first quarter of 2021.Several experts believe that a casual approach that followed the trough of the first wave could be a possible reason for the pandemic raising its head again, though others are also putting the blame on the new mutants and variants of the virus being more virulent.K VijayRaghavan, Principal Scientific Adviser, had said on Wednesday last week that the third wave was inevitable and it was necessary to be prepared for new waves, but clarified two days later that the "insidious asymptomatic transmission" can be stopped if prescribed guidelines about precautions, surveillance, containment, treatment and testing are followed."If we take strong measures, the third wave may not happen in all places or indeed anywhere at all. It depends on much how effectively guidance is implemented at the local level in the states, districts and cities everywhere," he said.According to experts, in a few months when the immunity people have developed naturally or with the help of vaccination fades, the virus strikes again and the only thing that can stop the virus from bouncing back is how people are guarding themselves."Early this year, as the new cases receded, people started interacting as if there was no virus. The immunity had already started declining. They organised mass gatherings, they stopped wearing masks, giving the opportunity to the virus to strike again," said Dr Anurag Agarwal, director, Institute of Genomics and Integral Biology, New Delhi."While we anticipate a third wave, we cannot say when exactly it will come or how severe it will be. But if people keep following Covid-appropriate behaviour in coming months and we are able to vaccinate a large number of people, the third wave could be less severe," Dr Agarwal added.While the sudden surge in the number of cases during the second wave has led to panic among people, what is adding to their fear is the constant threat of new mutants of the virus and how these mutants could potentially harm them.Some experts, however, believe that mutations are a common phenomenon, and the mutations do not generally affect the prevention, treatment, or vaccination.'Every virus, while replicating in the host's body, mutates. The virus is a prolific multiplier, but its replication is error-prone and so every copy it makes of itself may not be its exact replica."Any change, minor or major, that occurs in its structure is known as a mutation. A virus undergoes hundreds and thousands of such mutations," said Dr Saumitra Das, Director, National Institute of Biomedical Genomics (NIBMG ), Kalyani, and professor, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore.Experts also said that every mutation cannot be a cause of concern and genome sequencing of a virus is done to keep a track of any mutation that can make a virus more dangerous."What concerns us is whether a mutation is making it more transmissible, or virulent; whether a mutation has the potential to make the existing medicines or vaccines ineffective against the virus. If so, the mutant is classified as a variant of concern (VoC)," said Dr Das.Mutations shown so far in the novel coronavirus have not warranted any change in the required treatment or vaccines, but experts believe it is technologically possible to tweak the medicine or a vaccine quickly to fight a mutant that poses a threat to their efficacy."But in the case of Covid-19, since its spread has been so rapid, it is not giving our scientists enough time to identify all the mutants. And so, the role of Covid-appropriate behaviour is as critical as ever in controlling its spread," said Dr Arun Sharma, a community medicine expert and director of NIIRNCD (ICMR), Jodhpur.He said a virus mutant can escape the body's immunity and undo the efforts to developing an effective vaccine or medicine against it, but chances of it escaping the shield called Covid-appropriate behaviour are low."A three-ply mask, frequent hand washing or sanitising, maintaining physical distance, avoiding crowd, especially indoors, are still most effective in controlling the spread of Covid-19 virus," Dr Sharma added.He said any virus starts a chain of transmission by infecting the most vulnerable population and it keeps infecting till the time everyone susceptible is infected and then it starts dying out."We treat the patients with antiviral drugs, and we protect the population through vaccination. These measures help us break the virus's chain of transmission," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covidappropriate-behaviour-vaccination-main-shields-against-all-mutants-future-waves-experts-101620565464044.html
09-05-2021||India||'Need 83 lakh Covid doses every month': Kejriwal explains 3-month plan to Centre||Aiming to vaccinate citizens of the national capital by July this year, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday sought an increase in vaccine doses supplied to the city-state in a letter to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan.CM Kejriwal also asked the Union health minister to allow states to develop apps or separate mechanisms to facilitate vaccination drives in the wake of glitches being reported from Co-WIN app, an online platform used for registering people seeking vaccination doses."Delhi has around 92 lakh people in 18-45 age group. I urge you to direct Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech to increase their monthly supplies to Delhi to 60 lakh doses per month during May to July 2021," Kejriwal wrote in the letter.Also read: Received 71% of SC-approved oxygen on Saturday, says Delhi's oxygen bulletinThe CM said that Delhi will need 83 lakh doses every month for both the age group of 18-45 and above 45 so that vaccination can be completed in the next three months.Explaining the demography in the divided age groups in numbers, Kejriwal said "45+ age group has about 57 lakh persons. They would need 1.14 crore doses, out of which we have received 43 lakh doses. We need additional 71 lakh doses to cover this group.""To complete it in three months, we would need 23 lakh doses per month from the GoI channel during the three months of May to July, 2021," Kejriwal said in his letter to health minister.Highlighting a potential threat, Kejriwal said that as the third wave of Covid-19 is also anticipated soon, the Delhi government would want to complete vaccination of all people within three months."We are now using one lakh vaccines every day, which is going to be increased to three lakhs. Therefore, we will have the capacity to apply 90 lakh vaccines per month," the CM said.In his letter, Kejriwal also sought equal pricing of the vaccine distribution among private and state buyers. He stated that the price of vaccine should be the same - whether sold to the state government or a private hospital. In the current situation, Kejriwal said that the vaccine makers will give the jabs to private hospitals first because it has more benefit (private hospital gets expensive dose).Also read: Does Covid-19 increase risk of heart attack? Top doctor lists out warning signsThe ongoing lockdown in Delhi due to surging Covid-19 was on Sunday extended up to May 17 morning with the suspension of Metro train services and prohibition of wedding ceremonies at public places.Announcing the lockdown extension, Kejriwal said although Covid-19 cases and positivity rate have come down in the last few days, any leniency would squander the gains achieved so far in the current wave of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-to-fully-vaccinate-delhi-within-3-months-kejriwal-writes-to-harsh-vardhan-101620562547777.html
09-05-2021||India||IMD predicts thunderstorm, light rain over parts of Delhi, UP, Haryana||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday predicted a thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity intermittent rain and gusty winds over parts of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana during the next two hours."Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity intermittent rain and gusty winds with speed of 30-50 km per hour would occur over and adjoining areas of isolated places of West Delhi, South West Delhi, Kaithal, Rohtak, Bhiwani, Jhajjar (Haryana) Shikarpur, Pahasu, Bulandshahar, Etah, Jalesar, Sikandra Rao, Hathras, Iglas, Aligarh, Khair, Gabhana, Atrauli, Jattari, Khurja, Agra (U.P.) during next 2 hours," IMD tweeted.Hail storm/precipitation is likely over and nearby Noida during next 1 hour, the IMD said in another tweet.The meteorological department also predicted no heatwave conditions are likely over any part of the country during the next 4-5 days.Earlier on Thursday, Delhi witnessed light spells of rain along with thunderstorm bringing some respite to the people from soaring temperatures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-predicts-thunderstorm-light-rain-over-parts-of-delhi-up-haryana-101620564386466.html
09-05-2021||India||Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge writes to PM Modi, offers suggestions to curb Covid-19 surge||Rajya Sabha member and leader of opposition, Mallikarjun Kharge on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu stating his concern about the deadly second wave of coronavirus infections and urged them to convene an all-party meeting to strategically plan how to curb the rapid spread of the virus.“Parliament had allocated Rs. 35000 crore in the Union Budget to ensure free vaccine for all, despite which the Union government has allowed private companies to set differential prices for the vaccine,” wrote Kharge in his letter to the Prime Minister. He further emphasised on waiving off GST on life saving products and to increase the working hours to 200 under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act of 2005.The senior Congress leader wrote about the vaccine drive which began on May 1 for people above 18 years of age. “The Union government must leverage compulsory licensing to increase production of vaccines,” he wrote in his letter. He requested the Union government to “proactively disburse relief material, allocate it fairly to all states and disclose the when and where of the shipped material.” He urged the Prime Minister to leverage collective strengths by governing inclusively.Kharge’s letter to Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu focussed on “bringing to the notice of the Chairman the 123rd Report of the Department Related Standing Committee on Health and Family Welfare, which made vital recommendations vis-à-vis coping with the Covid-19 pandemic,” and requested him to take cognisance of the report and secure the action taken report on it as deemed fit. He urged him to convene virtual meetings of the Standing Committees as they would ensure accountability, and allow all stakeholders to collectively explore solutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-mallikarjun-kharge-writes-to-pm-modi-offers-suggestions-to-curb-covid-19-surge-101620564493869.html
09-05-2021||India||GST exemption on Covid-19 drugs to make them costlier: FM Sitharaman||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday said GST exemption to domestic supplies and commercial import of Coviddrugs, vaccines and oxygen concentrators would make these items costlier for consumers as manufacturers would not be able to offset the taxes paid on inputs. Currently, domestic supplies and commercial imports of vaccines attract a 5 per cent Goods and Services Tax (GST), while it is 12 per cent in case of Covid drugs and oxygen concentrators. "If full exemption from GST is given, vaccine manufacturers would not be able to offset their input taxes and would pass them on to the end consumer/citizen by increasing the price. A 5 per cent GST rate ensures that the manufacturer is able to utilise ITC and in case of overflow of ITC, claim refund. Hence exemption to vaccine from GST would be counterproductive without benefiting the consumer," Sitharaman tweeted. She further said that if Integrated GST (IGST) ₹100 is collected on an item, ₹50 accrues to the Centre and the States each as Central GST and State GST respectively. Further 41 per cent of the CGST revenue is devolved to States. So out of a collection of ₹100, as much as ₹70.50 is the share of the states. From the GST collected on vaccine, half is earned by the Centre and the other half by the States. Further, 41 per cent of Centre's collections also get devolved to the States. So states end up receiving almost 70 per cent of the total revenue collected from vaccines. "In fact, a nominal 5 per cent GST is in the interest of the domestic manufacturer of vaccine and in the interest of the citizens," Sitharaman said. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee earlier in the day wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking exemption from GST and customs duty any donations of oxygen concentrators, cylinders, cryogenic storage tanks and Covid related drugs from organisations or agencies. The Finance Minister tweeted her response to the Chief Minister's letter, saying these items are already exempted from customs duty and health cess. Besides, Integrated GST (IGST) is also exempted on all Covid relief material imported by the Indian Red Cross for free distribution in the country. Also IGST exemption has been given in case of goods when imported free of cost for free distribution in the country by any entity, state government, relief agency or autonomous body on the basis of a certificate issued by a state government. "In order to augment the availability of these items, government has also provided full exemption from basic customs duty and health cess to their commercial imports," Sitharaman said. The government has already exempted from customs duty import of a host of Covid-related relief materials, including Remdesivir injection and its APIs, Inflammatory diagnostic (markers) kits, medical grade oxygen, oxygen therapy related equipment such as oxygen concentrators, cryogenic transport tanks, etc, and Covid vaccines. Besides, effective May 3, the government exempted IGST on import of Covid-relief material received as donation for free distribution in the country, a move which helped speed up customs clearances of such imports. This exemption would be subject to nodal authorities, appointed by the state governments, authorising any entity, relief agency or statutory body, for free distribution of such relief material. The said goods can be imported free of cost by a state government or, any entity/ relief agency/ statutory body, authorized in this regard for free distribution anywhere in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-exemption-on-covid-19-drugs-to-make-them-costlier-fm-sitharaman-101620564132250.html
09-05-2021||India||Odisha govt allocates ₹60 lakh to feed stray animals during Covid-19 lockdown||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Sunday sanctioned ₹60 lakh from Chief Minister Relief Fund (CMRF) to feed stray animals during the Covid-19 lockdown in five municipal corporations, 48 municipalities and 61 Notified Area Councils (NACs).On Friday, the Department of Housing and Urban Development had asked civic bodies to make provisions for providing food to stray animals in urban and semi-urban areas.The state government has fixed the unit cost per day for all municipal corporations, municipalities, and all NAC areas to meet the expenditure in this regard.The state government has taken a slew of measures to curb the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. It has put in place an extensive vaccination programme.Earlier in the day, the Odisha government decided to give priority to vaccination of 18 to 44 age group people in five municipal corporations where the positivity rate of Covid-19 infection is relatively high."The state has started the process of procurement of Covid-19 vaccine for vaccination of I8 to 44 years age group from state's own funds. At present, as the manufacturers are able to supply a small quantity of vaccines, we are starting vaccination of 18 to 44 years age group only in five municipal corporations," wrote additional chief secretary PK Mohapatra in a letter to all district collectors on Saturday.Odisha registered 10,635 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, the state health department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-govt-allocates-rs-60-lakh-to-feed-stray-animals-during-covid-19-lockdown-101620559935125.html
09-05-2021||India||Military set to employ 400 retired doctors to strengthen Covid-19 fight||The Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS) is set to recruit 400 retired medical doctors for 11 months to strengthen the fight against the Coviid-19 pandemic, officials said on Sunday. The defence ministry passed an order on Saturday to allow the AFMS to recruit these doctors who were released from service between 2017 and 2019. “The order says fixed monthly lump sum amount will be admissible by deducting the basic pension from the salary drawn at the time of retirement plus specialist pay wherever applicable. The amount would remain unchanged for the term of the contract and no other allowances would be paid,” said a defence ministry statement on Sunday. The armed forces are operating in full battle mode for Covid-19 relief and foresee a bigger role for themselves in the coming weeks and months to help tackle the devastating second wave of the pandemic even as they cater to the health needs of serving soldiers, veterans and their dependents, as reported by HT on May 6. The armed forces are in the vanguard of the fight against the deadly disease --- from helping meet the exploding demand for oxygen to setting up dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and opening doors of military hospitals to civilians to transporting critical medical stores.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/military-set-to-employ-400-retired-doctors-to-strengthen-covid-19-fight-101620562993786.html
09-05-2021||India||Does Covid-19 increase risk of heart attack? Top doctor lists out warning signs||Eminent cardiologist Dr. Naresh Trehan in an exclusive interview to Hindustan Times's Kumkum Chadha spoke on warning signs and preventive steps that heart patients should look at when the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is infecting people of all age at a rapid pace. Dr. Trehan cited instances of heart attacks in many patients without any pre-existing history of any heart-related ailment. Here’s what he said:HEART PATIENTS AT RISKAt least 15-20% of patients are getting affected by the virus in their heart, the cardiologist noted. While patients with a history of heart-related illness or those who had stents installed in their hearts or have undergone a bypass surgery are found to be seeking medical help for enhanced symptoms after they contracted coronavirus disease, what is worrying is that in some cases patients with no pre-existing history of cardiac ailment reportedly got an attack, Dr. Trehan said, adding that in most cases patients complained of chest pain and could be rescued but in some instances, the attacks so quick and acute and they could not be revived. "Their heart function goes to 10-15%, exposing them to the severe risk of fatality", the doctor said.YOUNG PATIENTS WITH NO PRE-EXISTING HEART AILMENT GETTING ATTACKS“What are we seeing this time as opposed to the last time (the first wave of Covid-19) is that younger people are getting more affected than older people with a known history of heart ailment,” Dr. Trehan said. He cited alarming instances where young patients suddenly develop pulmonary edema — fluid accumulation in the tissue and air spaces of the lungs, leading to impaired breathing and eventually respiratory failure — and almost 70% of them get acute myocarditis (inflammation of the heart muscle), making the chance of their revival thin.“This viral wave is different from the first one which is fatally affecting young people as low as 33 years old with no earlier signs of a heart disease,” he said.TIMELY MEDICAL INTERVENTION CAN SAVE LIVESThe doctor said in most cases, by the time when such patients are referred to a speciality hospital it becomes too late. “Only if such patients are taken to a hospital on time and put on ECMO support that the patients can be supported for a couple of weeks with the hope that they will recover.”He warned that the caution that young people will have to adopt during the pandemic is the same as those in the older and vulnerable group need to.ANXIETY HAS A ROLEPLAY. DE-STRESSDr. Trehan further said anxiety plays an important role in patients infected by coronavirus infection. He said anxiety makes the body’s adrenaline go up, thus spiking the blood pressure and in the process increasing the heart rate, which can be detrimental for a patient infected with the virus.ALSO READ: Why Covid-19 cases exploding in India? WHO top scientist answersThe doctor suggested the people follow a three-step process to get relief from anxiety. “One, you must exercise to keep your immunity up; two, you must do de-stressing techniques daily no matter whether you are infected or not; and the third is to maintain a healthy nutrition by consuming at least 30-40 grams of protein every day.”He also suggested the people try yoga and breathing exercise to keep their body at ease.WARNING SIGNS TO LOOK FORThe noted cardiologists also spoke on warning signs that every heart patient must look out for.He suggested those with pre-existing heart ailments watch out for heaviness or shortness of breath and simultaneously check their oxygen saturation on a pulse oximeter before consulting a cardiologist for guidance.“You must not take these situations lightly,” he said, further warning people against copying prescriptions of patients with similar symptoms.VACCINES SAFE FOR HEART PATIENTSDr. Trehan also stressed that the vaccines against coronavirus are safe for patients with heart ailments. He, however, advised the people who take blood thinners to inform the vaccinators about it. “Although the medicine does not need to be adjusted most of the time, the vaccinators are trained to administer the doses in a specific manner on a person if they inform the medical staff if they on blood thinners. The vaccinator will put constant pressure for three minutes or so on the site of the injection.”ALSO READ: Top doctors discuss Covid-19 second wave, explain why vaccine is importantThe cardiologist said communication between patients and their doctors need to be intense during this time to mitigate any inherent risk.DON’T RUSH TO HOSPITALSThe doctor appealed to the people not to rush to the hospital unless the situation calls for it. “There is no such thing as preventive care. Constant monitoring is what is needed.Dr. Trehan had earlier, too, said most patients suffering from the coronavirus will recover from home if they start their medication on time. “As soon as your RT-PCR report comes positive, my advice would be to consult your local doctor. All doctors nowadays know the protocol and will begin your treatment accordingly,” Dr Trehan had said last month.The interview comes at a time when healthcare centres across the country are overwhelmed to cater to an exponential rise in the number of critical patients infected with the coronavirus disease amid shortages of oxygen and essential drugs.The country is struggling to produce and distribute enough doses of Covid-19 vaccines to stem Covid-19 as a long list of states are complaining of shortages, leading to the delay in immunisation drive.India on Sunday recorded 403,738 new cases of Covid-19 infection and 4,092 related deaths in a single day, according to data updated by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. With the latest addition, the total Covid-19 caseload has now soared to 22,296,414.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/does-covid-19-increase-risk-of-heart-attack-top-doctor-lists-out-warning-signs-101620561101530.html
09-05-2021||India||NIA takes over case involving recovery of uranium worth ₹21 crore in Maharashtra||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday took over the case of recovery of natural uranium worth more than ₹21 crore in Maharashtra. As much as 7.1 kg of uranium was seized from Jigar Jayesh Pandya and Abu Tahir Afzal Choudhary the night of May 5.The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) arrested the two accused involved.Following the order of the Union ministry of home affairs, the agency re-registered the case, which was earlier lodged at ATS Kalachowki, Mumbai and has begun the investigation.Also read: Major terror bid foiled in Jammu and Kashmir, 19 grenades recovered in Poonch"Pursuant to registration of the case, requisite actions as per law for expeditious investigation of case have been initiated," a statement from the NIA said.The investigating agency had on Friday sought a detailed report about the uranium seizure from the ATS, news agency PTI quoted an official as saying. The ATS had given a copy of the First Information Report (FIR) with other required information related to the case to the central agency, PTI further reported.The intensity of the sensitive nature of the case rose as during the investigation by the ATS it was found that the highly radioactive substance is more than 90 per cent pure, as per a PTI report.The seized uranium was also sent to the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC) at Trombay for analysis, said another official, reported the news agency. BARC's report mentioned that the seized substance was natural uranium that is "highly radioactive and dangerous to human life".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-takes-over-case-involving-recovery-of-uranium-worth-rs-21-crore-in-maharashtra-101620558570595.html
09-05-2021||India||PM Modi reviews Covid-19 situation in Uttarakhand, speaks to CM Rawat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday spoke to Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat to review the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the state. PM Modi also assured all help to the state which is battling a deadly surge in cases after the Kumbh Mela which was attended by 9.1 million in the months of March and April."Prime Minister Narendra Modi called up for an update on Covid cases in Uttarakhand. I apprised him with the present situation," Rawat said in a tweet.Uttarakhand has been crossing grim milestones by recording over 7,000 cases for the past seven days. A total of 8,390 people tested positive for the infection on Saturday in the state while 118 more people succumbed to it.The state government last month postponed the pilgrimage to four of the holiest Hindu shrines (Char Dham Yatra), scheduled to start on May 14.The Kumbh Mela had raised eyebrows of many experts who criticised the government for organising such a big event at a time when Covid-19 is raging across the country.The experts said that religious gatherings like these were among the reasons for the worst surge of Covid-19 infections in the country. The second wave of the pandemic has pushed the death toll in the country over 200,000 and starved hospitals of life-saving medical oxygen and beds.The issue of negligence is slated to be heard in the Supreme Court on Monday after a Public Interest Litigation has been filed by Noida-based Advocate-on-Record (AOR), Sanjai Kumar Pathak, seeking directions for strict enforcement of Covid-19 pandemic guidelines and for action against all those who had allegedly violated protocols during assembly elections in several states and the Kumbh Mela.A three-judge bench of the apex court, headed by Justice Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, and also comprising justices Nageshwar Rao and Ravindra Bhat will hear the petition filed by the advocate Pathak who filed the plea on April 16.India is caught in the highest surge of Covid-19 since the onset of the Covid pandemic, but visuals had surfaced of lakhs of devotees crowding in Haridwar, Uttarakhand, for Kumbh Mela and in the election rallies in states, ignoring the most basic of Covid-19 protocols, Pathak said in his petition.Even though the disease is currently spreading at breakneck speed across the country, the Indian railways had organised 25 special trains to facilitate congregation and to link Haridwar Kumbh Mela to various locations for the pilgrims as per certain media report, the plea read further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reviews-covid-19-situation-in-uttarakhand-speaks-to-cm-rawat-101620558546530.html
09-05-2021||India||Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge offers 6 suggestions to PM Modi to tackle Covid-19||Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge on Sunday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu, offering six suggestions to tackle the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In one of the suggestions, Kharge, the leader of the opposition in Rajya Sabha, asked PM Modi to convene an all-party meeting and virtual meetings of the standing committees of Parliament."Use ₹35,000 crore allocated in Union Budget to ensure free vaccine for all. Leverage compulsory licensing to increase production of vaccines," Kharge said in his letter.He further suggested to expand the scope of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA) to 200 days."Expedite the distribution of relief material and proactively disclose where it is shipped and leverage our collective strengths by governing consensually and inclusively," the Congress leader said in his letter to the Prime Minister.The letter comes a day before the Congress Working Committee (CWC) holds a meeting to review the party's performance in the recently concluded assembly elections. News agency ANI reported that the prevailing Covid-19 situation will also be discussed in the meeting.India recorded more than four lakh cases in a 24-hour span for the fourth consecutive day on Sunday. According to Union health ministry, 4,03,738 new Covid-19 cases were recorded in the said period, which took the nationwide tally to 2,22,96,414.The death toll climbed to 2,42,362 with 4,092 daily deaths, the data on Sunday morning showed.Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 37,36,648, comprising 16.76 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 82.15 per cent.India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the 1-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-mallikarjun-kharge-offers-6-suggestions-to-pm-modi-to-tackle-covid19-101620559783077.html
09-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Assam Cabinet to take oath at 12 noon tomorrow, says Himanta Biswa Sarma, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Assam's new cabinet to take oath at noon tomorrow, says CM-designate Himanta Biswa SarmaHimanta Biswa Sarma, Assam's chief minister-designate and the convenor of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA), said on Sunday that the state's new cabinet will take oath at 12 noon on Monday. Read moreDelhi extends Covid-19 lockdown till May 17. All you need to know about curbsThe Delhi government on Sunday extended the lockdown for another week till May 17 to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the Capital. Read moreUttarakhand BJP MLA Champion gets 25-year-old son vaccinated out of turn, slammedA viral picture of Uttarakhand Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and MLA Kunwar Pranav Singh Champion’s 25-year-old son getting Covid-19 vaccine shot has led to a political storm in Uttarakhand with the opposition accusing the state government of encouraging VIP culture at a time when the shortage of medical supplies and vaccines have respectively led to deaths of Covid-19 patients and hampered the vaccination drive. Read more'Virat has no air about himself, jokes with us as if he's a childhood friend:' Mohammed Shami hails Kohli the captainUnder Virat Kohli, the Indian cricket team has managed to assemble its best fast-bowling line-up of all-time. In Mohammed Shami, Jasprit Bumrah and Ishant Sharma, India boast arguably the best three-pronged pace attack in the world, and coupled with the availability of Mohammed Siraj, Umesh Yadav, Navdeep Saini and Bhuvneshwar Kumar, India's fast bowling stocks appear more healthy and livelier than ever. Read moreMahindra evaluating up to a 3% price hike as steel prices surging rapidlyIndian auto major Mahindra & Mahindra (M&M) is keeping a close watch on the recent increase in commodity prices. The steel price is surging rapidly, and considering the fact that steel is heavily used as a raw material for vehicle manufacturing, the automaker is keeping a watch to see how the situation pans out. Depending on that, the automaker will initiate action to safeguard its business. Read moreKangana Ranaut says Instagram deleted her post threatening to demolish Covid-19, laughs about hurting ‘Covid fan club’After being banned by Twitter, Kangana Ranaut feels that she will not last on Instagram for ‘more than a week’. She claimed that her post announcing her Covid-19 diagnosis was taken down by the photo-sharing platform and suggested that it must have been reported by the ‘Covid fan club’. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-assam-cabinet-to-take-oath-at-12-noon-tomorrow-says-cm-designate-himanta-biswa-sarma-and-all-the-latest-news-101620556868899.html
09-05-2021||India||Congress Working Committee to meet on Monday, poll review on agenda||The Congress Working Committee (CWC) is scheduled to hold a meeting on Monday to review the party’s performance in the recently concluded assembly elections in four states and union territory of Puducherry. The Congress failed to win Assam and Kerala, and drew a blank in West Bengal.In Tamil Nadu, it was the junior partner of the MK Stalin-led Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), which won the elections in formed the government in the state. The Congress was able to win 18 out of the 25 seats allocated by the DMK. In Puducherry, where it was in power until the government collapsed before the elections, the party lost to the NR Congress-BJP-AIADMK alliance.In Assam, the grand old party lost to the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) as former Congress strongman Himanta Biswa Sarma helped the BJP retain power. The Congress-led Mahajot was the main challenger to the NDA in Assam and Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) to the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) in Kerala.Sonia Gandhi had lamented the party’s performance, calling them unexpectedly disappointing during a virtual meeting of the Congress Parliamentary Party (CPP) on Friday. Gandhi had announced the CWC’s intentions to take the results up for a review during their next meet."Unfortunately, our own performance in all the states was very disappointing and if I may say, unexpectedly so. The CWC is meeting shortly to review results," Gandhi had said on Friday.News agency ANI reported that the prevailing Covid-19 situation will also be discussed at the CWC meeting.In a meeting on April 17, the party's highest decision-making body had focused on the Covid-19 situation in India. After the conclusion of the two-and-a-half hour meeting, the CWC had released a statement accusing the Union government of "colossal mismanagement in the war against the pandemic". On Sunday, the Congress hit out at the PM Modi government over a study published by the Lancet, publicly calling for his apology and a “clear policy” to deal with Covid-19.India reported 4,01,078 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, according to the union health ministry. The cumulative number of cases in the country has now gone up to 2,18,92,676.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-working-committee-to-meet-on-monday-poll-review-on-agenda-101620557469693.html
09-05-2021||India||Emirates to transport Covid-19 relief items of NGOs for free from Dubai to India||Emirates said on Sunday it will not charge NGOs anything for transporting their Covid-19 relief material on its flights from Dubai to India.India has been badly hit by the second wave of coronavirus and hospitals in several states are reeling under shortage of health workers, vaccines, oxygen, drugs and beds."Emirates will offer cargo capacity free of charge on an “as available" basis on all of its flights to nine cities in India, to help international NGOs rapidly deliver relief supplies, where it is needed," the airline said in a statement.Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed Al Maktoum, Emirates' Chairman and Chief Executive, said, “Emirates has a lot of experience in humanitarian relief efforts, and with 95 weekly flights to nine destinations in India, we will be offering regular and reliable widebody capacity for relief materials."India recorded 4,03,738 fresh Covid-19 cases in a day, which pushed the tally to 2,22,96,414, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Sunday.The death toll climbed to 2,42,362 with 4,092 daily deaths, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/emirates-to-transport-covid-19-relief-items-of-ngos-for-free-from-dubai-to-india-101620555999391.html
09-05-2021||India||Covid-19: NCP demands GST waiver on oxygen equipment, essential medicines||The NCP has sought waiver of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) on all oxygen equipment and other drugs being procured to tackle the Covid-19 surge, claiming that such levies were "choking" the health care system.Maharashtra NCP chief Jayant Patil in a tweet tagged a letter written by the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry (ASSOCHAM) to the Union finance minister on May 6, requesting that the GST, customs and any other levies on drugs and oxygen products be waived off until March 31, 2022."While India is reeling at the lack and unavailability of medical apparatus, a 12% levy on them is simply absurd. @FinMinIndia should heed words of @ASSOCHAM4India and waive of GST levies on all O2 equipments immediately. It is choking our health care system," Patil, who is the state's water resources minister, tweeted on Saturday night.The NCP shares power in Maharashtra with the Shiv Sena and Congress.Since GST related decisions are within the purview of the GST council, copy of the letter has been sent to all state finance ministers so that the matter is addressed expeditiously, the ASSOCHAM letter said.It said to meet the huge and sudden demand of medicinal drugs and devices, hospitals are installing PSA plants, and states, corporates, individuals and donors are buying oxygen concentrators, cylinders, cryogenic storage tanks, tankers and containers, the industry body said.These measures are imperative for the country to ensure there are no supply constraints with respect to these life saving items to meet not only the current surge, but also prepare for the impending third wave of the pandemic, it said in the letter.India recorded 4,03,738 fresh Covid-19 cases in a day, which pushed the tally to 2,22,96,414, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Sunday.The death toll climbed to 2,42,362 with 4,092 daily deaths, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-ncp-demands-gst-waiver-on-oxygen-equipment-essential-medicines-101620551781815.html
09-05-2021||India||Uttarakhand BJP MLA Champion gets 25-year-old son vaccinated out of turn, slammed||A viral picture of Uttarakhand Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and MLA Kunwar Pranav Singh Champion’s 25-year-old son getting Covid-19 vaccine shot has led to a political storm in Uttarakhand with the opposition accusing the state government of encouraging VIP culture at a time when the shortage of medical supplies and vaccines have respectively led to deaths of Covid-19 patients and hampered the vaccination drive.Pranav Singh Champion’s son Kunwar Divye Pratap Singh is seen getting a dose of the vaccine in the photograph at a time when the state has not been able to begin the inoculation drive for those in the 18-45 years age group due to a shortage of the Covid vaccines. His certificate of vaccination dated May 5, issued at the Government Doon Medical Hospital in Dehradun, was also shared on social media, following stinging criticism from the Congress party and the AAP. “The episode has completely exposed the government’s... Covid-19 management. On one hand, when [the] common man is dying due to lack of basic medical facilities, BJP MLA Champion is getting his 25-year-old son vaccinated,” said Congress state vice president Suryakant Dhasmana. “It’s a joke on the common man... that the VIP syndrome prevails unapologetically even in a pandemic,” Dhasmana added. AAP state president SS Kaler said it was an “insult of [the] common man”. “On the one hand, youth are dying on roads lacking treatment in hospitals but BJP’s privileged people like Champion are able to get their hands on the vaccines for their ineligible kin.”After receiving one lakh doses of vaccine on Saturday evening, the state health department has announced that the inoculation drive for people in the 18-45 years age bracket will start from May 10. Responding to the controversy, state health secretary Amit Negi said, “The department would find out how Champion’s 25-year-old son received the jab.”Pranav Singh, meanwhile, claimed his son was a “frontline warrior” in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic and was thus eligible to receive the vaccine as per government’s policy. He also shared photographs of his son distributing masks to police personnel in his constituency.“I don’t know what it is with the media that anything related to me is turned into a controversy unnecessarily. Media always antagonises me like in this case when my son has done nothing wrong. He has been distributing Covid-19 relief material along with me as a frontline warrior, hence he got the jab,” said Champion.He further claimed that in his constituency residents in the 18-44 age group were being vaccinated since April 30. “I would like to invite members of the Congress and the AAP in the age group to get inoculated in my constituency,” he said.Meanwhile, a staff at Doon Government Hospital said the BJP MLA came to the hospital to get his wife vaccinated on May 5 and “asked the nurses on duty to vaccinate his son too.”“He came to the vaccination centre with his armed guards. And considering his controversial background, the nurses there didn’t dare to oppose his demand and gave the jab to his son, “said the hospital staff who didn’t wish to be named.Pranav Singh Champion is known for controversies including for an incident where he was seen dancing while brandishing guns with liquor lying nearby. In another instance, he used derogatory remarks for another BJP MLA from scheduled caste category, following which he was thrown out of the party before being reinstated last year by the BJP state leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-bjp-mla-champion-gets-25-year-old-son-vaccinated-out-of-turn-slammed-101620556873338.html
09-05-2021||India||Amid Covid-19 surge, curfew extended in J-K till May 17||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Sunday extended the curfew in the union territory by a week till 7 am on May 17 in a bid to tackle the surge in Covid-19 cases.The curfew will remain in force till May 17.The administration has imposed the curfew in 20 districts of the union territory, however, allowing essential services to function normally.As per the official order the gathering permissible for marriages is reduced to 25 from the current 50 with effect from Sunday itself.The Department of Information and Public Relations, Jammu and Kashmir tweeted, "Corona Curfew imposed in all 20 districts of J&K till 7 am on Monday, 10/5/21 is extended further by 7 days till 7 am on Monday, 17/5/21. The curfew will be strict except for a few essential services.""Further, the gathering permissible for marriages is reduced to 25 only w.e.f. today, 9/5/21.," they added in another tweet.Jammu and Kashmir has been under a 'corona curfew' since April 29.According to the Union Health Ministry, Jammu and Kashmir has 46,535 active coronavirus cases. 2,228 new cases and 60 deaths were registered over the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-surge-curfew-extended-in-j-k-till-may-17-101620555692983.html
09-05-2021||India||ISRO develops 3 cost-effective ventilators, oxygen concentrator||The Indian Space Research Organisation’s Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC) in Thiruvananthapuram, said it has developed three different types of ventilators and an oxygen concentrator at a time when a shortage of these critical medical equipment resulted in deaths of many Covid-19 patients across the country.Technology transfer will be done for the commercial production of these three ventilators and the one oxygen concentrator by this month itself, said VSSC director S Somanath. Likely to be priced around ₹1 lakh, the ventilators developed by the ISRO were cost effective and easy to handle compared to the mini conventional ventilators that are currently priced around ₹5 lakh.“Based on designs, features and specifications, we have named them, Prana, VaU and Svasta. All three are user-friendly, fully automated and with touch-screen specifications, meeting all safety standards,” the director said, adding doctors and other experts have checked its efficacy and confirmed it meets international standards.In fact the VSSC started working on these ventilators during the first wave in March 2020 but the work slowed down with the threat diminishing late last year. However, the institute was asked to expedite work after the second wave of the disease stunned the country’s healthcare system, causing several deaths due to lack of ventilators, oxygen and Covid-19 medicines such as Remdesivir.While Prana is meant to deliver respiratory gas to the patient by automated compression of an Ambu bag, Svasta is designed to work without electric power, and the VaU is a low-cost ventilator equivalent to commercially available high-end ventilators.“The system is envisaged as a dual-mode ventilator that can work with either medical air/oxygen from the hospital or with ambient air,” director S Somanath said.The VSSC has also developed a portable medical oxygen concentrator called Shwaas. “It is capable of supplying 10 litre enriched oxygen per minute, adequate for two patients at a time,” he said. It enhances the oxygen gas content by selectively separating the nitrogen gas from ambient air through Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) which is commonly used for production of oxygen from air, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isros-vikram-sarabhai-centre-develops-3-cost-effective-ventilators-oxygen-concentrator-101620552673162.html
09-05-2021||India||Mucormycosis: Gujarat sets up special wards in hospitals, procures anti-fungal drug vials||Amid the rise in cases of mucormycosis or 'black fungus' infection among Covid-19 survivors, the Gujarat government has started setting up separate wards in hospitals for such patients and has procured 5,000 vials of a medicine used in its treatment.Gujarat has so far reported over 100 cases of mucormycosis, a serious but rare fungal infection which has left many patients blind and is also causing other serious issues.Currently, 19 patients are undergoing treatment for it at the Ahmedabad Civil Hospital, as per the state government.Two separate dedicated wards having 60 beds each have been set up at the Ahmedabad Civil Hospital for treating such patients, it said.Similar facilities will also be set up at civil hospitals in Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Jamnagar and other places, the government said in a release on Saturday after a core-committee meeting on Covid-19 situation in Gujarat under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Vijay Rupani.The state health department has also purchased 5,000 vials of Amphotericin B 50 mg injections at a cost of ₹3.12 crore for its treatment, the release said.In neighbouring Maharashtra, at least eight Covid-19 survivors have lost vision in an eye due to mucormycosis and 200 others are being treated, Dr Tatyarao Lahane, who heads the state government's Directorate of Medical Education and Research, said on Saturday.Niti Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul on Friday said mucormycosis is being found in patients with Covid-19 disease."The infection is caused by a fungus named mucor, which is found on wet surfaces. To a large extent, it is happening to people who have diabetes. It is very uncommon in those who are not diabetic. There is no big outbreak and we are monitoring it," he had said.According to Dr Paul, mucor attacks people with uncontrolled sugar.If a diabetes patient is taking immuno-suppressive medicines, steroids, or has cancer, then the impact of mucormycosis is more on him/her.The chances of getting this disease increase in such patients if they have been exposed to wet surfaces, he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mucormycosis-gujarat-sets-up-special-wards-in-hospitals-procures-anti-fungal-drug-vials-101620550693969.html
09-05-2021||India||3 new oxygen plants to come up in Ladakh by May end||Three new oxygen plants will be commissioned in the Union Territory of Ladakh by the end of May to meet the needs of coronavirus patients.This was stated at a meeting chaired by Lt Governor R K Mathur here on Saturday to review the preparedness of the health department for Covid-19 handling with detailed discussions on infrastructure, procurement of essential equipment and medicines, an official spokesman said.The 'Site Readiness Certificates' of the three oxygen generating plants at Drass, Padum and Diskit has been approved by the central government and civil and mechanical works are going on at these sites, an official spokesman said on Sunday.The oxygen plants would be dispatched by the supplier shortly and the plants will be commissioned by the end of May, 2021, Principal Secretary Health and Medical Education Pawan Kotwal said.National Hydroelectric Power Corporation has also agreed to provide a 2x500 LPM oxygen plant for Kargil, while a plant of similar capacity is proposed to be set up at Leh to augment the oxygen generating capacity from the present 1000 LPM to 2000 LPM, the spokesman said. The Lt Governor said Ladakh must be fully equipped with a complete set of facilities including hospital beds, oxygen supply, medicines and additional manpower.He also asked the department to explore the feasibility of setting up special paediatric COVID wards keeping in view the availability of pediatricians in Ladakh for managing these facilities.The meeting also deliberated upon achieving vaccination goals and imposing stricter restrictions with emphasis on COVID appropriate behaviour and intensifying RT-PCR tests to control the situation, the spokesman said.Assessing the ongoing vaccination drive, Mathur said the department must ensure that the vulnerable and frontline populace in the 18-45 age categories must be prioritized for vaccination, while ensuring zero percentage of wastage. Mathur said while all infrastructure is being put in place, stricter control on entrance into Ladakh must be ensured by both Deputy Commissioners (Leh and Kargil).He also directed setting up of UT and District control rooms and for providing tele-medical consultation in Leh and Kargil districts, the spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-new-oxygen-plants-to-come-up-in-ladakh-by-may-end-101620550412795.html
09-05-2021||India||Due to PM Modi's efforts, India getting foreign support amid Covid-19, says Anurag Thakur||Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur on Sunday said slammed Congress leader Rahul Gandhi over his criticism of Covid-19 handling and pointed out it was only due to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's efforts that India is getting the support of most foreign countries amid the crisis.Speaking to ANI, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader said: "Prime Minister Narendra Modi is taking every step to save lives. We helped many countries during the first wave of Covid-19, resulting, today most of the countries are standing with us due to his efforts. Many leaders including Prime Ministers of several countries have extended their support to India."The Union Minister further asserted that "if Rahul Gandhi wants to do politics at this time of crisis, he can go ahead."The Congress leader has been constantly attacking the Central government over the worsening condition of coronavirus situation across the country.Talking about the oxygen status in Hamirpur parliamentary constituency, the Minister said that it will get three oxygen plants soon."We have started installing oxygen plants in Hamirpur parliamentary constituency and in the next 10-15 days they will start functioning. In a record time of 1-month, we will deliver three oxygen plants to the constituency," Thakur told ANI.The Union Minister further said that last year in 2020, when the coronavirus hit the country we then needed masks, PPE kits and other related things but this time the demand for oxygen has increased rapidly."Apart from the three plants, other oxygen plants also being established by the PM CARE funds. We are going to provide masks, PPE kits, Oxygen cylinders, Oxygen concentrators and other facilities in each district in Himachal Pradesh in seven days," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/due-to-pm-modi-s-efforts-india-getting-foreign-support-amid-covid-19-says-anurag-thakur-101620549916741.html
09-05-2021||India||Himanta Biswa Sarma chosen Assam’s new chief minister; will replace Sonowal||Himanta Biswa Sarma was named the next chief minister of Assam on Sunday and he will replace incumbent Sarbananda Sonowal to the top post. Sarma’s name as BJP’s legislature party leader was announced by union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar who was appointed a central observer for the meeting along with party’s national general secretary Arun Singh. Sarma’s name was formally confirmed at the first legislature party meeting of the 60 newly elected MLAs of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), held at the state assembly, after days of backroom lobbying in Guwahati and official meetings in Delhi following the announcement of assembly election results on May 2. Sarma’s name for the post was proposed by Sonowal and seconded by BJP state president Ranjeet Kumar Dass. It was also supported by newly elected MLA from Halflong, Nandita Gorlosa. “I asked other MLAs if they had any other names in mind. No other name was suggested. Since the name of Sarma, a senior minister in our state government was the only one that was proposed, he is unanimously chosen as the legislature party leader,” Tomar said after the meeting. On Saturday, two main claimants to the top post, Sonowal and Sarma were summoned by the party leadership to Delhi where they had several rounds of meetings with BJP national president JP Nadda and others. Both leaders returned to Guwahati late on Saturday night in the same flight. BJP office bearers in the know of the developments said the leadership decided in Sarma’s favour after the discussions. Sonowal, who was part of the first Narendra Modi government at Centre, is likely to be accommodated in the Union cabinet again at a later date. The formality of announcing Sarma (52) as the next CM took place in the presence of Tomar and Singh. Another national general secretary BL Santosh and party in-charge for Assam, Baijayant Jay Panda, were also present. Earlier on Sunday morning, Sonowal submitted his resignation to governor Jagdish Mukhi before proceeding with Sarma in the same vehicle to take part in the meeting of newly elected legislators. Sarma is expected to take oath of office on Sunday at Srimanta Sankardev Kalakshetra in Guwahati with a small cabinet, which will be expanded in the next few days. Sunday’s development marks a major landmark in Sarma’s sharp rise within BJP, a party which he joined in 2015 after parting ways with then Congress chief minister Tarun Gogoi, in whose cabinet he was a minister for three consecutive terms since 2001. Sarma played a crucial role in BJP forming its first government in Assam in 2016 and was allotted finance, health, education and public works department (PWD) portfolios in the Sonowal cabinet. As convenor of North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA), the conglomeration of anti-Congress regional parties in northeast, Sarma was also responsible for BJP forming governments in Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur and Tripura and becoming part of the ruling coalition in Nagaland and Meghalaya in the past few years. Despite criticism from some, Sarma earned mass support with the way he handled the Covid-19 crisis visiting patients in hospitals, overseeing the setting up of Covid care centres and ensuring proper care for those infected. He carried forward that goodwill during the assembly election campaign addressing rallies in all parts of the state and conducting roadshows where thousands turned up to watch him. Sarma also influenced the selection of candidates and actively campaigned to ensure another term for the BJP. Party leaders say he enjoys support of at least 40 of the new MLAs, tilting the balance in his favour. The delay in announcement of a CM’s name and formation of the next government despite a clear mandate at a time when the state is witnessing a rapid rise in new Covid-19 cases and deaths had led to criticism of the BJP by opposition parties and experts. Assam assembly has a total of 126 seats. While the BJP won 60, its allies Asom Gana Parishad and United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL) won 9 and 6 seats respectively, taking the alliance’s total to 75 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himanta-biswa-sarma-chosen-assam-s-new-chief-minister-will-replace-sonowal-101620549972843.html
09-05-2021||India||Ten states account for over 71% of new Covid-19 cases. All you need to know||Maharashtra, Karnataka, and Delhi are among 10 states that account for 71.75% of the 4,03,738  new Covid-19 cases registered in a day, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday.The other states in the list of 10 are Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan, and Haryana.Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 56,578. It is followed by Karnataka with 47,563 while Kerala reported 41,971 new cases.#IndiaFightsCorona:📍Highest number of daily #NewCases in several states of India (as on 09th May, 2021 till 08:00 AM)☑️ Follow #COVIDAppropriateBehaviour to #StaySafe#Unite2FightCorona #StaySafe pic.twitter.com/ICdfZg2Z1uA total of more than 30.22 crore tests have been conducted so far across the country while the daily Covid-19 positivity rate stands at 21.64%, the ministry said.India's total active caseload has reached 37,36,648 and now comprises 16.76% of the country's total infections. A net incline of 13,202 cases has been recorded in the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours.Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Haryana, Bihar, and Madhya Pradesh cumulatively account for 82.94% of India's total active cases, the ministry stated."The National Mortality Rate has been falling and currently stands at 1.09%," the ministry said.Besides, 4,092 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours.Ten states account for 74.93% of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (864). Karnataka follows with 482 daily deaths.Twenty states and UTs have deaths per million population lower than the national average (176), while 16 states and UTs have deaths per million population higher than the national average. the ministry highlighted.The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 16.94 crores.Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Bihar, and Andhra Pradesh account for 66.78% of the cumulative doses given so far in the country, the ministry said.Cumulatively 17,84,869 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years have received their first dose of Covid vaccine.More than 20 lakh vaccination doses were administered in the last 24 hours.As on Day-113 of the vaccination drive (May 8), 20,23,532 vaccine doses were given. Across 16,722 sessions, 8,37,695 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 11,85,837 beneficiaries received their second dose of vaccine.Besides the global community is extending a helping hand to support India's efforts to meet the challenges and requirements of the unprecedented surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in the second wave of the global pandemic. The Centre has been ensuring the global aid is being effectively and promptly allocated and delivered to states and UTs to supplement their efforts during this critical phase, the ministry said.It said 6,608 oxygen concentrators, 3,856 oxygen cylinders, 14 oxygen generation plants, 4,330 ventilators/ Bi PAP/C PAP, and more than 3 lakh Remdesivir vials have been delivered or dispatched, so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ten-states-account-for-over-71-of-new-covid-19-cases-all-you-need-to-know-101620548198550.html
09-05-2021||India||Chhattisgarh begins online booking and home delivery of liquor amid criticism||Chhattisgarh on Sunday allowed online sale and home delivery of liquor in the state claiming it will help prevent its black marketing during the ongoing lockdown. The opposition parties have criticised the move as “insensitive” and “irresponsible” and said the government should instead be focusing on mitigating the shortage of essential medical supplies including oxygen and vaccines, hampering the fight against Covid-19 across the state. Government officials on Sunday said the home delivery of liquor beginning May 10 will help curb its illegal manufacturing, sale, transportation and possession during the lockdown, when liquor shops are closed.“The timing for the home delivery has been fixed from 9 am till 8 pm. The district administration can change the timings as per the local situation. Chhattisgarh State Marketing Corporation Limited (CSMCL) will decide which wine shops will provide home delivery service and customers will have to make payment in advance...,” an order issued by the state excise department stated. It said up to 5 litres of liquor could be booked per person on the CSMCL website or its app with an additional charge of ₹100 for home delivery, available within 15 kms of the concerned wine shop. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (JCC) said the government’s move was insensitive. “...In [the] present condition, the state needs[s] davaa (medicines) not daaru (liquor ), but the government is shameless... This is the most apathetic decision of the state government and not in the benefit of people. The government is worried about... commission of liquor not about the common man,” BJP leader and spokesperson Gauri Shankar Srivas said citing the shortage of medicines and injections in parts of the state. Chhattisgarh on Saturday reported 12,239 Covid-19 cases and 223 deaths, taking the infection count to 8,42,356 and the toll to 10,381, a health official said.Excise minister Kawasi Lakhma backed the decision saying it was taken to prevent liquor smuggling from other states. “As the state is under Covid-19 curfew for about the last two months, liquor shops have also been shut. This has paved the way for the illegal smuggling of liquor from surrounding states. Our police force is working hard to stop this. Secondly, there have been numerous incidents of death due to poisoned, local and syrup consumption as liquor shops are closed,” Lakma said and pointed out to a recent incident when nine persons died in Bilaspur after consuming syrup in place of liquor.JCC chief Amit Jogi claimed that the incumbent government’s priorities had changed. “This is the same government which got a mandate for prohibition of liquor in the state and now is delivering it to homes when people need vaccination.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-begins-online-booking-and-home-delivery-of-liquor-amid-criticism-101620546432575.html
09-05-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Major terror bid foiled in Jammu and Kashmir and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Major terror bid foiled in Jammu and Kashmir, 19 grenades recovered in PoonchA major terrorist attack on security forces in Jammu and Kashmir was foiled with the recovery of 19 hand grenades from a terrorist hideout in Poonch district on Sunday, claimed a defence spokesperson. Read moreWhy Facebook blocked famous poet K Satchidanandan's account: All you need to knowThe social media giant, Facebook on Saturday temporarily suspended the official account of a famous Malayali poet K Satchidanandan who is also a former secretary of Sahitya Akademi. Read moreHimanta Biswa Sarma is likely to be next Assam chief ministerHimanta Biswa Sarma is likely to be named Assam’s next chief minister and the incumbent to the post, Sarbanand Sonowal, may be brought to Delhi at a later stage, Hindustan Times has learnt following late night developments on Saturday. Read moreNasa slams China over irresponsible standards regarding space debrisHours after China confirmed on Sunday that debris from its largest rocket Long March 5B had disintegrated over the Indian Ocean and landed near Maldives, American space agency Nasa slammed the Chinese administration for failing to meet 'responsible standards' regarding space debris. Read moreKirti Kulhari's serene pictures from her Uttarakhand vacation will make you miss the mountainsThe Four More Shots Please star Kirti Kulhari recently visited Uttarakhand and shared beautiful images with her fans on social media. Read moreKangana Ranaut recalls being moved to tears by her mother's concerned phone calls after she 'left home', shares noteActor Kangana Ranaut has shared a special Mother's Day post for her mom. Her post comes a day after she announced that she had tested positive for the coronavirus, and in the same week that she was permanently suspended from Twitter for violating the platform's hate speech and abusive behaviour policies. Read more‘It’s good for you’: 97-year-old’s appeal to take the vaccine strikes a chord with tweepleAuthorities are regularly requesting people to get vaccinated to curb the spread of the pandemic. And adding to those appeals is this clip of a 97-year-old woman’s request to netizens to get vaccinated as soon as possible. Read moreWhy are pickup trucks not picking up in India?The pick-up truck is an American legend, just like the muscle car. It can be easily said that pickup trucks are just a part of American culture. How often have you seen a Hollywood movie with no pickup trucks in it? The answer is tough to find. Read moreWatch | Covid in heart patients: Dr. Naresh Trehan on warning signs & preventive steps||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-major-terror-bid-foiled-in-jammu-and-kashmir-and-all-the-latest-news-101620544880287.html
09-05-2021||India||PM Modi speaks to CMs of four state on Covid-19 situation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday spoke to the chief ministers of Punjab, Karnataka, Bihar and Uttarakhand on the Covid-19 situation in their states, official sources said.Modi has been speaking to state chief ministers and lieutenant governors of union territories for the last few days to asses the pandemic situation there and offer suggestions.Chief ministers have also briefed him on the measures being taken by them to deal with the raging second wave of the pandemic.India recorded 4,03,738 fresh Covid-19 cases in a day, which pushed the tally to 2,22,96,414, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday.The death toll climbed to 2,42,362 with 4,092 daily deaths, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-speaks-to-cms-of-four-state-on-covid-19-situation-101620545513097.html
09-05-2021||India||Major terror bid foiled in Jammu and Kashmir, 19 grenades recovered in Poonch||A major terrorist attack on security forces in Jammu and Kashmir was foiled with the recovery of 19 hand grenades from a terrorist hideout in Poonch district on Sunday, claimed a defence spokesperson.“In a major success for a joint effort of security forces and police, nefarious designs of inimical elements to disrupt peace and tranquillity in Poonch region were foiled Sunday morning,” the spokesman said.The Indian Army’s Rashtriya Rifles and the Jammu and Kashmir Police launched a “well coordinated joint operation” in Phagla area of Surankote in Jammu’s Poonch after receiving a specific input that terrorists were planning to target security forces on NH 144A (Jammu-Rajouri-Poonch highway).“Relentless development of intelligence by both the agencies led to [the] recovery of a huge cache of grenades in general area Phagla, hidden in a well concealed natural hideout,” said the spokesman. A total of 19 hand grenades have been recovered, he added.This is the second major recovery of explosives in Jammu region in as many days.On Saturday, security forces recovered 40 kg of high explosive material, five-litre pressure cooker Improvised Explosive Device (IED), five-inch iron pipe IED, four electrical detonators, electrical wire, power sources, six heavy duty cells, insulation tape and 1.5 kg iron splinters from Chakarandi village of Doda district, said a news agency report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/major-terror-bid-foiled-in-jammu-and-kashmir-19-grenades-recovered-in-poonch-101620545052988.html
09-05-2021||India||Why Covid-19 cases exploding in India? WHO top scientist answers||A Covid-19 variant spreading in India is more contagious and may be dodging vaccine protections, contributing to the country's explosive outbreak, the World Health Organization's chief scientist said Saturday.In an interview with AFP, Soumya Swaminathan warned that "the epidemiological features that we see in India today do indicate that it's an extremely rapidly spreading variant".India on Saturday for the first time registered more than 4,000 Covid-19 deaths in just 24 hours, and more than 400,000 new infections.New Delhi has struggled to contain the outbreak, which has overwhelmed its healthcare system, and many experts suspect the official death and case numbers are a gross underestimate.Swaminathan, an Indian paediatrician and clinical scientist, said the B.1.617 variant of Covid-19, which was first detected in India last October, was clearly a contributing factor to the catastrophe unfolding in her homeland."There have been many accelerators that are fed into this," the 62-year-old said, stressing that "a more rapidly spreading virus is one of them".The WHO recently listed B.1.617 -- which counts several sub-lineages with slightly different mutations and characteristics -- as a "variant of interest".Resistant to antibodies?But so far it has stopped short of adding it to its short list of "variant of concern" -- a label indicating it is more dangerous than the original version of the virus by being more transmissible, deadly or able to get past vaccine protections.Several national health authorities, including in the United States and Britain, have meanwhile said they consider B.1.617 a variant of concern, and Swaminathan said she expected the WHO to soon follow suit."B 1.617 is likely to be a variant of concern because it has some mutations which increase transmission, and which also potentially could make (it) resistant to antibodies that are generated by vaccination or by natural infection," she said.But she insisted that the variant alone could not be blamed for the dramatic surge in cases and deaths seen in India, lamenting that the country appeared to have let down its guard down, with "huge social mixing and large gatherings".Mass election rallies held by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other politicians have for instance partly been blamed for the staggering rise in infections.But even as many in India felt the crisis was over, dropping mask-wearing and other protection measures, the virus was quietly spreading.'Taking off vertically' "In a large country like India, you could have transmission at low levels, which is what happened for many months," Swaminathan said."It was endemic (and) probably gradually increasing," she said, decrying that "those early signs were missed until it reached the point at which it was taking off vertically.""At that point it's very hard to suppress, because it's then involving tens of thousands of people and it's multiplying at a rate at which it's very difficult to stop."While India is now trying to scale up vaccination to rein in the outbreak, Swaminathan warned that the jabs alone would not be enough to gain control of the situation.She pointed out that India, the world's largest vaccine-making nation, had only fully vaccinated around two percent of the 1.3 billion-plus population."It's going to take many months if not years to get to the point of 70 to 80 percent coverage," she said.With that prospect, Swaminathan stressed that "for the foreseeable future, we need to depend on our tried and tested public health and social measures" to bring down transmission.The surge in India is frightening not only due to the horrifying number of people who are sick and dying there, but also because the exploding infection numbers dramatically increase the chances of new and more dangerous variants emerging."The more the virus is replicating and spreading and transmitting, the more chances are that... mutations will develop and adapt," Swaminathan said."Variants which accumulate a lot of mutations may ultimately become resistant to the current vaccines that we have," she warned."That's going to be a problem for the whole world."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-covid-19-cases-exploding-in-india-who-top-scientist-answers-101620540381685.html
09-05-2021||India||Why Facebook blocked famous poet K Satchidanandan's account: All you need to know||The social media giant, Facebook on Saturday temporarily suspended the official account of a famous Malayali poet K Satchidanandan who is also a former secretary of Sahitya Akademi. The account was suspended after he shared a short video mocking Bharatiya Janata Party’s loss in the recently-concluded West Bengal and Kerala assembly elections, according to a statement by Satchidanandan."I did not post anything abusive as pointed out by the social media giant. I received a message on WhatsApp that showed Adolf Hitler scolding his Nazi followers in his finals days and the audio accompanied it suggested that BJP leader Amit Shah was pulling up party leaders in Kerala in Malayalam over the party’s poor performance in assembly elections," he said in Thrissur.Satchidanandan was restricted from posting, liking, commenting and sharing posts for 24-hours. However, he was able to see other people's posts during the suspension period. Meanwhile, the restriction on the 'Facebook Live' option will continue for 30 days.Later on Saturday, Satchidanandan said, "Twelve years of poetry and protest on FB can hardly be erased by twenty-four hours of silence," in reaction to the suspension. "If the choice is between being on Facebook and being a democrat and a human rights defender, I have no doubt where I should stand," he wrote in another post on Facebook.In the recently-held Kerala assembly elections, BJP failed to win a single seat in the 140-member Assembly. It also lost its lone assembly seat while the vote share dropped 3 per cent. Left Democratic Front (LDF) won a clear majority, bagging 99 seats.'Attack on speech and expression'The temporary suspension of Satchidanandan's Facebook account has drawn sharp reactions from other political leaders and writers with many slamming the central government for alleged "censorship." "Deplorable that Facebook has suspended the account of one of Kerala's greatest living poets, Satchidanandan (K. Satchidanandan, former Secy of the Sahitya Akademi), for posting a video about BJP's defeat in the Kerala Assembly elections. We must not allow censorship into our politics!" Congress leader Shashi Tharoor wrote on Twitter.Deplorable that @Facebook has suspended the account of one of Kerala's greatest living poets, @Satchida (K. Satchidanandan, former Secy of the SahityaAkademi), for posting a video about BJP's defeat in the Kerala Assembly elections. We must not allow censorship into our politics!While Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader MV Jayarajan said, "In a democratic country like India it should not have happened. It is an attack on speech and expression."Former Kerala finance minister TM Thomas Issac also extended solidarity with the writer. “It is a most deplorable act. We all stand with Satchidanandan,” tweeted Issac.Government censorship?This comes at a time when the Centre is battling with major criticism over its handling of the ongoing coronavirus crisis. In April last week, social media companies including Facebook and Twitter removed at least 100 posts and URLs that were critical of the government over its management of the medical crisis.After massive outrage on social media, Twitter said that it was done in response to a legal request from the Indian government.On April 25, the Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) said, "the government welcomes criticism and genuine requests for help amid the Covid-19 pandemic, but it is necessary to take action against users who misuse social media to spread panic and misinformation," news agency ANI reported.The government also said that social media platforms had been asked to remove around 100 posts or URLs due to misuse and spread of fake or misleading information regarding the pandemic, as per the ANI report.Recently, several users also pointed out that Facebook blocked posts containing the #ResignModi hashtag. Later, the company clarified that it was blocked "by mistake." “We temporarily blocked this hashtag by mistake, not because the Indian government asked us to, and have since restored it,” Facebook spokesperson Andy Stone said on Twitter on April 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-facebook-blocked-famous-poet-k-satchidanandan-s-account-all-you-need-to-know-101620539293689.html
09-05-2021||India||India's power consumption up nearly 25% in first week of May from last year||Power consumption in the country grew 25 per cent in the first week of May to 26.24 billion units (BU) over the same period last year, showing consistent recovery in industrial and commercial demand of electricity, according to power ministry data.Power consumption in the first week of May 2020 was 21.05 BU. The power consumption in the entire month of May last year was 102.08 BU.On the other hand, peak power demand met, which is the highest supply in a day, during the first week of this month remained well above the highest record of 166.22 GW in May 2020 except on May 2, when it was 161.14 GW.During the first week of May this year, peak power demand met or the highest supply in a day touched the highest level of 168.78 GW (on May 6, 2021) and recorded a growth of nearly 22 per cent over 138.6 GW (peak met) recorded in the same period in 2020 (on May 7, 2020).The power consumption in April grew 41 per cent to 119.27 BU..Power consumption in April 2020 had dropped to 84.55 BU from 110.11 BU in the same month in 2019, mainly because of fewer economic activities following the imposition of lockdown by the government in the last week of March 2020 to contain the spread of deadly COVID-19.The power consumption also fell in May 2020 to 102.08 BU from 120.02 BU in May 2019.Similarly, peak power demand met or the highest power supply in a day also slumped to 132.73 GW in April last year from 176.81 GW in the same month in 2019, showing the impact of lockdown on economic activities.The fewer economic activities also resulted in a fall of peak power demand met in May 2020 to 166.22 GW from 182.53 GW in May 2019.Experts are of the view that high growth in power consumption as well as demand in May this year is mainly due to base effect but the data shows recovery so far even as the second strong wave of COVID-19 forced authorities to impose local lockdowns to contain deadly virus across the country.They have cautioned that local lockdowns may derail recovery in commercial and industrial power consumption and demand.After a gap of six months, power consumption had recorded a 4.6 per cent year-on-year growth in September 2020 and 11.6 per cent in October 2020. In November 2020, the power consumption growth slowed to 3.12 per cent, mainly due to the early onset of winters. In December 2020, power consumption grew by 4.5 per cent while it was up 4.4 per cent in January 2021.Power consumption in February this year recorded at 103.25 BU compared to 103.81 BU last year. But 2020 was a leap year.In March this year, the power consumption grew nearly 22 per cent to 120.63 BU compared to 98.95 BU in the same month of 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-power-consumption-up-nearly-25-in-first-week-of-may-from-last-year-101620537032498.html
09-05-2021||India||Facebook censures poet Satchidanandan over posts criticising BJP||Well known poet and former secretary of the Kendra Sahitya Akademi, K Satchidanandan claims he has been temporarily blocked by Facebook, which held his comments on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders to be “abusive” in nature.The writer on Saturday said he has been barred from posting, liking, commenting and sharing posts for 24 hours apart from using the ‘live’ option for 30 days. He says the social media giant told him he had breached the company’s “community standards”.“I did not post anything abusive as pointed out by the social media giant. I received a message on WhatsApp that showed Adolf Hitler scolding his Nazi followers in his finals days and the audio accompanied it suggested that BJP leader Amit Shah was pulling up party leaders in Kerala in Malayalam over the party’s poor performance in assembly elections,” he said, without explaining if he used the meme with the reference to the Nazi leader to criticise the BJP in his FB post deemed objectionable.The BJP lost its lone assembly seat in Kerala in the recently concluded assembly elections and its vote share dipped by 3% despite aggressive campaigning.Satchidanandan said FB had warned him earlier too for criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “This is nothing but a suppression of freedom of expression. It seems the government has increased its surveillance over social media to remove posts critical of it. It is an encroachment on freedom of expression,” he said.Facebook’s community standards refer to a set of guidelines defining what is and is not allowed on Facebook. It says its policies are based on feedback from their communities and the advice of experts in fields such as technology, public safety and human rights. FB’s community standard policy claims it encourages people to talk openly about the issues that matter to them, even if some may disagree or find them objectionable unless it qualifies as hate speech or some other offenses listed in its policy.Satchidanandan said he was first intimated on the night of May 7 that the restrictions on his account will stay for 24-hours, followed by another message next day that he can’t post, share or comment on anything for 24 hours. Later, he was told he can’t make any live presentation for 30 days.“It seems there is a feeling in the government that more and more people are turning against it. It is obvious from the recent polls. I may face many such restrictions but I can’t be silenced like this,” he said in Thrissur.BJP spokesman Sandip Warrier ruled out the party’s role in the episode and hit out at the alleged double standards of the government’s critics.“We have nothing to do with it. When Donald Trump and actor Kangana Ranaut’s accounts were suspended, these forces hailed it. There can’t be two standards; so no point in shedding crocodile tears. FB must have taken action as per its policy standard,” said party spokesman Sandip Warrier.Many have expressed solidarity with the writer and slammed Facebook. “It is the most deplorable act. We all stand with Satchidanandan,” tweeted former state finance minister T M Thomas Iassac. “In a democratic country like India, it should not have happened. It is an attack on [freedom of] speech and expression,” said CPI(M) leader M V Jayarajan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-censures-poet-satchidanandan-over-posts-criticising-bjp-101620536232107.html
09-05-2021||India||Taxi drivers adversely affected in J-K's Srinagar amid Covid-19 lockdown||As Covid-19 restrictions continue in Jammu and Kashmir, people involved in the taxi business in Srinagar have been facing difficulty due to the lockdown imposed by the government to curb the coronavirus.The majority of the people remained confined to their houses as strict restrictions continued for the ninth successive day on Saturday in view of the extension of the 'Covid curfew' once again till May 10 following surge in the number of fresh infections.Shahzad, an owner of a tourist taxi in the area told ANI, that the workers were hit the most during the lockdown period and the government should think about it."This lockdown affects workers like us the most. Those who work in any company or the government sector are getting their salary on time but the labourers are hit badly in this period. The government should think about it and make some way so that they also should earn their living," Shahzad said.He further mentioned that the people like him have been facing similar problems for the last few years."Earlier, when there was the restriction during abrogation of Article 370 period in the Valley, we had faced a similar issue. Later the first wave of coronavirus came and now due to the second wave we are at the same stage. I urge the government to give a solution," he said.While another driver Majeem said that the government has to think that we have also our basic expenditure. "How can we run our houses without money? I request it to provide some relaxation in the lockdown period," he said."There are around 200-250 taxis standing idle at Lal Chowk taxi stand. The owners of these have to pay their EMI. The bank will not waive off the EMIs. How can I manage to do that in this period," he added.However, essential services were exempted from the lockdown in the Valley, where 602 people have been fined and over 100 others have been arrested for violating Covid curfew and other guidelines in the last 24 hours on Saturday, as per an official statement.A slew of measures, including the imposition of Section 144 have been put in place to contain the spread of the virus.Jammu and Kashmir currently have 44,307 active Covid-19 cases, as per the union health ministry. A total of 1,60,035 recoveries and 2,612 deaths have been reported so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taxi-drivers-adversely-affected-in-j-k-s-srinagar-amid-covid-19-lockdown-101620535379194.html
09-05-2021||India||Himanta Biswa Sarma is likely to be next Assam chief minister||Himanta Biswa Sarma is likely to be named Assam’s next chief minister and the incumbent to the post, Sarbanand Sonowal, may be brought to Delhi at a later stage, Hindustan Times has learnt following late night developments on Saturday.A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader in the know of the matter said Sarma’s name was expected to be announced around noon on Sunday after a late night nod from the party headquarters in Delhi. On Saturday, current CM Sarbananda Sonowal and Himanta Biswa Sarma met Union home minister Amit Shah, BJP president JP Nadda and party general secretary BL Santhosh. The meetings, held at Nadda’s residence, were conducted in two rounds, the leader said. Both Sonowal and Sarma landed in Guwahati in a special flight late last night after the meetings.The leader added that while Sarma was the clear frontrunner at the moment, "the situation was still fluid and may change", as the legislative party meet to pick its leader was yet to take place. However, Sarma's supporters believe the meeting to be a formality now and have already declared his name as the next head of the government on social media. Union minister NS Tomar and party general secretary Arun Singh were expected to be the Central observers for the meeting, the leader quoted above said.In the results announced for the 126-member Assam assembly on May 2, the BJP won 60 seats while its alliance partners Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL) won nine and six seats, respectively.Sonowal, who belongs to Assam’s indigenous Sonowal-Kachari tribals, and Sarma, an Assamese Brahmin, who is the convenor of the North East Democratic Alliance, were the two contenders for the top post in the Assam government.Sarma joined the BJP ahead of the 2014 general elections and is now known as the party’s chief trouble shooter in the northeastern region. In an interview to HT last month, when asked whether he was positioning for the CM’s job, Sarma said the final decision rests with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Union home minister.‘There were two considerations,’ said a senior leader in Delhi, “One, whoever is chosen, the other cannot stay back in Assam. Second, the party had to decide who will be more suitable to lead into the general elections three years from now.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himanta-biswa-sarma-is-likely-to-be-next-assam-chief-minister-101620533052039.html
09-05-2021||India||India’s Covid-19 tally tops 22 million with 403,738 new cases, 4,092 fresh fatalities||The coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic continued to worsen in India as the trajectory maintained an upward trend. On Sunday, the nation added 403,738 to its tally as the national capital Delhi and other metro cities continue to report fresh infections, according to the Union ministry of health family welfare's daily bulletin. It is the fourth consecutive day when the number of daily infections is hovering above the 400,000 mark after recording a slight dip in daily cases.The daily fatalities remained above 4,000 as 4,092 people died due to the viral infection, pushing the death toll to 242,362. With the latest addition, the total Covid-19 caseload has now soared to 22,296,414.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageThe number of active cases jumped to 3,736,648 and 18,317,404 people have recovered with 386,444 were discharged in a span of 24 hours, figures updated at 8am on the health ministry’s dashboard showed.The country as tested a total of 30,22,75,471 samples as of May 8. Out of this, 18,65,428 samples were tested for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Twitter.Hospitals around the country have been overwhelmed by the fresh wave of infections with oxygen supplies running short in medical facilities due to the sudden surge in demand. People are running from pillar to post to secure even basic medicines.On Saturday, Tamil Nadu joined a growing list of states with restrictions and announced a complete lockdown to curb the spread and ease pressure on the health system. The other states that are functioning under similar restrictions include Delhi, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Rajasthan, Bihar among others.On the vaccination front as well, the country is struggling to produce and distribute enough doses to stem Covid-19 as a long list of states are complaining of shortages, leading to the delay in immunisation drive. India is the world's biggest vaccine maker and it is currently using Covishield, developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca and being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for the inoculation drive.On Saturday, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) gave emergency approval to an anti-Covid oral drug called 2-deoxy-D-glucose, developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) in joint cooperation with Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy's Laboratories Ltd.According to the third phase of the clinical trial results, the drug helps in the faster recovery of hospitalised patients. It also reduced dependence on supplemental oxygen.The country has administered over 167 million vaccine doses but its rate of inoculation has fallen in recent days and only around 2% of its 1.4 billion people have received the two doses needed to be fully immunised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-single-day-covid-19-tally-rises-to-403-738-death-toll-above-4000-101620532559607.html
09-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Odisha to begin vaccination of 18-44 age group in 5 cities and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am on Sunday (May 9, 2021). Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Odisha to vaccinate 18-44 age group 1st in 5 cities with high Covid TPRThe vaccination for the 18-45 years age group in Odisha will first begin in five urban centres of Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Rourkela, Sambalpur, and Berhampur that have reported a high Covid-19 test positivity rate (TPR). Read MoreDelhi given large part of foreign aid: DataThe national capital received a large part of the Covid-19-related aid donated by foreign countries in an otherwise equitable distribution of relief goods, according to the government data. Read MoreChinese rocket debris set for re-entry in coming hoursRemnants of China's largest rocket launched last week are expected to plunge back through the atmosphere in the coming hours, European and US tracking centres said on Saturday. While there were still varying estimates of where the rocket would land, it appeared increasingly likely it would not hit the United States. Read MoreWatch: Covid update | Decongesting jails; DRDO's new oral drug; task force for oxygenFrom DCGI approving a new anti-Covid drug to the health ministry issuing new rules for hospital admissions, here are the top updates on the coronavirus. Watch here'He's definitely the guy for the future': MSK Prasad predicts when star IPL batsman will break into India's Test teamFormer chief selector of the BCCI, MSK Prasad, has weighed down on what the squad announcement for India's near four-month-long tour means for fringe players, including Padikkal, who set the IPL ablaze last year and continued to do so this year as well. Read MoreShahid Kapoor’s mother Neliima Azeem praises Mira Rajput: ‘She is not a spoilt little brat who is demanding everything’Actor Neliima Azeem, the mother of actor Shahid Kapoor, is all praise for her daughter-in-law Mira Rajput. Neliima credited Mira for having ‘glued the family together’ and said that she is not one to throw tantrums or demand attention. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-odisha-to-begin-vaccination-of-18-44-age-group-in-5-cities-and-all-the-latest-news-101620528008489.html
09-05-2021||India||Indo-Pacific in mind, Navy pitches for six nuclear attack submarines||With Quad, European Union and the United Kingdom recognising the Indo-Pacific as the new strategic frontier, the Indian Navy has apprised the government of its requirement to build six nuclear-powered attack submarines (SSNs) to counter the challenge on high seas in a post pandemic world.After the March 4 Combined Commanders Conference at Kevadia in Gujarat, Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh mentioned the requirement of SSNs to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 3 while discussing the Indian Navy’s operation Samudra Setu II to garner much-needed oxygen from India’s close allies in West Asia. The Naval warships are also involved in providing medical support to its Island territories in Lakshwadweep and Andaman and Nicobar Islands.ALSO READ: Navy chief lists initiatives against Covid-19 during PM meet; to open up its hospitals for civiliansThe nuclear powered attack submarines will give Indian Navy the much needed long legs for deterrent patrols and access denial in the Indo-Pacific without giving away its position. "The future not only lies in the Indo-Pacific but also the arctic route that will open up due to receding snow fields," said a serving admiral.The SSNs only need to surface for food supplies and other logistics and can go for long distance patrols with conventional weapons and missiles on board. As of now, India has one Akula class SSN, which is on lease from Russia, and one indigenously build ballistic missile submarine (SSBN) with another joining the strategic forces command next year.While the Navy is still to approach the Union ministry of defence for acceptance of necessity, a term for need to buy, the national security planners are concerned about China adding 12 SSNs to its fleet apart from seven ballistic missile submarines to its strike force.It is not for any other reason that French SSNs base at Toulon and French SSBN base at Brest was on the agenda of Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his now cancelled visit to France around the May 8 India-EU summit at Lisbon. While the India-EU summit was reduced to virtual summit, the physical bilateral visit to France was postponed to a later date.ALSO READ: ‘Flag follows trade,’ Navy chief on China operating in Indian OceanAlthough the Indian Navy has no preferences, the national security planners are looking at France, the UK, the US and Russia as possible partners for joint development of SSNs in India under Atmanirbhar Bharat programme.The French Naval Group is one of the key contenders for the SSN project as France is one of the most trusted allies of India since post 1998 nuclear tests sanction days. Unlike the US, France does not have any regulatory regime that can stall the on-going program using international traffic in arms regulations (ITAR). Finally, France has offered to jointly develop the SSN with India with full transfer of technology. It is already building six diesel attack submarines (called Kalvari class) for India which will be retrofitted with air independent propulsion technology developed by the Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO).Earlier this week, Admiral Singh called on Prime Minister Modi and briefed him about various initiatives being taken by the Indian Navy to assist the people of the country during the pandemic.The Admiral said the Navy has reached out to all state administrations and have offered help to set up hospital beds, transportation and conduct of vaccination drives and deploying its ships to ferry oxygen containers and essential medical supplies from various countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indopacific-in-mind-navy-pitches-for-six-nuclear-attack-submarines-101620527543449.html
09-05-2021||India||Odisha to vaccinate 18-44 age group 1st in 5 cities with high Covid TPR||The vaccination for 18-45 years age group in Odisha will first begin in five urban centres of Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Rourkela, Sambalpur and Berhampur that have reported high Covid-19 test positivity rate (TPR). The additional chief secretary of health, PK Mohapatra, briefed district collectors, municipal commissioners and chief district medical officers among others in this regard underlining that prioritisation was being done due to low supply of vaccines. One lakh doses of Covishield was received by the state on Saturday.Cuttack, Bhubaneswar and Sambalpur have TPR of around 25%; Rourkela in Sundargarh has over 50%, while Berhampur has over 15% TPR. Currently, the 18-44 age group is being vaccinated only in Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation area, where 42,660 have received Covaxin shots since May 1. When the vaccine supply improves, this group will be vaccinated in other districts of the state too, Mohapatra said.Till Saturday, Odisha has administered 6,148,532 doses of Covid vaccine including 51 lakh doses to those older than 45 years and over 10 lakh to healthcare and frontline workers. Residents in the 18-44 years age group are being vaccinated at government centres between 8 AM to 1 PM at Bhubaneswar while those above 45 years have been slotted between 3 PM and 6 PM.Odisha has decided to vaccinate over 1.93 crore people in the age group of 18-44 years free of cost with a proposed expenditure of over ₹2,000 crores. Private hospitals can take ₹100 per dose as service charge but it will be completely free at govt vaccination centres.To speed up the vaccination drive and decongest existing inoculation centres, the state government on Friday started ‘Drive in Vaccination’ in Bhubaneswar where 400 people in the age group of 45+ years were jabbed at the parking area of a mall. The government also plans to start vaccination in stadiums to ensure social distancing, maintaining which is currently a challenge at the existing vaccination centres.On Friday, Odisha reported 12,238 new Covid cases, its highest single-day surge ever amid a high TPR of over 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-vaccinate-18-44-age-group-1st-in-5-cities-with-high-covid-tpr-101620528191721.html
09-05-2021||India||Lancet blames Centre for Covid-19 crisis, says it ignored warnings||An editorial in medical journal Lancet has blamed the central government for the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis in the country, holding it responsible for “allowing superspreader” religious and political events and slowing down the vaccination campaign.The editorial said that the government gave the impression that India had “beaten Covid-19” despite the sero-surveillance done by Indian Council of Medical Research showing that only 21% of the population was exposed to the viral infection.“Despite warnings about the risks of superspreader events, the government allowed religious festivals to go ahead, drawing millions of people from around the country, along with huge political rallies—conspicuous for their lack of Covid-19 mitigation measures. The message that Covid-19 was essentially over also slowed the start of India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign, which has vaccinated less than 2% of the population. At the federal level, India’s vaccination plan soon fell apart,” the editorial said.Also read | 'Self-inflicted national catastrophe': Cong uses Lancet report to attack BJPIt added the government also ignored “several” warnings about the dangers of a second wave. “Before the second wave of cases began to mount in early March, Indian Minister of Health Harsh Vardhan declared that India was in the “endgame” of the epidemic. The impression from the government was that India had beaten Covid-19 after several months of low case counts, despite repeated warnings of the dangers of a second wave and the emergence of new strains. Modelling suggested falsely that India had reached herd immunity, encouraging complacency and insufficient preparation,” the editorial said.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology division at the ICMR, said he agreed with the editorial. “The government should take responsibility for the situation we are in.”HT reached out to officials from the Union ministry of health but they were not immediately available for a comment.The editorial comes as India continued to report over 400,000 daily new cases of the viral infection for the fifth consecutive day. On Sunday, the total cases reached 22,289,452, with 403,196 new cases. The death toll has reached 242,273.Dr SK Sarin, director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences and head of the Delhi’s first committee on control and management of Covid, said, “I agree that the vaccination drive needs to be sped up; vaccine hesitancy is no longer there but we need to ensure availability of the vaccines.”Mounting an attack on the government, Congress leader Ajay Maken said: “The Lancet says very clearly that this isn’t a natural disaster but a man-made one. The government should own up to its mistakes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lancet-blames-centre-for-covid-19-crisis-says-it-ignored-warnings-101620510762555.html
09-05-2021||India||900k on O2 support, says Harsh Vardhan||With Covid-19 cases surging across the country, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Saturday that 1.34% of the patients were in intensive care units, with 0.39% on ventilators. Around 3.70% of the Covid-19 patients were on oxygen support, the government’s data has revealed.In his virtual address at the 25th meeting of the Group of Ministers (GoM) to discuss the pandemic situation, the minister said nearly 500,000 patients have been admitted to intensive care units, with over 170,000 on ventilator support, while 900,000 people are currently on oxygen support.The country has reported over 400,000 daily new cases of the viral infection for four days now.Also read | SC task force to audit oxygen usage nationwideThe health minister also informed that the country has ramped up Covid-19 testing to 250,000 tests from 150,000 tests a day as on April 9. “Our testing capacity from 15 lakh per day (last meeting on April 9) has been increased to 25 lakh per day right now,” he said.He also highlighted that there was a “glaring gap” in the number of people who have received the first dose and those who have received the second dose of the vaccine against Covid-19.“We can see the glaring gap between those who got their first dose and those who got their second dose. The government has been pursuing this very aggressively with the states and also trying to publicly motivate everyone to get the second dose. We have asked the states to utilise the vaccines given by the Centre in the ratio of 70:30 for second dose,” he said.At the meeting, road transport and highways secretary said that the domestic production of oxygen has been ramped up to 9,400 MT a day. The domestic production capacity was only 5,700MT in August last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/900k-on-o2-support-says-harsh-vardhan-101620508058783.html
09-05-2021||India||SC task force to audit oxygen usage nationwide||The Supreme Court has set up a 12-member national task force to revamp the Centre’s formula for allocating medical oxygen to states while also ordering an immediate oxygen utilisation audit in Delhi, which has to get 700 metric tonne (MT) of the life-saving gas every day under the apex court’s orders despite the Union government’s reluctance to give it that much.As India battles its worst wave of Covid-19 infections that have overwhelmed health care facilities across the country, demand for medical oxygen has soared, and several states have sought more oxygen from the Centre, which is in charge of allocating what has become the most precious medical commodity right now.A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah emphasised that the existing deficiencies in the oxygen allocation formula required to be rectified by devising a new method on “scientific, rational and equitable basis”.The task force must take up the “pressing issue of determining the modalities for oxygen expeditiously within a week”, the order passed on May 6 said. It was released on Saturday evening.The task force, which has a term of six months initially and will include 10 medical experts from across the country for devising a “public health response” mechanism, has been requested to come up with a new formula of oxygen allocation; recommendations for augmentation of oxygen; measures necessary for ensuring the availability of essential drugs; best practices for management and treatment of Covid-19; measures to ensure adequate health care professionals; and outreach of expert medical care to rural areas.Also read | ‘Covid-19 situation critical,’ says Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan as TPR climbs to 28.25%The task force will submit its recommendations to the Supreme Court and to the Centre, which will have to then take appropriate decisions. The apex court may also pass suitable orders based on these recommendations.The order said the task force should also facilitate audits to be conducted by sub-groups within each state and Union Territory to scrutinise whether the allocated quantity of oxygen reached states as well as to pin accountability on states regarding its utilisation and distribution to hospitals.About Delhi, the court reiterated its direction to the Centre to “strictly” keep supplying 700MT oxygen per day pending further orders but at the same time, accepted solicitor general Tushar Mehta’s request for carrying out an audit immediately to ensure that the oxygen was being distributed by the Delhi government in an efficient and transparent manner.During the proceedings on Friday, while the S-G maintained that Delhi’s requirement was between 500 and 600MT per day and that the deficit in hospitals, if any, was due to the inefficiency and systemic failure on the part of the Delhi government, senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the city-state’s government, objected to any such audit for the national capital.However, the bench has now set up a committee comprising Dr Randeep Guleria (director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi), Dr Sandeep Budhiraja (director, Max Healthcare) and one joint secretary-level officer each from the Centre and Delhi government “to ensure a measure of accountability for the proper distribution of oxygen supplies” made available to the city government.“The purpose of conducting audits is to ensure accountability in respect of the supplies of oxygen provided to every State/UT. The purpose is to ensure that the supplies which have been allocated are reaching their destination; that they are being made available through the distribution network to the hospitals or, as the case may be, the end users efficiently and on a transparent basis; and to identify bottlenecks or issues in regard to the utilization of oxygen,” said the court, adding that the decisions made in good faith by doctors while treating their patients will not be questioned.Watch | Covid update: Decongesting jails; DRDO's new oral drug; task force for oxygen﻿The court, which on Friday pointed out flaws with the Centre’s formula to link allocation of oxygen to only the number of beds in the hospitals of a state and its active cases without paying heed to its requirements for patients at homes and other Covid Care Centres, underscored that the task force should start its exercise regarding oxygen allocation “immediately”.“It is necessary that an effective and transparent mechanism is set up within the Union government for the purpose of allocating medical oxygen to all States and UTs for being used during the Covid-19 pandemic. This task force would be tasked inter alia with formulating a methodology for the scientific allocation of oxygen to the states and UTs,” said the bench in its order.The rationale for constituting a task force at a national level, the court said, is “to facilitate a public health response to the pandemic based on scientific and specialised domain knowledge” and to enable the decision makers to have inputs from leading experts for formulation of scientific strategies to deal with an unprecedented human crisis not only for the present problems but by also taking into account the likely future course of the pandemic.“Estimating projected needs is crucial to ensure that the country remains prepared to meet future eventualities, which will cause a demand for oxygen, medicines, infrastructure, manpower and logistics. The establishment of the task force will provide the Union government with inputs and strategies for meeting the challenges of the pandemic on a transparent and professional basis, in the present and in future,” held the bench.It asked the Centre, states, agencies as well as private hospitals to render all cooperation to the task force, besides providing complete and real-time data for facilitating its work.The task force will include Dr Bhabatosh Biswas (former vice-chancellor, West Bengal University of Health Sciences, Kolkata), Dr Devender Singh Rana (chairperson, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Delhi), Dr Devi Prasad Shetty (chairperson and executive director, Narayana Healthcare, Bengaluru), Dr Gagandeep Kang (professor, Christian Medical College, Vellore), Dr JV Peter (director, Christian Medical College, Vellore), Dr Naresh Trehan (chairperson and managing director, Medanta Hospital, Gurugram), Dr Rahul Pandit (director, Critical Care Medicine and ICU, Fortis Hospital, Mumbai), Dr Saumitra Rawat (chairman & head, Department of Surgical Gastroenterology and Liver Transplant, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Delhi), Dr Shiv Kumar Sarin (head of department of Hepatology, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, Delhi), and Dr Zarir F Udwadia (consultant chest physician, Hinduja Hospital Mumbai).The cabinet secretary will be the convener and a member of the task force apart from secretary in the ministry of health and family welfare, who will also be a member.Also read | Delhi records slight dip in daily Covid-19 casesThe bench added that the task force will be at liberty to draw upon the human resources of various ministries, departments and institutions of the central government for consultation and information and may also constitute one or more sub-groups on specialised areas such as infectious disease modelling, epidemiology, virology and critical care, for assisting it before finalising the recommendations.The court’s order come on an appeal by the central government against initiation of contempt proceedings against it by the Delhi high court on May 4 over deficit in supply of medical oxygen to Delhi.The bench will take up the matter next on May 17.Delhi government officials did not respond to requests for comment.“I think it is good that the SC has stepped in, the pandemic has become a political one-upmanship. All the parties should have been brought together to help people. There is a government that is favouring one state over the other, complete data is not being provided. It is all a disheartening mess. The logistics should be looked at but there shouldn’t be any restrictions on the use of essentials like oxygen,” said Dr T Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-task-force-to-audit-oxygen-usage-nationwide-101620501398712.html
09-05-2021||India||Iconic Darjeeling eatery offers to set up isolation centre for Covid-19 patients free of cost||Glenary’s - the iconic restaurant, bakery and confectionary in Darjeeling - has offered to set up an isolation centre on its top floor to treat Covid-19 patients free of cost. The isolation centre is expected to take off from Sunday and is awaiting permission from the chief medical officer of Darjeeling district. Located a stone’s throw away from the mall, Glenary’s is a three-storey building, the top floor of which used to house the restaurant. The restaurant and the pub on the ground floor are now closed. The bakery on the first floor is, however, open with only take away facilities. Ajoy Edwards the owner of Glenary’s and the head of Edwards Foundation said: “As the number of Covid-19 patients is on the rise and Darjeeling has limited infrastructure to house them, we decided to come forward and lend a helping hand in this war-like situation.” The oldest confectionery in town-- Glenary’s is one of the main attractions for tourists and locals alike. It has a rich history and dates back around 130 years. Though Darjeeling district hospital has allocated 65 beds for Covid-19 patients, the number of patients is far more. “Many Covid 19 patients are forced to go down to Siliguri to private nursing homes and spend lakhs of rupees,” said Edwards. Darjeeling and Kalimpong hills have limited infrastructure and facilities to deal with the Covid-19 crisis. Though in Kalimpong district, the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration has a dedicated 150-bed Covid-19 hospital at Tribeni near the confluence of River Teesta and River Ranjit; it lacks ICU and other super-specialty facilities. Some social organisations have set up a few safe homes in the hills. Glenary’s Covid-19 isolation centre, if it becomes operational, would be a welcome facility for the people of the hills as it would be free. In Siliguri, the nearest biggest town in the region, a private safe home for those Covid-19 patients whose reports are now negative is charging ₹1500 per room and ₹500 for food daily. A room can accommodate two persons. Edwards said, “We have written to health officials, offering the restaurant section of the building, to be converted into an isolation ward, with basic oxygen support. The entrance to the restaurant is separate from the pub and the bakery and will be completely barred from them.” With the restaurant already closed, the bakery at present is only offering takeaways and home delivery. “We are doing this with the Darjeeling Initiative and Edward’s Foundation, with medical support to be provided by Planter’s Nursing Home,” Edwards said. Praloy Acharya, chief medical officer of Darjeeling district said, “Our team will visit the place before deciding on the permission.” The isolation centre will initially have 20 beds which can be later increased to 40.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iconic-darjeeling-eatery-offers-to-set-up-isolation-centre-for-covid-19-patients-free-of-cost-101620499390116.html
09-05-2021||India||Centre may probe oxygen hoarding in Delhi||The government may institute a probe against hoarding and black marketing of medical oxygen amid reports of its diversion, and also audit the demand and supply situation in Delhi as inordinate delays in unloading oxygen in the Capital are affecting the national supply chain, two people with knowledge of matters related to an inter-ministerial empowered group (EG2) said.Undue delays – 24 hours to 54 hours -- have been reported in decanting of oxygen tankers or containers in Delhi, which is suspicious and also a matter of concern, they said on condition of anonymity. It required proper auditing as unreasonable delays in the turnaround time are affecting the entire supply chain, they added.EG2, chaired by the industry secretary, is responsible for the availability of essential medical supplies including medical oxygen to affected states. The group consists of senior officers from various ministries and departments including the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW).“The matter will also be flagged to the proposed National Task Force (NTF),” one of the people quoted above said. The Supreme Court on Saturday formed a 12-member task force to devise an effective and transparent mechanism for allocating medical oxygen across the country. The cabinet secretary will be the convener of the task force.Also read | SC task force to audit oxygen usage nationwideThe entire supply chain is affected because Delhi is unable to quickly unload oxygen from tankers, the second person said. “Thus, empty tankers are unable to return to their respective production centres as per their schedule, disrupting the entire chain. It is reported that some of the oxygen is being diverted by unscrupulous elements,” he said.“The turnaround time for oxygen filled tankers arriving from Mundra to Delhi through special Oxygen Express trains is taking 54.15 hours. Tankers arriving from Jamnagar are taking 26.10 hours to 27.30 hours, which is intriguing as the country is facing acute shortage of tankers for transporting medical oxygen,” he said. Normally, it should not take more than 6-7 hours’ time, he added.The second official said delay in turnaround time for tankers in Delhi is impacting the oxygen supply in other states such as Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Jammu & Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh.“The turnaround time can be reduced significantly after proper scrutiny of demand and supply. Hopefully, after the apex court’s direction, an audit of medical oxygen requirement in Delhi, its distribution system and consumption pattern would be possible,” the first official said. According to a PTI report, the top court on Saturday also named a sub-group for carrying out the audit exercise for Delhi’s health infrastructure and allocation of oxygen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-may-probe-oxygen-hoarding-in-delhi-101620499029147.html
09-05-2021||India||India surviving on systems set up by Nehru-Gandhi family: Sena||Taking a dig at its former ally BJP, the Shiv Sena said on Saturday that systems created over 70 years by previous prime ministers such as Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi and Manmohan Singh helped India survive through the tough times being faced today while the present government was not even ready to suspend work on the Central Vista amid a devastating pandemic.The Sena said that even as the world is battling a second wave of Covid-19, experts have predicted that the third wave will be more severe; but the ruling BJP is doing all it can to corner Mamata Banerjee in West Bengal even after the election result.“The UN has expressed fear that there is a threat to the world from India due to the pace at which the coronavirus is spreading in the country. It has also made an appeal that the maximum number of countries should help India in the fight against Covid-19. Bangladesh has sent 10,000 remdesivir vials, while Bhutan has sent medical oxygen. Nepal, Myanmar and Sri Lanka have also offered help to Aatmanirbhar (self-reliant) India,” the Sena said in an editorial in its mouthpiece Saamana.Also read | PM Modi hails Maharashtra Covid-19 handling, says CMO“In clear terms, India is surviving on the systems created by the Nehru-Gandhi family. Many poor countries are offering help to India. Earlier, countries like Pakistan, Rwanda and Congo used to get help from others. But due to the wrong policies of today’s rulers, India is going through that situation now,” it said.But while poor countries were helping India in their own way, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was not ready to stop the ambitious Central Vista project worth ₹20,000 crore, the Sena added.The redevelopment project of the Central Vista envisages a new Parliament building with a higher seating capacity, a common Central Secretariat and a revamp of the 3km Rajpath stretch from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate and new residences for the prime minister and the vice president.“A sensitive and a nationalist government would not have thought about the political pros and cons and set up a national panel of all main political parties to discuss ways to defeat the pandemic,” the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said.BJP MP Subramanian Swamy has demanded that Union minister Nitin Gadkari be given the charge of the health ministry and this is proof that the current health ministry has been a complete failure, it added.“The country is surviving thanks to the development work, projects set up by and the confidence given by the previous governments of Pandit Nehru, (Lal Bahadur) Shastri, Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi, PV Narasimha Rao, and Manmohan Singh,” it said.The prime minister will have to do a lot of hard work and think of non-political nationalism to help the country come out of the pandemic, it said.Earlier, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi attacked the Union government over the Central Vista project, terming it “criminal wastage” and asked the ruling party to focus on people’s lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-surviving-on-systems-set-up-by-nehru-gandhi-familysena-101620498969192.html
09-05-2021||India||Delhi given large part of foreign aid: Data||The national capital received a large part of the Covid-19-related aid donated by foreign countries in an otherwise equitable distribution of relief goods, according to the government data. The collection and distribution of such materials till May 7 also showcases a fast delivery system as almost all items have been already earmarked and disbursed.More than 14 nations have so far sent aid to India, and Delhi received materials from nearly all these countries. The national capital got at least 1,432 out of the 2,933 oxygen concentrators distributed so far. It also got eight out of 13 oxygen generation plants gifted to India, according to the data.An empowered committee headed by NITI CEO Amitabh Kant handles the distribution of material aid received from abroad. Kant said: “We have built the best foreign aid delivery system on ground. Everything is online. Process is digital. There are no delay. Everything has been transported or has been delivered for installation.”The delivery of a large number of oxygen-related equipment to Delhi underlines the shortage of medical grade oxygen in the national capital. Patients have died in Delhi hospitals amid the oxygen shortage and courts took cognisance of the oxygen crisis.Also read | Need 26 million more Covid-19 vaccine doses for Delhi: Arvind KejriwalThe national capital also got 1,040 Bi pap/C pap, 334 ventilators, 687 oxygen cylinders, 24,200 gowns, 978,000 masks and 25,586 shots of remdesivir from different nations.These allotments include those to the state, hospitals such as AIIMS, Safdarjung, Lady Hardinge and Ram Manohar Lohia, the DRDO’s facility and other Delhi-based institutions.“The bulk of the foreign aid has been given to the AIIMS in Delhi and elsewhere. There is a reason for this. AIIMS are also in the states and they are the key regional centres for tackling Covid. The locals go there,” said Kant.Foreign relief materials have been also disbursed to Maharashtra, another state with high Covid-19 cases. The government data shows that AIIMS Nagpur got 60 oxygen concentrators gifted by Mauritius, while the state got more than 24,000 remdesivir doses and 150 oxygen concentrators donated by USAID, among other things.Delhi received 160 pulse oximeters, 225 bedside monitors, more than 87,000 favipiravir, 70,300 antigen kits and 15,000 coveralls, among other things.The government data shows that between May 6 and 7, only oxygen materials such as concentrators or plants and ventilators were distributed to states.India started receiving foreign aid from April 27. The distribution is based on a methodology to ensure their optimal use, primarily to the states with high caseloads and regional medical hubs, according to a top government official directly involved in channelling this aid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-given-large-part-of-foreign-aid-data-101620498909719.html
09-05-2021||India||India, EU to hold talks on three trade pacts||India and the European Union (EU) on Saturday announced the resumption of negotiations on three balanced and comprehensive trade-related agreements but were unable to reach common ground on New Delhi’s call for a waiver of patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines.During a virtual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and leaders of the 27 EU member states, the two sides also unveiled an ambitious connectivity partnership to foster public and private investments in connectivity projects and take up joint projects in Africa, Central Asia and the Indo-Pacific. This is only the EU’s second such partnership after a similar arrangement with Japan.The two sides didn’t specify any timeframe for negotiations on the agreements on trade, investment protection and geographical indications, saying a high-level mechanism led by India’s commerce minister and the EU trade commissioner would steer the negotiations and decide timelines.Also read | Unsure Covid-19 vaccine waiver will help, some EU leaders call for more exportsThe agreement on resumption of trade negotiations, which were started in 2007 and suspended in 2013 after major differences on issues such as market access and mobility of Indian professionals, was described by secretary (West) Vikas Swarup of the external affairs ministry as the “most important outcome” of the summit. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said all three pacts will be negotiated “in parallel at the same time so that we move forward rapidly”.“Both sides have worked intensively over the last few months to arrive at a common understanding. The decisions are a result of the political desire on both sides to harness the full potential of our economic engagement and work towards an early post-Covid-19 recovery,” Swarup said.At a news briefing in Porto after the summit, Von der Leyen and European Council President Charles Michel were lukewarm towards the proposal by India and South Africa for relaxing norms of the WTO Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) for vaccines. They expressed doubts as to whether such a move will help global access to vaccines and instead called on countries currently manufacturing doses to ramp up production and delivery.Swarup told a separate news briefing in New Delhi that Modi had requested the EU’s support for a TRIPS waiver on vaccine-related patents to ensure equitable access for the entire world, especially after the US had backed the move recently.“The EU’s support at WTO for this waiver will ensure that we can scale up the vaccine production for equitable and global access and save lives,” Swarup said. “We will be watching the evolving EU position on this particular issue.”Both Michel and Von der Leyen expressed solidarity and support for India to counter a devastating second wave of Covid-19 infections, which has seen daily cases crossing the 400,000 mark in recent days, but made it clear the EU didn’t think a waiver of patents will produce significant and immediate results. The EU, they said, would back any effort that can lead to an increase in vaccine production and delivery in the short term.“Nevertheless, in the short term, many of us think that this may not be the magic solution. That’s why we want to keep a close eye [on it] and keep discussing this issue,” Michel said, acknowledging the only way out of the Covid-19 crisis is to immunise the global population.Von der Leyen noted the EU is open to discussions on waiver of patent protections but said: “These are important topics to discuss but we should be aware of the fact that these are topics for the long term. It’s not a topic for the short term or medium term, and therefore, we should not lose sight of the main urgencies now, which is ramping up vaccine production as quickly as possible and ensuring that they are fairly and evenly distributed.”Watch | India, EU to re-launch free trade talks: What PM Modi, EU leaders discussed﻿She instead suggested other vaccine-producing countries should follow the EU’s example of exporting 50% of its total production of 400 million doses to 90 countries. Other countries should also support the WHO-backed COVAX facility and invest in global vaccine manufacturing capacities.In this regard, Von der Leyen said EU member states were investing in scaling up vaccine manufacturing capacities in Africa, and even thinking of deploying container-based vaccine laboratories that can train the workforce in African countries and transfer knowledge for providing safe and effective vaccines.The EU leaders stressed they had assured the Indian prime minister of solidarity and support, and pointed to the oxygen-related gear, medicines and other equipment worth 100 million euros donated by 17 member states.In his initial remarks at the summit, Modi explained the rationale for a stronger relationship with the EU and all its member states and described the strategic partnership between the two sides as a “force multiplier for the global good”.On the economic front, the two sides agreed to have dedicated dialogues on WTO issues, regulatory cooperation, market access issues and supply chain resilience. The high-level trade and investment dialogue will monitor progress on these decisions.The two sides also discussed how technology should be used for the welfare of the people while being rooted in democratic values. They also emphasised the need for secure networks and agreed to cooperate on global standards in new and emerging technologies such as 5G.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-eu-to-hold-talks-on-three-trade-pacts-101620498849133.html
09-05-2021||India||Covid-19 positive report not must for hospitalisation: Centre||People with Covid-19 symptoms will not need a positive test report, an identity card or an address proof to get admission to hospitals, health centres, or Covid care centres, an admission policy released by the Union health ministry said on Saturday.While there was no Covid admission policy of the central government previously, hospitals required a Covid-19 test report before admitting patients for treatment of the infectious disease. A patient with “steady” symptoms of Covid-19 does not need an RT-PCR test report to get admitted at a hospital in Delhi, the city-state’s government recently told the high court.As per the central government’s policy release on Saturday: “Requirement of a positive test for COVID-19 virus is not mandatory for admission to a COVID health facility.” Patients without a test report can be admitted to wards meant for suspected Covid-19 cases.The Union health ministry’s discharge policy, which details the level of care patients need, mentions a “confirmed Covid-19 case” with mild symptoms can be taken care of at Covid care centre established in hostels, hotels, stadiums, etc., and those with moderate symptoms are to be admitted for oxygen beds, wit severe cases requiring proper hospital care.Also read | Need 26 million more Covid-19 vaccine doses for Delhi: Arvind KejriwalFaced with a big surge in Covid-19 cases and delays in getting RT-PCR reports, Delhi earlier directed its hospitals not to refuse admissions for the want of a report if a person had Covid-19-like symptoms.The new policy by the Centre also directs all hospitals to ensure that patients with the viral infection are not refused oxygen or other essential medicines just because they belong to a state other than the one the facility is located in. “No patient shall be refused admission on the ground that he/she is not able to produce a valid identity card that does not belong to the city where the hospital is located,” the policy said.The new policy also states that the admission should only be based on need. “It should be ensured that beds are not occupied by persons who do not need hospitalisation.” It reiterates that patients with moderate disease must be discharged 10 days after the onset if they are symptom-free or three days after resolution of symptoms and the ability to maintain oxygen saturation for three consecutive days. The patients with severe disease can be discharged only after clinical recovery and a negative RT-PCR test.At a meeting of a high-level group of ministers on Saturday, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said that 1.34% of the Covid-19 patients were in intensive care units, with 0.39% on ventilators. Around 3.70% of the Covid-19 patients were on oxygen support, according to the government’s data.“With the surge in cases, people might not be able to get their RT-PCR reports for three to four days. So, this admission policy is important for ensuring that their treatment is not delayed. If a person has low oxygen saturation, high-grade fever, and is not able to breathe properly, it is a sign that they have Covid-19 and they should receive treatment as such. And, in the middle of a pandemic, not everyone needs to be tested, they are presumed to have the infection,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-ve-report-not-must-for-hospitalisation-centre-101620498789155.html
09-05-2021||India||Army inducts 1st batch of women in military police||The Indian Army on Saturday inducted the first batch of 83 women soldiers into the Corps of Military Police, the first instance of women joining the military in non-officer cadre, officials said. Women have been serving as officers in select branches of the three services since the early 1990s.“The Corps of Military Police Centre & School (CMP C&S) at Bengaluru held the attestation parade of the first batch of 83 women soldiers at the Dronacharya Parade Ground on May 8. The parade was conducted as a low-key event while observing all Covid protocols,” the army said in a statement. Among the three services, army is the only one to induct women as non-commissioned officers.The Commandant of the CMP Centre and School, while reviewing the parade, complimented the newly attested soldiers for their impeccable drill and congratulated them on their successful completion of the intense 61 weeks of training.Also read | Stalin begins tenure by signing orders for welfare of Covid-19 affected, womenThe training covered aspects related to basic military training, all forms of policing duties and management of prisoners of war, ceremonial duties and skill development to include driving and maintenance of all vehicles and signal communications, the army said.The army plans to induct 800 women into the military police with a yearly intake of 52 women who will serve as personnel below officer rank.Currently, more than 9,000 women are serving the army, navy and air force as officers, with the services giving them more opportunities to boost career progression. The number of women in the military has increased almost threefold over the last six years.The army will soon open the doors of its aviation wing, which operates helicopters, to women officers. Until now, women officers were only carrying out ground duties in army aviation. The first batch of women officers will commence training to become pilots in July 2021. They will join front-line flying duties on completion of training in July 2022, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-inducts-1st-batch-of-women-in-military-police-101620498729740.html
09-05-2021||India||CWC meeting tomorrow to review party performance in recent polls||The Congress Working Committee (CWC) is scheduled to meet on Monday morning to review party’s performance in the recently concluded assembly elections, in which it failed to win Assam, Kerala and Puducherry, and drew a blank in West Bengal, a senior party leader in know of the decision said.The Congress was a junior partner in the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK)-led alliance that won the Tamil Nadu elections.A senior Congress leader said this would also be the first review of the election results, which were declared on May 2.Also read | 'Self-inflicted national catastrophe': Cong uses Lancet report to attack BJPOn Friday, in the first Congress Parliamentary Party (CPP) meeting after the recent assembly elections, party chief Sonia Gandhi informed that CWC, the party’s top executive body, would meet “soon” to review the results.“But it goes without saying that we as a party collective must draw the appropriate lessons from this setback in a spirit of humility and honesty,” Gandhi said, expressing her disappointment at the results. In the CPP meeting, she congratulated Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee, DMK chief M K Stalin and the Left parties for their “handsome victories”. She said, “Most unfortunately, our own performance in all the states was very disappointing and if I may say, unexpectedly so.”Last month, the Congress had called a CWC to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the country. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cwc-meeting-tomorrow-to-review-party-performance-in-recent-polls-101620498729221.html
09-05-2021||India||Suspense over Assam CM: Sonowal, Sarma meet party brass in Capital||Amid suspense over who will be the next chief minister of Assam, chief contenders Sarbananda Sonowal and Himanta Biswa Sarma met Union home minister Amit Shah, BJP president JP Nadda and party general secretary BL Santhosh in Delhi on Saturday. The meetings, held at Nadda’s residence, were conducted in two rounds.“A decision is likely after the legislative party meeting scheduled on Sunday in Guwahati. The decision will then be ratified by the parliamentary board,” said a person aware of the development.Union minister NS Tomar and party general secretary Arun Singh were expected to reach Assam later on Saturday night as central observers for the meeting, the person said. “There is speculation that a deputy CM’s position could be carved out to accommodate both leaders in the state,” a functionary said.In the results announced for the 126-member Assam assembly on May 2, the BJP won 60 seats while its alliance partners AGP and UPPL won nine and six seats, respectively. The BJP, however, is yet to announce a chief ministerial candidate.Also read | 'Self-inflicted national catastrophe': Cong uses Lancet report to attack BJPSonowal, who belongs to Assam’s indigenous Sonowal-Kachari tribals, and Sarma, an Assamese Brahmin who is the convenor of the North East Democratic Alliance, are contenders for the top post of the Assam government.While party leaders in the Capital are tight lipped, a section of MLAs has been supporting Sarma, who also held the portfolio of finance, for the CM’s post.“There is a section of MLAs who have indicated their preference. But the final decision will be taken by the central command. There is also speculation that either one of them could be in a new role in Delhi,” said a functionary who spoke on the condition of anonymity. Sarma, who joined the BJP ahead of the 2014 general elections, and is now known as the BJP’s troubleshooter in the northeastern region. In an interview to HT last month, when asked whether he is positioning for the CM’s job, Sarma said that the final decision rests with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the home minister.Sonowal, for his part, has not made any comments about whether he is inclined to retain the job. “He keeps a low profile. He did not canvass for the position when the BJP won for the first time in 2016 and even now he has kept his cards close to his chest,” said a second functionary. Meanwhile, Shah and Nadda met later on Saturday to decide the party’s choice for the leader of opposition post in West Bengal assembly, according to a person aware of the development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspense-over-assam-cm-sonowal-sarma-meet-party-brass-in-capital-101620498669121.html
09-05-2021||India||Maharashtra to set up panel to study SC order on Maratha reservation||The Maharashtra government on Saturday announced to appoint a committee under two retired high court judges to review the recent Supreme Court judgment on Maratha reservation and suggest the way forward in the quota issue.The committee, comprising of five to six other members including laws officers, is expected to submit its report in two weeks to the state government, a person aware of the development said.The government also asked chief secretary Sitaram Kunte to take a review of the recruitments that have been affected due to the verdict.According to government officials, more than 3,000 people from the Maratha community were recruited in two years between November 2018 and September 2020. The decision to accord them permanent recruitment is still pending.“There are hundreds of employees who were recruited on the basis of the reservation given in 2014, but currently are out of job because it was struck down by the Bombay high court. The review needs to be taken about them too. Chief secretary Sitaram Kunte has been asked to take a call on them with deliberation from the secretaries from other departments,” said an official from the general administration department.Marathas were given 12% and 13% quota in education and government jobs, respectively, under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018.Also read | Maratha quota setback in Supreme Court may hurt Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi govtThe Supreme Court on Wednesday quashed it, saying people from the community can’t be declared educationally and socially backward just to bring them in the reserved category. The five-judge bench also refused to refer the judgment in 1992 Indra Sawhney case, popularly known as Mandal Commission case, setting a 50% cap on reservation, to a larger bench for reconsideration.The state cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation headed by public works department minister Ashok Chavan and comprising of other senior ministers, held a meeting on Saturday to take a call on future course of action.“The committee under retired judges will study the SC verdict minutely and give their observations and available legal remedy on the reservation. The state government will take its decision after the report was submitted in two weeks. The decision over filing the review petition before the 5-judge bench will also be taken based on the report,” Chavan told reporters in Mumbai.The state government is also tapping the option of requesting the central government to intervene as the judgment has stated that the right to accord the reservation was with Centre after the 102nd constitutional amendment.“Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will write to president and prime minister requesting them to take required steps for the reservation. The Centre has time and again clarified that the powers of the states have not been nullified even after the amendment, though the SC order has stated otherwise,” Chavan said.Urban development department minister and member of the cabinet sub-committee Eknath Shinde said the government was committed to continue the benefits to the Marathas. “We have already rolled out sops to the community in terms of scholarship, freeships, hostel facilities, financial assistance for entrepreneurship. They will further be streamlined,” Shinde said.Meanwhile, legal experts have opined that the state government has very limited options left on the reservation.“Review petition before the same bench would not help as there should be some other ground than the ones exhausted. Even if the state requests the Centre for the reservation, the ratification of the backwardness of the Marathas would be a task before the state as the quantifiable data submitted by the state backward class commission has not been accepted by the top court. The state can think of entirely new law by weeding out the lacunae in the SEBC Act 2018, but it too will be subject to legal scrutiny,” an official from Mantralaya said, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-to-set-up-panel-to-study-sc-order-on-maratha-reservation-101620498549199.html
09-05-2021||India||10 killed in explosion at limestone quarry in Andhra||Ten labourers were killed in a massive explosion while unloading detonators from a vehicle at a limestone quarry in Andhra Pradesh’s Kadapa district on Saturday morning, police said. The incident happened at Tirumalakonda hillocks on the outskirts of Mamillapalli village of Kalasapadu block at around 10 am.“The explosion occurred when the workers were unloading bundles of detonators from a vehicle for using them for limestone mining,” Kadapa superintendent of police KKN Anburajan told Hindustan Times. Police said the driver of the vehicle was among the 10 who died in the explosion.The explosion was so intense that the bodies were damaged beyond recognition. “With great difficulty, we could identify the victims based on their body parts,” the SP, who visited the spot in the afternoon, said.Police have identified the deceased as Prasad (35) from Gangayapalle village, Subba Reddy (40) from Gondipalli, Bala Gangulu (35), Venkata Ramana (25) and Lakshmi Reddy (60) from E Kothapalli, Venkateshu (25) from Bakannagaripalle, Eshwaraiah (45) from Bechaiagaripalle, Gangi Reddy (50) from Ramgoripalle, Abdul (30), the driver of the vehicle, from Badwel and Korivi Prasad (40).Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed shock over the death of labourers in the explosion. While he is yet to announce any compensation for the families of the deceased, the CM has ordered an inquiry into the incident. He expressed his condolences to the families of the blast victims.According to Porumamilla police inspector K Mohan Reddy said all nine labourers who were unloading the explosives and the driver of the vehicle died on the spot, adding that no one was injured in the explosion. “There were two other labourers standing at a distance and they managed to escape without any injuries,” Reddy told HT.A revenue official in Kalasapadu said the explosion was so intense that it created tremors in adjacent villages, leading to panic among the people.Soon after the incident, inspector Reddy along with sub-inspectors of Kalasapadu and Porumamilla police stations rushed to the spot, police said.The jeep that carried the explosive material from Badwel to Kalasapadu was also severely damaged in the explosion. “As per the preliminary investigation based on the available documents, the quarry owner has the licence to procure and use detonators for quarrying limestone in the area. Yet, complete details would be known only after investigation,” the SP said.He, however, refused to divulge further details about the company and its owners. “We cannot reveal further details unless the investigation is done,” Anburajan said.Andhra Pradesh Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan expressed anguish and grief over the death of 10 labourers in the explosion. He enquired with district officials about the cause of accident and conveyed his condolences to members of the bereaved families.Telugu Desam Party president and former CM N Chandrababu Naidu also expressed deep shock and grief. He demanded that the government extend all help and announce ex gratia to the kin of the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-killed-in-explosion-at-limestone-quarry-in-andhra-101620498429089.html
09-05-2021||NA||Highlights: Maharashtra records 53,605 new cases, 864 deaths||India on Saturday registered over 400,000 new cases (401,078 exact) of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for a third consecutive time, taking the caseload to over 21.8 million, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard. As many as 4,187 people succumbed to the disease on Saturday and the toll has now climbed to 238,270 with a fatality rate of 1.09%. More than 17.9 million have recovered so far while the active cases are at 3,723,446 and account for nearly 17% of the caseload.India is currently seeing a tsunami of cases and deaths under the deadlier second wave of the Covid-19 disease pandemic. According to the Union health ministry, 10 states including Karnataka, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Delhi reported 71.81% of the new cases seen on Friday.Karnataka, which is the second worst hit state from the pandemic has recorded over 1.8 million cases so far. On Friday, Karnataka saw the highest single-day jump in daily deaths at 592 while 48,791 more people were found out to be positive for Covid-19. The state will be placed under a complete lockdown from from 6 am on May 10 to 6 am on May 24 to curb the spread of the disease, chief minister BS Yediyurappa announced on Friday.Also Read| Karnataka imposes complete lockdown for 14 days starting May 10Maharashtra, meanwhile, witnessed a dip in its daily tally on Friday after 54,022 new cases were reported, taking the caseload to 4,996,758 including 74,413 deaths and 4,265,326 recoveries. The Centre pointed out on Friday that Maharashtra along with Delhi, Uttarakhand and other states is showing early signs of plateauing or decrease in daily infections.The global Covid-19 disease caseload has climbed to 157,525,414 of which 3,283,196 people have died and 134,779,045 have recovered, according to worldometers.info. The United States continues to remain the worst-hit country from the pandemic with 33,418,399 cases and 594,907 deaths.Follow all the updates here:Italy plans on lifting quarantine restrictions for travellers from certain countries from MayItaly has decided to remove quarantine restrictions for travellers from Europe, Britain, and Israel from mid-May onwards in an attempt to revive the tourism industry that has been hit hard by Covid-19 since last year, reported Reuters.Andhra Pradesh records 20,065 new cases of Covid-19, 96 deathsAndhra Pradesh registers 20,065 new Covid-19 cases, taking the state-wide tally of cases to12,65,439. The state also recorded 96 deaths, the death toll now stands at 8,615, reported news agency ANI.Karnataka reports 47,563 new Covid-19 cases, 482 deathsKarnataka reports 47,563 new #COVID19 cases, 482 deaths and 34,881 discharges in the last 24 hoursActive cases 5,48,841Total cases 18,86,448 pic.twitter.com/Ok56aDSTosMaharashtra records 53,605 new cases, 864 deathsMaharashtra recorded 53,605 new cases on Monday, taking the state-wide tally to 50,53,336. 864 deaths were also recorded in the last 24 hours.UK variant accounts for 70% of Covid cases in Pakistan: ResearcherA coronavirus variant first discovered in the United Kingdom now accounts for up to 70% of Covid-19 infections across Pakistan, a research centre studying the disease in the country said on Saturday.We have now delivered over 200 million doses to Europe: President of the European Commission, Ursula von der LeyenWe have now delivered over 200 million doses (of vaccine) to the European people. So we are on track to achieve our projective of enough doses being delivered in July to vaccinate 70% of the European adult population: President of the European Commission, Ursula von der LeyenYoga guru Swami Adhyatmananda loses battle against Covid-19Well-known Yoga guru Swami Adhyatmananda, who headed Ahmedabad-based Sivananda Ashram, died of Covid-19 at a hospital here on Saturday, an official said.Former India hockey player M K Kaushik dies of Covid-19Former India hockey player and coach M K Kaushik dies of Covid-19.Rajasthan reports 17,987 new Covid-19 casesRajasthan reports 17,987 new Covid-19 cases, 160 deaths and 17,667 discharges in the last 24 hoursActive cases 1,99,307Case tally 7,38,786Death toll 5,506Total recoveries 5,33,973442 new Covid-19 cases, 12 deaths and 85 recoveries reported in Manipur442 new Covid-19 cases, 12 deaths and 85 recoveries reported in Manipur in the past 24 hours; active cases at 3,851.Telangana logs 5,186 Covid-19 cases, 38 deathsTelangana on Saturday reported 5,186 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to over 4.92 lakh while the toll rose to 2,704 with 38 more casualties.Delhi got 488 MT oxygen on May 7, 30 pc less than required 700 MT for hospitals: Raghav ChadhaDelhi received 488 MT oxygen on May 7, which is 30 per cent less than 700 MT that the Supreme Court had directed the Centre to supply to the national capital, AAP MLA Raghav Chadha on Saturday.Bangladesh detects six cases of Indian variant of coronavirus: officialBangladesh has detected six people, who had recently visited India, infected with the Indian variant of the Covid-19, a top health official said on Saturday.Smriti Irani makes surprise visit to Amethi, reviews Covid-19 situationUnion minister Smriti Irani on Saturday made a surprise visit to her parliamentary constituency Amethi and reviewed the coronavirus situation in the district.Meghalaya govt extends lockdown in East Khasi Hills District till May 17In order to curb the spread of Covid-19, the Meghalaya government on Saturday extended lockdown in East Khasi Hills district till May 17, Deputy Chief Minister Prestone Tynsong said.Covid-19: Thane groups offer vaccination drive suggestionsAn association of advocates in Thane in Maharashtra on Saturday urged Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to set up a system in which Covid-19 vaccinations can be administered at the doorstep of those unable to travel to inoculation centres.Covid-19: Haryana Red Cross Society prepared to help people, says GovernorThe Haryana Red Cross Society is prepared to provide all possible help to people in this hour of crisis due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya said on Saturday.As many as 16,73,46,544 Covid-19 vaccines have been administered so far: GovtAs many as 16,73,46,544 Covid-19 vaccines have been administered so far in the country including 22,97,257 doses administered in the last 24 hours: Ministry of Information and Broadcasting.Harsh Vardhan urges citizens to not skip second dose of Covid vaccineUnion Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday appealed to all citizens to get the second dose which boosts the immunity against Covid manifold, adding that 53,25,000 doses will be supplied to the states soon.Haryana to launch Covid vaccination drive for journalists: CMHaryana Chief Minister M L Khattar on Saturday announced the launch of a vaccination drive for all media personnel in the state, noting that it is the government's responsibility to ensure the well-being of every journalist who is "dedicatedly rendering their services" in this hour of crisis.Not paying attention to medical system behind Covid infection spread to villages: Akhilesh YadavSamajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday hit out at the Uttar Pradesh government, saying had it paid attention to the medical system in the state, the coronavirus infection would not have spread to villages and resulted in a huge number of deaths.All type of movements/activities to remain prohibited from 6am on May 10 to 6am on May 25 in KarnatakaKarnataka | All type of movements/activities to remain prohibited from 6 am on May 10 to 6 am on May 25 in the city. Any violation of the order shall be liable for prosecution: Kamal Pant, Commissioner of Police and Additional District Magistrate, Bengaluru.Over 100 medical staff members at Rishikesh AIIMS test positive for Covid-19100 medical staff members at the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences here tested positive for Covid-19.Haryana to convert Govt schools, AYUSH centres to isolation centresConcerned over the rise in number of Covid-19 cases in Haryana's rural areas, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday said that government schools and AYUSH centres will be converted to isolation centres.Oxygen plant to come up in Uttar Pradesh's Moradabad: CM Yogi AdityanathUttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath visited the Integrated Covid Command and Control Centre here on Saturday and reviewed health facilities in the district.Covid-19 virus is more aggressive, says German Ambassador Walter J LindnerWork is being done on genome sequencing of coronavirus and mutations and the repercussions and this virus is more aggressive than others, German Ambassador to India Walter J Lindner has said and noted that countries have to come together to fight the pandemic.Open Covid-19 centres for differently-abled: Goa govt urgedThe Goa government has been urged to set up special Covid-19 centres in the state for people with disability and their family members.Supreme Court sets up national task force to assess, recommend need and distribution of oxygen throughout IndiaSupreme Court bench, headed by Justice DY Chandrahud, in its order, constituted a National Task Force (NTF) to assess, recommend the need and distribution of oxygen for the entire country.Oxygen cylinders, concentrators arranged at 170-bedded Haj House Covid centre"We now have oxygen back up and concentrators at Haj House. It’s kind of mini-hospital admitting less critical patients with15 litre/minute back up for them," says Haneef Balkhi, Srinagar ADCOxygen cannulas, cylinders arrive in India from Austria, Czech Republic as part of Covid assistanceAn aircraft carrying 1,900 oxygen cannulas and 396 oxygen cylinders from Austria and 500 oxygen cylinders from Czech Republic arrived in India on Saturday as the country struggles with a massive second wave of infections with several hospitals turning away patients due to shortage of beds and oxygen supplies.Pakistan gets first Covid-19 vaccine doses under Covax, says UNICEFPakistan on Saturday received its first batch of 1.2 million Covid-19 vaccine doses under its COVAX quota, UNICEF said in a media release.Third consignment from Gilead Sciences of 25,000 doses of Remdesivir reach India"Third consignment from Gilead Sciences of 25,000 doses of Remdesivir reach India from United States. 1,80,000 doses have reached so far. More to follow," tweets Taranjit Singh Sandhu, Indian Ambassador to US.First batch of Covid-19 vaccine will reach Uttarakhand todayCM Tirath Singh Rawat has instructed that necessary arrangements should be made to escalate the Covid-19 vaccination process, as soon as vaccines arrive in state for 18-45 year age group. The first batch will reach Uttarakhand today: Uttarakhand CMOShivraj Singh Chouhan discusses Covid-19 situation in Madhya Pradesh with PM ModiMadhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday apprised Prime Minister Narendra Modi of the coronavirus situation in the state including the improving recovery rate, the CMO said.Covid-19: Stricter curbs in Maharashtra's Solapur till May 15In a bid to break the chain of coronavirus, the authorities in Maharashtra's Solapur have announced stricter restrictions for a week in the city as well as other parts of the district.Delhi reports 17,364 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursDelhi reports 17,364 new Covid-19 cases, 20,160 recoveries and 332 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 13,10,231Total recoveries 12,03,253Death toll 19,071Active cases 87,907Shipment of 50 ventilators, 25,000 vials of Remdesivir arrives from CanadaDelhi: A shipment of 50 ventilators and 25,000 vials of Remdesivir arrives from Canada.Germany has sent an Oxygen Plant with the capacity of generating 4,00,000 litres of oxygenGermany has sent an Oxygen Plant with the capacity of generating 4,00,000 litres of oxygen. The Plant will serve DRDO operated Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Covid Hospital. German Ambassador to India Walter J Lindner inspected the Plant today.Summer vacations in all government, non-government, private and day boarding schools till June 30: UttarakhandIn view of the increasing Covid-19 cases, summer vacations in all government, non-government, private and day boarding schools till June 30. During this period, if a private school wants to conduct online classes, it can do so as per its convenience: Govt of Uttarakhand.No new Covid-19 case reported in 180 districts in last 7 days, says Harsh VardhanNot a single new case of Covid-19 was reported in 180 districts in the country in the past seven days and no fresh infections were recorded in 18 districts in the last two weeks, said Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday.DRDO developed anti Covid drug is taken orally by dissolving it in water: Defence MinistryDRDO developed anti-Covid drug 2-DG comes in powder form in sachet; is taken orally by dissolving it in water: Defence Ministry.Delhi got 487 MT of oxygen on May 7: Manish SisodiaDelhi got 487 MT of oxygen on May 7; difficult to manage in that amount: Deputy CM Manish Sisodia.Requirement of a positive test for Covid-19 not mandatory for admission to Covid health facilityUnion Health Ministry revises national policy for admission of Covid patients to Covid facilities; requirement of a positive test for Covid-19 virus is not mandatory for admission to a Covid health facility.Over 84 lakh vaccine doses still available with states, UTs; 17.49 cr doses provided so far: GovtMore than 84 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and union territories and over 53 lakh doses will be distributed to them in the next three days, the Centre said on Saturday.Sri Lanka approves Pfizer Covid vaccine for emergency useSri Lanka on Saturday approved Pfizer's Covid-19 vaccine for emergency use in Sri Lanka, as the island nation battles a third wave of the virus, while suffering a restricted supply of vaccines from neighboring India.PM Modi speaks to Tamil Nadu CM MK Stalin on Covid-related situation in the statePM Narendra Modi spoke to Tamil Nadu CM MK Stalin on the Covid-related situation in the state.Vaccines are being administered at 100 schools in Delhi: Arvind KejriwalVaccines are being administered at 100 schools in Delhi and 1 lakh people are being vaccinated daily. We are planning to expand it to 300 schools and ramp up the vaccination to 3 lakhs per day: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal.PM Modi took information over Covid-19 situation and lauded Maharashtra's effortsPrime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday to take stock of Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra. "He took information over the situation and lauded Maharashtra's efforts put in while combating the second wave of the infection. Chief minister apprised the prime minister about the steps taken by Maharashtra government and its preparations to face the potential third wave. He also requested for more supply of oxygen to Maharashtra," a statement by CMO has said.Free vaccine is the right of every citizen of this country: Rajasthan Cabinet Minister Pratap KhachariyawasFree vaccine is the right of every citizen of this country. It should be given to all without any discussion... They (Centre) have put GST on vaccines& started increasing prices of petrol and diesel after Bengal elections: Rajasthan Cabinet Minister Pratap Khachariyawas.SC orders release of prisoners to decongest jails amid Covid-19 pandemicSC takes note of fresh Covid-19 surge, orders release of prisoners who were granted bail in March last year to decongest jails amid pandemic. The top courtdirected that prisoners who were granted parole last year should again be given 90-day furlough in order to tide over pandemic.Newly-elected village pradhan dies of Covid in UP's SambhalA newly-elected village pradhan in the district succumbed to Covid-19 at a hospital here, officials said on Saturday.For last 7 days, 180 districts in the country have not seen a single new case of Covid-19: Harsh VardhanFor last 7 days, 180 districts in the country have not seen a single new case of Covid-19. 18 districts have not recorded any cases in last 14 days. 54 districts have not witnessed any new case in last 21 days: Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan.JD(U) leader Tanveer Akhtar dies of Covid-19Bihar: Janata Dal (United) leader and Legislative Council member Tanveer Akhtar dies of Covid-19.PM Modi spoke to Maharashtra CM on Covid related situation in the statePM Modi spoke to Maharashtra CM on the Covid related situation in the state.Govt has ensured global aid is being effectively and promptly allocated and delivered to States/UTs: GovtGovt has ensured global aid is being effectively and promptly allocated and delivered to States/UTs. 2933 oxygen concentrators, 2429 oxygen cylinders, 13 oxygen generation plants, 2951 ventilators/Bi PAP/C PAP and more than 3 lakh Remdesivir vials delivered so far: Government of India.To complete vaccination within 3 months, we need to vaccinate 3 lakh people every day: KejriwalTo complete vaccination within 3 months, we need to vaccinate 3 lakh people every day. Currently, we are inoculating 1 lakh people in a day. I request Central government to ensure adequate availability of vaccines to Delhi: CM Arvind Kejriwal.Govt of India has so far provided more than 17.49 crore vaccine doses: Union health ministryGovt of India has so far provided more than 17.49 crore vaccine doses (17,49,57,770) to states/UTs free of cost. Of this, the total consumption including wastages is 16,65,49,583 doses. Over 84 lakh doses are still available with the States/UTs to be administered: Health Ministry.Can complete vaccination in 3 months if Delhi govt provided 80-85 lakh doses: Arvind KejriwalIf Delhi government is given 80-85 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine per month, we can complete vaccination within three months: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal.Uddhav Thackeray writes to Centre, seeking permission to develop a separate app for Covid vaccination in the stateMaharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray has written to Central government, seeking permission to develop a separate app for COVID vaccination in the state. He wrote the letter following complaints of frequent glitches in CoWIN platform.70% of Covishield stock will be used to vaccinate 45+ who are due for 2nd dose: Karnataka health minister70% of Covishield stock will be used to vaccinate 45+ who are due for 2nd dose and rest 30% will be used to vaccinate 45+ seeking 1st dose. While Covaxin will be administered only to 45+ who are due for 2nd dose after 6 weeks of 1st dose: Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka Health MinisterThere should be a universal vaccine program for all throughout the country: West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee ₹30,000 crores is nothing for the central government... There should be a universal vaccine program for all throughout the country: West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in the state Assembly.Covid-19 infection has reached villages of Uttarakhand: Cabinet Minister Subodh UniyalCovid-19 infection has reached villages of Uttarakhand. The level of transmission despite Corona Curfew is a matter of concern. To contain the spread, the government will take a major decision by May 10: Uttarakhand Cabinet Minister Subodh Uniyal.Imphal West district administration imposes curfew till May 17Imphal West district administration imposes curfew till May 17 under Section 144 of CrPC to contain Covid-19 spread; essential services and people going for vaccination and Covid test exempted from restrictions.Covid-19 consignments from Thailand arrive in Delhi200 oxygen cylinders and 10 oxygen concentrators sent by Thailand government and another 100 oxygen cylinders and 60 oxygen concentrators donated by Indian community in Thailand arrive in Delhi.Arunachal Pradesh's Covid-19 tally nearing 20,000; 169 new cases reported.Arunachal Pradesh on Saturday 169 new Covid-19 disease cases and one more death, taking the caseload and death toll to 19,802 and 60 respectively, a health department official told news agency PTI.Of the new cases, Capital Complex region added the maximum at 38, followed by Lower Dibang Valley at 26 cases, Lower Subansiri and Upper Subansiri at 16 cases each, Namsai at 14 cases, the official added.Telangana records 5,559 new Covid-19 cases, 41 more deathsTelangana's Covid-19 disease caseload climbed to 487,199 on Saturday after 5,559 new cases and 41 more deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. The recovery rate of the state is 84.81 per cent and the case fatality rate stands at 0.54 per centIndia logs 401,078 cases, 4,187 new deaths in single day rise; tally soars above 21.8 millionIndia on Saturday registered over 400,000 new cases (401,078 exact) of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for a third consecutive time, taking the caseload to over 21.8 million, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard. As many as 4,187 people succumbed to the disease on Friday and the toll has now climbed to 238,270 with a fatality rate of 1.09%. More than 17.9 million have recovered so far while the active cases are at 3,723,446 and account for nearly 17% of the caseload. Read moreTamil Nadu announces complete lockdown for two weeks starting May 10 amid Covid-19 crisisTamil Nadu will be observing a complete lockdown for two weeks starting from May 10 amid the worsening coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the state, news agency ANI reported.Thailand wants to procure more vaccine doses as Covid-19 cases surge, says PM Prayuth Chan-ochaThailand's Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha said on Friday that the country wants to secure more vaccine doses as it is battling a surge in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “We may need 150-200 million doses of vaccine for future phases (of the rollout),” Prayuth said. Just a little over 2% of the country's population has been vaccinated so far.Brazil's Covid-19 caseload nearing 15.1 million; 78,886 new cases reportedBrazil, the third worst-hit nation from the Covid-19 disease pandemic, added 78,886 new cases and 2,165 more deaths, taking the caseload to nearly 15.1 million, according to the health ministry.Sikkim sees record jump in daily Covid cases at 268; 2 more deaths addedSikkim on Friday recorded the highest single-day spike in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease at 268, taking the caseload to 9,451, an official told news agency PTI. Two more people succumbed to Covid-19 on Friday and the state's toll has now climbed to 160, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-may-8-2021-101620434475022.html
09-05-2021||Today's||The second wave and the Indian State||In an influential paper published over a decade ago, the economist Lant Pritchett described India as a “flailing State” — in which the head, that is the elite institutions at the national level (and, in some cases, state level) remained sound and functional but was no longer reliably connected to its own limbs.Pritchett turned to India’s public health system to illustrate his argument. When you talked to the top tiers of India’s government, he said, you get an elaborate story of facilities, human resources, health services and programmes. But travel to any part of India, particularly in the north, Pritchett noted, and it became clear that this description of India’s “health system” was, in fact, a complete fiction.As the horror and suffering of the second wave of Covid-19 unfold, one thing is clear. In the short decade between when Pritchett first posited the idea of the flailing State and today, India has transitioned to a failed State. The “fiction” of India’s health system is now exposed. And as hapless citizens struggle to find oxygen, basic medicines, hospital beds, the once sound and functional “head”, or more specifically the national government, is no longer visible. Indeed, it has abdicated from all responsibility, from leadership and governance.The flailing State, in Pritchett’s formulation, was capable of undertaking “thin”, logistical, tasks. Tasks where goals are clear, outputs visible and command-and-control actions could be deployed. After all, India managed to conduct large-scale elections, vaccination programmes (the irony is inescapable), even handled natural disaster relief with relative competence.Yet, when it comes to Covid-19 management, the Centre has failed to perform even these logistical tasks — oxygen supply, availability and access to basic medicines, treatment protocols, data systems, vaccinations. The political leadership, from the prime minister (PM) downwards, is completely absent and the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) — whose “brain power”, as Pritchett saw it, could capably formulate excellent policies — is drafting botched-up and confused policy. It is extraordinary that oxygen supply chains and aid distribution cannot be streamlined weeks after hospitals and state governments sounded alarm bells. Of course, when all else fails, we are reminded that health is, after all, a state subject.Ironically, it is the erstwhile uncontrollable limbs, now left to their own devices, that have proven far more resilient. We hear tales of leadership and innovation in the occasional district, of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s war-room, of states and local governments with relatively better health infrastructure managing the pandemic with competence, and, most of all, of frontline workers who are battling the pandemic with remarkable courage despite personal risks. Yet, none of these sporadic tales adds up to a national plan or a coordinated response to a pandemic by the Centre and states. Instead, central and state governments have locked themselves in a bitter political war with Twitter as their battleground. In the next few months, as Covid-19 travels through small towns and rural India, the country is likely to confront even greater suffering. There is still time — and, indeed, there is a moral obligation — for the Indian State to course correct. The prescriptions are well known. Even the Supreme Court seems to have greater clarity on the actions that the government needs to take.We need a hospital policy; a human resource policy; transparent, publicly available, evidence-based data on oxygen requirement, allocation and supply processes; war-rooms at every level of administration to help citizens find beds, oxygen, medicines and tele-consultation (no one should have to go through the daily horrors experienced by the citizens of Delhi in their battle with Covid-19). We need to resource primary health centres and wellness centres with medicines, oxygen and capacity to triage patients to reduce stress on hospitals. We need enhanced surveillance capacity, transparent and accurate data on every aspect of the disease. But for all this to happen, there is one crucial missing piece that falls squarely within the domain of the central government — inter-state cooperation and coordination.India’s Covid-19 response has failed because it ignored a fundamental first principle of good governance — the principle of subsidiarity, which means that the central authority performs only those functions that cannot be performed at the local level and no other. At the start of the pandemic, decision-making was overly centralised. Now, when it comes to tasks where the Centre needs to play a role — procurement of vaccines, supply chain management and allocation of oxygen, human resource and treatment protocols, ensuring resources move to areas experiencing surges — states have been told health is a state subject. Rather than a coordinated response, states are at war with the Centre and each other.Battling Covid-19 requires political maturity. This cannot be done in an institutional vacuum. One option is to set up an inter-state council within the National Disaster Management Authority, comprising the PM, chief ministers, senior ministers and bureaucrats from both states and the Centre. Institutionalised coordination will send the right signals to the limbs of the once flailing State. But this requires political leadership and trust. It’s not too late. But soon it will be.Yamini Aiyar is president and chief executive, Centre for Policy ResearchThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-second-wave-and-the-indian-state-101620579557130.html
09-05-2021||Today's||Democrats, Republicans and the cracks on India in the US||The Democratic administration of United States (US) President Joe Biden and Democrats on Capitol Hill, home to the US Congress, have rallied to India’s help as it battles its worst public health crisis in recent memory. But the Republicans have been conspicuous by their relative silence and absence.They do not, of course, have the authority and resources of the White House to match the Biden administration’s assistance worth $100 million. But barring a few honourable exceptions, they have signalled a disturbing indifference by not even lending their voice to the outpouring of sympathy and support for India. Michael McCaul, the top Republican on the House foreign relations committee, commended the Biden administration for its assistance. And Senators John Cornyn, a Republican who co-heads the India Caucus, and Rob Portman joined Mark Warner, a Democrat who co-chairs the India Caucus, to urge the Biden administration to do more for India.The silence of the rest of the Republicans, especially former president Donald Trump, is notable. At Trump’s request, India withdrew an export ban on essential drugs to release a massive consignment of hydroxychloroquine, which was accorded magical powers by the former American president of curing Covid-19. The Biden administration has attributed its assistance to India to this gesture. “At the beginning of the pandemic, when our hospital beds were stretched, India sent assistance,” Vice-President Kamala Harris said on Friday, echoing the President and other senior members of the administration. “And today, we are determined to help India in its hour of need.”Trump may have returned the favour with 200 ventilators that he sent to India later. But he has not had anything to say or do now. Unlike other former presidents, Trump has not decided to retire into the shadows, which makes his silence even more conspicuous. He is firing off statements every day, bitter about his defeat and characteristically abusive of critics and effusive in his support of allies.It also turns out that Trump had blocked the World Trade Organization (WTO) from accepting a joint proposal from India and South Africa — moved in October, when he was still in office — to grant temporary waiver of intellectual property rights to Covid-19 vaccines and therapeutics so that they could be available to everyone. Trump led a group comprising the European Union, the United Kingdom, France, Japan, Switzerland and others to oppose the move.That same WTO proposal struck a chord, however, with the Democrats. Around 110 members of the House of Representatives and 10 members of the Senate — all Democrats, of course — pressed Biden publicly through letters and privately through meetings with his aides to get behind the India-South Africa proposal. And he did so eventually, though it’s not known yet if the President needed to be pushed at all. For the US, which is a strong advocate of protection of intellectual property rights, to actually agree to any change, albeit under the aegis of a WTO waiver, is a major departure.And guess where the Republicans were on this issue? On the other side, a group of them, led by staunch Trump loyalists, including Congressman Jim Jordan, urged the Biden administration to continue to block the waiver proposal. So, has Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19 that infected and killed millions of people, also claimed the bipartisan support India has enjoyed for years in the US?Not really. While the relationship has the bipartisan backing of both the Democrats and Republicans, it has also got partisan pushback from the two parties on issues that matter to them. For instance, the Republicans don’t care much about the climate crisis. The Democrats, on the other hand, regard climate as one of their top issues. President Barack Obama had pushed India really hard, therefore, to get to the Paris Agreement. Or take another issue. While the Trump administration said the nullification of Kashmir’s special status is an “internal matter” of India, the Biden campaign made a disapproving note of it in its campaign vision. Many Indians feared that if elected, Biden would follow up on it. He hasn’t, not yet, at least.But even as the relationship will go through its ebbs and flows, what is clear is that, this time around, it is the Democrats who have shown more sensitivity to India’s suffering.yashwant.raj@hindustantimes.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/democrats-republicans-and-the-cracks-on-india-in-the-us-101620579556050.html
09-05-2021||Today's||Changing social behaviour is key in the Covid-19 fight||It is now common knowledge that large gatherings of people serve as super-spreaders of the deadly coronavirus. So I was amazed to see, on television last Wednesday, footage of women embarking on the kalash yatra to perform a jalabhishek ceremony in Navapura village in Sanand, Gujarat. Two days later, there was footage of thousands of people gathering in Kutch to pay homage to a Muslim preacher. This was happening even as the number of those infected across the country had crossed 400,000 in a single day. Since Navapura had no positive cases over the preceding two weeks, the jalabhishek was organised to give thanks to the presiding deity in the local temple, Baliya Devi, and to seek further protection from the virus. When the footage went viral, the police swung into action and put many of the organisers behind bars. In the Kutch case, it is not clear whether the police have acted at all.In the Kumbh mela at Haridwar earlier, the police offered protection to the gathering, despite dire warning from several medical experts that this sort of mass event was fraught with danger. A significant number of those who attended the Kumbh mela tested positive on return to their homes. It would be reasonable to assume that they have spread the disease far and wide and added to an already dire situation.Simply put, we have to listen to the warnings of medical experts and scientists. That we did not is now there for all to see — in our hospitals turning away patients for lack of beds, in people dying for want of oxygen and live-saving drugs, in crematoriums and burial grounds running out of space. If this does not prompt us to rethink our social behaviour, nothing will.You may recall that last year, British Prime Minister, Boris Johnson, warned his country that it was in the grip of a terrible disease, that many would fall ill and many would lose their loved ones. No Indian leader has had the courage to say it like it is. Instead, they allowed large religious gatherings to go ahead, and held election rallies with no safety protocols in place. The virus is now rampaging through areas where these events took place.No political party has taken this situation as seriously as it should have. There is no point apportioning blame on any one political formation, but surely all of them should have come out of their ivory towers and warned their followers of the dangers of risky behaviour.But, let us not lose heart. The current crisis is bound to bring about a change in political and social behaviour, going forward. Our leaders will be forced to heed public demands sooner rather than later. And the public is asking for accountability and decisive governance now. Even the mighty Indira Gandhi paid the price for not heeding the voice of the people when she lost power after her ill-thought-out Emergency.After her fall, when the leaders of the then Janata Party began to act in a high-handed manner, they were shown the door in a few short years. Today, the emergence of strong regional parties has changed the political landscape considerably.Several leaders have gained prominence in national and regional parties. There is the Trinamool Congress’s Mamata Banerjee, the Shiv Sena’s Uddhav Thackeray, the Nationalist Congress Party’s Sharad Pawar, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s MK Stalin, the Samajwadi Party’s Akhilesh Yadav, Akalis, Communist Party of India (Marxist)’s Pinarayi Vijayan, to name a few. In the Congress, there are tall leaders such Amarinder Singh in Punjab and BS Yeddyurappa in the Bharatiya Janata Party who can deal with their respective party leaderships on their own terms.When regional voices are strong, federalism is strengthened. Today, when concerns are being raised about the uneven distribution of oxygen, vaccines and life-saving drugs, the ruling party is being forced to change the system and cede more space to the states. I predict that you will see a huge difference in Centre-state relations within a year. Last year, the central government implemented a unilateral lockdown. This time around, the National Democratic Alliance has had no option but to allow the states to implement lockdowns when and as they see fit.If the states and Centre work to coordinate their efforts in advocating changes in social behaviour and support each other in implementing the necessary protocols to fight the virus, among these being the speedy distribution of medicines, vaccines and medical equipment, I think we will be on a more positive and constructive path in the battle against Covid-19 and the other challenges which lie ahead.Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief of HindustanThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/changing-social-behaviour-is-key-in-the-covid-19-fight-101620579554927.html
09-05-2021||Editorials||A change of guard in Assam||When Himanta Biswa Sarma joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the run-up to the 2016 assembly polls, the party knew it had pulled off a coup. The chief lieutenant of the then Congress chief minister (CM) Tarun Gogoi, Mr Sarma brought in his own network of followers from the Congress, and deployed his understanding of the state and personal resources to pull off a victory. But there was clarity in the party that Sarbananda Sonowal, one of the faces of the anti-immigrant movement, would be CM— while Mr Sarma would have to pay his dues. After all, he was not from the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS)-BJP stable, and under Narendra Modi and Amit Shah, this has been an important parameter when it comes to selecting CMs.But Mr Sarma soon became indispensable in enabling the party’s expansion across states in the region through electoral victories in Manipur and Tripura or stitching together coalitions in Nagaland and Meghalaya. This was supplemented by his political-administrative skills in Assam. By the time it was time for the 2021 elections, frustrated at the party leadership’s unwillingness to move him to the Centre, Mr Sarma decided he had paid his dues — and it was time to compete for leadership.The BJP did not announce any name before the elections — to preserve the internal factional balance and incentivise all leaders to work hard for a victory first. But, on Sunday, the party decided Mr Sarma will be Assam’s new CM. This may be a recognition of his political skills, but he will confront two serious challenges. The first is Covid-19 management. During the campaign, it was wrong and irresponsible of Mr Sarma, who held the portfolio of health, to claim that there was no virus in Assam and undermine the value of mask-wearing. Mr Sarma must invest all energy now in beating back the second wave, and ask Assam to mask up. The second is restoring communal harmony in the state. During the campaign, in a bid to polarise and perhaps to show his ideological commitment, Mr Sarma deployed aggressive rhetoric against minorities. It is time to step back and lend a healing touch. Himanta Biswa Sarma has got his prize. Assam is waiting for its own.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-change-of-guard-in-assam-101620579560288.html
09-05-2021||Editorials||On 5G, India’s message to China||Last week, India decided not to include Chinese telecom companies in the 5G trials. This is the beginning of a process to slow down and halt China’s creeping influence over India’s vital communication networks. Predictably, Beijing has objected — but the Government of India’s decision, largely driven by China’s unthinking belligerence, is the right step.In recent years, it has become clear that China wants a unipolar Asia. This has not only resulted in Beijing actively blocking the rise of other regional powers in the continent through diplomatic means, but undertaking aggressive military measures. India has been a victim of this mindset on a range of fronts — be it through Beijing’s alliance with Pakistan and the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, its opposition to India’s entry in the Nuclear Suppliers Group, its active campaign at the United Nations against India’s moves on Kashmir, its explicit interference in neighbouring countries to undermine India’s influence, and of course, most significantly, military incursions across the Line of Actual Control. Don’t forget, Chinese troops are still in territory India considers its own, and the disengagement process has halted after the Pangong Tso deal.In this context, while maintaining a functional and working relationship with China is important, India cannot allow a potential adversary — which has shown both the intention and capability of undermining India — to gain a foothold in its digital and communication infrastructure. India is better served being aligned with western democracies on the issue — and it is no surprise that there has been a vibrant debate in Washington and European capitals on the pitfalls of giving China such access to its networks. India, as a close neighbour, has the most at stake. And the message to China is consistent and clear — if you remain geopolitically hostile, don’t expect business concessions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/on-5g-india-s-message-to-china-101620579559306.html
