11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity gets Covid coordination committee||Facing flak for poor tricity coordination in Covid management, Chandigarh, Haryana and Punjab on Tuesday decided to constitute a committee comprising deputy commissioners of UT, Panchkula and Mohali. The committee will meet twice a week online and coordinate on various issues pertaining to Covid-19 management, such as lockdown restrictions, hospitals, supply lines, and vaccinations.The three administrations were forced into action after directions from the Punjab and Haryana high court on setting up a unified command centre for the tricity Covid management.The division bench of justices Rajan Gupta and Karamjit Singh, which was hearing a petition related to Covid-19 surge, had last week observed: “In case a joint strategy is drawn up, it may be easier to tackle the present crisis. In case, there is a common platform to deliberate upon the strategies to be adopted, it would be easier to tackle the challenges posed by the pandemic.”On Tuesday, Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore called a meeting of chief secretaries of Punjab and Haryana.In the meeting, it was also decided that director, health services, of Mohali, Panchkula and Chandigarh will also meet twice a week over video conference to decide uniform and coordinated approach in medical treatment of Covid patients, under the guidance of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER).In case of emergencies, anywhere in the tricity, the authorities concerned will provide oxygen, medicines and medical equipment, such as ventilators, to each other to avoid any untoward incident.The UT will also request the high court for a separate quota of 5 metric ton of liquid medical oxygen, exclusively for PGIMER.Missing coordinationEven though the tricity is a de facto single urban complex, the three administrations have struggled to have a uniform policy on Covid management. Varied night curfew timings, lockdown restrictions and failure to assist to each other has plagued the pandemic management. Notably, the three DCs already attend the regular Covid review meeting chaired by the UT administrator, but it has failed to lead to any improvement in coordination.“In the scheme of state government policy formulation, the local DCs have a very limited say. The UT’s attempts at involving higher officials regularly in the tricity coordination have not yielded positive results. This has been the case during the pandemic and also previously in management of other important issues. For instance, in the current scenario, a committee comprising health secretaries of the three governments could have been constituted,” said a senior Chandigarh official, requesting anonymity.Dormant mechanismThe institutionalised interstate coordination mechanism for the tricity has been lying dormant. One such apex body – interstate coordination committee – hasn’t met for the past six years. R Srinivas, town and country planner, ministry of housing and urban affairs, said: “An interstate coordination committee for the three administration was set up by the Centre in 1975. Its last meeting was held in 2016, but since then, it is dormant. The committee comprises of chief secretaries of all three governments, and secretaries from the Union ministries.”Similarly, the apex committee of tricity, comprising the UT administrator and chief secretaries, hasn’t met for more than a year and a half. Most of its previous recommendations, too, largely remain on paper. For instance, a committee under the UT adviser, set up to look into and resolve health and transport issues of the tricity, has not much to show as results.Even the North Zonal Council, headed by the Union home minister, last met around two years ago. The council meetings are attended by state chief ministers along with the UT administrator.Urvashi Gulati, former chief secretary, Haryana, said: “Formal institutions have always been there for coordination between the three governments. Though, in normal times there have been instances when there was lack of urgency, the current circumstances require utmost coordination so that the pandemic’s impact can be minimised.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-gets-covid-coordination-committee-101620757408082.html
11-05-2021||Gurugram||Work on oxygen plants in Gurugram yet to start, district not on priority lists, say officials||Work on the construction of six new oxygen plants in Gurugram is likely to be delayed as the district does not figure on the two priority lists announced by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), officials familiar with the development said on Tuesday.On Tuesday, Gurugram received around 37 metric tonnes of oxygen from plants in Bhiwadi of Rajasthan, Panipat and Faridabad, officials said. However, the district has a requirement of around 55 metric tonnes of oxygen per day, shortage of which caused a multitude of issues over the past few weeks.NHAI officials said that site inspections have been conducted, but the work will commence only when the district is named on the priority list.“We have conducted site inspections and the planning is being done but the work will only when Gurugram figures in the priority list. We are expecting this to happen very soon. The civil and electrical infrastructure set up will be completed in 15 days,” said Suresh Kumar, project director, NHAI.Rao Inderjit Singh, the Lok Sabha member from Gurugram and union minister of state, said that he has already taken up this issue with the health ministry to ensure that Gurugram hospitals are included in the next priority list.“I have taken up this issue with the union health ministry. Not only these oxygen plants, but I have also asked the state government to ensure that large private hospitals also install their own plants as there is a strong possibility of a third wave. We must also increase the number of oxygen beds and ventilators in city hospitals and across Haryana,” said Singh, adding that the issues were also taken up with the chief minister in a virtual meeting on Tuesday.The task of creating civil and electrical infrastructure for setting up 581 pressure swing absorption plants near hospitals across the country has been given to the highways authority. Out of these 581 plants, district administration officials said that 50 will come up in Haryana and six of them in Gurugram.According to the NHAI officials, six hospitals in Haryana have been included in the two priority lists released by the authority. In the first list, civil hospitals in Charki Dadri, Bhiwani and Narayangarh (in Ambala district) were prioritised for oxygen plants. In the second list, three hospitals in Kaithal, Ambala and Bhiwani were included.NHAI officials in Gurugram said that they have inspected the sites at Civil Hospital, subdivisional hospitals in Pataudi, Sohna and one at Mandikhera in Nuh district. “We are ready to work on the design based on steel fabrication for these plants and work will be completed in 15 days. As soon as the oxygen plant is delivered, it would be ready for installation and made operational at the earliest,” said Kumar.The NHAI would be spending around ₹15 lakh for constructing each plant, said officials.The Gururgam district administration last week had said that the plant at Civil hospital will have a production capacity of 1,000 litres per minute, while those at Sohna and Pataudi will have capacities of 200 litres per minute, each. The plant at Mandikhera in Nuh will have a production capacity of 500 litres per minute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/work-on-oxygen-plants-in-gurugram-yet-to-start-district-not-on-priority-lists-say-officials-101620757348710.html
11-05-2021||Gurugram||48 RWAs express interest to set up Covid care facilities||In 10 days since the district administration allowed residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) to set up Covid-19 care facilities using their own resources in their societies, as many as 48 RWAs have expressed an interest in setting up facilities, according to a release issued by the administration on Tuesday.In a Covid care facility (CCF), presymptomatic, asymptomatic and suspected patients can be kept in isolation with basic medical care. “Around 48 ​​residential societies have expressed their desire to open a CCF. As per the guidelines, senior citizens, pregnant women, children below the age of 10, and those with comorbidities cannot avail of CCF facilities, as such patients are required to be admitted to hospitals or other care facilities,” a spokesperson for the administration said.Administration officials said that such facilities will be linked with the health department’s surveillance teams, and ambulances and important telephone numbers of the RWA, NGOs, doctors, caregivers and ambulance service providers will be shared with all stakeholders as well as pasted inside each facility. The CCFs will be inspected daily by the rapid response teams, said officials.Administration officials reiterated that the facility can be set up only inside community centres, clubhouses, or vacant flats, provided they are located in a secluded area. The administration’s release did not, however, share the names of the 48 RWAs.On May 1, deputy commissioner Yash Garg had issued an order permitting RWAs to set up CCFs using their own resources. Two days later, the administration had issued guidelines for the same.Many RWAs, however, were dissatisfied with both the guidelines and Garg’s order, with their three main contentions being that they want moderately ill Covid-19 patients to be allowed treatment at the facilities, permit multiple RWAs to set up one CCF as several condominiums and societies did not have a community centre or clubhouse, and support from the administration in the procurement of Covid-19 medicines, machines, oxygen cylinders, and medical staff to monitor the health of those admitted to the facilities.“We are in constant touch with the administration regarding the setting up of CCFs. The administration has given assurance in provision of oxygen cylinders to RWAs and remaining concerns, such as the need for establishing the facility in a secluded place, among others, are also being taken up and deliberated upon,” said Pawan Tharwani, president, Carlton Estate Condominium Association (CECA), one of the members of RWAs United, an umbrella body representing 53 RWAs from across the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/48-rwas-express-interest-to-set-up-covid-care-facilities-101620757347513.html
11-05-2021||Gurugram||Six booked for attempt to murder after tussle over parking escalates||Six persons were booked in Farrukhnagar on Tuesday in connection with a firing incident, in which the husband of village sarpanch Mukesh Devi had a narrow escape, said the police. The incident took place after the victim, identified as Satbir Dhankhar, had resolved a parking issue between the suspects and a local family.Dhankhar, a resident of Patli village in Farrukhnagar, said, “Two families had got into an argument over parking on Monday evening. Following this, some of the villagers urged a group of men — one of the parties concerned — to apologise to the other family for abusing and threatening to kill them for parking a vehicle outside their house. They also urged the former family to keep a check on their son who was allegedly involved in illegal activities and often fought with the villagers on different issues,” Dhankhar said.The locals had been complaining about the group of men for allegedly extorting money from shopkeepers, and often fighting with the ones who intervened.Dhankhar had resolved the matter, according to the police.Later, around 5 am on Tuesday, when Dhankhar had gone for a morning walk near a field close to Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway, a person opened fire at him from inside a car. Fortunately, he did not suffer any injury in the firing.“The window glasses of the Swift Dzire were tinted, and I couldn’t see anyone inside the car. Somebody opened fire at me, and immediately fled the spot... I had noted the registration number. The car belonged to one of the men who was involved in the spar on Monday,” he said.An “attempt to murder” case has been registered against the six men — who are on the run — at the Farrukhnagar police station.Assistant commissioner of police (crime), Dharamvir Singh, said the suspects had also gone to Dhankhar’s chemist shop in Farrukhnagar around 11.45 am on Tuesday, and threatened to kill his nephew. “We have recovered CCTV footage from the shop, and are conducting raids to arrest the suspects,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/six-booked-for-attempt-to-murder-after-tussle-over-parking-escalates-101620757348109.html
11-05-2021||Gurugram||Vaccinations will be held at govt schools to tackle crowds: Health department||To tackle the heavy footfall for Covid-19 vaccination at various government health centres across the district, the health department has decided to hold vaccinations at government schools and community health centres in areas witnessing high footfalls. Officials said that elderly citizens scheduled to receive their second dose have been facing trouble due to poor social distancing norms in place.“Medical officers of 37 urban primary health centres (UPHC) have been directed to hold vaccination drives in government buildings having open areas, if they are facing difficulties in handling a large number of people at health centres. Vaccination camps cannot be set up at private facilities,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.From May 1, as private hospitals stopped inoculation due to a shortage of vaccines, a large percentage of vaccine beneficiaries who have been waiting for the second dose inoculation are reaching out to government health centres. Some of the major centres, at Tigra, Chauma and Laxman Vihar, among others, witnessed heavy footfall and subsequently, clashes due to low vaccine stock.As reported by HT earlier this week, many people above the age of 60 years refrained from standing in long queues, fearing that they might get infected due to the large crowds. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, in a review meeting last week, directed that vaccinations must be held in open spaces.On Tuesday, in some of the densely populated areas, including Gurugram village, Sukhrali and Gandhi Nagar, the vaccination drive took place at government schools. According to medical officers, multiple session sites are being conducted for different age groups, which lead to long queues.“The rush has increased. Everyone who directly walks in wants to get inoculated, but we can inoculate only a limited number of people in a day. Crowd management or even ensuring social distancing becomes difficult as people are often agitated and refuse to follow rules,” a medical officer said, requesting anonymity.The district health department has also requested the police department to deploy its staff for crowd management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/vaccinations-will-be-held-at-govt-schools-to-tackle-crowds-health-department-101620757288783.html
11-05-2021||Gurugram||Haryana temporarily stops interstate buses amid Covid crisis||The Haryana transport department has stopped interstate buses temporarily to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the district, according to the officials on Tuesday.Buses from Haryana to Jaipur, Agra, and Katra have been stopped temporarily, but buses travelling within Haryana are operational, they said.Kulbir Singh Dhaka, general manager, Gurugram bus depot, said, “We have stopped interstate buses from Haryana to Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, and Uttarakhand temporarily due to the rise in the cases. Also, we have been getting fewer passengers as other state governments, too, ask for negative Covid-19 reports for the purpose of travelling. We were facing heavy losses due to this... On an average, we earn a profit of ₹35 per kilometre, but now, it has come to almost ₹20 per kilometre. So, it is not feasible to continue the bus services.”The number of coronavirus cases in Gurugram are still on the rise. As of Tuesday, there were 2,659 fresh cases, and 34,117 active cases in the district. The recovery rate in Gurugram stands at 78.55%, and the fatality rate at 0.38%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-temporarily-stops-interstate-buses-amid-covid-crisis-101620757287480.html
11-05-2021||Gurugram||MCG ties up with Zomato, Delhivery for doorstep oxygen cylinder deliveries||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) tied up with an app-based food delivery firm, essential supplies delivery chain and an NGO for door-to-door delivery of liquid medical oxygen cylinders to Covid-19 patients in home isolation and also to check black marketing, officials said.A release issued by the civic body stated it tied up with Zomato, Delhivery and Seva Bharti Parishad NGO on Monday, following which the stakeholders held a meeting at the camp office, located next to the MCG commissioner’s residence, in Civil Lines to discuss the modalities.MCG officials said that the two delivery companies will have the task of delivering cylinders in two of their zones, while in the other two zones, the NGO will help with the deliveries.“We have tied up with the companies to carry out the deliveries. They will be forming separate teams for this task, independent of their current operations. For delivery purposes, all teams will be using four-wheeler vehicles so that the maximum number of oxygen cylinders can be loaded, and a high number of deliveries can be done in one trip,” said a senior MCG official, who attended the meeting.The official cited above said that oxygen cylinders are being stored at a government college in Sector 14, from where they will be transported. A team of MCG officials, headed by MCG additional commissioner Surendra Singh, will be working from the college premises to coordinate with the companies for deliveries.A spokesperson for Delhivery said that the company officials overlooking the matter were not available for comment. Officials of Zomato could not be contacted for comment.For locations outside the MCG areas in the district, MCG workers will undertake the task. “A separate bank account will be opened for payment under this arrangement. Payments can be made directly to the bank account through a QR code. Each agency and team will have a different QR code,” said Jitendera Yadav, acting commissioner, MCG.Yadav said that the delivery will be done on a first-come-first-served basis.Under the initiative, officials will carry oxygen cylinders to the applicant’s residence and provide them with a filled cylinder in exchange for an empty one. “Covid-19 patients in home isolation can apply for a cylinder online on the oxygenhry.in portal. Based on the application, a cylinder will be provided to the applicant in the shortest possible time,” said Yadav.For procuring a cylinder, the patient, attendant, or relative has to submit an application on the portal along with the patient’s UID number, oximeter reading photo and a doctor’s prescription. In the application, basic details such as the patient’s name, age, contact number and address need to be filled in.MCG officials said that a person can apply only once per day. Once confirmed, the applicant will receive a message regarding the delivery. MCG officials said that their teams will be carrying out deliveries between 8am and 11pm every day.The announcement of home delivery of oxygen cylinders was in the district was announced on Saturday, a day after the Haryana government had made a similar announcement.Besides the MCG, the administration has also tied up with 20 NGOs and the Red Cross Society for the delivery of oxygen cylinders. The administration commenced operations on Monday, with 70 deliveries being done on the first day.“A cylinder bank has been created by the district administration for refilling cylinders. With the introduction of this facility, the load on beds in the hospitals will be reduced and people will get oxygen cylinders at their doorstep,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-ties-up-with-zomato-delhivery-for-doorstep-oxygen-cylinder-deliveries-101620757227462.html
11-05-2021||Gurugram||MCG starts using dung cakes for cremations to reduce tree felling||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has started using cow dung cakes for cremations to reduce the use of wood. Officials said that 20 tonnes of cow dung cakes have been procured for use.Ashish Singla, chief medical officer of MCG, said, “We started using cow dung cakes as an alternative to wood on Monday and have procured around 20 tonnes from our gaushalas. This is being done to reduce the pressure on fuelwood so that more trees are not cut. We are still figuring out details of how much is needed for one cremation process, but an alternative is being used.”At present, the cow dung cakes are being procured from MCG’s cowshed in Carterpuri.The number of deaths of Covid-19 positive patients has been increasing in the district putting pressure on crematoriums and leading to long waiting hours for performing the last rites. According to the records of the health department, a total of 612 Covid-19 positive patients have died in the district till now with 13 deaths reported on Tuesday.Puran Yadav, the president of the Carterpuri cowshed, said, “We have deployed two machines at the cowshed for faster production so that these can be used at crematoriums in case of shortage of wood.”The decision to use cow dung cakes was taken on Monday, after a city-based environmentalist raised the issue of reducing the use of fuelwood after the amendment norms for the lockdown released by the state government on Sunday mentioned that felling of trees will be allowed.The guidelines mentioned, “Tree felling operations of forest department and Haryana Forest Development Corporation shall remain operational subject to the condition that they will be allowed only to the extent required for meeting fuelwood requirements of municipal corporations and district administrations.”Meanwhile, officials of the district forest department said they submitted a list of trees that can be used as fuelwood at cremation sites to the forest development corporation last week.Rajeev Tejyan, divisional forest officer for Gurugram, said, “We have submitted a list of old and dry trees available with the department to the forest development corporation, which is further shared with the district administration. We have a stock of around 100-150 trees available at different forest ranges that can be used. So far, no new trees have been felled in the division and we have not received any requests too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-starts-using-dung-cakes-for-cremations-to-reduce-tree-felling-101620757107469.html
11-05-2021||Gurugram||Health dept to use only Covaxin to inoculate 18-44 age group||The district health department said on Tuesday that it was holding back Covishield doses for people in the 18-44 age group due to limited allocation of the vaccine by the state. Instead, roughly about 4,500 doses of Covaxin will be administered to those above 18 years at 37 government health centres on Wednesday.“Over 13,000 doses of Covishield were received by the state administration on Tuesday. These doses will be used for the second dose for people aged above 45 years at various vaccination centres. There has been no additional supply of Covishield doses for 18 to 44 years. The vaccination for those above 18 years will not halt, as over 4,500 doses of Covaxin have been allocated for them,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.Fewer than 2,000 doses of Covishield are currently available for the 18-44 group, which, according to the district immunisation officer, Dr MP Singh, will be given at the Polyclinic in Sector 31 on Wednesday. “Only some doses of Covishield are left, therefore, it can be given to only one centre. It is likely to be utilised within a day. The remaining 36 centres will be given Covaxin for inoculation on Wednesday,” he said.The inoculation of residents aged above 18 years started on May 1. The vaccination pace, however, declined due to limited availability of the vaccine stock and shutting down of vaccination centres at most private hospitals, as they were unable to procure the stock from manufacturers.The vaccine stock that was to be used only for the prioritised population group has been now allocated in two categories, for the 18-44 year group and 45 years and above group. Many vaccine beneficiaries have also been facing difficulties getting their shot due to low stock.On Tuesday, the union ministry of health and family welfare in a meeting with the states stressed the urgent need to inoculate the large number of beneficiaries who are waiting for the second dose. States have been directed to reserve 70% of the allocated stock for second dose vaccinations and the remaining 30% for those taking the first dose.For the 45 and above group, the district has a stock of over 23,000 doses. On Tuesday, at least 11,049 people took the first vaccine shot, including 4,224 (3,597 in government health centres and 627 in private hospitals) in the 18-44 category. As many as 5,226 took their second vaccine shot at government sites and 152 at private facilities.The next allocation of the vaccine doses from the centre to states for May 15 to 31 is likely to be conveyed on May 14. Based on that, states will have to plan their vaccination sessions. “It is expected that Covishield inoculation for 18 and above will be on halt for some time now,” said Yadav.The vaccination process was drastically impacted after private hospitals were asked to procure vaccines directly from the manufacturers from May 1. Many shut down their centres, while only two private hospitals, Fortis and Max, are inoculating those aged 18 to 44 years. The state has now been directed to coordinate with private hospitals to facilitate procurement directly from the manufacturers to accelerate the vaccination process.Time slot for booking appointments on Co-WINAddressing the problem faced by vaccine beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group to book online appointments for their shots, the district health department has fixed 6pm to 7pm as the time slot for residents to book their slots on the Co-WIN platform.“Only people above 45 years scheduled for the second dose can directly walk in, for they are already registered on Co-WIN. Even those above 45 years, who are yet to take their first shot, have to register on Co-WIN and book the slot,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/health-dept-to-use-only-covaxin-to-inoculate-18-44-age-group-101620756867451.html
11-05-2021||Other||Meet men who refill cylinders all night to breathe life into Covid-19 patients||At a time when the Covid-19 pandemic is raging across the country, many are braving all odds to serve society and stand firm for their duty. One such noble soul is Vijay Kumar, a small-time worker in an oxygen factory in Bari Brahmana who is working overtime to fill the oxygen cylinders.As the queues of cylinders pile up for re-fill and supply to the hospitals, Vijay, along with three of his colleagues, work the night shift to meet the target. When asked about his job, he smiled and said that when one sees the patients struggling to get oxygen, he feels it is his duty to contribute in his own small way to save lives.He said he is now living mostly within the factory premises along with other workers and adequate care is being taken to ensure their safety by making provisions for kits and sanitizers.While recalling his family who lives in Ramnagar, Vijay hoped that his family is safe and keeping good health, adding that when he is filling the oxygen cylinders, he prays that no one from any family loses his or her battle with the virus. He said it is their duty to ensure that the requirement of different hospitals is met on time and for that losing a little sleep is no big deal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/meet-men-who-refill-cylinders-all-night-to-breathe-life-into-covid-19-patients-101620755607984.html
11-05-2021||Other||FIR against SP spokesman, 2 others for ‘maligning image’ of RS MP||The Lucknow police registered an FIR against Samajwadi Party spokesman IP Singh and two others on Tuesday for their posts on social media ‘maligning image’ of Rajya Sabha BJP MP Sanjay Seth and his family members and circulating ‘wrong as well as disgraceful facts’, said senior police officials.The officials said two other persons made accused in the FIR were Ram Dutt Tewari and Mahendra Kudiya. They said the three were booked under section 67 of Information Technology Act for misusing social media and section 500 of Indian Penal Code for defamation. The MP’s personal assistant Anoop Kumar Pandey lodged the FIR in this connection at Gautampalli police station.The FIR stated that Singh posted ‘wrong and disgraceful facts’ about the MP and his family members after a controversy over suspicious death of a woman from Thailand. The complainant stated that same facts were later circulated and forwarded by Ram Dutt Tewari and Mahendra Kudiya on social media and WhatsApp groups with an intent to malign the MP’s image.The Lucknow police, however, are investigating the matter since Sunday on the basis of facts collected by them. The MP had also written to the police requesting an investigation into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fir-against-sp-spokesman-2-others-for-maligning-image-of-rs-mp-101620754467403.html
11-05-2021||Other||Now, several bodies found floating in UP’s Ghazipur, Ballia; probe ordered||Close on the heels of partially decomposed bodies of suspected Covid patients washed up on the banks of the Ganga in Bihar’s Buxar district, more unidentified corpses were found floating in the river in Ghazipur and Ballia districts, bordering Bihar, on Monday-Tuesday. Over a dozen bodies were found floating in the Ganga in Bara and Gahmar areas of Ghazipur district on Monday. Similarly, more than two dozen bodies were found from Ujiyar Ghat and Bharauli area of Ballia district on Tuesday. Ghazipur administration has initiated a probe into the matter. “Our officials are present on the spot and an investigation is underway. We are trying to find out from where these bodies came,” district magistrate of Ghazipur MP Singh said. It came to light when local people, traumatised by the sight of floating human bodies in the Ganga and fearing spreading of diseases in the area, informed the district administration officials. Bara town in Ghazipur district shares boundary with Buxar district of Bihar. It is just two kilometres from Gahmar (Ghazipur). “The bodies, found in Gahmar and Bara stretch of Ganga, are different from those found in Buxar of Bihar,” said a Local.Former village head of Gahmar Durga Prasad Chaurasia said that over a dozen bodies were seen floating. Thereafter, locals informed administrative officials. A team of administrative officials reached the spot and initiated a probe, he said. “I received information that two bodies were floating in the Ganga in Bara area of Ghazipur. I along with my team reached the spot and found that two bodies floating in the river. This is a matter of grave concern,” said Ramesh Kumar Maurya, sub divisional magistrate of Sevrai division, who reached the spot along with his team on Monday evening. Maurya said that he had no idea from where the two bodies came. He said that the bodies appeared to be a fortnight old. Maurya, however, refused to comment on Buxar administration’s claim that the bodies found in the Ganga in Buxar had come from UP’s side. A senior police official, not willing to be named, said a vigil would be maintained along the river stretch in Gahmar area of the district. At the same time, the locals have been asked to inform police in case they see anyone immersing a body in the river. Meanwhile, a social worker and village head of Mubarakpur in Ghazipur district, Shyamnarayan Singh said that he heard that a few bodies (four bodies) were immersed in the Ganga by the families of the dead as they couldn’t afford to buy wood required for cremation. “Such incidents are being reported for the last one week from several villages in the area,” he claimed. Ex-village head of Gahmar Gahmar Durga Chaurasia also backed it. “In rural pocket, this has been taking place for the last one week,” he said. Over two dozen bodies were also found floating in the Ganga at Ujiyar Ghat and Bharauli area of Ballia district, locals said. On being informed by locals, a team of administrative officials along with police personnel reached the spot and took out six bodies from the Ganga’s Bharauli stretch, and remaining from Ujiyar area, according to reports. According to ANI, Ballia district magistrate Aditi Singh said few bodies were found near the banks of the river Ganga under the Ballia-Buxar bridge last evening. Last rites of these bodies were performed by police and local administration. The incident of corpses floating in Bihar has sparked fears about the scale of the Covid crisis in the country. Authorities believe the relatives of those succumbed to the virus may not have been able to find space for the last rites. On Tuesday, Union minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat had termed the incident as “unfortunate” and asked concerned states to take immediate cognizance. “The incident of corpses found floating in the Ganga in Buxar region of Bihar is unfortunate. This is definitely a matter of investigation. The Modi government is committed to the cleanliness ‘mother’ Ganga. This incident is unexpected. The concerned states should take immediate cognizance in this regard,” Shekhawat tweeted. (With agency input)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-several-bodies-found-floating-in-up-s-ghazipur-ballia-probe-ordered-101620754288356.html
11-05-2021||Other||UP govt scheme to assist kids rendered orphan by pandemic||Children who have lost their parents due to the pandemic will be extended all assistance, including financial, by the state government under its sponsorship scheme. “The state government has decided to tweak rules of the scheme as it mandated to assist only two children of a family. Now, all affected children of a family will be provided financial assistance even if they are more than two,” Manoj Rai, director, department of women and child development. In a virtual meeting on Tuesday, Rai apprised all district probation officers of the state about the government’s plan regarding rehabilitation of the children rendered orphan due to the Covid.The state government is collecting details of all such children below 18 years of age who have lost both their parents or either mother or father to Covid. Instructing the district probation officers to collect details of such children, Rai apprised officials of the government’s plan to extend immediate assistance to such children through the sponsorship scheme. Rai also asked officials to contact Covid hospitals and incharges of Covid command centres of their respective districts to collect details of Covid-orphaned children and provide this information to child welfare committees. Child Line (1098), special juvenile police units, district child protection units and nigrani samitis (monitoring committees) in rural and urban areas are also assisting the district magistrates in preparing the list of such children. “Efforts must be made to rehabilitate such children under the care of any family and sending them to a child care shelter must be the last option,” Rai told officials. During the meeting, he also told officials to collect details of frontline workers who have succumbed to Covid so that financial assistance could be provided to their family members too. The department of women and child development has also asked officials to take adequate steps to prevent child marriages and take necessary steps if any such incident is reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-govt-scheme-to-assist-kids-rendered-orphan-by-pandemic-101620754167207.html
11-05-2021||Other||‘Emergency Medicine dept’ to come up at MLNMC, proposal sent||A new ‘Emergency Medicine Department’ will be established at Motilal Nehru Medical College (MLNMC) soon and will start functioning from the next academic session. The MLNMC administration has already sent a proposal to the state government for approval, medical college officials said. “A detailed proposal has been sent to the state government. We have also requested sanctioning of new posts for this proposed department at the MLN Medical College,” said SP Singh, principal, MLNMC, while confirming the development. As part of the exercise, a facility of 30 beds will be added to SRN Hospital – the hospital associated with MLNMC – including six beds having intensive care unit (ICU) facilities. One operation theatre and one plaster room would also be part of this new department, he explained. SRN Hospital currently has a 1,400-bed capacity, besides a trauma centre. Students enrolling in the MBBS course from session 2022-23 will also have to study ‘Emergency Medicine’ as a subject as stipulated by the National Medical Commission (NMC)— the regulatory body that governs medical education and medical professionals in the country, they added. Noting the importance of the field of emergency medicine, the NMC had made this new department mandatory for all medical colleges from the 2022-23 academic session. It had also issued a notification in this regard on October 19, 2020, laying down the particular manpower and equipment requirement etc so that medical colleges could take necessary steps in this regard.For this new ‘Emergency Medicine Department’, sanction of one post each of professor, associate professor and assistant professor has been sought by the MLNMC administration so that proper teaching work can be undertaken. At present, the MLN Medical College has 12 departments: medicine, surgery, orthopaedics, obstetrics and gynaecology, pulmonary medicine, paediatrics, dermatology (skin), pathology, microbiology, biochemistry, anatomy, social and preventive medicine and ENT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/emergency-medicine-dept-to-come-up-at-mlnmc-proposal-sent-101620753987284.html
11-05-2021||Other||No new clothes, sewain parties; it’s going to be a quiet Eid||Not just the fear of Covid-19 but also the numerous lives lost has put a shadow on the joy of Eid-ul-Fitr, the biggest festival of Muslims across the world. Many families have decided not to wear new clothes on the occasion or hold ‘sewain parties’ as a mark of solidarity with those who lost their loved ones to the pandemic.Abid Ali, a resident of Kareli, returned to Prayagraj from Mumbai when Ramzan began, hoping to celebrate a grand Eid-ul-Fitr with his two sons, Amir and Danish, who also flew back from Dubai. Abid Ali’s hopes were shattered as Covid-19 started claiming lives of people. Although none in his family was infected with Covid-19, Abid Ali and his family members were shocked over the large number of deaths, including many in their locality and in their extended family. Upset by the tragedy, the family has decided not to wear new clothes this Eid.Many local leaders and religious heads have also urged community members to mark Eid with simplicity and focus on helping the needy around them who are still fighting for survival.Imam Jama Masjid and former Sheher Qazi Sayyad Maqbool Hussain urged Muslims to offer Eid-ul-Fitr prayers at home. As prayers at home will be without an Imam, only ‘namaz shukrana’ should be offered by individuals, he said. Muslims should pray for the well-being of those suffering from the pandemic and also for those who have lost their lives, he added.With just a few days are left for Eid-ul-Fitr, the Muslim-dominated Old City areas seem lacklustre and subdued, which at this time of year used to be brimming with life. With the strict implementation of lockdown, no markets are open for shopping but people are also staying away from purchasing clothes etc online.Former Samajwadi Party MLA Haji Parwez Ahmad and his family used to organise grand Eid celebrations every year. This year, the family has cancelled all festivities.“My family and I used to distribute new clothes among the poor on Eid and celebrate the occasion with friends and relatives. With the pandemic claiming so many lives this year, patients have been helped and all celebrations have been cancelled,” the former MLA said.With deadly disease playing havoc, celebrating Eid is not only unwise but also meaningless, says MA Ansari, a senior High Court advocate, whose family has recently recovered from Covid-19.Hundreds of deaths in Old City localities of Atala, Shahganj, Akbarpur, Roshanbagh, Dariabad, Rasulpur, Rani Mandi, Daira Shah Ajmal, Kareli, Khuldabad etc have been reported in the second wave of the pandemic. Many infected are still fighting for their lives and their families are praying for their recovery.“Traditionally, Eid is not celebrated in homes where a member has recently died. Prayagraj has been a symbol of mixed culture and its citizens have always shared their joys and sorrows. With so many deaths this year across the city, it is impossible for Muslims to rejoice. Religious heads have already urged to offer special Eid-ul-Fitr prayers at home,” Syed Mohd Askari, a Samajwadi Party leader said.Principal of Madarsa Jammatul Abbas Maulana Kalbe Abbas Rizvi said Muslims should pray not only for themselves but also for all human beings suffering due to the pandemic.Contractor Arif Khan, a resident of Rasulpur, returned from Delhi, expecting to celebrate Eid with his large family of eight brothers. However, with the disease claiming so many lives, Arif and his kin did not purchase new clothes and other items for Eid. “Our dining table used to be full with varieties of ‘sewain’ prepared by the women in our family. Our family, relatives and friends used to flock to the house throughout the day. We will miss the festivities but will pray for a happy Eid next year,” Arif said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-new-clothes-sewain-parties-it-s-going-to-be-a-quiet-eid-101620753807217.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||DU's Hansraj College offers to turn its hostel into Covid-19 care centre||Hansraj College has offered its hostel for setting up a 100-bed health facility for Covid-19 patients.An RT-PCR testing centre has also been set up at the college and will start functioning from Wednesday, its principal Rama Sharma said."Hansraj College, University of Delhi has always come forward and stood by the country whenever the need has arisen. Hansraj College has a hostel that caters to 200 residents. We are ready to offer the space with your support that can be converted into 100 ICU facility as the Covid patients are not getting hospital beds and that is causing anxiety," she said in a letter to Lt Governor Anil Baijal, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and other officials on May 9.The letter has also been sent to Deputy CM Manish Sisodia, Health Minister Satyendar Jain and some officials.She also urged the authorities to set up a vaccination centre in the college."University employees and their families are also facing challenges as facilities are scattered and infected people are increasing each day. Testing and vaccination both are important to contain the spread. "We also request you to set up a vaccination (Covishield) and testing centre in the college for the university teaching and non-teaching staff. This will ensure that people above 18 years get vaccinated with Covishield immediately," the letter said.Delhi University had started a Covid-19 isolation centre with a capacity of 180 beds in Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College.The university's Lakshmibai College has also started an isolation centre as a tribute to one of its staffers who died due to the infection.Delhi University has also set up central helplines for its staffers who are looking for ventilator beds, oxygen cylinders, food supplies and even for counselling."We have put in place a centralised system. Earlier it was being done by colleges and other bodies but now we have set up helplines which will be available for varsity staffers," said the varsity's acting vice-chancellor Professor P C Joshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dus-hansraj-college-offers-to-turn-its-hostel-into-covid-19-care-centre-101620752866244.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||Chhota Rajan recovers from Covid-19, returns to Tihar jail||Gangster Chhota Rajan, who was admitted at AIIMS here for treatment after he had tested positive for Covid-19, was taken back to Tihar jail on Tuesday following his recovery from illness, officials said.He was found Covid-19 positive in the Tihar Jail on April 22 and was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on April 24.According to a senior police officer, Rajan was brought back to Tihar on Tuesday as he had recovered.On Friday, the jail administration had dismissed reports claiming that Rajan had died.''News of death of Tihar jail inmate Rajendra Sadashiv Nikalje @ Chhota Rajan s/o Sadashiv Nikalje is wrong,'' Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel had said.Rajan, 61, is lodged at the high-security prison since his arrest after deportation from Bali in Indonesia in 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/chhota-rajan-recovers-from-covid-19-returns-to-tihar-jail-101620752879983.html
11-05-2021||Lucknow||Adityanath fudging coronavirus numbers, 'tower of corpses' in UP: Congress||Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu on Tuesday trashed the state government's claims on managing the coronavirus pandemic and accused Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath of fudging statistics.While accusing the BJP government of laxity, the opposition leader said a “tower of corpses” has risen in the state.Lallu's statement came hours after defence minister Rajnath Singh's visit to Lucknow, where he praised Adityanath's handling of the Covid-19 crisis and claimed that the World Health Organization too had done so.“Can't the defence minister, who is praising the chief minister indulging in fudging the statistics, see the flames from the funeral pyres in his parliamentary constituency of Lucknow and other parts of the state,” the Congress leader said."Can he not see the deaths caused by the shortage of oxygen and the shortage of medicines," he said, adding that Singh showed a lack of sensitivity by praising the chief minister.Lallu claimed that the ground reality is that there are "no vaccines, no oxygen, no medicines" in the state. "Due to the laxity of the government, there is a 'minar' (tower) of corpses, and it is getting praise," he said.He accused the state government of being "shameless" and "disgracing humanity".Earlier, Rajnath Singh had claimed that the World Health Organization has praised the Uttar Pradesh government's work. It is not a small thing," he said.In a tweet on Monday, the WHO said, "In #India''s most populous state Uttar Pradesh, the state gov. has initiated house-to-house active case finding of #COVID19 in rural areas to contain transmission by testing people with symptoms for rapid isolation, disease management & contact tracing."The WHO has been working with the state government in these activities, the organisation's tweets indicate.Meanwhile, state Medical Education Minister Suresh Kumar Khanna dubbed Lallu’s statement as "irresponsible”."Congress leaders sometimes spread confusion about the vaccine and other times they question the government's testing campaign in villages," he said, adding that "the public is getting confused due to irresponsible statements of Congress leaders”.Meanwhile, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav alleged that the state government is yet to accept the magnitude of the situation."The way coronavirus has affected Uttar Pradesh villages is worrying. The lives of people are at risk due to lack of medicines, oxygen and treatment. The BJP government is still not accepting the magnitude of the situation,” Akhilesh said in a tweet in Hindi.He said the truth about deaths cannot be “hidden” through “lies” of the BJP government.In a separate tweet tagging a video, he said, "The condition of hospitals in Gorakhpur is extremely pathetic."The BJP government, which is indulging in false propaganda of its success, has become a burden, the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/adityanath-fudging-coronavirus-numbers-tower-of-corpses-in-up-congress-101620752505545.html
11-05-2021||Kolkata||Sitalkuchi killings: CISF personnel fail to turn up for CID questioning||The six CISF personnel, summoned by the West Bengal CID in connection with the Sitalkuchi killings, did not turn up for questioning on Tuesday, a senior officer said.The investigating agency is yet to get an explanation from the CISF on their absence at the CID headquarters, he said."We will wait till tonight for their response. If there is no response, we will try to communicate by sending them notices. If they fail to appear, we will move court," the officer of the agency told PTI.The six CISF personnel, including two officers, were on duty at polling booth number 126 in Jorpatki in Sitalkuchi assembly constituency in the Cooch Behar district. Four persons were killed in firing there by the central forces during the polling on April 10.A Special Investigating Team (SIT) of the CID is probing the incident.The CID is mulling to summon former Cooch Behar SP Debasish Dhar in connection with the probe into the killings, the officer said.Dhar was suspended soon after Mamata Banerjee was sworn in as the chief minister.Three officers of the Mathabhanga police station, including an eyewitness of the incident, were also questioned during the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/sitalkuchi-killings-cisf-personnel-fail-to-turn-up-for-cid-questioning-101620752369299.html
11-05-2021||Lucknow||RLD demands Centre to set up national task force for vaccination programme||The Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) has demanded the Centre to constitute a national task force comprising experts to chalk out a fresh policy for the Covid-19 vaccination programme so that at least one crore people are vaccinated every day in the country. Raising the demand here on Tuesday, RLD national spokesman Anupam Mishra said there was also a lot of confusion and misgivings about the vaccines and the government must dispel the same by taking people into confidence.Questioning the Centre’s current vaccination policy, he said it was not clear yet as to when the vaccination programme would get the desired speed and how much population is required to be vaccinated to produce herd immunity. “Most importantly, it is also not known whether the vaccines being administered currently are effective against the mutated variants of the coronavirus,” Mishra said, adding “It is, therefore, desirable for the Centre to set up national task force of experts to address all these issues and oversee the vaccination programme for better results.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rld-demands-centre-to-set-up-national-task-force-for-vaccination-programme-101620752548291.html
11-05-2021||Mumbai||CID to record statements of 'bookies' in case against Param Bir Singh||The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of Maharashtra Police has called alleged cricket bookies Sonu Jalan, Ketan Tanna and Munir Khan to record their statements on Wednesday in connection with their allegations against IPS officer Param Bir Singh, sources said.Jalan and others, who have lodged complaints of extortion against the former Mumbai police commissioner, have been called to the Belapur office of the CID, sources added.The trio had written a letter to state Director General of Police Sanjay Pandey last month, accusing Singh of extortion. The complaints were handed over to the CID for investigation.Meanwhile, the state Anti-Corruption Bureau has initiated a discreet inquiry against Singh in corruption complaints lodged against him by police inspectors Anup Dange and Bhimrao Ghadge, an ACB official said.Singh was shunted out as the top cop of Mumbai after the role of policeman Sachin Waze surfaced during the investigation of the explosives-laden SUV that was found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in Mumbai.Singh later levelled allegations of bribery against then state home minister Anil Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cid-to-record-statements-of-bookies-in-case-against-param-bir-singh-101620752141744.html
11-05-2021||Other||Prayagraj’s MLN Medical College microbiology lab to get more staff, RT-PCR testing machines||The Motilal Nehru Medical College’s (MLNMC) microbiology lab will soon get more trained staff as well as five more RT-PCR testing machines that would help in the fight against deadly coronavirus in an efficient way, said medical college officials.MLNMC’s microbiology lab is the only government facility in the district to conduct the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction tests for suspected corona patients. The move is part of preparations amidst talks of possible third wave of the deadly pandemic.“We would now be having seven RTPCR testing machines in place of existing two and of the five machines two have already arrived and rest would be available soon,” said head of department Dr Monica.Moreover, the present strength of 30 staff members of the department, including 18 lab technicians, would be increased to 41. Recently, when over half of the trained technicians were infected with the virus, the lab was forced to work with bare minimum staff. The move will speed up the RT-PCR testing and with that the treatment of the infected patients too. “We are now putting in place the mechanism to strengthen the facility to fight the pandemic as in future, if the infection spreads, the department would be ready for the challenge,” said MLNMC principal Dr SP Singh. “Besides additional machines, the department will now also have more trained staff to support the existing staff,” said Dr Singh. Recently, around 6,000 tests were being conducted daily in the department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagrajs-mln-medical-college-microbiology-lab-to-get-more-staff-rt-pcr-testing-machines-101620752007114.html
11-05-2021||Kolkata||8 killed as heavy rains, thunderstorms batter south Bengal||Eight people were killed in different parts of West Bengal as thunderstorms and heavy rains battered the southern districts of the state on Tuesday afternoon, officials said.Lightning and gusty winds with speed reaching up to 54 km per hour lashed Kolkata, Howrah, North 24 Parganas, Nadia, Murshidabad, Bankura, Purba Bardhaman, Paschim Medinipur, Birbhum and Purulia districts, a Met Department official said.In Alipore, 102 mm rainfall was recorded, Dumdum recorded 96 mm rainfall and Saltlake registered 116 mm rainfall, he said.The rainfall led to waterlogging in several areas across Kolkata, including the arterial Central Avenue, slowing down traffic during the evening rush hours.A man was electrocuted to death while returning home from office through the flooded street outside the North Gate of the Raj Bhavan in central Kolkata, police said.The incident happened around 5.30 pm when he tried to get hold of a lamppost as he fell down, they said.Firefighters and police rescued the body and sent it for post-mortem."We are trying to ascertain the person's identity," an officer said.In Birbhum, two persons were killed when a car collided head-on with a dumper at Nanoor amid the blinding rains, officials said.A farmer died in a lightning strike in Samserganj in Murshidabad while working in the field, they said.A middle-aged woman was killed in a lightning strike in Baksara in the Botanical Garden police station area in Howrah city. Her identity is yet to be ascertained, police said.In the district's Baltikuri area, a 28-year-old man, Ashok Biswas, was killed in a lightning strike when he was working in the field with his mother, they said.The mother, Reba Biswas, is undergoing treatment at the Howrah Zilla Hospital and was stated to be critical, police said.A 29-year-old man was killed in a lightning strike in Naohati village in the Jamalpur police station area of Purba Bardhaman district. As rain and thunderstorm began around noon, Sanjay Pramanik went to the field to get his cows that were grazing there, police said.While returning, he was struck by lightning and was declared brought dead when taken to the nearby health centre.In the district's Khandoghosh police station area, 20 -year-old Sharif Munshi was killed in a lightning strike when he was working in the field. The incident happened in Kunjanagar village, police said.In Malda district, hailstorm destroyed crops worth lakhs of rupees, farmers said.Jute and Bodo paddy are severely damaged due to the hailstorm, they said.Crop damage was reported from Chanchal, Gajole, Habibpur and Bamangola areas of the district, Malda's Deputy Director of Agriculture Snehasis Kuila said.The extent of the damage was being ascertained, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/8-killed-as-heavy-rains-thunderstorms-batter-south-bengal-101620751269085.html
11-05-2021||Pune||Two NCP youth leaders booked for morphing pictures of PM, CM Yogi||The cyber cell of Pune police has booked two youth leaders of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Monday on charges of allegedly morphing pictures of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and making it viral on social media with the intention of defaming the political leaders. The accused has been identified as NCP youth wing state secretary Mohsin Shaikh and Shivajirao Javir. Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) social-media cell co-coordinators Vineet Vajpayee, Rupesh Pawar and Gaurav Shetty lodged the FIR under section 469 (forgery for the purpose of harming the reputation of any person or knowing that it is likely to be used for that purpose) and section 501 (printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The complaint alleged that the duo uploaded morphed pictures of Modi showing him as the Hindu God of death ‘Yama’ (carrying bodies of the Covid victims at a crematorium). The FIR stated that Javir allegedly uploaded objectionable content about the PM and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath. The accused sent texts and circulated photographs with the intention to malign the images of the two national leaders with an ill-intention and defamation, the complaint stated. Vajpayee said that they were forced to lodge an FIR on grounds that the images and content were defamatory, and they wanted to take legal action against acts done by opposition parties. It may be recalled that the Pune cyber-crime cell police had booked 13 persons for posting objectionable edited photos and abusive content about chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, NCP chief Sharad Pawar and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj last week after complainants said that it had hurt sentiments of the people. In yet another case, the Airport police have taken into custody a person identified as Rajesh Pandarinath Kakade (52), a resident of Sinhgad road for posting defamatory post regarding chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on a social media site related to reservation in jobs and education related issue. Shiv Sena leader Anand Ram Goyal, a resident of Lohegaon lodged a complaint with the police stating that he saw the post on Facebook and approached the police seeking penal action. Police Inspector Gajanan Pawar of Airport police station said that the complaint application was given, and the accused was tracked using cyber technology available at the cybercrime cell. “He has been taken into custody for the defamatory content uploaded on May 9 and further investigation is on in the case,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-ncp-youth-leaders-booked-for-morphing-pictures-of-pm-cm-yogi-101620750626979.html
11-05-2021||Pune||Software engineer booked for sexual abuse of 10-year-old niece||A 37-year-old software engineer was arrested for sexual assault of his wife’s 10-year-old niece for the past three years and another minor boy from the victim’s family was also booked in the case. “She is currently undergoing tests at Sassoon hospital. The man is in custody. The abuse started when she was 7-years old,” said police sub inspector Chhaya Borkar who is investigating the case. A complaint against the engineer was lodged by his wife who is a housewife. The other person booked in the case is a minor brother of the complainant who lives in Chandipur area of Baleswar district in Odisha. The boy has not yet been apprehended. The girl is the offspring of the complainant woman’s sister and had moved to Pune in 2018 to live with the complainant in Pune. The abuse at the hands of the engineer started in 2018 and continued till May 10 when the child revealed the abuse to her maternal aunt. The minor boy was in the know of the sexual abuse by the older man and yet proceeded to sexually abuse his niece, according to the complainant. A case under Sections 376(2)(i), 376(2)(n), 376(d), 506 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3, 4, 5(g), 5(l). 5(n) and 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act, 2012 was registered at Hinjewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/software-engineer-booked-for-sexual-abuse-of-10-year-old-niece-101620750567002.html
11-05-2021||Pune||Marathi TV actor robbed on E-way||Marathi television actor Yogesh Madhav Sohoni (32) was allegedly robbed on Saturday morning while he was on his way to Pune on the Pune-Mumbai Expressway. The actor was travelling to Pune and was approaching the Somatne exit along Pune-Mumbai Expressway around 7:50am on Saturday in a Volkswagen Verna. At this point in his journey, a white Mahindra Scorpio with tinted glasses started following Sohoni. A person from the car signalled him to stop on the left side of the road after which Sohoni stopped his car. The man accused Sohoni of causing an accident of his car which had resulted in injury to one person, according to Sohoni’s complaint. The men threatened to file a police case against Sohoni lest he agreed to pay ₹1, 25,000 in damages, according to his complaint. “There had been no accident on my way to Pune. I immediately went to the police after the incident. There has been no update in the case yet,” said Sohoni. The actor claims that he was verbally abused and forcibly taken to an ATM in the area. The men allegedly made Sohoni withdraw ₹50,000 and fled with the money. “We received the complaint only yesterday. We started the investigation in earnest immediately. We have some leads, and we will have an update soon. This is the first such case along the expressway that I have encountered since my transfer here in February,” said police inspector Sunil Pinjan of Shirgaon police outpost of Talegaon Dabhade police station. A case under Section 392 (punishment for robbery) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Talegaon Dabhade police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/marathi-tv-actor-robbed-on-eway-101620750507040.html
11-05-2021||Pune||Court orders demolition of 22-storied building in Kondhwa||A Pune city court has ordered demolition of a 22 storied building constructed by Clover Developers in Clover Highlands Co-operative Housing society in Kondhwa. Nine residents of the society had approached the court stating that the construction of buildings was not part of the plan when the society handover took place in 2007. The petition before Pune civil court senior division was filed in 2018 by the litigants in the form of a suit for declaration, cancellation and injunction under specific relief act and Section 7 of the Maharashtra Ownership of Flats Act, 1963. Judge SMA Sayyed in his order stated that all the revised and sanctioned plans after the plan dated Feb 6, 2007,stand cancelled being void ab initio. “If these defendants failed to comply the said order within stipulated time, plaintiffs are at liberty to demolish the said structure by incurring own expenses and recovered the said expenses from defendant.” the order stated. The order added that, “Defendant No. 1 (Clover Developers Private Limited) and two ( Everjoy Co­-operative Housing Society Limited (Phase­1) are hereby directed to pay rupees five lakhs jointly and severally to the plaintiffs as compensation towards damages, harassment and mental agony and inconvenience caused to them within four months from the date of this order. ” The court in its 95-pageorder directed Clover Developers Private Limited, through its directors Raj Kanaksen Bhansali and Dhiren Nandu, and the neighbouring Everjoy Co-operative Housing Society Limited (Phase 1) ‘against undertaking any construction of building 8 and building 9 (buildings in dispute)’. The judge also directed by the way of a mandatory injunction that the two buildings in dispute be demolished, within a period of four months from the date of the order. Maj R Dave, one of the petitioners said, “When the first barricades came up, I’d walk past it with my dogs and think to myself, that someone should do something about it, to restore our land and facilities to us. In time, I realized that the “someone” would have to be me. And there were some others who thought alike. We didn’t know enough when we started out, but with a determined and industrious team who put together an indisputable trail of documentation, with belief in the judicial system, resilience in the face of such odds, a gutsy advocate and some luck, we stood up to be counted.” Everjoy co-­operative housing society representative Kiran Wagaj said, “The builder is not affecting any additional constructions in the building in which plaintiffs have purchased flats. Our construction is phase wise we have completed phase 1 and now another phase is going on. Flat purchase society is well aware about the right of defendant to effect construction of second phase and they have ratified the right of Clover to effect additional construction in their general body meeting. Clover Highland society has filed suit but subsequently they withdrew the suit. Plaintiffs do not have locus standi to file suit. The court has stayed an order for 90 days i.e. until the appeal period. We are challenging this judgement before honourable high court. As per section 7A of Maharashtra flat ownership act consent of flat purchasers are not required for construction of second phase.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/court-orders-demolition-of-22-storied-building-in-kondhwa-101620750447043.html
11-05-2021||Pune||Members of Azad Samaj Party in police custody for protesting outside Ajit Pawar’s residence||Ten members of Azad Samaj Party (ASP) were remanded to three days in custody of Pune police by a local court in case of allegedly attacking police officials during a protest held in front of a residence of Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister of Maharashtra. The protest was against the state government’s decision to withdraw the 33 per cent reservation in promotion to posts in government service to provide promotions of government officials of the Scheduled Caste (SC), Scheduled Tribe (ST), Vimukta jati, and nomadic tribe (VJNT) communities. The Government Resolution (GR) cited a Bombay High Court decision from August 4, 2017, that invalidated reservation in promotion of government officials to make the decision. The GR further stated that the Supreme Court has not put the order on hold which means that the HC order is still applicable. As a result, the April 20 GR that announced reservation in promotion, needed to be amended. The 10 in custody include Bhimrao Dattu Kamble (31), Abhijit Madhukar Gaikwad (32), Rafik Rustom Shaikh (37), Ankit Parshuram Gaikwad (21), Darshan Baburao Ubale (25), Datta Mohan Bhalshankar (38), Vinod Lakshman Waghmare (34), Mahesh Vaijyanath Thorat (21), Sahar Virbhadra Javai (23), and Sharad Gautam Lokhande (23), according to the police. The protesters burnt a copy of the government resolution passed on May 7 in front of the house owned by DCM in Rane Circle area of Bhosalenagar in Pune. “Members of Azad Samaj Party arrested by Chaturshringi police for protesting outside residence of Ajit Pawar, DCM, and Maharashtra state against government resolution passed on May 7 taking away reservation in promotion of Schedule Caste and Schedule Tribes. Defense lawyers argued for the accused that the Section 353 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) is being misused here as protesting is one’s fundamental right and so it is fundamental duty of state i.e., police to see that the fundamental right is not violated,” said a statement of the defence lawyers including advocates Tosif C Shaikh, Deepak Gaikwad, Kranti Sahane, Jaydeep Doke, and Ravi Wadmare. A case under Sections 353, 188, 269, 270, 143, 145, 147, 149 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 51(b) of National Disaster Management Act, 2005; Section 2 and 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act and Section 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act was registered at Chaturshringi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/members-of-azad-samaj-party-in-police-custody-for-protesting-outside-ajit-pawar-s-residence-101620750387003.html
11-05-2021||Pune||Pune police team attacked in Ghaziabad, U.P||A team of Pune police was attacked and chased, and their vehicle was vandalised, by locals of Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh on Monday. The team had gone to the locality to bring a woman for questioning in the case of murder of a police hawaldar in Budhwar peth area. The officials were of Faraskhana police station where the murder case has been registered. “They had taken a private car from here to find the woman in relation with the man arrested in the murder case. They had local assistance and got dispersed in the process of finding her and the car was vandalised. Nobody was hurt in the attack,” said Satish Govekar, assistant commissioner of police, Faraskhana division of Pune police. The car being vandalised was a Tota Innova registered in Pune. In two separate videos that have emerged on social media, the vandalism of the car and the attack on the police officials is visible. At a distance of a few meters from the car, a group of young men can be seen kicking a man, suspected to be from the Pune police team, who is on the ground. “Ghaziabad police has taken immediate action on the incident with the Maharashtra police team that was here to find/arrest the accused in a serious case in the jurisdiction of Nandgram police station on May 10 by registering a case under the strictest sections, and arresting the six accused,” read the direct translation of a tweet by Ghaziabad police in Hindi. The cost of damages caused to the car, which had damaged glasses and bonnet, could not be verified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-team-attacked-in-ghaziabad-up-101620750267045.html
11-05-2021||Pune||Fashion designer alleges rape by Delhi man||A Pune based fashion designer alleged that she was raped by a 28-year-old man from Delhi, police officials said on Tuesday. According to the First Information Report (FIR) registered at Chandan Nagar police station in Pune, the alleged incident had occurred on February 26 night at a hotel in Pune after the accused forced the 23-year woman to eat sweets laced with drugs. The police have registered a case under section 376 of IPC and under the Information Technology Act, 2000. Pune police have also booked three more persons, including two women, for allegedly blackmailing the victim and circulating her objectionable photos and videos. The complainant alleged the accused extorted gold jewellery from her, police said. According to police inspector Sunil Thopte, the police have not made any arrest so far due to Covid-19 situation in Delhi.As per the FIR, the woman, who hails from Latur, is currently staying in Pune where she is pursuing a computer software course and also working as a fashion designer. “All the four accused are residents of Delhi. The victim came into contact with a man on Instagram in February this year, who introduced her to a woman,” said Thopte. The woman, who is also an accused in the case, in turn, introduced the victim to the main accused and told her that he works as a lawyer in the Delhi High Court. The victim later went to Delhi on the invitation of the main accused and the woman for sightseeing, the FIRstated.However, she left Delhi abruptly on February 17 after the main accused proposed a marriage. “Later, he and his friend hired a car to travel to Pune from Delhi to meet the victim. On their request, she even arranged for their stay in Kharadi area of the city,” the official said. On the night of February 26, the main accused forced the complainant to eat some sweets after having dinner at a hotel following which she fell unconscious and raped her, the FIR stated. He later threatened her and also assured a marriage. He forced the victim to come to Goa where he raped her again, it said.The accused also took money from her under various pretexts. The complainant later came to know that the main accused was married with a son. As per the FIR, the accused sent her objectionable photos and videos to the victim’s family members and friends when she warned them of filing a police complaint. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fashion-designer-alleges-rape-by-delhi-man-101620750207001.html
11-05-2021||Pune||Centre praise ‘Pune model’ for drop in Covid positivity rate||Pune: On Tuesday during a media briefing, the health ministry praised Mumbai and Pune model which have successfully brought down the positivity rate. Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, health ministry said the model helped drop the positivity rate from 41.8% to 23.4%. The district reported 7,665 Covid cases and 43 deaths due to the infection, on Tuesday, according to the state health department. The district’s progressive count went up to 0.938 million of which 0.832 million and 10,160 deaths have been declared due to the infection. Currently, 95,731 are undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation. Pune city reported 2,581 new cases which took the final count to 463,524 and with 18 more deaths, the toll went up to 5,889. PCMC reported 1,441 new cases which took the total to 227,235 and with two more deaths the toll went up to 1,532. Pune rural reported 3,643 new cases which took the total to 247,715 and with 23 more deaths the toll went up to 2,681. Praising the Pune model, the health ministry stated that the model has worked effectively to bring down the positivity rate. Agarwal said, “The way in which Pune contained the upsurge of Covid-19 cases drew praise from the ministry, as a fine example that shows how containment measures can help restrict the spread of the disease. When Pune witnessed a 69.7% case positivity rate in the first week of March 2021, it started measures like night curfew, imposed from 11 pm. to 6 am. This resulted in two things, reduction in growth trajectory of Covid cases and reduction in positivity rate, as positivity rate reduced from 41.8% to 23.4 %. We have observed that strict measures like restrictions on mass gatherings and on intermingling of people along with closing of non-essential activities for a period of 15 days reduce the rate of growth of cases and cases start plateauing.” Pune saw over 12,478 vaccinations on the day. Pune city reported 6,739 vaccinations, PCMC 1,560 and Pune rural saw 4,179 beneficiaries get the jab. Of the total vaccinations, 3,746 were of Covaxin and 8,732 of Covishield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/centre-praise-pune-model-for-drop-in-covid-positivity-rate-101620749967019.html
11-05-2021||Other||Indirect rural polls may be deferred till Covid subsides||Lucknow: The Uttar Pradesh government is unlikely to hold the indirect panchayat elections to elect the district and block panchayat chiefs for now due to the second wave of the Covid-19 wreaking havoc everywhere, even as lobbying by political parties and potential candidates is already in full swing in villages. As per the Allahabad high court order of February 4, 2021, the state government and the state election commission are supposed to hold indirect elections to the posts of zila panchayat and kshetra panchayat chairpersons, completing the exercise by May 25 after holding direct elections by May 10. The four-phase direct elections in which around 12 crore rural voters exercised their franchise to elect village pradhans, village ward members, kshetra panchayat and zila panchayat ward members are over with counting of votes last week. Now, 75,852 kshetra panchayat members and 3,050 zila pachayat members elected in the recent direct polls will vote to elect 75 zila panchayat and 826 kshetra panchayat chiefs respectively in the final round. The state government, according to people dealing with the issue, has decided to not hold indirect elections till the pandemic subsides in the state and it may soon seek the court’s permission for the same. “Having drawn a lot of flak for not deferring the three-tier panchayat polls despite the devastating second wave of the Covid-19, the government has got cold feet about its plans to hold indirect rural polls this month”, they disclosed. Indicating that the indirect rural polls may be put on hold for now, minister panchayati raj, Bhupendra Singh Chaudhary said that the government’s entire focus, as of now, was on winning the fight against the pandemic. “The current time is not conducive to holding polls and the government wants to focus on its fight against the Covid-19 that has started spreading its tentacles in rural areas as well,” he said before adding, “But no final decision on polls has been taken yet.” Additional chief secretary panchayati raj, Manoj Kumar Singh also said the issue was under consideration. “A final call on this issue will be taken soon,” he said. Another senior official, however, disclosed that the government would soon file an affidavit in the high court, stating that due to the pandemic it was not advisable to hold indirect rural polls at this juncture. “The hearing of the case filed in January is already scheduled to be held on May 27 by the court and the government is most likely to submit an affidavit the court the same day, explaining why it could not comply with its earlier directives for holding indirect elections by May 25,” sources revealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/indirect-rural-polls-may-be-deferred-till-covid-subsides-101620748646851.html
11-05-2021||Other||Max number of Covid +ve cases from Meerut||MEERUT The district topped in the state for testing a maximum of 2190 corona positive people in a day on Monday. Ten people died during treatment. The health department’s daily bulletin on corona released late night on Monday mentioned that 4656 samples were tested out of which 2190 were found positive. This shows that every second person in the total number of samples tested positive, which was the highest positivity in a day. Earlier, 1678 people tested positive in a single day on May 4 out of 7177 samples, which indicated that almost every fourth person was tested positive. Previously, on April 22 for the first time 1634 people were found positive out of 6635 samples. The analysis shows that in spite of every possible effort, surge in infection is continuing in the district and stricter measures are required to control the spread. So far 13,081 people have \tested positive in the first 10 days of the month and 78 patients lost their lives in the same duration. On Monday, 10 patients died during treatment. The number of deaths mentioned in the bulletin, however, mismatches the bodies cremated in a single day at the Suraj Kund crematorium. An Acharya who performs last rites at the crematorium said on condition of anonymity that on an average, 60 to 70 bodies were being cremated, including those who died of coronavirus. Presently, the district has 17682 active cases of corona and so far 542 people have died of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/max-number-of-ve-cases-from-meerut-101620748466846.html
11-05-2021||Other||11 neonatal Covid-19 cases has hosps worried about threat to new-borns||PUNE From zero neonatal Covid-19 cases to 11 such cases in less than a month’s time, including two with rare symptoms, three city hospitals are seeing a larger threat to unborn and neonates (0-28 days) in the second wave. This could be even more severe in the anticipated third wave as vaccination for pregnant and breastfeeding mothers is under consideration by the government of India. According to the British Medical Journal there are 44 reported cases of neonates with confirmed Covid-19. The study states: “26 observational studies (18 case reports and ei0ght case series) with 44 newborns with confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection were included in the final analysis. Studies were mainly from China and Italy. Half of neonates had a documented contact with the infected mother and one out of three infected neonates was admitted from home. Median age at diagnosis was five days. One out of four neonates was asymptomatic, and the remaining showed mild symptoms typical of acute respiratory infections and/or gastrointestinal symptoms. The majority of neonates were left in spontaneous breathing (room air) and had good prognosis after a median duration of hospitalisation of 10 days”. Dr Pradeep Suryanvashi, who is working as a consultant with the three hospitals, Noble hospital, Sahyadri hospital and Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital said, “We have seen 11 newborn babies with Covid-19 infection after five days of life. Most of the babies had fever as a presentation, four babies presented with breathing problems and one baby presented with convulsion (viral encephalitis). This type of presentation we have not noticed in the first wave. We also saw rare cases of one case of convulsion and heart failure. In view of the anticipated third wave we have prepared six beds in intensive care for neonatal Ccovid-19 cases.”Dr Suryavanshi also added it was found that steroids worked well with the babies. He said, “Some of the common symptoms among symptomatic newborns were fever, decreased feeding, dehydration, loose motions, breathing difficulty, convulsion, cardiac failure and renal failure.” “Regarding treatment for severe neonate cases, it was found that the baby needs admission in neonatal ICU. No need of Remdesivir for newborn infection and it was found that there is no role of immunoglobulin and plasma therapy,” he added. In view of the increasing cases of Covid19 among paediatric and neonates, the Federation of Obstetric and Gynaecological Societies of India (FOGSI) released a statement that said, “Pregnant women are not at increased risk of getting infected as compared to the general population. Just as for the general population, Covid-19 has an asymptomatic or mild course for most pregnant women. However, compared to non-pregnant women and pregnant women who are not infected, pregnant women who are infected are more likely to need hospitalisation, and critical care.” The statement added, “For pregnant women, live attenuated vaccines are contraindicated. It should be noted that none of the vaccines available in the market globally are live attenuated. Other vaccines which may have some theoretical considerations regarding transmission are the viral vector vaccines. We emphasise that these considerations are theoretical. One can conclude that based on the mechanism of the available vaccines; there is no obvious basis for excluding pregnant or lactating women from vaccination.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/11-neonatal-covid-19-cases-has-hosps-worried-about-threat-to-newborns-101620748346893.html
11-05-2021||Other||4 black fungus cases in Meerut||MEERUT After Maharashtra and Gujarat, the potentially fatal and rare ‘ black fungus’ infection has been detected in four Covid-19 patients here. These are perhaps the first cases of black fungus among corona patients in the state. Black fungus or mucormycosis is caused by exposure to mucor mould which is ubiquitous. It affects the sinuses, the brain and the lungs and can be life-threatening.Assistant chief medical officer ( ACMO) Dr Pooja Sharma confirmed to the media on Tuesday that the rare fungal infection had been detected in two Covid -19 patients undergoing treatment in a private hospital here. She said one patient was from Muzaffarnagar and another from Bijnor. Chief medical officer ( CMO) Dr Akhilesh Mohan said that he had sought a report from the hospital in this regard. Two other patients with black fungus infection reported at an eye hospital and were cured. Dr Shakeel Ahmad, chairman and chief medical director of Vision Care Superspeciality Eye Hospital, said that it was a rare and potentially fatal fungal infection called mucormycosis. Dr Shakeel said that last week he also came across two patients in his OPD who developed black fungus infection after recovering from Covid-19. One of the women patients, above 60 years of age, was from neighbouring Hapur district. “I am unable to recall the native place of the other patient right now,” said Dr Shakeel. In one patient the infection was at an advanced stage and cured through surgery while in the other it was in a preliminary stage and cured with medicines. Dr Shakeel explained that use of high flow of oxygen during treatment of Covid-19 patients infused moisture inside, which caused serious problems starting with nasal congestion. In many cases it badly affected the eyes and could be detected and cured by keeping a close examination of eyes and nasal obstruction during treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-black-fungus-cases-in-meerut-101620748286886.html
11-05-2021||Other||Yet another serving prof in AMU dies||Agra Yet another serving professor in Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC) of Aligarh Muslim University died on Tuesday. Noted physician Prof Shoaib Zaheer, 55, died in Delhi where he was undergoing treatment for past the 20 days. The exact reason for his death is not known. To note, 15 AMU professors have died of Covid and three of non-Covid ailments in the past 20-25 days. AMU spokesperson Prof Shafey Kidwai confirmed the death but said, “We are yet to know the exact reason behind death of professor Mohammad Shoaib Zaheer who was under treatment in Delhi.” “His demise robbed the JNMC and university community of someone with a deep understanding of general medicine. Prof Shoaib Zaheer was a popular physician and teacher who extensively trained medical students into successful doctors,” said AMU Vice chancellor, professor Tariq Mansoor. Prof Shahid Ali Siddiqui (principal, JNMC) said, “Under prof Shoaib Zaheer’s guidance, students thrived, and young teachers made great educational and professional strides. He will be remembered for advocating the finest healthcare for all and for exemplary services at the JNMC”. It may be recalled that till Monday, 18 serving faculty members at AMU have died, out of whom 15 died because of Covid-related reasons. The cause of three other deaths was non-Covid. “There are more deaths, which include retired faculty members and staff at Aligarh Muslim University,” said Dr Rahat Abrar, the public relations officer of AMU. “These deaths have taken place in the past 20 to 25 days. Concerned by this, the AMU vice chancellor has written to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for genome sequencing of the virus active on the campus,” Dr Abrar said. On Sunday, AMU vice chancellor Tariq Mansoor wrote to ICMR director general Balram Bhargava, requesting a study to find out if a particular virus variant was circulating around the Civil Lines area of Aligarh, in which AMU and many adjoining localities are situated. The Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC) is affiliated to AMU and situated on the university campus. There are about 5,000 non-teaching staff and around 1,700 teaching staff at AMU. In all, 18947 people have tested Covid positive in Aligarh till date and 98 deaths have been reported, as per government sources. Meanwhile, chief minister Yogi Adityanath spoke to AMU vice chancellor prof Tariq Mansoor on phone on Tuesday. Yogi asked the VC to ensure measures to prevent Covid-19 infection among staff members who lived on the campus. He stressed on the need to increase vaccination among people between 18 to 44 years of age and assured all possible help from the government to break the chain of Covid-19 infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yet-another-serving-prof-in-amu-dies-101620748046837.html
11-05-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19: Karnataka's tally crosses 20-lakh mark with 39,510 new infections||Karnataka's Covid tally on Tuesday crossed the 20 lakh mark since the outbreak of the pandemic with 39,510 new infections, while 480 more deaths took the toll to 19,852, the health department said.While the total caseload touched 20,13,193, the state has 5,87,452 active cases.So far, 14,05,869 people have been discharged including 22,584 on Tuesday.Bengaluru Urban district reported 15,879 infections and 259 fatalities, which is highest in the state.The city has so far reported 9,83,519 infections and 8,690 deaths.There were 3,62,696 active cases.Ballari loggegd 1,558 infections and 28 fatalities.The small district has been reporting the second highest COVID related deaths after Bengaluru for almost a fortnight.According to the health bulletin, 2,496 infections were reported in Tumakuru, 2,170 in Mysuru, 1,359 in Mandya, 1,108 in Shivamogga, 1,084 in Uttara Kannada and 1,083 in Udupi.Bagalkote, Belagavi, Bengaluru Rural, Chikkaballapura, Chikkamagaluru, Dakshina Kannada, Hassan, Kalaburagi, Dharwad, Kodagu, Kolar and Raichur were among the districts with over 500 cases.The department said 18 deaths were reported in Uttara Kannada, 16 each in Tumakuru and Hassan, 14 in Bengaluru Rural, 12 each in Chamarajanagar and Mysuru and 10 in Shivamogga.Deaths were reported in 21 other districts as well.There were 1,16,238 tests done on Tuesday, a decline by about 8,000 compared to Monday.So far 2.72 crore tests have been done cumulatively, the department added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-karnataka-s-tally-crosses-20-lakh-mark-with-39-510-new-infections-101620747771259.html
11-05-2021||Ranchi||Time to impose stricter restrictions in Jharkhand to curb Covid spread: CM Soren||Underlining that the ongoing partial lockdown was showing results by way of decline in new cases, chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday said it was time to implement stricter measures to further curb the spread of Covid-19 in the state.The state has been under lockdown since April 22, with varied degree of restrictions in economic activities. “We are assessing all aspects for imposing restrictions, including marriage functions. We are seeing benefits of the current restrictions but it’s time to implement stricter measures. We will take a call soon in this regard after a meeting,” said Soren during an online webinar with MPs and MLAs from Kolhan and South Chhotanagpur on Tuesday to seek their suggestions in battling the pandemic.Since April 29, the state is under lock and key, with only essential services allowed to operate from 7am to 2pm. These restrictions are currently in place till 6am on May 13. Social gatherings such as for weddings and cremations are allowed with attendance of 50 and 20 people, respectively.Also Read| J'khand: Issue of increasing Covid spread in rural areas surface, report soughtWhile the state was seeing plateauing of the Covid-19 curve, several elected representatives on Tuesday demanded complete ban on marriage functions. “In my suggestion, there is a need to ban marriage functions for a while. If you can’t ban it, atleast make it a rule that only those with negative RT-PCR report will be allowed to attend the function,” said Seraikela legislator and transport minister Champak Soren.Apart from positive cases, the state was also witnessing a continuous rise in number of Covid-19 deaths since early April. It reported 38, 141, 317, 786 and 951 deaths in the weeks of April 1-7, April 8-14, April 15-21, April 22-28 and April 29- May 5, respectively.According to the health department’s Covid-19 bulletin of May 10, the state has so far reported around 4,000 deaths and 292,530 cases, including 5,7902 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/time-to-impose-stricter-restrictions-to-check-virus-cm-101620747266835.html
11-05-2021||Other||Bihar mandates rural stint for fresh MBBS graduates||PATNAFresh medical graduates from state government colleges will have to go through compulsorily posting in rural areas on a contractual basis, the state cabinet decided on Tuesday in a meeting chaired by chief minister Nitish Kumar.The cabinet approved the health department’s proposal for creation of 2,580 floating posts for rural areas for those acquiring the MBBS degree from the state government colleges.Additional chief secretary (cabinet) Sanjay Kumar said the provision would come into effect immediately since the current phase of Covid pandemic required proper handling of rural healthcare facilities. An equal number of medicos are likely to get the MBBS degree this month.The cabinet also gave its nod for distribution of ₹9,999 crore, allocated by the Central government in the light of recommendations of the 15th finance commission, among the urban local bodies (ULBs). TThe cabinet also cleared the urban department’s proposal to release ₹592.40 crore as assistance grant to all ULBs for the current fiscal as per the recommendation of the state finance commission. A total of 133 proposals, including distribution of free foodgrains among ration card holders, release of ₹1000 crore for procurement of vaccines against Covid, etc, were approved by the cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-mandates-rural-stint-for-fresh-mbbs-graduates-101620747027424.html
11-05-2021||Other||Blow to Covid vaccination as private facilities go off the list||Ruchir Kumar ruchirkumar@hindustantimes.com PATNA: The government’s recent order stopping free supply of Covid-19 vaccines to private healthcare facilities and asking them to procure the vaccines directly has dealt a blow to the vaccination drive, forcing private facilities to pull out of the exercise. Vaccination at all 44 private facilities in Patna has been shut since May 1, after the state government order, said Patna district immunisation officer Dr SP Vinayak. Against a peak of 3.75 inoculations in a single day in March, the state vaccinated 1,46,493 people on Tuesday, taking its total tally to 84,08,557. The state health department had now asked private healthcare facilities interested in vaccination to register with the civil surgeon of the respective district. This despite the fact that many private centres were involved in the vaccination process between January 16 and April 30. The Mahavir Vatsalya Hospital, which reached out to the Serum Institute of India (SII) to procure Covishield vaccines, was on Monday told to wait for another three to four months for the vaccines, said Dr Upendra Prasad Sinha, nodal officer for Covid-19 vaccination. “The firm’s Mumbai office has told us to access the vaccines when it becomes available in the private market supply chain channels, which will take about 3-4 months from now,” added Dr Sinha. “The medical representative of the Serum Institute has communicated the head of paediatrics department Dr Vijay Ranjan that our hospital is among the four private centres shortlisted by the firm for giving vaccines in Patna because of our bulk consumption of children vaccines for other diseases,” said Acharya Kishore Kunal, secretary of the Mahavir Mandir Temple Trust, which runs a series of hospitals in Bihar. The hospital used to vaccinate around 100-150 people till April 30. The government move has also dissuaded the Ruban Memorial Hospital in New Patliputra Colony. “I am not keen to continue with the vaccination now that the government is not providing us the vaccines. Taking it as a social commitment, we provided our infrastructure and manpower to help the government in its vaccination drive. If the government expects us to buy the vaccines on our own and administer it to people, I don’t think we are interested in it because our hands are full in management of Covid-19 cases,” said Dr Satyajit Singh, managing director of the Ruban hospital, accredited to the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH). The Ruban used to vaccinate an average 250-400 people per day, he claimed. The Paras-HMRI Hospital, another private facility accredited to the NABH said it was clueless where to get the vaccines from. “We are cluless at this point where to get the vaccines from. The state health department is also not clear about it. Our Gurgaon office wrote to the Serum Institute of India for the vaccine, but it has not responded yet. If the government provides us the Covid-19 vaccines, we are ready to administer them to people,” said Dr Syed Asif Rahman, medical superintendent, Paras-HMRI Hospital, Patna. The hospital, he said, used to administer an average 150-200 vaccine doses per day till April 30. Meanwhile, the NTPC, a public sector undertaking, wrote to the Patna district magistrate (DM) Chandrashekhar Singh on Tuesday requesting him to establish Covid-19 vaccination centre at NTPC Barh to facilitate its employees take the jab. “We have around 320 employees below 45 years of age at NTPC Barh who may please be vaccinated at utmost priority,” said Onkar Nath, deputy general manager (HR), in his letter to the Patna DM. Earlier, on May 5, regional executive director East-1, Praveen Saxena wrote to the Bihar chief secretary, urging him to establish Covid-19 vaccination centre at various NTPC plants of Bihar to facilitate NTPC employees and its associates take the shot. COVID WATCH Bihar reported 10,920 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the state’s cumulative tally to 6,12,570 It reported 72 deaths, taking the total death toll to 3,429. Patna contributed to 18 deaths on Tuesday, taking its total death count to 989 With 1,702 new infections, Patna topped Tuesday’s case tally, followed by Samastipur 782, Purnia 579, Begusarai 511, Muzaffarpur 452 and East Champaran 442 Bihar’s case recovery rate inched up to 82.77%, the best this month, after 13,852 were discharged from facilities after recovery, taking the total recovery to 5,07,041 Bihar’s test positivity ratio (TPR) dipped marginally to 10.2% on Monday. It was 10.3% on May 9, after recording a high of 16.1% on April 30. The state has imposed lockdown from May 5, when its TPR was 15.6%, to May 15 1,46,493 people were vaccinated on Tuesday, taking the total tally to 84,08,557||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/blow-to-covid-vaccination-as-private-facilities-go-off-the-list-101620747026905.html
11-05-2021||Other||71 bodies fished out from Ganga river near Buxar||At least 71 bodies have been fished out of Ganga river so far in Bihar’s Buxar district, where a large number of bloated and partially decomposed bodies were found floating in the river on Monday, triggering panic among locals and widespread outrage.The bodies were netted from the river near Mahadeva ghat of Chausa, which borders Uttar Pradesh.Buxar’s district magistrate Aman Samir, while confirming that 71 bodies had been recovered so far, said he had proposed for an autopsy of all the bodies. “But the doctors refused as the bodies are in a highly decomposed condition and seem to be five to six days old,” Samir said, adding that DNA of corpses would be preserved for any future need.“Here at Buxar, as in Bihar in general, there is a custom to burn bodies after death on a funeral pyre. But when a team was sent to neighbouring Ghazipur district of Uttar Pradesh, it found some people there believe in throwing the bodies into the river,” the Buxar DM said.Bihar’s water resources minister Sanjay Kumar, a key aide of chief minister Nitish Kumar, also weighed in, claiming the bodies had flown downstream from neighbouring Uttar Pradesh.“The Bihar government is seized of the matter... The bodies have floated into Bihar from UP,” Jha tweeted, adding that doctors had confirmed that deaths had taken place four-five days ago.Meanwhile, the DM said preparations were underway for last rites of bodies. “The religion of the dead is not known and bodies are in decomposed condition. So, it has been decided to bury all the bodies. For this, large pits have been dug,” he said.According to agency reports, corpses were found floating in Ghazipur district of Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday.“Our officers are present on the spot to investigate and ascertain where they came from. A probe into the matter is underway,” MP Singh, Ghazipur’s district magistrate, told ANI.Union minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat termed the whole episode “unfortunate” and asked the states concerned to take immediate cognizance.“The incident of corpses found floating in Ganga in Buxar region of Bihar is unfortunate. This is definitely a matter of investigation. The Modi government is committed to the cleanliness of ‘mother’ Ganga. This incident is unexpected. The concerned states should take immediate cognizance in this regard,” Shekhawat tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/71-bodies-fished-out-from-ganges-near-buxar-101620746967371.html
11-05-2021||Other||Pappu picked up for flouting lockdown, packed off to Madhepura in 32-year-old case||PATNAAmid high drama, former Madhepura MP and Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) chief Rajiv Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav, one of the most visible faces touring hospitals and helping Covid-19 patients, was arrested by the Patna police on Tuesday morning from his residence in the state capital for alleged violation of lockdown and handed over to Madhepura police in the evening in connection with the 32-year-old kidnapping case.A police team from Madhepura led by Udkishanganj subdivisional police officer Satish Kumar reached Gandhi Maidan police station in Patna and took custody of Pappu Yadav in connection with the kidnapping case in which a Madhepura court had recently issued property attachment order and an arrest warrant against him.Ranjit Vats, the station house officer (SHO) of Gandhi Maidan police station, confirmed Yadav was handed over to Madhepura police team.A case was also lodged against Yadav with Pirbahore police station in Patna on a statement by magistrate Ras Bihari Dubey, who alleged that the former MP and his supporters had visited the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) around 7.45am on May 11 and created a “scene”. SHO of Buddha colony police station in Patna, Kaisar Alam, said Yadav was arrested Tuesday morning and driven in his own SUV to the police station for further investigation. Yadav, however, claimed his arrest was politically motivated. “They’ll tell you why I have been arrested. I have helped [needy] families for [the last] 1.5 months despite recently [undergoing] an operation. The government and Nitish babu (a reference to chief minister Nitish Kumar) will know what this is. Arrest doesn’t take place for violation of lockdown,” he said while being taken the police station. Yadav recently accused the BJP MP from Saran, Rajiv Pratap Rudy, of apathy, claiming the 24 ambulances funded by MPLAD (Member of Parliament Local Area Development) scheme lay abandoned in Saran instead of serving Covid-19 patients during the current crisis. One of Rudy’s supporters later filed a complaint against him for “trespassing” and “vandalizing” the ambulances.Yadav’s activism had drawn praise from many belonging to poor families who credit him for intervening in time to get them admitted to hospitals during the present crisis. While being taken to Madhepura, Yadav said he had been made a scapegoat. “Nitish is working on the instructions of the BJP,” he said. Meanwhile, political parties, including HAM-S and Vikasheel Insaaf Party (VIP), which is part of the NDA government, criticized the arrest. “If a public representative is serving the people and he is arrested for that, it is dangerous for humanity. Let there be a thorough probe,” said former CM and HAM-S president Jitan Ram Manjhi. VIP leader and minister in the state, Mukesh Sahni, called it “insensitiveness” of the government while CPI-ML state secretary Kunal demanded immediate release of the former MP. “The arrest has exposed the claim of Nitish Kumar government regarding good governance and rule of law,” said Arun Kumar Yadav, an RJD leader from Purnia.JAP spokesperson Rajesh Yadav said the arrest was anti-democratic and totally illegal. (With inputs from Aditya Nath Jha in Purnia)BoxThe curious caseThe case of kidnapping dates back to 1989. Yadav has secured bail but failed to follow the order of regular submission in court. On March 22, 2021, the court of additional chief judicial magistrate-1 cancelled his bail and issued property attach warrant against Pappu Yadav for failing to appear in the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pappu-picked-up-for-flouting-lockdown-packed-off-to-madhepura-in-32-year-old-case-101620746967963.html
11-05-2021||Other||Covid patient’s wife says molested at hospital, police probe||PATNAThe Bhagalpur police have constituted a three-member team to probe the case of alleged sexual harassment of a woman who was taking care of her Covid-infected husband at a private hospital in Bhagalpur. In a video that has gone viral on social media, the woman is seen wailing and appealing to people not to trust hospitals. Narrating her ordeal, the woman is heard saying she was molested by an employee at the Glocal Hospital in Bhagalpur, who she identified as one Jyoti Kumar. The woman’s husband, a software engineer, was later brought to a private hospital in Patna where he died on May 8. The woman has alleged that a doctor at the Patna hospital too molested her and the hospital administration deliberately switched off the oxygen supply in the ICU to force people to buy oxygen cylinders. Talking to media persons in Patna, the woman said her family, living in Noida, had come to Bhagalpur to celebrate Holi and decided to stay back as Covid cases began rising across the country. On April 9, her husband fell ill and got himself tested twice for coronavirus, but the results were negative. Later, a doctor in Noida asked him to get a chest CT scan done, which showed infection in the lungs. The man and her mother were admitted to Glocal Hospital in Bhagalpur. The woman said Jyoti Kumar, an attendant at the hospital, molested her several times. She said that in the meantime, her husband’s condition worsened, after which he was referred for treatment to Mayaganj government hospital, but doctors there refused to attend to him. “We then decided to take him to a hospital in Patna and admitted him in the ICU on April 26. However, doctors there did not even visit the ICU. One of them inappropriately touched me several times during his visit to the ICU. I could not gather courage to shout as I feared for my husband,” she said. She alleged the hospital staff cut off her husband’s oxygen supply and she was forced to buy oxygen cylinders from the black market. The hospital sold an oxygen cylinder for ₹50,000 each, she alleged. When contacted, Glocal Hospital at Bhagalpur accepted that a person by the name of Jyoti Kumar worked in the hospital. “We have removed Jyoti Kumar from the services and the police are free to probe and take action,” said Dr Ajim, the hospital’s managing director. Meanwhile, Bhagalpur’s senior superintendent of police Natasha Gudia said a three-member team headed by city SP Puran Jha would probe the incident. The SSP said she spoke to the woman and asked her to send a written complaint about the incident. Meanwhile, Patna High Court advocate Sama Sinha mentioned the incident before the court and urged it to take suo motu cognizance. Sinha said she had sought an urgent hearing in the case. All India Progressive Women’s Association (AIPWA), Bihar, demanded that the guilty be arrested at the earliest and hospitals in question be blacklisted by the government. “It’s a matter of great shame for the entire health sector. Where will the women go if such incidents occur at the hospitals during this crisis?” said Mina Tiwari, national general secretary of the AIPWA. Shashi Yadav, state secretary of the AIPWA, demanded immediate arrest of culprits and said the hospitals concerned should be blacklisted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-patient-s-wife-says-molested-at-hospital-police-probe-101620746966850.html
11-05-2021||Other||Four black fungus cases reported in Covid-19 patients in Meerut||After Maharashtra and Gujarat, the potentially fatal and rare ‘ black fungus infection has been detected in four Covid-19 patients in Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut, officials said. Assistant chief medical officer (ACMO) Dr Pooja Sharma confirmed to the media on Tuesday that the rare fungal infection had been detected in two Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment at a private hospital. She said one patient was from Muzaffarnagar and another from Bijnor. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Akhilesh Mohan said that he has sought a report from the hospital in this regard. Two other patients with black fungus infection were reported at an eye hospital and were cured. Dr Shakeel Ahmad, chairman and chief medical director of Vision Care Superspeciality Eye Hospital, said that was a rare and potentially fatal fungal infection known as mucormycosis. Dr Shakeel said that last week he also came across two patients in his OPD who developed black fungus infection after recovering from Covid-19. One of the women patients, above 60 years of age, was from the neighbouring Hapur district. “I am unable to recall the native place of the other patient right now,” said Dr Shakeel. In one patient the infection was at an advanced stage and was cured through surgery while in the other it was at a preliminary stage and was treated with medicines. Dr Shakeel explained that the use of high-flow of oxygen during the treatment of Covid-19 patients often infuses moisture inside which may cause serious problems, starting with nasal congestion. In many cases, it badly affects the eyes and could be detected and cured by keeping a close examination of eyes and nasal obstruction during the treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-black-fungus-cases-reported-in-covid-19-patients-in-meerut-101620746727346.html
11-05-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal's daily Covid-19 tally crosses 20,000-mark; 132 more deaths seen||West Bengal's daily tally of new Covid-19 cases breached the 20,000-mark on Tuesday, while 132 more people died in the state, as per the Health Department.The state reported record 20,136 new cases, it said.The cases were detected after testing 68,142 samples in the last 24 hours, taking the positivity rate to 29.55 per cent.The state has so far registered 10,32,740 cases and 12,593 deaths.West Bengal recorded 18,994 recoveries in the last 24 hours.There are 1,27,673 active cases in the state at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-s-daily-covid-19-tally-crosses-20-000-mark-132-more-deaths-seen-101620745972999.html
11-05-2021||Other||Security lapse? Aadhar card, mobile phone numbers on vaccination centre notice boards||PUNE Vaccination centres displaying private information like Aadhar card numbers and mobile numbers on notice boards have raised concerns among citizens as they fear the information being out in the public domain.At every vaccination centre in Pune and Pimpri and Chinchwad — a list on the notice board is displayed about slots which they have booked.“The practice is followed at all the centres. Outsiders also visit the centre to find out their slots and such practices should be avoided,” said Sachin Londhe, joint treasurer, Pimpri-Chinchwad Cooperative Housing Societies Federation.When Londhe tried to inform medical officals at New JijaMata Hospital, Pimpri, he was informed that it is a common practice.“The medical officials are downloading the information from the CoWin app directly, but they should mask the mobile number and Aadhar card number for safety purposes,” added Londhe.Hitesh Rahandale, who also visited the vaccination centre added, “Private data exposed to third parties could turn out to be a major problem for anybody as the mobile number and Aadhar number can be used to hack bank accounts.”Vignesh Ghule from Kothrud said, “I also asked medical officials about why they are disclosing Aadhar card numbers and they told us we are following what was instructed. Now such loopholes are coming out.”Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation commissioner Rajesh Patil said, “This error will be rectified and we will be masking such data on all the centres”.On Monday, PCMC had allowed vaccination drives at the eight centres only for the age group of 18-45 years.“The vaccine stock is likely to improve after May 15,” tweeted Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/security-lapse-aadhar-card-mobile-phone-numbers-on-vaccination-centre-notice-boards-101620745946669.html
11-05-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt sets rates for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals||The Rajasthan government on Tuesday fixed the package fees for treatment of Covid-19 patients admitted in private hospitals of the state.The government had fixed the treatment cost in June last year, but it was not clear what medicines and investigations were included in the package. So, revised details are being issued to avoid any confusion, an official order said.In the order released by Principal Secretary (Health) Akhil Arora, detailed guidelines have been issued to make the treatment cost more transparent for NABL and non-NABL accredited hospitals.For moderate sickness related to Covid-19, NABL accredited hospitals cannot charge more than ₹5,500 per day including PPE kit charges for oxygen equipped isolated beds, whereas the non-NABL hospital charges will be ₹5,000 per day.For severe and very severe patients, NABL accredited hospital treatment charge has been fixed at ₹8,250 and 9,900 respectively per day including cost of PPE kits, whereas the daily package for non-NABL hospital has been fixed at ₹7,500 and ₹9,000 respectively for the categories.The hospitals can charge ₹2,500 for the body and carriage while detailed guidelines can be seen on the health department website, the order stated.The state government has released standard guidelines and procedures for addressing the issues and complaints received on the chief minister's helpline number 181 to ensure issues can be resolved in a time-bound manner.The principal secretary also directed district collectors to provide ventilators and oxygen concentrators to authorised private hospitals, if they are available, after being set up at government hospitals so that the lives of patients can be saved.He has asked the collectors to ensure that no charge is levied on the patients by private hospitals, if such a facility is provided.Rajasthan on Monday had recorded 160 fatalities and 16,487 new Covid-19 cases, taking the death toll to 5,825 and infection tally to 773,194.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-govt-sets-rates-for-covid-19-treatment-in-private-hospitals-101620741976898.html
11-05-2021||Other||Forest dept to handover idle manufacturing unit in Pune within 3 days for vaccine production||PUNE After the Bombay high court directed the state government to hand-over a vaccine manufacturing unit located in Pune district to an associate of Bharat Biotech for vaccine production, the forest department said it will complete the process within the next three days. A division bench of Justices K K Tated and N R Borkar on May 6 heard an application filed by Karnataka’s Biovet Private Limited, seeking direction to the Maharashtra government to hand over possession of the manufacturing unit at Manjari Khurd village in Pune. Rahul Patil, deputy conservator of forest (Pune division), said his department, which owns the land, will cooperate with the procedure while formalities related to the hand-over will be completed in two-three days, following which the pharma company can make arrangements for vaccine production. The unit was first being used by Intervet India Pvt Ltd, a multinational and subsidiary of Merck & Co, after land was granted to it in 1973 to manufacture vaccines for the foot and mouth disease. Later Intervet decided to exit business operations in India and entered into an agreement with Biovet for the transfer of the land and manufacturing unit. However when Biovet sought the Maharashtra government’s approval for the transfer, the forest department claimed the land was reserved and the initial 1973 grant itself was a violation. Biovet later approached the Bombay High Court challenging the forest department’s order.“The land belongs to the forest department. Now according to the HC order it will be given to them temporarily to manufacture Covid vaccines,” said Patil.Patil clarified that the use of this manufacturing unit is approved on a temporary basis to produce life-saving vaccines during the pandemic. “That land was assigned to the company before. Infrastructure is ready on that land. As per the court order we will handover it to the concerned party,” said Patil. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said that the process to activate the vaccine plant in Pune will be expedited. “We want to vaccinate everyone in the state to defeat the virus. I have directed the Pune Collector to make the land available for Bharat Biotech’s vaccine plant,” said Ajit Pawar in Mumbai at an online event. The vaccine manufacturing facility is situated in a village in Manjari Khurd in Haveli taluka, on land measuring 11.58 hectares. Advanced oxygen plant in KolhapurMinister of state for home and information technology Satej Patil, has announced the setting up of an advanced oxygen plant on the premises of the Gokul dairy brand in Kolhapur, amid a dire need for oxygen during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Gokul is a prominent milk brand from the Kolhapur District Co-operative Milk Producers Union. The plant will fulfil the additional requirement of oxygen for Kolhapur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/forest-dept-to-handover-idle-manufacturing-unit-in-pune-within-3-days-for-vaccine-production-101620745346674.html
11-05-2021||Dehradun||Cloudburst in Uttarakhand's Tehri damages houses, shops: Official||Severe damage was caused to buildings in Uttarakhand on Tuesday due to heavy rainfall triggered by a cloudburst which occurred in Tehri-Garhwal district. Officials said that two local municipality buildings were completely washed away in the heavy water flow after the cloudburst in Devprayag, which is 110 km from state capital Dehradun.The cloudburst occurred in the evening at around 5pm when heavy rains lashed the hill town bringing down heavy muck with rainwater down the hills, the official said.Officials present at the spot said extensive damage was caused to municipality buildings."The heavy rain and muck caused significant damage to the shops and other buildings in the market. Two of the multi-purpose buildings of the municipality were completely washed away while at least four shops were also heavily damaged," Devprayag municipality chairman Krishna Kant Kothiyal said."So far no loss of life has been reported as the shops and the damaged buildings were closed due to the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown. The assessment of the property damage is yet to be done," Kothiyal told HT.Meanwhile, station house officer of Devprayag police station, Mahipal Singh Rawat, said, "Soon after the incident, people living near the damaged properties have been shifted to safe places. A team of state disaster response force is also on the way for the rescue operation. So far there is no loss of life."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/cloudburst-in-uttarakhand-s-tehri-damages-houses-shops-official-101620740527751.html
11-05-2021||Other||Cyber Police Kashmir saves 13 lakhs lost in cyber frauds, scams||In a swift action, Cyber Police Kashmir saved 13 lakhs which was lost in cyber frauds and scams, officials said, adding that the police force received complaints regarding various online frauds, scams and other cyber crimes on a routine basis.“During the past one month, Cyber Police Station Kashmir Zone, Srinagar, received multiple complaints wherein complainants had been duped by fraudsters in OTP and UPI frauds. In one incident, a complainant was duped of ₹2 lakh through UPI scam when all he wanted was a refund for the cancellation of his ticket. He was struggling to find a customer care number and obtained a number from Google search results. He received a call and was asked to download a mobile application called Team Viewer Quick Support on his cell phone. After following the steps told by the fraudsters, he was duped of ₹2 lakh from his bank account. The victim immediately reported the fraud,” the police spokesman said in a statement.He said that Cyber Police Kashmir was able to recover the money from the fraudsters.“In OTP frauds, multiple complaints were received regarding vishing (OTP) scams wherein the complainants get phone calls from fraudsters claiming to be bank officers. These fraudsters convince the complainants and inform them that their debit cards have been blocked and are due for renewal. In order to renew the debit cards, the complainants are asked to share the card details along with six digits OTP received on their cell phones. The gullible victims end up sharing their card details along with OTP and fall prey to such scams. An amount of ₹11 lakh was duped similarly,” the police said.Police said amid the Covid-19 pandemic, when the public is dependent on cyber platforms, the vulnerability of getting trapped into cyber scams/frauds gets increased.“Public is advised to refrain from downloading any remote access apps like Team viewer quick support, Anydesk App etc. or dialling fake helpline or customer care numbers found on Google search engine. These legitimate apps are remote software tools which provide a third party with complete hold of the users’ cell phones and computer. People are advised to be aware of these latest scams and not to fell prey to these fraudsters. If you or your family member get infected from Corona, you may receive a fraud call from cyber criminals that Covid-19 help will be provided, moreover, fraudsters may also ask for an advance payment and promise to provide an oxygen cylinder via home delivery, vaccines etc,” the police statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cyber-police-kashmir-saves-13-lakhs-lost-in-cyber-frauds-scams-101620743847101.html
11-05-2021||Other||Post 11am, Katraj-Dehu rd bypass turns into bustling market; police to crack down on vendors||PUNE It’s been a risky affair for vehicles and daily commuters travelling from Katraj via the bypass to Dehu road.The bypass turns into a market after 11 am daily. Currently, due to the strict restrictions, people are allowed to step out only between 7am and 11 am when essential stores and vegetable markets are open. Despite this order, roadside vendors are seen on the bypass and highway doing brisk business. “This bypass is a major road which connects several parts of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. There is round- the-clock traffic movement on this bypass road, but now due to lockdown traffic is less. Still, after 11am, there are hundreds of roadside vendors selling fruits, vegetables, bags, caps and sun-glasses. It is risky for them as well,” said Atul Namekar, secretary, Sinhagad road-Warje residents association. Currently there are several road repair and service works going on the bypass by the National Authority of India (NHAI). This has decreased the width of the road.Rahul Shrirame, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), said, “There is round-the-clock checking done by traffic policemen and after 11 am no one should come out of their houses unless it’s an emergency. We will check the roadside vendors on the bypass and take action accordingly with the help of the PMC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/post-11am-katraj-dehu-rd-bypass-turns-into-bustling-market-police-to-crack-down-on-vendors-101620743306551.html
11-05-2021||Other||Low depression over Arabian Sea likely to intensify into cyclonic storm by May 16: IMD||PUNE As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), a low depression over the Arabian Sea is likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm by May 16. One of the factors for the increase in cyclone intensity and frequency is warmer sea surface temperature (SST), said IMD scientists. Studies have also highlighted that pre-monsoon cyclones in the Arabian Sea are increasing.Dr Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director general, said that normally the frequency of cyclones in the Arabian Sea is one every year.“However, for this cyclogenesis, it is very early to say what path the cyclone will take and what the intensity will be. We have issued an early warning so that fishermen can be cautioned from venturing out to sea from May 14. IMD will be issuing updated forecasts of the same, from time to time,” said Dr Mohapatra.Vineet Kumar Singh, a scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), who has published a paper on warmer sea surface temperatures (SST) and subsurface temperatures being responsible for the rapid intensification of cyclones that India has witnessed in the recent past, said that we can expect the Arabian Sea to witness more cyclones each year.“The intensity of cyclones in the Arabian Sea is also rapidly increasing due to warmer sea surface temperature. In 2020, we witnessed the Nisarga Cyclone, which was a category 1 cyclone. Though it is early to predict the path of this upcoming cyclone, the weather department has issued a warning to inform fishermen not to venture out to sea,” said Singh.He added that based on various national and international models, there is a possibility that this cyclone will be more intense than Cyclone Nisarga.“However, the intensity of the cyclone can be predicted only in the next few days, as the conditions get clearer. Due to the rotation axis of the earth, many cyclones in Arabian Sea take a path towards Yemen and Oman,” said Singh.He added that in 2007, Cyclone Gonu which was developed in the pre-monsoon Arabian Sea was a category 3 cyclone and had a wind speed of about 180-200km per hour.“It is the Arabian sea where an increase in intensity of cyclones is observed,” said Singh.Another study by Researchers at University of Virginia, USA, published in the journal Nature in 2011 states that there is an increase in the intensity of pre-monsoon tropical cyclones in the Arabian Sea during the period 1979–2010. The study shows that the change in storm strength is a consequence of a simultaneous upward trend in anthropogenic black carbon and sulphate emissions.Cyclone watch* A low pressure area is likely to form over southeast Arabian Sea around May 14* Likely to move north-north-westwards across southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Lakshadweep area and intensify into a depression around May 15. * It may intensify into a cyclonic storm over east central Arabian Sea around May 16 and continue to move north north-westward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/low-depression-over-arabian-sea-likely-to-intensify-into-cyclonic-storm-by-may-16-imd-101620742826541.html
11-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra adds 40,956 new Covid cases; Mumbai’s daily caseload down to 1,717||Maharashtra’s daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday went up again with 40,956 new cases and 793 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, according to the state health department’s bulletin. With this, the caseload and death toll in the state climbed to 5,179,929 and 77,191 respectively and the total recoveries stand at 4,541,391, the bulletin showed.Tuesday’s case count in Maharashtra is 3,720 more than that of Monday’s, when 37,236 new cases were recorded, the lowest since March 30 this year.However, the state capital Mumbai continued to report a downward trend in its daily Covid-19 tally as less than 2,000 (1,717 to be exact) new cases were recorded for a second straight day, taking the caseload to 679,129. Fifty-one people died while 6,082 recovered on Tuesday, taking the city’s death toll and total recoveries to 13,906. On Monday, Mumbai recorded 1,782 new cases and 74 more deaths.Maharashtra is currently the worst-hit state from the pandemic across India and is adding the maximum to the country’s new cases and deaths.Also Read| Maharashtra, UP, Delhi among 18 states where daily Covid-19 cases falling: GovtHowever, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday that Maharashtra along with Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana and other states, is witnessing a decline in its daily Covid-19 cases. Addressing a press briefing, health ministry officials said that such states should continue to focus on their containment efforts so that the rate of infection keeps on reducing.Maharashtra is currently observing lockdown-like restrictions till May 15. These restrictions are expected to continue till the end of the month and a decision on the same will be taken in the state’s cabinet on Wednesday.As Maharashtra continues to face acute shortage in supplies of vaccine doses, state health minister Rajesh Tope announced on Tuesday that the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) led government will now divert doses procured for inoculating people between 18-44 years to give the second dose to all to give second dose to 45+ beneficiaries.Also Read| Maharashtra diverts Covid-19 vaccines for 18-44 age group. Minister explains whyThis decision comes after Tope had requested the Centre last week to provide more vaccine doses to the state and indicated if the adequate supplies are not available, the state will have to divert vaccines meant for the 18-44 age group to those above 45 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-adds-40-956-new-covid-cases-mumbai-s-daily-caseload-down-to-1717-101620738902131.html
11-05-2021||Other||Citizens accompanying beneficiaries see vax centres over-crowded, Covid norms defunct||PUNE The civic authorities are finding it difficult to manage crowds at vaccination centres given the number of people accompanying the beneficiary. Social distancing and crowding norms imposed by the state government and the health department are difficult to enforce.At least two or three persons are accompanying beneficiaries to vaccination centres in the eastern parts of Pune. A case in point is the Annasaheb Magar Hospital in Magarpatta, run by PMC, where a large number of citizens were seen on Tuesday, far more than the 500 pax the hospital can hold with Covid norms in place ar vaccinations. Malhar Bhosale, a staffer at the Annasaheb Magar booth said, “At least two persons come with the vaccinate candidates and there are people with influential contacts who come in threes and fours. We request citizens to come alone and if it is a senior, then one family member can accompany, but youngsters can manage themselves. Crowds lead to confusion and hampers our work.” Similar scenes were seen at vaccination centres in Kondhwa, Hadapsar, Undri, Mohammadwadi, Kharadi, Kalyani nagar and Mundhwa. Pune mayor Muralidhar Mohol said, “Social distancing and following the guidelines of the government is essential. We have received information about the issue and a detailed meeting on the subject will be held with the administration. I also appeal to residents to exercise restraint while stepping out for vaccination and only one person must visit the booth which makes the task easier.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/citizens-accompanying-beneficiaries-see-vax-centres-over-crowded-covid-norms-defunct-101620741747887.html
11-05-2021||Lucknow||Shooters join hands to combat oxygen shortage in UP||A group of national level shooters, including many from Uttar Pradesh (UP), have come together to help the state combat oxygen shortage. They have developed a digital portal for oxygen monitoring which they feel would help in ensuring timely supply of oxygen. National level shooter Raj Kumar, who runs an organization named Rodic Consutants, came up with the idea and sought support in the initiative to fight Covid. Well-known shooters like Asutosh Dwiwedi (UP), Pardeep Kumar Singh (Haryana), Tabish Ahmed (UP), Rahul Soni (Delhi), Monu Kumar (Delhi), Harpreet Singh (Delhi) and Shalender (UP) joined Kumar whose portal has been regularly monitoring and tracking the real-time location of vehicles so that oxygen reaches hospitals without delay. Using the ‘hub and spoke’ model to streamline the oxygen supply - the model requires intensive manpower to ensure hassle-free supply – the shooters are conducting data gathering and entry, GPS Web application monitoring, oxygen tanker location tracking and monitoring with regional transport office (RTO) and medical department. Kumar said in the ‘hub and spoke’ model, the state has been divided into five hubs – Lucknow, Kanpur, Modinagar, Ghaziabad and Varanasi - for route optimization. Gorakhpur and Bareilly are functioning as co-hubs. “Each hub comprises 5-6 cities. The spokes are 57 medical colleges across UP where the demand for oxygen has increased. This model is flexible to allow modifications in case of any fluctuations in oxygen demand. The creation of an additional hub requires approximately 9-10 hours of turnaround time,” said Kumar. The shooters remain present at the oxygen manufacturing facilities where the tracking devices are installed and enabled. These devices ensure minimum turnaround times and facilitate end-to-end coordination between multiple departments for seamless movement of oxygen tankers. “We are witnessing spike in coronavirus cases across the country. Collaboration is the key to winning the battle against COVID-19. We are contributing by setting up a command centre for oxygen movement across the country like we did successfully for UP,” said Kumar. “In this endeavor we required volunteers to support us for efficient management of this entire process. I had appealed to all my fellow shooters across India to come forward and support us as volunteers. We have received a very positive response from the community,” he added. Deepak Dubey, who coached many national level shooters appreciated efforts of Kumar and his team. “It’s a real service to the people of the state by the sportspersons. Such initiatives will go a long way in alleviating the miseries of Covid-19 patients. I urge more people to come forward to join the cause,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/shooters-join-hands-to-combat-oxygen-shortage-in-up-101620741326332.html
11-05-2021||Lucknow||Nonagenarian, daughter & son in law defeat Covid-19 with positive intent||Two gutsy elderly women – nonagenarian Pratibha Joshi, her severely diabetic daughter Smita Pandey, 67, defeated Covid-19 infection and said keeping a positive mindset throughout the infection period was the key to recovery. Smita’s husband BD Pandey, 69, retired superintendent of customs and central excise, who suffers from a heart ailment, got infected too. “My mother’s positive approach and determination helped me and my husband overcome the infection,” Smita said. Her husband tested positive for Covid-19 infection on April 18 after experiencing mild fever and cough. Smita initially testing negative but later developed symptoms with fever and soon after, along with her 95-year-old mother tested positive on April 23. “Now, all three of us were positive. Only my sister Beenu Joshi, was free of Covid-19 infection. We decided to stay in home isolation and adhere to doctor’s advice after isolating ourselves in three separate rooms of the house in Indira Nagar,” Smita said. Smita said her sister kept providing proper meal and took care of the entire house with help of some relatives and friends, who also kept delivering food and medicines regularly. The family was also in touch with doctors over phone and kept consulting them daily. “We took our medicines on time, did breathing exercises regularly. At times, my mother’s oxygen level dipped slightly but she maintained her patience and increased the oxygen level through prone position,” Smita said. “We remained positive all through the phase and never allowed ourselves to feel low. Patience, due care and precautions regarding medicines and diet etc. paid off and we three recovered in nearly two weeks. We are doing well now”, Pandey said. “While recovering, we did breathing exercises, took steam, read books and rested,” she said adding that she felt proud of her mother for remaining positive mentally throughout the testing phase. “Along with medicines, exercise and healthy diet, positive approach is very important for recovery,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nonagenarian-daughter-son-in-law-defeat-covid-19-with-positive-intent-101620741206325.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||'Khan Chacha' owner Navneet Kalra fails to get protection from arrest in oxygen concentrator case||A Delhi Court on Tuesday refused to give any interim relief from arrest to businessman Navneet Kalra for the second time in the alleged oxygen concentrator hoarding and black marketing case. Additional Sessions Judge Sumit Dass also placed his anticipatory bail before the District and Sessions Judge which will now decide which court will hear the plea on Wednesday. “Bail application placed before the District Judge South East at 10 am tomorrow; they will send it to the concerned court. There is no interim relief or any sort of protection to the accused yet,” the judge remarked. The court was hearing the arguments on the issue of jurisdiction on the anticipatory bail petition filed by the businessman in connection with the seizure of oxygen concentrators from his upscale restaurants, including 'Khan Chacha' in Khan Market.  During the course of proceedings, Public Prosecutor Atul Shrivastava said that since the matter was transferred to the Crime Branch after registration of FIR, the court has no jurisdiction to hear the matter.    “On May 7, the court had the power but now since the case has been transferred, it has no jurisdiction over the matter,” Shrivastava apprised the judge. However, advocate Vineet Malhotra, representing the accused, told the court that on May 7, the case was registered at Lodhi Colony Police Station and hence the court has the jurisdiction over the matter, despite the investigation being transferred later. “Just because it was transferred, they cannot take away the jurisdiction of this court. The court cannot be bound to their action,” Malhotra said. The court on Monday had directed the investigating officer of the case to be present in court today along with a copy of the reply to Kalra's pre-arrest bail.During a recent raid, 524 oxygen concentrators were recovered from three restaurants owned by Kalra and it is suspected that he has left Delhi along with his family. These concentrators are the crucial medical equipment used for Covid-19 management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/khan-chacha-owner-navneet-kalra-fails-to-get-protection-from-arrest-in-oxygen-concentrator-case-101620740223830.html
11-05-2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Civic council worker seizes vegetables sold by his mother for flouting Covid restriction norms||Leading by example, a municipal council employee in Maharashtra's Ahmednagar district has seized vegetables being sold on a handcart by his mother in violation of the pandemic restrictions.A video of Rashid Shaikh seizing the vegetables placed on the handcart parked near his house in Pathardi town and dumping them in the municipal council vehicle has gone viral on social media."As the restrictions are in place due to Covid-19, vegetable vendors are supposed to sell their produce by moving from one place to another. They are not supposed to set the stall at one place or sit in the market," said Shaikh who works as a conservancy staff with the Pathardi municipal council.Shaikh said he had warned his mother who sells vegetables in advance about the rules."I had alerted my mother that all the vegetable vendors are supposed to sell their produce while on the move. During our drive, I found my mother had parked a handcart of vegetables outside our house in the main Bazar area. To send a stern message that violators will not be spared, I initiated the action and seized vegetables," said Shaikh.Shaikh, 36, is a member of a flying squad authorised to take action against traders and vendors who flout the lockdown rules.Pathardi Municipal Council Chief Officer Dhananjay Kolekar praised Shaikh for his act."After spotting his mother selling vegetables on a handcart outside their house during a drive, Shaikh seized vegetables. He has led by example," Kolekar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-civic-council-worker-seizes-vegetables-sold-by-his-mother-for-flouting-covid-restriction-norms-101620738403611.html
11-05-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand's Covid-19 caseload nearing 293,000; 6,187 new cases added||Jharkhand on Tuesday reported 129 fresh fatalities, pushing the toll to 3,982, while 6,187 new cases raised the tally to 292,530, the health department said in its bulletin.Accordingly, the number of active cases climbed to 57,902, it said.Ranchi district recorded the maximum number of fresh fatalities at 35, followed by East Singhbhum at 16 and Giridih at 11. Nine deaths were reported from Dhanbad, eight in Bokaro, five in Jamtara.As many as 2,30,646 patients have so far recovered from the disease.According to the bulletin, the recovery rate stands at 78.84 per cent as against the national average of 82.40 per cent.Similarly, the mortality rate touched 1.36 per cent as against the national average of 1.10 per cent.Altogether, 7,424,936 samples have been tested in the state so far, including 1,00,724 since Monday, the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhands-covid-19-caseload-nearing-293-000-6-187-new-cases-added-101620736429494.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||Water supply to be hit in various parts of Delhi tomorrow, says DJB; releases list of areas to be affected||The Delhi Jal Board (DJB) announced on Tuesday that water supply in many areas in East Delhi, North East Delhi and parts of South Delhi will be affected on Wednesday. In a release, the DJB said that due to very high turbidity in raw water from Upper Ganga Canal, the production/pumping from water treatment plants (WTP) at Sonia Vihar and Bhagirathi has been affected.The DJB further said that parts of NDMC area will also be affected in the morning and evening on Wednesday.Some of the areas listed in DJB release are Saket, Pushp Vihar, Katwaria Sarai, Lado Sarai, Khirki, Saidulajab, Gokulpuri, Sonia Vihar, Karawal Nagar, Babarpur, Tahirpur, Dilshad Garden, Nandnagari, Shahdara, Laxmi Nagar, Geeta Colony, Mayur Vihar, Kondli, Dallupura, Yamuna Vihar, Karawal Nagar, Jafrabad, Jhilmil, Mandawali, Laxmi Nagar, Shakarpur, Vivek Vihar, Karkardooma, Jagatpuri, Shalimar Park, Krishna Nagar,Patparganj, Preet Vihar, Vishkarma Park, Lalita Park, Seelampur, Shastripark, Bhrampuri, Gandhi Nagar, Sarai Kale Khan, Okhla, Kalkaji, Batla House Ext., Kalandi Colony, Badarpur, Sarita Vihar, Vasant Kunj, Mehrauli, Greater Kailash, South Extn., Lajpat Nagar, Jal Vihar, Lodhi Road, Kaka Nagar and adjoining areas.The jal board has advised people living in these areas to make judicious use of water.Last week, the DJB had said that water supply will be affected in various parts of Delhi as a result of Haryana releasing less raw water into the Yamuna. The supply from Wazirabad, Chandrawal and Okhla water treatment plants was "adversely" hit due to the reduction in release of raw water into the river.The water from Wazirabad pond is drawn for treatment at Wazirabad, Okhla and Chandrawal treatment plants.On average, the DJB supplies 900 MGD (million gallons daily) water, with demand peaking at 1,100 MGD in summer months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/water-supply-to-be-hit-in-parts-of-delhi-tomorrow-check-list-of-areas-affected-101620736282268.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||Amid Covid crisis, free counselling helps healthcare workers cope||Concerned over the mental well-being of healthcare workers during the ongoing Covid crisis, a number of free counselling services -- both individually or as helplines -- have cropped up in Delhi.Pooja Priyamvada, a mental health first-aider and researcher, who also volunteers for one of the helplines, said mental health helplines play an important role to help frontline workers in need.“Healthcare workers feel miserable when they are unable to help a patient with beds or special interventions that are not readily available. Their workload has increased exponentially and since it is crucial work, they can’t take a break,” said Priyamvada, who volunteers for the Co-Hope helpline, launched by Human Solidarity Foundation, a city-based NGO, last week.A volunteer network, which includes psychiatrists, psychologists, life coaches, counsellors, and social workers, is working at the helpline that caters to the needs of healthcare and frontline workers. In the past week, organisers said at least 35 healthcare workers have approached them seeking mental health support.According to Priyamvada, the fear of infecting loves ones also adds to the mental burden and despite constantly feeling overwhelmed, many cannot avail help due to poor support systems within institutes. “Doctors also have families back home. Even if they are not directly involved in Covid duties, they are visiting hospitals. They fear that they will carry the virus home to their family members. This fear leads to additional stress besides the general feeling of overwhelm,” said Priyamvada.Also Read | Covid-19: MHA details steps taken to enhance oxygen supplyMedhavi Sood, a clinical psychologist, too has been offering free counselling service to healthcare workers, initially by herself through social media and now with a network of professional counsellors. Coming from a family of doctors, Sood said that she had closely seen family members and friends struggle due to the increasing death rate of Covid-19, adding that she started the service as she realised it was important for doctors to share their experiences and emotions.“Due to the system failure and lack of basic requirements from oxygen to medicines, doctors are feeling helpless and tired. I’m afraid that compassion fatigue might set in with so much unfolding before healthcare workers. They hardly get the time to process these tragedies,” she said.A 26-year-old junior resident at a city-based government hospital shared that while both physical and mental exhaustion at work were leaving doctors traumatised, most of them did not have the time to seek help. “It’s difficult to encapsulate what we face on a daily basis. There is a lot of helplessness. While we strive to save all patients, sometimes things don’t work in the patients’ favour. People hold us responsible if there is an oxygen crisis. Sometimes, critical patients die before treatment. It becomes difficult for us to break the news of death to the family which holds us accountable for things that are not in our control,” said the doctor, who declined to give her name.Dr Rajesh Sagar, professor of psychiatry at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, said while doctors take care of everyone else, their own mental health is often neglected. Sagar said that it is crucial for healthcare workers to take care of their mental health. “Many deaths are happening around us. Family members of doctors are also infected. Amid all this, they are delivering in a high-pressure environment. Social events and other avenues that allowed them to relax earlier are not happening. All these factors overwhelm doctors,” said Sagar.He said that healthcare workers need to take care of their mental health and take steps to unwind and share their emotions. “Healthcare workers should not neglect their mental health. If your mental health is poor, your productivity is bound to be affected. Doctors should relax, exercise, and reach out for help, if needed,” said Sagar.He said while there were helplines for healthcare workers, there is a lack of awareness about mental health. “When it comes to self, doctors don’t take help. It’s important to build awareness about mental health and available helpline so that people are motivated to use them,” said Sagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/amid-covid-crisis-free-counselling-helps-healthcare-workers-cope-101620735986600.html
11-05-2021||Lucknow||UP records 20,463 fresh Covid cases, 306 deaths; tally climbs to over 15.45 lakh||Uttar Pradesh has recorded 20,463 fresh Covid-19 cases that took the total tally to 15,45,212, while 306 fatalities pushed the death toll to 16,043, officials informed on Tuesday.However, the number of active cases in the state have come down by over 94,000 in the past 10 days, additional chief secretary, health, Amit Mohan Prasad said.On April 30, there were about 3.10 lakh active cases while currently the number stands at 2,16,057.Of the 306 fatalities, Lucknow reported the maximum deaths at 23, Kanpur 16, Meerut 15, Jhansi and Gautam Buddh Nagar 12 each, Agra and Azamgarh 11 each, Basti 10 and Varanasi 8, as per a health bulletin issued here.Meerut reported the highest number of fresh Covid-19 cases at 1,368, followed by 1,229 in Gautam Buddh Nagar and 1,154 in Lucknow, it said.As many as 29,358 Covid-19 patients recovered from the infection in the past 24 hours, Prasad said.With this, the total number of patients recovered in the state has risen to 13,13,112, he added.So far, over 4.34 crore samples have been tested in the state, including more than 2.33 lakh samples that were tested on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-records-20-463-fresh-covid-cases-306-deaths-tally-climbs-to-over-15-45-lakh-101620731359429.html
11-05-2021||Jaipur||25,000 Pakistani Hindu migrants waiting to get vaccinated in absence of govt nod||Over 25,000 Pakistani Hindu migrants living in Rajasthan are not able to get vaccines or food assistance to protect against the challenges posed by the second wave of Covid-19 as government permissions remain held up, said an official.Hemji Kolhi, who came to Jodhpur from Mirpur Khas district in Pakistan in January 2015, is currently living in a temporary residence in Anganwa village along with 250 other migrant families. He says the community has not received any medical help to deal with the Covid-19 outbreak so far. Not just that, “Rising unemployment has led to a shortage of ration in many households,” he claims.According to the home department, 22,146 Pakistani migrants are currently living in Rajasthan on long-term visas (LTVs), however, Seemant Lok Sangathan-- an organisation fighting for their basic rights-- puts the number over 25,000. State’s medical department records suggest about 17,180 of LTV holding Pakistanis reside in 24 slums in Jodhpur alone.Recently, after some of them tested positive for Covid-19, the Rajasthan medical and health department on May 5 ordered a door-to-door survey in 24 slums, however, in absence of necessary documents such as Aadhaar card, their vaccination remains stuck. The Sangathan claims the community has also largely remained excluded from the process of screening, testing and treatment for Covid-19.“Absence of an Aadhaar card is the biggest obstacle in the vaccination of Pak migrants... We have written a letter to the chief minister and demanded that Pakistani passports, residential permits (RP) or long term visas (LTVs) be made the basis for vaccination of Pak migrants,” said Hindu Singh Sodha, president of Seemant Lok Sangathan. He argues that absence of vaccination not only poses a risk to the migrants’ families, but also to Indians living around them.State’s chief medical and health officer Balwant Manda says guidelines in this regard have been sought from the state government. “After a policy decision is taken at the government level, the requisite steps can be taken for vaccination of Pak migrants,” Manda says and adds that in the interim, a door-to-door survey is being carried out in their settlements for testing and treatment for Covid-19.No vaccination also means that Pakistani migrants are struggling to find safe employment at a time when the government’s assistance with food has not been forthcoming, unlike last year, when they received food packets during the nationwide lockdown. Sodha says the state’s proposal to issue special ration cards to migrant families considering them “special citizens” under the National Food Security Act is also awaiting Centre’s nod. According to the state government proposal prepared in February, 1107.3 quintals of wheat is required monthly for migrants.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former minister Vasudev Devnani says he too has written to the Union home minister and the chief minister demanding vaccination of Pakistani migrants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/25000-pakistani-hindu-migrants-waiting-to-get-vaccinated-in-absence-of-govt-nod-101620734546748.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Dhuri AAP leader Sandeep Singla among 3 killed in car accident||Sandeep Singla, the Aam Aadmi Party leader from Dhuri, and two of his friends died in a car accident near Khamano in Fatehgarh Sahib district on Monday night. Police said that Singla along with the two men were headed towards Chandigarh but a truck coming in the opposite direction hit the car. Singla’s friends were identified as Manpreet Singh of Bardwal village near Dhuri and Vijay Agnihotri, alias Goldy, of Ludhiana. Also read: Maharashtra, UP, Delhi among 18 states where daily Covid-19 cases falling: GovtSingla is survived by his wife, two minor children and parents. He was actively involved in helping people during the Covid-19 pandemic. Leader of opposition and Dirba MLA Harpal Singh Cheema termed Singla’s death painful and described him as a dedicated AAP volunteer. Harminder Singh, the station house officer at Khamano, said, “Singla and Manpreet died on the spot, while Goldy succumbed to injuries in hospital. A case has been registered against truck driver Rakesh Kumar, who was driving on the wrong side.” The case was registered under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dhuri-aap-leader-sandeep-singla-among-3-killed-in-car-accident-101620733046645.html
11-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra diverts vaccines for 18-44 yrs to 45+ amid shortage of supply: Health minister Rajesh Tope||The Maharashtra government has diverted the Covid-19 vaccine procured for inoculating those between the age of 18 and 44 to give second dose to 45+ beneficiaries. This was announced by state health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday."The decision has been taken in the wake of the short supply of vaccines for 45-plus beneficiaries by the central government," said Tope. “Efficacy of the vaccine is largely affected if the second dose is not administered within the stipulated time period,” he further said.The state health minister added that more than 2.1 million people above the age of 45 are due for their second dose, and out of them 1.6 million are for Covishield. Tope said that only 35,000 doses of Covaxin are available.Also Read| Maharashtra, UP, Delhi among 18 states where daily Covid-19 cases falling: GovtMaharashtra, in accordance with the Centre’s guidelines, started the third phase of the vaccination drive from May 1 to inoculate people between 18 and 44 years. In April, when the second phase of the vaccination drive was underway, several vaccination centres in the capital city of Mumbai, Pune, Panvel andother districts of the state were closed as they ran out of doses.More than 18.2 million beneficiaries have been vaccinated in Maharashtra so far with 14,776,548 vaccinated with the first dose and the remaining 3,487,664 given both doses. The worst-hit state in the country is seeing a fall in its daily cases of Covid-19 and related deaths in the past few days. On Monday, less than 40,000 new cases were recorded, the lowest single-day tally in 41 days.Also Read| 'Centre can do away with Covid-19 vaccine monopoly': Kejriwal writes to PM ModiMaharashtra’s caseload currently stands at 5,138,973 with 76,398 deaths and 4,469,425 recoveries.The Centre, meanwhile, on Tuesday told states to prioritise inoculation for those beneficiaries who are due for the second dose of the vaccine and reserve a minimum of 70 per cent of the doses for this purpose and the remaining 30 per cent for those waiting for the first dose. “This however is indicative. States have the liberty to enhance this to as much as 100 per cent,” the Union health ministry said in a statement.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-diverts-vaccines-for-18-44-yrs-to-45-amid-shortage-of-supply-tope-101620731827024.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||4 test positive at Advanced Cancer Institute in Bathinda||A day after Punjab health minister OP Soni said that cancer treatment is going on smoothly at the Bathinda-based Advanced Cancer Institute, officials reported that four people have tested positive for Covid-19 at ACI.Sharing data of the outpatient department, Soni had on Monday said that 402 patients were registered at the OPD from May 1 to 8 after the Covid care centre was started at the ACI. He assured cancer patients that full care is being taken for their treatment.However, four persons, including three personnel of ACI hospital staff, are among four people who have tested positive since Monday. The ACI authorities were alerted about the infection status of the two staffers, including a laboratory technician, on Tuesday morning. An ambulance driver and a woman patient tested positive on Monday and the woman was admitted to the isolation ward. Also read: Delhi records 12,481 Covid-19 cases, positivity rate drops further to 17.76%Healthcare experts have already cautioned that starting the Covid care facility on the second floor of the ACI could cause the virus to spread at the institute. “Paramedic and technical staff of the ACI are working in the Covid ward. The cancer institute’s laboratory is also being used for examining samples of Covid patients. Since there is an unchecked intermingling of people in the Covid care facility and the cancer hospital, there is a possibility of people at the ACI catching coronavirus infection,” said a doctor at the cancer hospital, requesting anonymity. Despite reservations by the ACI management and health experts about using the institute to treat pandemic patients, the state authorities started a 25-bed level 2 facility with oxygen support on April 30. Sources said the average occupancy of Covid patients remains between 18-22. ACI director Dr Deepak Arora said he would take up the matter with authorities. “We are concerned about the health of our cancer patients. The line of treatment compromises the immunity level of a cancer patient, and they remain vulnerable to any infection,” said Dr Arora. OPD open but surgeries remain suspended The ACI is a constituent of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, and caters to cancer patients from Bathinda and adjoining districts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan. Dr Arora said in view of the patients’ needs, the outpatient department (OPD), chemotherapy and radiotherapy services were resumed but surgeries remain suspended indefinitely. The ACI sources said that the state authorities should have taken domain experts on board while turning an exclusive cancer treatment institute into a Covid hospital. Delaying therapy or surgery not an optionThey said that doctors were unable to start the new treatment schedule. A doctor said it would be unfair to conclude normalcy at ACI on the basis of the OPD footfall. “Cancer patients need a specialised treatment, and they hardly have the option to delay therapies or surgery. After resuming the OPD on Friday, we got about 100 patients on Monday, one-third of the patient load in the last few months of the pandemic. It reflects their urgent dependency on experts amid the pandemic but the doctors at ACI are unable to start new treatment, considering their exposure to the high-infection environment,” said another cancer expert at the hospital. The experts say the state authorities should take over any public complex or educational institute in Bathinda and start the level-2 centre where oxygen supply facility is needed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4-test-positive-at-advanced-cancer-institute-in-bathinda-101620729986704.html
11-05-2021||Jaipur||Covid in Rajasthan: Sachin Pilot donates 1 month salary to CM relief fund||Former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot has donated his one month's salary to the chief minister’s relief fund as a contribution for the fight against coronavirus.Pilot is the Congress MLA from Tonk.Also Read| Rajasthan governor gives ₹2 crore to CM relief fund for Covid vaccinationHe wrote a letter to chief minister Ashok Gehlot informing him about his contribution.Rajasthan recorded 160 fatalities and 16,487 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the death toll to 5,825 and infection tally to 7,73,194, according to an official report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/covid-in-rajasthan-sachin-pilot-donates-1-month-salary-to-cm-relief-fund-101620729010925.html
11-05-2021||Patna||Bihar teachers in 2 districts die of Covid-19 amid financial crisis||Covid-19 has claimed the lives of 24 government school teachers in the two districts of East and West Champaran in Bihar during the second wave of the pandemic so far, data compiled by the education department shows. The primary teacher’s union and the kin said they had no money to arrange proper treatment of the deceased, who had not received their salaries for the last four months.“Most of them were contractual teachers, who died due to the financial crisis. For the last four months, contractual teachers have not received their salaries,” said Amardeep Kumar, president of Bihar Panchayat Nagar Prarambhik Shikshak Sangh, East Champaran-- a union of district’s primary school teachers.10 teachers in East Champaran died due to Covid-19 in the month of April and 12 others succumbed in May, while the remaining two deaths were reported from West Champaran, confirmed Binod Kumar Vimal, district education officer, East Champaran.Family of Upendra Kumar, headmaster at Chakayi Tola primary school in Pakaridayal, said non-payment of salaries was a major factor behind his death.“We were unable to meet the medical expenses of private health services. There were no beds available in government hospitals,” said Neeraj Paswan, son of Upendra Kumar, who died on April 24.The district programme officer (establishment) of the education department in East Champaran, Praful Kumar Mishra said the department’s hands were tied in absence of funds due to which the teachers, both regular and contractual, were last paid 80% of their January salary. “We are waiting for the funds for the allocation of salary from February onwards,” said Mishra, adding that the salary gets paid out as soon as the funds arrive.Another official in the department said on condition of anonymity that most of the time, the fund allotment is not only late but also below the entitlement for full payment of salaries.Upendra Kumar’s son said the financial crunch made his father consult quacks after the symptoms of coronavirus first appeared. “For the first few days, my father had to depend upon unqualified rural healthcare consultants. When his condition did not improve, we took him to the government hospital but could not get him admitted there,” said Neeraj, a school van driver, who claims to be penniless.“Getting treated at a private hospital was out of question given the kind of financial problems our family suffers from,” he said when asked why his father was not taken to a private hospital for treatment.The civil surgeon of the district said he couldn’t respond to claims if Upendra Kumar was denied admission at a government hospital in the district. “We are admitting patients and providing them with treatment as and when [they are] brought to the hospital,” Akhileshwar Prasad Singh said.Ravi Shankar Thakur, a contractual teacher posted at a government school at Binwaliya in Areraj sub division of the district said they get a salary of about ₹28,000 or thereabouts. “It makes it difficult to make ends meet and the late payment of salary further aggravates the problem.”An office bearer of the district teachers’ association alleged that the state government had put these teachers at additional risk of contracting the virus.“Even though the state government has shut educational institutions till May 15, teachers were required to be present at the school on rotation basis, which increased the risk of infection,” said Jai Prakash Singh, vice president of the primary teachers’ association in the district.District officials are at a loss to explain the deaths of these 24 teachers. “The compilation of details is still underway,” said the district education officer (DEO) of East Champaran.The vice president of the primary teachers’ union has demanded a compensation of ₹50 lakh for the families of deceased teachers, besides a job for one of the dependents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-teachers-in-2-districts-die-of-covid-19-amid-financial-crisis-101620728666426.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s Covid positivity rate declining, but we can’t be at ease: Health minister Satyendar Jain||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday that the positivity rate of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the national capital has declined from 36 per cent to 19.1 per cent in the past few days and the new cases have also dropped from 28,000 cases per day to around 12,500. However, he added that the government cannot be at ease until the positivity rate comes down below 5 per cent and the daily tally drops below 3,000-4,000 cases.“The fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in Delhi is very much there but its peak has been declining since the last week of April,” Jain said while addressing a press conference.Delhi on Monday saw a considerable dip in its daily Covid-19 disease tally after 12,651 new cases were reported, the lowest since April 12. The positivity rate dropped below 20 per cent (19.10 per cent exact) for the first time since April 14. The highest number of cases in Delhi were seen on April 20 when 28,395 people were detected positive for Covid-19.Also Read| Enable more firms to produce Covid-19 vaccines, Kejriwal urges CentreOn being asked by reporters about the fall in daily tests, Jain said on Tuesday, “We are conducting 80,000 tests per day. On Sunday, 66,000 tests were conducted. The testing figures are coming down due to the imposition of lockdown. People are not coming out of their homes. Earlier, everyone was out in markets and other public places and they were being tested.”The lockdown in the national capital has been extended till May 17 and new stringent curbs have been introduced such as suspension of the Delhi Metro and a ban on marriage ceremonies in public. It has been observed that the lockdown has helped Delhi in controlling the spread of the Covid-19 disease.Amid an acute shortage of vaccine doses for inoculating beneficiaries between 18-44 years, Jain said during Tuesday’s briefing that the Delhi government has made all arrangements for the vaccination drive but unavailability of doses continues to remain a problem. “Delhi government has made arrangements for the vaccination drive on a large scale. There are 100 schools in the city for the purpose and one school can administer 1,500 vaccine doses per day.” he added.Also Read| Covid-19: Metro shut in stricter lockdown across DelhiDelhi has so far vaccinated 3,877,400 beneficiaries of which 1,764 were given doses on Monday.Earlier on Tuesday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal appealed to the Centre to share the vaccine formula of the two manufacturers- Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India- to other pharmaceutical companies in order to ramp up production of doses and also come up with a national plan to inoculate all citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-covid-positivity-rate-declining-but-we-can-t-be-at-ease-satyendar-jain-101620727688066.html
11-05-2021||Mumbai||Over 2,000 cases, 8 deaths from Mucormycosis in Maharashtra so far, govt creating special wards: Health minister Tope||After announcing free treatment for patients suffering from the rare fungal infection of Mucormycosis, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said more than 2,000 cases have been reported and eight people have succumbed to the infection in the state so far. He said that the state government is creating special wards for these patients, reported news agency ANI."Mucormycosis patients will be treated for free under Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana. Over 2,000 cases have been reported and 8 people have died of this infection in the state so far. We are making special wards for these patients," ANI quoted Tope as saying.Tope on Monday announced the free treatment of patients of Mucormycosis under the Maharashtra government's flagship medical insurance scheme -- Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana.Patients will get free treatment under the health scheme at 1,000 hospitals across the state. The minister announced about the free treatment citing that the cost of medicines for the treatment is expensive, hence the aid will be provided to the patients.Also read: Telangana announces 10-day Covid-19 lockdown, all activities allowed from 6-10amMucormycosis or 'black fungus' is a growing concern in Covid-19 patients in India. The disease that is strongly linked to diabetes can lead to blackening or discoloration over the nose, blurred or double vision, chest pain, breathing difficulties and coughing blood. The infection is found to be in Covid-19 patients with diabetes and compromised immune systems. Covid-19 and its treatment can have a severe impact on patients with diabetes as it can be exacerbated by steroids like dexamethasone during the treatment of the viral disease.Tope also said that the symptoms of fungal infection are being reported in Covid-19 patients who are diabetic and whose diabetes is not under control. The state health minister also said that an awareness campaign to educate people about the infection will also be organised.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Meanwhile, Odisha also reported its first case of Mucormycosis on Monday in a 71-year old man with a history of uncontrolled diabetesUncontrolled diabetes, mellitus cancers, organ transplant, long-term corticosteroid and immunosuppressive therapy and HIV/AIDS increase the risk of fungal infection, the Union health ministry said in a statement.The statement added that a drop in immunity due to the steroids used in the treatment can be a triggering factor in some cases of the disease, but it is still uncommon.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/over-2-000-cases-8-deaths-from-mucormycosis-in-maharashtra-so-far-govt-creating-special-wards-health-minister-tope-101620721263680.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||JJP reaches out to villages in Haryana for shot in the arm||Foot soldiers of the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), the coalition partner of the BJP, will fan out in villages to buttress the Haryana government’s battle against Covid-19 that has sent alarm bells ringing in the hinterland. Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Monday held three meetings with state and national executive members of the JJP followed by another round of talks with district presidents and legislators to discuss ways to allay misconceptions of villagers about Covid-19 testing and vaccination. Also read: Allow more pharma companies to manufacture Covid vaccine: Delhi CM to CentreJJP sources said Chautala enquired from participants if they had taken the vaccine. “Much to his surprise, the response was not encouraging,” a JJP leader said, requesting anonymity. The elderly JJP executive members, who had not taken the vaccine on one pretext or the other, were asked to get inoculated on Tuesday itself before heading to the villages to spread awareness. “Younger members were assigned the duty of accompanying their older counterparts to vaccination centres,” the leader said. It was on the basis of this feedback from the national and state executives of the JJP that Chautala decided to position party leaders in villages to help the already hard-pressed administration. JJP outreach in Hisar, Sirsa, Bhiwani, Jind Each office-bearer was asked to adopt a village and generate awareness among residents. The JJP workers will distribute masks and hand sanitisers besides urging people to get tested and vaccinated. Initially, the focus of the JJP outreach will be in Hisar, Sirsa, Fatehabad, Bhiwani, Jind districts. Another key task will be to discontinue the practice of groups of men sharing hookah in the villages. The JJP’s move to adopt villages is being seen as an attempt to reach out to Jat-dominated areas and make inroads into villages where JJP leaders, including the deputy CM, are unable to enter due to the boycott call of farmers protesting against the BJP-led Centre’s farm laws. Funds for isolation wards in villages JJP sources say another key outcome of the party’s executive committee meeting was the decision of the state government to release funds for setting up isolation wards in villages. The deputy CM met panchayat department officials and decided on another major step to curb the Covid spread that is growing exponentially in the rural areas. The state government will release funds up to ₹50,000 to all gram panchayats of the state to set up isolation wards with 10 beds, pulse oximeters, steam machines, thermometers and blood pressure monitoring machines. A five-member committee, comprising an auxiliary nurse, nambardar, gram sachiv and two public representatives will run these isolation wards in community centres, chaupals, government schools and anganwadi centres of the villages. The government will allocate ₹30,000 to all villages with a population of less than 10,000 and villages with more than 10,000 residents will get ₹50,000. The government has sent 8,000 teams to villages to increase Covid testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jjp-reaches-out-to-villages-in-haryana-for-shot-in-the-arm-101620725845883.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||Corona numbers on the decline in Delhi, lockdown was successful: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday that Covid-19 cases are on the decline in the national capital. Adding that the ongoing Covid-induced lockdown in the national capital has been successful as people cooperated with authorities.“Corona cases are going down in Delhi, so is the second wave. With your cooperation lockdown was successful,” Kejriwal said during his live broadcast.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief also said that the Delhi government has increased the number of hospital beds with oxygen facilities in the past few days, with 500 new beds added in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) near Guru Tegh Bahadur (GBT) Hospital, a dedicated Covid hospital in Delhi. Another 500 beds with ICU facility are scheduled to come up near Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital.“We've increased the number of Oxygen beds in the past few days. Yesterday we started 500 new ICU beds near GTB Hospital,” said the chief minister, adding, “Now there's no shortage of ICU and Oxygen beds in Delhi.”Kejriwal told reporters on Monday that he was hopeful of cases dwindling down as the peak of the second coronavirus wave passes."I hope the peak (of the second wave of Covid-19) has passed. I hope the cases go down in the coming days but being in the government and as the chief minister of Delhi, I would not want to give any concessions," he said.Lockdown in Delhi was extended till May 17 by the AAP-led government. Enforcing strict measures like suspension of Metro train services and prohibition of wedding ceremonies at public venues.Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain reiterated Kejriwal’s statement on Covid-19 cases declining as both positivity rate and caseload is on the decline. Jain added that until the positivity rate goes down below 5% and caseload dwindles down to 3,000-4,000 daily the government won’t be at ease. The World Health Organization has set a benchmark of 5% positivity rate for an outbreak to be considered under control. The national capital’s positivity rate peaked at 36.2% on April 22, staying above 30% for 8 more days before starting to decline.“In the last few days, the positivity rate has declined from 36% to 19.1% with the caseload also going down from 28,000 per day to about 12,500. Till we reach a positivity rate below 5% and caseload below 3000-4000 cases, we can't be at ease,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/corona-numbers-on-the-decline-in-delhi-lockdown-was-successful-arvind-kejriwal-101620724917980.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||Allow more pharma companies to manufacture Covid vaccine: Delhi CM to Centre||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday urged the Centre to engage more pharmaceutical companies in Covid vaccine production as well as draft a national scheme for vaccinating the entire population of the country in the next few months.“The crisis in Delhi currently is not of ICU or oxygen beds, but the shortage of vaccines… In Delhi, currently, the vaccine turnout is high and all arrangements are in place… Currently, we administer 125,000 doses per day. Soon, we want to scale this up to 300,000 doses per day. Our aim is to ensure that the entire adult population of Delhi is vaccinated in three months. But, in Delhi, we have only a few days’ stock of vaccine left. The entire country is facing a shortage of vaccines. Some states are struggling to widen the vaccine drive because of this shortage. Vaccine shortage is a major challenge now,” the chief minister said in an online press briefing.Also Read | Delhi court to hear today Navneet Kalra’s bail plea in oxygen concentrator caseHe added, “Only two companies in India are in vaccine production. Together, these companies are capable of producing 60-70 million vaccines a month. This way, it would take more than two years to vaccinate the entire population of the country. Such a long span is likely to witness multiple waves, which would lead to more deaths. So, it is important to take up vaccine production on a war footing and draft a national scheme to vaccinate the entire population of the country in the next few months. Unless every Indian is vaccinated, we cannot win the war against Covid-19.”Currently, two Covid vaccines are available in India: Covishield, produced by Pune-based Serum Institute of India; and Covaxin, produced by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech.“Production of vaccines in India should not be restricted to the two companies...The Centre should take the vaccine formula from the two companies (SII and Bharat Biotech) and give it to the other companies which are capable of producing safe vaccines. In such tough times, the Centre has the powers to take such decisions… It should be ensured that any plant in India that is capable of vaccine production should be engaged in the process. This is the only way to ensure that the entire population of India is vaccinated at the earliest,” said Kejriwal, drawing parallels with the shortage of PPE kits faced during the first wave of the pandemic in India.He said, “Imagine if only two companies had the right to produce PPE kits, we would have faced a major shortage of PPE kits too. Currently, many companies in India are making PPE kits… India has top pharma companies and the best of scientists. I am sure that they will cooperate in vaccine production. A fraction of the profit made by the other companies could be given to the original two companies as royalty, for they are the ones with the formula. This is the only way we can shield our citizens against the next wave.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/allow-more-pharma-companies-to-manufacture-covid-vaccine-delhi-cm-to-centre-101620720565753.html
11-05-2021||Patna||Pappu Yadav arrested for violation of Covid-19 lockdown rules in Bihar||Former parliamentarian from Bihar and Jan Adhikar Party chief Rajiv Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav was arrested on Tuesday morning from his Patna residence for alleged violation of Covid-19 lockdown norms. Bihar is under a 10-day lockdown till May 15.Chief of Buddha colony police station in Patna, Kaisar Alam, said Yadav was arrested Tuesday morning and driven in his own SUV to the police station for further investigation. A case was lodged against him for alleged violation of Covid-19 guidelines and the disaster management act, he added.Another police officer pointed out that Yadav has been travelling across Bihar during the lockdown apparently to assess the situation of Covid-19 treatment facilities without permission. “The police repeatedly asked him to follow the rules of the lockdown but he ignored it,” the officer added.Yadav suggested his arrest was politically motivated. “They’ll tell you why I have been arrested. I have helped [needy] families for [the last] 1.5 months despite recently [undergoing] an operation. The government and Nitish babu (a reference to chief minister Nitish Kumar) will know what this is. Arrest doesn’t take place for violation of lockdown,” he said while on the way to the police station.Yadav recently accused the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) MP from Saran, Rajiv Pratap Rudy of apathy, claiming the 24 ambulances funded by MPLAD (Members of Parliament Local Area Development) scheme lay abandoned in Saran instead of serving Covid-19 patients during the current crisis precipitated by the second wave of the disease. One Rudy supporter later filed a complaint against him for “trespassing” and “vandalizing” the ambulances.Marhaura district superintendent of police (DSP) Indrajit Baitha said Yadav was booked under sections 147 (rioting), 448 (house tress pass), 379 (theft/snatching), 384 (extortion), 427 (mischief causing damage), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by a public servant). “Barring Section 378 and 384 (non-bailable sections) all other sections were bailable,” said the DSP.Earlier on May 4, another case was lodged against Yadav in Gaya for violation of Covid-19 guidelines and the disaster management act after he barged into a district hospital with his supporters, demanding to inspect the facilities to treat Covid-19 patients there.“This [Yadav’s arrest] should be condemned but at the same time one is not above [the] law. [The arrest is] condemnable because as a public representative you have the right to reach out to people, extend an helping hand but not at the cost of the provisions of law. He should have definitely taken prior permission to move around,” said Gyanandera Yadav, assistant professor of Sociology at College of Commerce in Patna.Yadav’s activism had elicited praise from many belonging to poor families who credited him for intervening in time to get them admitted to hospitals during the present crisis.In the meanwhile, the Covid crisis in the state has shown signs of easing a bit with the test positivity rate (TPR), which was at 16.1% on April 30, declining to 10.3% on May 9. The TPR measures the percentage of positive cases among all those tested for the disease on a given day.Bihar reported 10,174 new Covid-19 infections on Monday, taking the total number of cases to 601,650. Patna topped with 1,745 new cases, followed by Katihar 706, Gopalganj 541, East Champaran 478, Samastipur 463, Begusarai 435 and Vaishali 417 among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/pappu-yadav-arrested-for-violation-of-covid-19-lockdown-rules-in-bihar-101620718045830.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||Enable more firms to produce Covid-19 vaccines, Kejriwal urges Centre||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said the Centre should divide the responsibility of producing vaccine for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) between more firms in order to meet the high demand. Currently, the two vaccine makers in India are Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), which manufactures Covishield and Bharat Biotech, which produces indigenously developed Covaxin.Kejriwal said that the national capital was going to ramp up its inoculation drive and will soon need more jabs as it plans to vaccinate over three lakh people daily.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage﻿"Right now, we're administering 1.25 lakh doses every day. We'll soon begin vaccinating over three lakh people daily. We aim to vaccinate all residents of Delhi within the next three months. However, we're facing vaccine shortage. We're left with stock that will last only a few days," Delhi CM said."Only two companies are producing vaccines. They produce only 6-7 crore vaccines a month. This way, it'll take us over two years to vaccinate everyone. Many waves would have come by then. It is important to increase the vaccine production on a war footing and frame a national plan to vaccinate all," he said.Urging the Centre to intervene, the CM suggested that the formula to make vaccine doses should be shared with other firms capable of producing vaccines in a safe manner. The current vaccine manufacturers can be provided royalty for use of their formula by other companies, he added.Also Read | Jab supplies regulated by Centre, not firms: Manish Sisodia"Several companies should be deployed to produce vaccines, not just two. Centre should collect the formula to produce vaccines from these two companies and give them to all those that can produce vaccines safely. Centre has the power to do this in these difficult times," Kejriwal said.Delhi on Monday recorded 12,651 fresh Covid-19 cases and 319 new deaths, taking the total infection tally and toll to 13,362,18 and 19,663 respectively. According to the state health bulletin, as many as 66,234 tests were conducted in the Capital in 24 hours and 1,764 people were inoculated. With this, the total number of people vaccinated in Delhi till now went up to 38,774,00.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/we-aim-to-vaccinate-everyone-in-delhi-in-3-months-but-there-s-lack-of-doses-cm-101620716205971.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal’s Covid positivity rate rises by 6% in a week||Himachal Pradesh recorded a Covid-19 positivity rate of 26.3% last week, a jump of more than 6% as compared to the rate from April 26 to May 2. “The districts of Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Kangra, Mandi, Shimla, Sirmour and Solan have recorded a positivity rate of more than 20% between May 3 and 9,” state in-charge of the National Rural Health Mission Dr Nipun Jindal said on Tuesday. Also read: India registers 329,942 new Covid-19 cases, infection tally reaches 22.9 millionThe state has ramped up testing as it conducted 1,02,455 Covid tests last week, while 84,351 tests were done in the preceding week. The case fatality ratio has shown a decline in the past week from 1.38% to 1.17% the week before. Health department spokesman Gopal Berry said that the state-level Covid clinical committee is conducting virtual capacity building sessions for stakeholders. One such session was held on May 8 and 9 for the judicious and appropriate use of remdesivir and oxygen with the focus on the management of patients in home isolation. Experts of the State Institute of Health and Family Welfare organised a webinar on the management of paediatrics and epidemiology diagnosis and infection prevention practices. Bedsides, a panel discussion of experts was held on the treatment to be started and precautions to be taken during home isolation. Efforts on to normalise non-Covid health services The health department is making efforts to provide non-Covid essential services such as maternal, newborn and child-care besides dialysis, tuberculosis treatment, HIV and maintenance of voluntary blood donation. Chief medical officers and medical superintendents have been asked not to delay essential services to any patient for want of a Covid-negative test result. “All health-care providers should follow precautions, observe infection control procedures and get themselves vaccinated against Covid-19,” Berry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachals-covid-positivity-rate-rises-by-6-in-a-week-101620712705105.html
11-05-2021||City||Delhi court to hear today Navneet Kalra's bail plea in oxygen concentrator case||A Delhi court will be hearing businessman Navneet Kalra's anticipatory bail plea on Tuesday, in connection with the police seizing oxygen concentrators from his restaurants, including at the renowned 'Khan Chacha' restaurant in the national capital's upscale Khan Market area. Kalra, accused of black marketing of oxygen concentrators amid the Covid-19 outbreak in Delhi, was on Monday denied interim relief by the Saket court, following which the matter was posted for Tuesday.Also Read: Lookout notice against Navneet Kalra in oxygen concentrator caseThe Delhi Police said a day ago that they have got a lookout circular (LoC) issued against Navneet Kalra, owner of Khan Chacha, Town Hall, and Nege & Ju restaurants in Khan Market and Lodhi Colony, from where 137 oxygen concentrators were seized following raids last week. Another 387 concentrators were recovered from the registered office of Matrix Cellular company in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur. All the 524 recovered concentrators were connected to Kalra and the employees of the private company, the police said.Navneet Kalra is allegedly on the the run, while the manager and three staffers from his two restaurants have been arrested so far. Further raids are on, the police said, adding that the Crime Branch has launched a manhunt for the entrepreneur. Although Kalra had moved court earlier seeking an interim relief, the Delhi court on Monday refused to grant any stay on coercive action. The hearing will be held today.Meanwhile, another 419 oxygen concentrators were recovered last Thursday from another restaurant owned by Kalra and a farmhouse in south Delhi. The oxygen concentrators had been imported from China by a private company. Kalra has been absconding since the raids and his mobile phone has been switched off, according to police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-court-navneet-kalra-bail-plea-black-marketing-oxygen-concentrator-khan-market-khan-chacha-101620709675905.html
11-05-2021||Jaipur||4 children drown in pond in Rajasthan's Churu||Four boys drowned while bathing in a pond in Rajasthan's Churu district on Monday, police said.The incident took place in Bhaleri area of the district, they said.The children, aged between 8 and 15 years, had gone to the pond to take a bath when one of them accidentally slipped into the water. The other three also fell into the pond while trying to rescue him, the police said.The children lived near the pond and their parents were busy with farming work at the time of the incident. Later, someone spotted the bodies floating in the pond and the family members of the boys and the police were informed, they said.The bodies were handed over to the families of the deceased after a post-mortem examination, they said.Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot condoled the deaths of the children and termed the incident "very heartbreaking and unfortunate"."My deepest condolences are with the parents and relatives of the children. May God give them strength in this very difficult time," he tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/4-children-drown-in-pond-in-rajasthan-s-churu-101620709256414.html
11-05-2021||Patna||Bihar Police arrests 9 persons for selling a oxygen cylinder for ₹1.10 lakh||Bihar Police’s economic offence unit (EoU) arrested nine persons for selling an oxygen cylinder for ₹1.10 lakh to an NRI, who needed it for his relatives under treatment for Covid-19 in home isolation in the city. The arrests were made on Monday.Main accused Harsh Raj Verma and three of his associates: Gauri Shankar, Ravi Kumar and Rahul Kumar, were the first to be arrested based on the complaint filed by the NRI, a USA resident, who is currently in Patna. He didn’t wish to reveal his name.The NRI approached additional director general (ADG) of EoU, Nayyar Husnain Khan, about five days ago with a complaint alleging Verma, a native of Motihari district who was currently staying in Patna’s Indrapuri locality, sold him one oxygen cylinder, 50 litres in capacity, for ₹1.10 lakh. The money was electronically transferred to Harsh Raj Verma’s Bank of Baroda account, said the police officer.50 litre oxygen cylinders, also referred to as Jumbo cylinders, normally cost ₹8,000 each but were currently being black marketed for ₹25,000-30,000 each by unscrupulous traders and middlemen looking to profit from its high demand for treatment of the continuously rising number of Covid-19 patients. In the past few days, the EoU has arrested several people for black marketing of oxygen cylinders, concentrators and life saving medicines from across the state.Verma was apprehended by an EoU team headed by two deputy superintendents of police (DSPs) Bhaskar Ranjan and Rajneesh Kumar from Rajiv Nagar police station area in the capital. His bank statement showed approximately ₹9 lakh were deposited in his account within the last six days.During interrogation, Verma revealed the name of his three associates, who were also arrested on Monday. The remaining five people were arrested later during multiple raids conducted by the unit. Police also seized two Jumbo oxygen cylinders, a Maruti Swift Dzire car, two motorcycles and an e-rickshaw from their possession.Earlier, an EoU team led by additional superintendent of police (SP) V Dayal and a team of Delhi police arrested two persons, Kishan Kumar Gupta and Firoj Khan, from Patna’s Danapur police station area for cheating a Covid patient in Delhi of ₹5 lakh with the false promise of delivering them oxygen cylinders.Their bank accounts were frozen by Delhi police and their passbooks, ATMs and mobile phones seized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-police-arrests-9-persons-for-selling-a-oxygen-cylinder-for-rs-1-10-lakh-101620709344887.html
11-05-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand says need 1 lakh doses per day, asks Centre if it can directly import Covid-19 vaccine||Amid rising cases of Covid-19, Uttarakhand Chief Secretary Om Prakash on Monday said the state needs one lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine per day.Addressing a joint press conference here yesterday, Prakash stated that the state government has requested the central government to allow the purchase of Covid-19 vaccines from abroad."We need 1 lakh vaccine doses per day. We have written to the Central Government to ask if the state government can import the vaccine directly from other countries. Meanwhile, we have decided to start a mobile testing van very soon. The vehicle will go to remote rural areas to identify the patients and check them for Covid-19 there itself. This will save them the hassle of going to the city for Covid-19 testing," said the Chief Secretary.Prakash further informed that oxygen beds currently in use in the state get 126 metric tonnes of oxygen per day as against the actual requirement of 130 metric tonne.He stated that hospitals are generating five metric tonnes of oxygen, adding that more oxygen plants are coming up in the medical facilities of the state which will increase the oxygen production capacity of the state by four metric tonnes.Meanwhile, Uttarakhand Health Secretary Amit Negi informed that the state had 673 oxygen-supported beds in March 2020 which has now increased to 5,500.He further said, "There were 216 ICUs in the state in March 2020. The number has now gone up to 1,390. The number of ventilators has also increased from 116 in March 2020 to 876 now. Also, the number of oxygen cylinders and concentrators has increased significantly in the state. Currently there are 9,900 oxygen cylinders and 1,293 oxygen concentrators in the state."He also stated that ambulance services and Covid-19 testing labs have also increased in the state, adding that there are 360 ambulances in the state at present and 10 government labs are conducting tests across the state round the clock.Responding to a question on the rising mortality rate in the state, the Chief Secretary said that most of the deaths are due to late admission of the Covid-19 patient.He also said that the Health Secretary will talk to the hospital management and review the availability of beds in hospitals, adding that a joint team comprising of officials from the Health department, district officers, and police will inspect hospitals."Remediviser injections will be available in the markets at the rates fixed by the government, nothing extra shall be charged," he added.Health Secretary Amit Negi informed that Covid-dedicated hospital with a capacity of 500-beds is being constructed in Dr Susheela Tiwari Government Hospital, Haldwani; a 500-bed Covid hospital is being built in Rishikesh and a 100-bed ICU hospital is also being set up within AIIMS Rishikesh.Additional Health Secretary Pankaj Pandey said," If the RT-PCR reports are late, the person who will get the test done will be given a Corona kit. This system has been implemented in all the districts. The goal is to reduce the death toll."As per the state health bulletin, Uttarakhand had 74,480 active Covid-19 cases till Monday 7 am. The death toll in the state stands at 3,896.The Uttarakhand government had on Sunday imposed a state-wide lockdown till May 18 in light of the rapidly increasing Covid-19 cases.Cabinet minister and government Spokesperson Subodh Uniyal had said that shops will only be open from 7 am to 10, except tomorrow (Monday), where shops will be open till 1 pm."Uttarakhand government has decided to impose 'Covid Curfew' between 6 am on May 11 and 6 am on May 18 across the state to contain the spread of the disease. Essential services will be allowed during this period," Uniyal had said.Uniyal had further said the not more than 20 people be allowed to attend a wedding ceremony, and for interstate movements, vehicles will not be allowed to take more than 50 per cent of passengers."Interstate travellers will now have to produce negative RT-PCR results not older than 72 hours and will have to register themselves on the Dehradun administration's portal. People of Uttarakhand coming from outside will have to undergo 7-day isolation," Uniyal had said.All those travelling to get vaccinated will be exempted from the ban for but they will have to show registration, the minister had said.Meanwhile, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Monday inaugurated the vaccination drive for people above 18 years of age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-says-need-1-lakh-doses-per-day-asks-centre-if-it-can-directly-import-covid-19-vaccine-101620708112556.html
11-05-2021||Noida||Chaotic start for vaccination for 18-44 years in Noida, over 2,600 jabs on day 1||Over 2,600 people between 18-44 years got vaccinated for Covid-19 in Gautam Buddh Nagar on Monday, as the inoculation for the age category officially began in the western Uttar Pradesh district, officials said.The day began on a chaotic note for several people with many of them facing difficulty in getting their jabs due to confusion over pre-registration that also led to crowding is some of the 21 government inoculation centres spread across Noida and Greater Noida.Some residents claimed they returned home after seeing "huge crowds" at the vaccination centres, with some videos which surfaced on social media corroborating their claims.According to official figures of the health department, 2,603 people in the age group of 18-44 years got their first dose of vaccine on Monday.Total 4,621 people got vaccinated in Gautam Buddh Nagar during the day. Of these, 256 above 60 years got their first dose and 594 their second dose.In the 45-59 years age group, 577 people got their first dose and 550 their second dose, while the rest of the jabs were given to health care workers and others, the data showed.Chief Medical Officer Dr Deepak Ohri urged residents to book their vaccine slots through the CoWin portal or the Aarogya Setu app and not go to centres which are not allotted to them.His appeal came after chaotic scenes were witnessed at vaccination centres in the morning leading to the deployment of police to regulate the crowd, while confusion continued at some places later in the day, too.“In wake of the pandemic, vaccination for 18-44 age group people has been started in Gautam Buddh Nagar district. Residents can register on the CoWin portal or the Aarogya Setu app, book a slot and reach the designated hospital or health centre to get vaccinated,” Ohri said in a statement.“Vaccination would not be done for anyone at any other hospital other than that allotted one. Please do not go to any hospital or health centre until unless not registered and slot booked to avoid inconvenience,” the senior doctor urged.A woman from Sarfabad village in Noida said she and her husband had to return without vaccination as they thought that the process was a walk-in drive like it was for the elderly people.“I had no clue about the registration process. It was only after reaching at the centre that I was told about it. I got to know that a smart phone or computer is needed for registration. My family doesn't have either,” the woman, who works as a domestic help in the city, claimed.Hesitant to share her name, the 30-something woman said she would request the family for whom she works to get her vaccine registration done.The vaccination drive is free at government centres while private hospitals are charging ₹900 for a dose, even as none of the centres in the district showed availability of slots on the official portals for the next few coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/chaotic-start-for-vaccination-for-18-44-years-in-noida-over-2-600-jabs-on-day-1-101620708338534.html
11-05-2021||Patna||Bihar govt rate fixed for computed tomography scan higher than AIIMS, CGHS||The Bihar government has dismissed criticism that the rate it fixed for high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) scan of thorax—being used to measure the infection in lungs of Covid patients—was on the higher side citing the unique circumstances presented by the pandemic outbreak.On Saturday, the government capped the scan at all private laboratories in the state at ₹2,500 for single-slice CT machine and ₹3,000 for multi-slice CT machine with the aim to prevent profiteering when it’s being used extensively to decide the line of treatment for Covid-19 patients.However, some questioned the rationale for the rate slab fixed by the government citing it cost less ( ₹1,200) at Patna’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and was also higher than the rates ( ₹1700-- ₹2,000) approved by the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS).While reimbursing treatment cost to any of its employees, the state government relies on rates fixed by AIIMS or the CGHS. However, this was not done while capping the rate for the HRCT test.“We do rely on CGHS and AIIMS rates while reimbursing the cost of treatment, even if undertaken in a private facility by our employees. However, this is a pandemic, where the situation is different,” said Dr Naveen Chandra Prasad, director-in-chief, disease control, health department, Bihar.The health department claims the higher rates also account for other expenses and were in line with the limit fixed by other states.“We had taken into account the rates of Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand that ranged between ₹2,000 and ₹3,000, while capping our rate for HRCT scan of thorax, depending on the quality of the machine. The rate includes the cost of PPE kit, sanitisation or GST, required if any,” Dr Prasad said.Though on the higher side compared to the rates at government hospitals, the capping has still managed to bring down the cost of the computed tomography scan, which was as high as ₹5,100 in some private laboratories in Patna before the order came into effect.In the meanwhile, the Covid crisis in the state has shown signs of easing a bit with the test positivity rate (TPR), which was at 16.1% on April 30, declining to 10.3% on May 9. The TPR measures the percentage of positive cases among all those tested for the disease on a given day.Bihar reported 10,174 new Covid-19 infections on Monday, taking the total number of cases to 601,650. Patna topped with 1,745 new cases, followed by Katihar 706, Gopalganj 541, East Champaran 478, Samastipur 463, Begusarai 435 and Vaishali 417 among others.In other measures to standardise the cost of treatment for Covid patients, the state government on May 5 fixed the rates for both AC and non-AC private ambulances in the state.Private ambulances now cannot charge more than ₹1,500 for a small non-AC vehicle up to 50km (including both sides), and ₹2,500 for bigger vehicles with AC for the same distance. Last year in August, the government also capped treatment rate for Covid-19 patients at private hospitals to a maximum of ₹18,000 per day for ICU patients with ventilator support for NABH (national accreditation board of hospitals) accredited hospitals and ₹15,000 for non-NABH accredited hospitals in Patna, while the rates were lesser for the remaining 37 districts of Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-govt-rate-fixed-for-computed-tomography-scan-higher-than-aiims-cghs-101620704724371.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||Partly cloudy sky with a chance of thunder, lightning in Delhi today||Delhi is likely to see a partly cloudy sky on Tuesday with the possibility of thunder and lightning, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Tuesday is likely to be at 24 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 39°C. The minimum temperature on Monday was 25°C, and the maximum temperature was 37°C. Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality dropped in moderate category on Tuesday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 128. Also Read | Heatwave conditions won’t set in till May 18: IMDAn AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Monday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring center, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality is in the moderate category as forecasted. Isolated thunderstorms with gusty winds are likely, it may lead to an Isolated dust spike at a few locations for one or two hours. Better ventilation is forecasted for the next three days. Hence, AQI is forecasted to stay improved in the moderate to satisfactory category for the next three days. Rabi crop burning induced fire counts in north India are high in Punjab its influence is low in Delhi air as usual due to unfavourable summer meteorological factors and unfavourable transport winds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/partly-cloudy-sky-with-a-chance-of-thunder-lightning-in-delhi-today-101620702204214.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to provide ₹5,000 to each family below poverty line as Covid-19 aid||Haryana Government will provide ₹5,000 to the families below the poverty line (BPL) in the state as their livelihood has been affected during the Covid-19 pandemic, said state home minister Anil Vij on Monday.Speaking to ANI, the minister said, "It has been decided to provide ₹5,000 to the families below the poverty line as their livelihood has been affected due to Covid-19. They are facing a lot of difficulties."He further spoke about the epidemic alert 'Surakshit Haryana' announced in the state for one week, from May 10 to 17 May. He said restrictions added to regulations of the first lockdown and will continue. "Gathering of more than 11 people is prohibited, even at weddings and funerals. No procession is allowed," he added.In order to contain the Covid-19 outbreak, Haryana on Sunday extended lockdown for another week starting from May 10 to May 17, said the state government.Haryana reported 12,718 new Covid-19 cases and 161 deaths in the last 24 hours, said the state health department on Monday. The new fatalities pushed the Covid-19 death toll to 5,766. Meanwhile, the active number of Covid-19 cases in Haryana stands at 1,13,232.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-provide-rs-5-000-to-each-family-below-poverty-line-as-covid-19-aid-101620697522103.html
11-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka to set up Covid-19 task force to tackle third wave of pandemic||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday asked officials to prepare for the third wave of Covid-19 and ordered the setting up of a task force committee to handle the forthcoming situation.India is currently dealing with a devastating second Covid-19 wave that has swept through the nation, crushing the country's health infrastructure and overburdening frontline medical workers.During a meeting with ministers and officials on the Covid-19 situation, Yediyurappa said a task force should be constituted to plan for the third wave, according to a statement from his office.He further directed to enforce strict rules, ensuring compliance with the mandatory requirements of the public and avoiding unnecessary movement of people.He ordered immediate strict action in case of irregularities in matters including black marketing oxygen, Remdesivir, and beds for patients.The officials were asked to initiate the work of installation of the oxygen generator plant in medical colleges and hospitals.The chief ministers instructed MLAs and ministers to work hard to control the Covid-19 situation in their respective constituencies/districts.To curb the surge of Covid-19 cases, the Karnataka government has imposed a complete lockdown for two weeks in the state from 6am on May 10 to 6am on May 24. Informing about the move, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said eateries, meat shops, and vegetable shops in the state can operate from 6 am to 10 am during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-to-set-up-covid-19-task-force-to-tackle-third-wave-of-pandemic-101620697022108.html
11-05-2021||Noida||Now Noida residents can get new oxygen cylinders from Tuesday||Starting Tuesday, Noida residents can get new oxygen cylinders for Covid-19 patients in home isolation here with a refundable security deposit of ₹2,500, officials said on Monday.The initiative is part of an ongoing effort of Noida Authority with support from the Adani Group, which has provided it with 100 five-litre capacity oxygen cylinders, they said.The authority had recently started the facility for refilling oxygen in empty cylinders for patients in isolation centres through RWAs and Apartment Owners Associations (AOAs) amid a surge in demand for the life-sustaining gas in the region due to the pandemic.While the move brought relief to many people, trouble continued for several who found it difficult to arrange empty oxygen cylinders that were required to avail the facility.“Residents of sectors and villages in Noida who are under home isolation due to COVID-19 and have been recommended external oxygen support by doctors can get these 5-litre cylinders which have been made available by the Adani Group as part of their CSR activity,” the authority said in a statement.“A total of 100 such cylinders have been provided whose distribution will take place according to work circles from May 11. Any needy person can avail the service by depositing a security fees of ₹2,500 along with refilling fees of ₹200. The security fees would be returned once the cylinder is returned,” it stated.Such cylinders will have to be returned in a maximum of seven days, it added.The facility for distribution would be available at the community centres at Jhandupura, Morna, Sector 62, Kakrala Khwaspur and at Baraat Ghars of Hoshiyarpur in Sector 51, Parthala Khanjarpur, Shahdara and Jhatta. It would also be available at the Sector 24 Store near Manas Hospital.The timing for distribution of cylinders is 10 am to 4 pm, the authority added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/now-noida-residents-can-get-new-oxygen-cylinders-from-tuesday-101620692570173.html
11-05-2021||Noida||UP man arrested for duping Covid-hit people in need of oxygen, medicines||The Noida Police on Monday arrested a Ghaziabad resident accused of duping people by taking exorbitant amounts of money in advance from them for providing oxygen cylinders or concentrators and crucial medicines needed for Covid-19 patients.The accused had floated his phone numbers on social media sites on pretext of providing these resources amid their shortage due to increased demand, officials said."When approached by needy people, accused Vishal alias Nishant Singh would ask them to make an advance payment online for oxygen cylinders or concentrators or the medicines, as per the requirement. He would charge them anything between ₹20,000 to ₹1,00,000 but not deliver the product," a police spokesperson said.After the money was transferred to his account, Singh would go inaccessible by either changing phone numbers or blocking them, leaving the people hit by the pandemic in the lurch, the official added.The Noida Police said they had got several complaints regarding the matter and an FIR was lodged at the Sector 20 police station after which the accused was tracked down and arrested from his residence in Ghaziabad's Vaishali on Monday.The accused has been booked under Indian Penal Code sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) besides provisions of the National Disaster Management Act, the police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/up-man-arrested-for-duping-covid-hit-people-in-need-of-oxygen-medicines-101620692587099.html
11-05-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand goes under stricter curfew from Tuesday amid Covid-19 surge||Amid the surging cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Uttarakhand will go for a stricter curfew from Tuesday at 6am to May 18 till 6am. The decision was taken by state cabinet minister Subodh Uniyal in order to break the transmission chain of Covid-19.Meanwhile, officials said that people going to the high Himalayan valleys of Darma, Vyas and Chaudas in Dharchula sub division will now have to produce a negative RT-PCR report not older than a week.Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Monday formally launched the Covid-19 vaccination drive for people aged 18-44 years and said it is the first state in the country to make the exercise free of cost. "Fifty lakh youngsters of Uttarakhand are to be inoculated against the pandemic as part of the drive. Uttarakhand is the first state to announce that people in the age group of 18-44 years will be administered the vaccine jabs for free. The state government will bear the cost of ₹400 crore to be incurred in the exercise," he said.Here's what's allowed and what's not allowed during the stricter curfew:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-goes-under-stricter-curfew-from-tuesday-amid-covid-19-surge-101620691069375.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The fire this time around||There’s fire raging these days across the city. The gulmohar trees are in scarlet bloom. Their flowering tend to be unpredictable. Sometimes they’re just a few vines of blossom in the tree’s dense foliage, looking like a flash of lightning in the sky. And sometimes the whole tree becomes an entanglement of that red, as if a flame is leaping about uncontrollably.The first flowers start popping out in late April, and by May the gulmohar’s glow covers the city like a blush spreading on a shy man’s cheek. One of the best places to spot them is in... well, Gulmohar Park, the neighbourhood. Nehru Park, too, possesses a few gulmohars of the most brilliant red. The gulmohar aficionados will also like to drive through Shanti Path in the diplomatic enclave. And lest we forget, a handful of gorgeous gulmohars stand on the road between Nehru Place and Kailash Colony Metro station; the broad pavement is presently covered with fallen reds that the municipal staff gathers in the morning. (One wonders where these flowers end up—in the landfills of Ghazipur, where a part of the city’s trash is disposed off?)Since these are extraordinary times, with the city in lockdown, there is no going out for gulmohar-spotting. The best is to look out in your neighbourhood, and marvel at your luck if you are able to catch a glimpse of the flowery flames through a window or balcony. Like this third floor apartment in Hauz Khas village, into which a blossoming gulmohar branch is currently peeping in like a nosy neighbour. Nearby, a forestry area is speckled with stand-alone gulmohars, each separated from the other by neems, peepals, pilkhans, and bougainvillaeas. One dare not enter this wild jungle, but the fence running along the road, connecting Hauz Khas village to Aurobindo Market, has several good observation spots. From there, the gulmohars look like bonfires. This late afternoon, some of the red flowers are falling whole on the pavement. Each flower has five petals, and curiously enough one of them is always white with streaks of red. As you gaze at the petals, you’ll note that they carry many hues of red, almost amounting to orange at places.This is also the season of the blooming for amaltas. Outside a bungalow in Vasant Vihar’s Poorvi Marg, the branches of an amaltas are entangled within the branches of a gulmohar. You are left unsure where your true loyalties lie.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-fire-this-time-around-101620687823796.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||1 held for duping people on pretext of remdesivir sale||A 53-year-old travel agent has been arrested for allegedly cheating several Covid patients and their families in Delhi and adjoining areas in the guise of selling remdesivir injections, the police said on Monday.Police said the suspect, identified as Anuj Kumar Anand, allegedly demanded between ₹25,000 and ₹50,000 for a vial of remdesivir and tricked victims into transferring either the full amount or half of it to secure the vial. “Not a single person was delivered the injection,” said deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse.“Anand’s cellphone details show that he had contacted more than 200 people who were seeking remdesivir injections for Covid patients. In just two days (April 26 and 27), victims deposited ₹3 lakh in his bank account. Several WhatsApp chats and audio conversations have been found in his mobile phone. He also threatened people who were asking for refunds,” said DCP Alphonse.With Anand’s arrest, four cheating cases registered at police stations in north, southeast, outer and northeast districts have been solved, police said, adding that there are many complaints pending against him at Faridabad and Gurugram as well. “We are trying to identify other victims who were duped by Anand. For that we are examining his bank statement and call details,” the DCP added.Also read | HC: Take steps to stop hoarding, black marketingPolice said that for the last two weeks, they were receiving information about a man who had been allegedly cheating people in the name of providing them remdesivir injections. Through technical surveillance, the suspect was identified and a decoy customer was used to strike a deal with him for obtaining a remdesivir injection. Accordingly, a raid was conducted and Anand was arrested on Saturday from Lajpat Nagar area, police said.During questioning, DCP Alphonse said, Anand disclosed that he worked as a travel agent on commission basis but was left without a livelihood due to the lockdown.On April 21, he visited a private hospital in south Delhi and noticed that there was an acute shortage of remdesivir injections as well as oxygen cylinders and people were ready to pay any amount to get them.“Anand planned to earn a quick buck by assuring people remdesivir injections and started sending messages out in various groups regarding the availability of vials for ₹25,000 each. People, desperate for the medication, started calling him and he made them deposit half the amount but never delivered as he did not have any,” the DCP said.In one case, Anand demanded ₹50,000 from a woman for delivering an injection for her father-in-law, a Covid patient undergoing treatment in a hospital in north Delhi. She paid ₹25,000 as advance but never got the injection, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/1-held-for-duping-people-on-pretext-of-remdesivir-sale-101620687583855.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||DMRC fined ₹4L for felling trees during Phase 4 work||The Delhi forest department has slapped a fine of ₹4.30 lakh on Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) for damaging and illegally cutting trees in a deemed forest area between Vikaspuri and Mukarba Chowk, a section of the upcoming Janakpuri-RK Ashram corridor of Metro Phase 4, senior forest department officials said.Documents accessed by Hindustan Times show that the deputy conservator forests (west division) Navneet Srivastava, on April 19, issued the order imposing the fine on DMRC for offences such as cutting, damaging, pruning and concreting 27 fully grown trees between Vikaspuri and Mukarba Chowk.DMRC on Monday reiterated that no tree was damaged for construction on the said stretch and that no work has been going on there since August 25, 2020.“The officials from the west division inspected the site and reported illegal cutting, pruning, head backing, and damaging of trees by DMRC... After going through the facts of the case and as empowered under Section 21 of the Delhi Preservation of Trees Act (1994), I agree to compound the offence,” the order issued by Srivastava read.The tree varieties that have been impacted by the Metro construction include banyan, jungle jalebi, alstonia, siras, papri, kachnar and sheesham, said the forest department. The DCF (west) said that Delhi Metro has been fined ₹20,000 each for pruning four trees, ₹60,000 each for the cutting and removal of two trees and ₹10,000 per tree for concretising and damaging the roots of 21 trees.In an e-mail response to HT, DMRC said, “Work has been stopped in the forest area since August 25, 2020, as per the directions and orders issued by the DCF (west), forest department. DMRC is taking all necessary precautions to save the trees along the (track) alignment.” DMRC said 2,958 trees are proposed to be cut between Krishna Park and Mukarba Chowk for the construction of the corridor.While the forest department order states that the penalty amount needs to be deposited by the erring agency within a period of 30 days from the date of the order, the DMRC officials privy to the matter said that they have not received any communication from the forest department regarding the fine.“Since the lockdown started in Delhi immediately after the order imposing a penalty on DMRC was issued on April 19, no exchange from DMRC has come to our notice because our office is now functioning only on a need-to basis,” said a senior forest department official.A senior DMRC official said the body has followed all the necessary protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dmrc-fined-4l-for-felling-trees-during-phase-4-work-101620687040155.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||HC asks if minister sourced oxygen from state allocation||The Delhi high court on Monday asked whether oxygen was given to the state’s food and supplies minister Imran Hussain by the refillers supplying the gas to hospitals, nursing homes and individuals.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli, while hearing a plea to stop the alleged “unauthorised”, “unlawful and “arbitrary distribution” of oxygen cylinders by the MLA in his constituency Ballimaran, asked Hussain to submit documents to support his claim that he bought the oxygen from Faridabad for distribution among the needy.“We are not asking you to stop it.. Delhi government is saying it doesn’t have (oxygen).. if you are taking from them (refillers), you are curtailing supplies..which is not permissible,” it added.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, told the court that oxygen was not procured from Delhi. The matter will now be heard on May 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-asks-if-minister-sourced-oxygen-from-state-allocation-101620686772373.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||Woman poses as a nurse to offer hospital beds, arrested||A woman was posing as a nurse from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi, and taking money to get patients admitted to Lok Nayak hospital, the city’s largest Covid-19 facility, according to a complaint filed by the hospital’s chief medical officer(CMO).Delhi Police on Monday confirmed they have arrested the woman, filed a case of cheating, and are probing the case. Police said, prima facie (at first sight), it appears that the woman was working alone and used a forged AIIMS identity card.Police said the CMO wrote to the central district police on May 2 after being informed that a “nurse from AIIMS” was getting critical patients admitted to the facility. The CMO, Gurpreet Singh, alleged that, on the night of May 2, junior resident doctors spotted the woman with a 66-year-old Covid-19 patient inside the hospital.“The woman was visiting the hospital regularly and she posed as a health worker in full PPE kit. She identified herself as Heena in her identity card and to our junior resident doctors. Our officers found her behaviour suspicious, and reported the matter to the police. A police team reached the spot and took her into custody. She was taking money to admit critical patients. Our CMO suspected that she may have been running this racket for quite some time and so wrote to the police,” said a hospital official, who asked not to be named.Delhi Police officers said they took the woman into custody, and her identity was later revealed as Uttarakhand resident Geeta Saroja. Police found two forged identity cards on her, both identifying her as Heena, one as a nurse from AIIMS and other as an NGO worker.An investigating officer, who asked not to be named, said, “She was taking money from critical patients who queue up outside the hospital. So far, it looks like she was working alone. But we are still probing her contacts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/woman-poses-as-a-nurse-to-offer-hospital-beds-arrested-101620686525585.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||HC: Take steps to stop hoarding, black marketing||The Delhi high court on Monday asked the Centre and Delhi government to take steps to prevent black marketing and hoarding of medicines and medical equipment, such as oxygen concentrators.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli, while hearing a plea seeking directions to declare medicines and medical equipment meant for Covid treatment as essential commodities under the Essential Commodities Act, said both authorities should act without waiting for an order from the court.The court issued notice to the Union health ministry and the Delhi government, represented by additional standing counsel Anuj Aggarwal, on the plea which has also sought setting up of fast track courts to deal exclusively with cases of black marketing and hoarding of medicines and equipment. The petition by Delhi resident Manisha Chauhan has also sought appointment of special public prosecutors for the same.Also read | Hoarding of oxygen devices: Look-out circular against Khan Market restaurateurAdvocates Sanjeev Sagar and Nazia Parveen, appearing for Chauhan, told the court that in the absence of a notification declaring medicines and equipment meant for Covid as essential commodities, these are being hoarded and black marketed.Central government standing counsel Amit Mahajan told the court that the suggestion to fix an MRP on equipments was good and was being considered.The bench asked the government to examine whether it can issue any notification to prevent hoarding and black marketing of the imported items.It also directed the Delhi government to place on record the details of seizure and release of oxygen concentrators, medicines and other equipments.The court also directed all the hospitals to update the data of available beds so that citizens can know the details in real time.During the proceedings, the court also admonished the Delhi government for not advertising to call upon the services of the doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-take-steps-to-stop-hoarding-black-marketing-101620685820812.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||Jab supplies regulated by Centre, not firms: Manish Sisodia||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre was regulating the vaccine orders placed by states to the two Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers — Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech — and curtailing the doses given to each state.Sisodia was reacting to the BJP’s allegations that the Delhi government had only ordered 550,000 doses and did not plan the jabs drive properly.Addressing a press briefing on Monday, Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s nodal minister for managing Covid-19, said the Delhi government in April wrote to the two vaccine makers SII and Bharat Biotech, seeking 6.7 million doses from each. He said instead of the manufacturers replying, it was the central government that wrote back, stating that Delhi was entitled to only 359,000 doses for the month of May.“When the Centre decided in April that state governments could directly approach the vaccine companies for getting the shots, Delhi government wrote a letter to acquire 1.34 crore vaccination doses for citizens in the 18-45 year age group. But instead of receiving the requested vaccines, Delhi government received a letter from the Centre stating that we would get just 3.59 lakh vaccines, of which 92,840 doses would be Covaxin and 267,690 doses would be Covishield,” he said.Also read | Covid-19: Capital’s positivity dips below crucial 20% levelDelhi for two days has warned of an impending vaccine shortage in the city and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal wrote to the Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, seeking the Centre’s help in procuring more vaccines.Vaccines for adults below the age of 45 need to be procured directly by the states and private hospitals, according to rules by the Union government, which said that its own vaccination campaign will apply only to those aged 45 and older. Vaccine makers will need to keep 50% of their monthly production for the Union government’s procurement, with states and private hospitals eligible for the rest.Sisodia’s statement came hours after BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra accused Kejriwal and the Delhi government of being “busy in advertising”, instead of pushing the vaccination programme in the city. Delhi BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana said the letters shown by Sisodia stated that the city administration was only “planning” to procure that many doses of vaccine and that the actual order was for far less.“The Delhi government’s letter to the manufacturers says it is planning to procure the doses which exposes Sisodia’s claim that his government had ordered for the vaccines. The truth is that they did not place an order for vaccines in time,” he said.Sisodia retaliated by accusing the BJP of “shamelessly lying”. “We do not understand the reason behind such lies because the Centre ultimately decides how many vaccines will be distributed to states, and then to the nations abroad. The papers from vaccine companies and the health ministry itself are proof that the central government has completely overlooked the crisis at hand, and instead exported vaccines to other countries. If 6.5 crore doses that were exported, had been administered to people of the country, so many lives could have been saved,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jab-supplies-regulated-by-centre-not-firms-manish-sisodia-101620685532337.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||Corporation schools in capital turn vaccine sites for 18-44 age group||After Delhi government schools, municipal schools in the national capital were turned into Covid-19 vaccination centres on Monday to inoculate the 18-44 age group. Officials at the three civic bodies — east, north, and south — have been requesting the Delhi government to turn their schools into vaccination centres so that more number of beneficiaries in this age group are covered.The Delhi government has approved converting 15 schools run by the north corporation, 11 of the south corporation, and seven of the east corporation into Covid-19 vaccination sites.North corporation mayor Jai Prakash said four of the 15 centres started functioning on Monday. “The remaining 11 will start functioning on Tuesday. We have been requesting the Delhi government to start centres in each ward to ensure that young people do not have to travel to different parts of the city to get the shot, given the present situation,” he said.In east Delhi, four schools were converted into jab centres on Monday, while the other three will start functioning from Tuesday. East corporation mayor Nirmal Jain said, “We wrote to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on May 6, asking for permission to set up centres in our schools. Now the government has allowed us to set up seven such centres,” he said.The south corporation on Monday started four of 11 centres. South civic body education committee chairperson Mukesh Suryan said, “The government will provide us with the vaccine. We will ensure all other support systems.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/corporation-schools-in-capital-turn-vaccine-sites-for-18-44-age-group-101620685039984.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC to hear plea seeking to halt Vista construction||The Delhi high court will hear on Tuesday a plea seeking to halt the construction of the Central Vista amid the raging second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.The project envisages constructing a new Parliament House, a new residential complex for the Prime Minister and the Vice-President, as well as several new office buildings and a Central Secretariat.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jasmeet Singh asked senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, appearing for the petitioner, to file an application for early hearing after he urgently mentioned the matter.Luthra told the bench that he was mentioning the matter as the Supreme Court on May 7 asked the petitioners to seek urgent hearing before the high court on May 10.Petitioners, Anya Malhotra, who works as a translator, and Sohail Hashmi, a historian, had moved the apex court against the high court’s May 4 order adjourning their plea to May 17.The high court had adjourned the matter saying it wants to study the apex court’s January 5 judgment which gave a go ahead to the Central Vista project.In the appeal before the Supreme Court, the petitioners had contended that the project was not an essential activity and therefore, it can be put on hold.“Labours are being transported from Sarai Kale Khan and Karol Bagh area to Rajpath and Central Vista, where construction work is going on. This enhances chances of spread of COVID infection among them,” Luthra had told the apex court.On Monday, he made the same argument before the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-to-hear-plea-seeking-to-halt-vista-construction-101620684770755.html
11-05-2021||Dehradun||HC raps Uttarakhand for organising religious events amid pandemic||The Uttarakhand high court on Monday pulled up the state government for continuing to allow religious events despite a surge in Covid-19 cases and doubted its preparedness to deal with the pandemic, asking it to “wake up from slumber”.“We cannot behave like the proverbial ostrich and bury our head in sand in the face of the pandemic,” chief justice RS Chauhan and justice Alok Kumar Verma said while hearing a petition on the government’s handling of the pandemic.The bench asked why the state was still not prepared despite combating the pandemic for more than a year, and reminded the government about predictions of a third wave. The court said the while the state reeled under the effect of the Kumbh Mela, the Purnagiri Mela took place attracting a crowd of 10,000 people.The court questioned the state for the confusion over the Char Dham yatra, asking whether the annual pilgrimage will be allowed to become a coronavirus hotbed.While the government says the yatra has been cancelled, the board managing the temples has issued the standard operating procedure for the yatra, it said.On the report filed by health secretary Amit Negi on strengthening medical facilities over the past few months, the HC said it was not enough to fight the second wave, let alone the third.Allow state to use O2 produced here: CourtThe high court directed the Centre to consider allowing the state to use medical oxygen generated in the state instead of sending part of it to other states. After hearing a plea claiming that the state has to send a part of the medical oxygen produced here to other states, the court maintained that oxygen should be sent to other states only when its oxygen requirement is met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/hc-raps-uttarakhand-for-organising-religious-events-amid-pandemic-101620682684306.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala man, mother booked for wife’s suicide||A man and his mother were booked after his wife allegedly committed suicide at a village in Ambala, the police said on Monday.The victim’s brother, who is from Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh, told the police that both his sisters were married in the same house, and the elder sister’s husband had called him on Sunday to inform him of her death, citing heart attack, adding that he had performed the cremation before they or the police could reach.“But when we reached there, my younger sister told me that their mother-in-law and the elder sister’s husband had fought with both of them on Saturday for not bringing enough dowry. On Sunday morning, my sister was found hanging and the younger one fainted soon after the incident,” he said in his police statement.Police said a case under Sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 201 (casing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender), 306 (abetment of suicide) and 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the mother-son duo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/up-man-mother-booked-for-wife-s-suicide-in-ambala-101620681321606.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: No tracing for workplace contacts of PGIMER’s health workers||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has revised its quarantine policy for health-care workers under which no contact tracing will be conducted for workplace contacts, who will continue to perform duties if they do not exhibit any symptoms.The institute is facing an acute workforce crunch with around 450 Covid-19 patients currently being treated, while around 1,000 patients are admitted for other ailments.The institute has already closed the physical out-patient department (OPD) and stopped conducting scheduled surgeries to divert more health workers to emergency and Covid duties.In the last 40 days, around 600 health workers in the institute have been found infected while close to 1,300 have recovered from the infection since the pandemic began.“There will be no risk assessment and contact tracing of workplace contacts of Covid-19 positive health-care workers. All workplace contacts who are asymptomatic will be continuing their duties following all measures, and will be tested only if they develop symptoms. Symptomatic workplace contacts will be tested and will follow isolation guidelines if they test positive ,” the new guidelines state.The health workers have been asked to report immediately to their area administrative in-charge if they develop fever, cough, loss of taste/smell, breathlessness, or any other Covid-related symptom. Administrative in-charge should arrange for testing of symptomatic persons at the earliest, and till the test report arrives, the symptomatic health worker should be refrained from doing any work in the hospital and they can join back if they test negative or can avail medical leave or casual leave/earned leave if they need rest.Quarantine, isolation scenariosHealth-care workers who are household contacts of Covid-19 positive patients will be asked to quarantine for 7 days starting from the last day of exposure. They will be tested on Day 7 if they are asymptomatic or earlier in case they develop symptoms. They will be back on duty after Day 7 with a negative report.Health workers with mild illness will be put under home isolation for 10 days from the day of testing, irrespective of the date of onset of symptoms. They can join back on Day 11 provided they are asymptomatic and afebrile for 24 hours without antipyretics. If the health worker remains symptomatic, they should inform their administrative head.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-no-tracing-for-workplace-contacts-of-pgimer-s-health-workers-101620680541513.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid surge in Chandigarh: 70% convicts at Model Jail to be released on special parole||On the directions of a high-powered committee, around 70% of convicted prisoners are set to be released from the Chandigarh Model Jail on special parole.The meeting was held on the directions of the Supreme Court and was chaired by justice Jaswant Singh, judge of the Punjab and Haryana high court and executive chairman of the State Legal Services Authority, Chandigarh.The committee has directed that four categories of prisoners, including those who were at present on parole, be granted a 90-day special parole.Those convicts who have previously availed special parole should be granted a fresh one (as a one-time measure only) on the same set of sureties. Those who had surrendered in time and those convicts who have not availed a parole or a special parole to date, and who have now applied for one, will be eligible.The special parole is not for foreign nationals or those who have violated the special parole conditions and have been re-arrested during the last six months.At present there are 302 convicted prisoners in the jail, of which 225 (roughly 70%) will benefit from the said order. As per the details, 103 convicts have not availed any parole to date while 164 convicts have availed one; 17 are presently on parole.Three convicts were rearrested after parole violation, 25 are lodged with pending cases, bad conduct or restricted under sections, and there are seven foreigners or high-risk prisoners.Meanwhile, there are 625 undertrial prisoners of which roughly 160 are those who have cases for which the maximum prescribed punishment is 7 years or less who will benefit from the fresh orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-surge-in-chandigarh-70-convicts-at-model-jail-to-be-released-on-special-parole-101620679761365.html
11-05-2021||Other||Web channel scribe in Ludhiana booked for spreading fake news||The Model Town police on Monday booked web channel reporter, along with six other unidentified persons, for spreading fake news about the death of two Covid patients at Krishna Charitable Hospital, Model Town.The accused was identified as Sandeep Kumar Sharma, a scribe of Jan Hitaishi, a web channel.The case was registered on the complaint of Khushbakht Rai, president of Krishna Charitable Hospital, Model Town.The complainant said that on Monday around 10am, attendants of two patients, who had succumbed to the virus, entered the Covid 19 ward with bouncers and started creating ruckus. The attendants allegedly started spreading rumours that their kin had succumbed due to shortage of oxygen. They also called some media persons, who started flashing the unverified claims on their web channel. A health department team, led by district family planning officer Dr SP Singh, conducted a probe into the allegations of oxygen shortage and found no merit in it. “There is no shortfall of oxygen in the hospital. Further, the patients were being treated under the level- 3 (critical) categorically,” said Dr SP Singh, who is also member of the oxygen monitoring committee.Model Town station house officer, inspector Inderjit Singh said a case under Sections 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot—if rioting be committed—if not committed), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 499 (defamation), 500 (defamation) and 505 (1) (whoever makes, publishes or circulates any statement, rumour or report) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused. The police will arrest the accused soon, he added.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal and deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma condemned the incident and appealed to people against spreading rumours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/web-channel-scribe-in-ludhiana-booked-for-spreading-fake-news-101620679341571.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Admission process at Chandigarh govt schools deferred as two teachers die of Covid||UT director of school education (DSE) Rubinderjit Singh Brar on Monday suspended all admission-related processes at government schools till May 31. Brar said that the education department will take up the matter of prioritised vaccination for teachers with UT director of health services. The decision comes after two teachers succumbed to Covid in the last three days. Also, government school teachers deputed on Covid duty, have sought that they are allowed to stay at home for some time. Teachers on Covid duty are deputed outside containment zones or government hospitals along with officials of the UT administration. Amit Mittal, who worked as a junior basic training (JBT) teacher at Government Model Senior Secondary School, passed away from Covid on Monday. He was working under the Samagra Shiksha Scheme and had been posted on Covid duty. Three days ago, Anju, a maths teacher at Government Model High School, Sector 46, had lost her life to the virus on Saturday. Swarn Singh Kamboj, president of the UT Cadre of Educational Employees Union, said, “We have been asking authorities for concession to teachers. Those above the age of 45 or with co-morbidities must be excused from Covid duty. They also must be vaccinated on priority.” Savinder Singh, chairman of the Joint Action Committee of Teachers, UT Chandigarh, added, “We met with education department officials on Monday and told them that teachers on Covid duty should be considered frontline workers and be given a benefit of ₹50 lakh ex-gratia in case of any untoward incident.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/admission-process-at-chandigarh-govt-schools-deferred-as-two-teachers-die-of-covid-101620679222810.html
11-05-2021||Other||Noon curfew spoils the broth for eateries||Eatery owners in the city say the seven-hour curfew relaxation in the morning is of no use for them as most of their orders come post noon, and demand that the administration should allow them to make home-deliveries throughout the day. Amarvir Singh, president of the hotel and restaurant association of Ludhiana, said that most of the eateries had zero business on Monday due to the curfew.“The hospitality industry accounts for just 3% of the industry sector in Ludhiana. While all other industries have been allowed 24x7 operations, we have been neglected. The district administration should allow us to at least run home-deliveries throughout the day.”He revealed that residents rarely order cooked food before 12pm as it is perishable and can’t be stored till night. Amarvir said that most eateries are reporting a rise in orders for fish dishes. “We got more than 100 orders for fish-based dishes but could not deliver it due to the 12pm curfew,” he said.Navjot Singh, the owner of Navjot Chicken, located near the inter-state bus terminal, said that they get the delivery of raw chicken by 9am and it takes almost two hours to cook the dishes, which leaves no time for delivery. “We got only three customers today and they too came around 11.45am. As we did not get any orders for home delivery, I distributed the cooked chicken among my relatives and friends,” he said, adding that he won’t be opening up his eatery till the administration allows home delivery services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noon-curfew-spoils-the-broth-for-eateries-101620679040720.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Western Command’s 100-bed hospital at Panjab University now operational||As part of the city’s continued fight against the raging pandemic, the Western Command on Monday dedicated three Covid hospitals, which will function under the Indian Army’s Operation Namaste.Lieutenant General RP Singh, the general officer commanding-in-chief, announced the operationalisation of the Command’s first 100-bed hospital at the international students’ hostel of Panjab University, Sector 25.The hospital will be run in coordination with the UT administration. Administrator VP Singh Badnore was also present on the occasion.The other two hospitals include Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee Hospital in Faridabad and Rajindra Government Hospital in Patiala, which will be made operational on May 11 and 12, respectively.The hospitals have been set up on a war footing in coordination with the civil administration of the respective states/UT. The hospitals have the capacity to accommodate and treat mild to moderate and symptomatic patients suffering from Covid-19.The army has deployed its own doctors, nursing officers and paramedics for treatment as per the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research. The civil administration is facilitating essential amenities, service management, uninterrupted oxygen supply, patient admission and discharge and ambulance services at these hospitals.The hospitals will also cater to basic laboratory services, X-ray and pharmacy. The admission in these hospitals will be open to all and coordinated by the chief medical officers of the respective districts. The discharge of patients will be on recommendation of the army medical officer treating them. Patients requiring a higher grade of treatment will be shifted to other hospitals as per the availability of ICU facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/western-command-s-100-bed-hospital-at-panjab-university-now-operational-101620678981953.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Morning walker killed after being hit by pick-up truck in Mohali||A 42-year-old man, out for a morning walk with his wife, was killed after a pick-up truck hit him near Diplast Chowk in Phase 2 on Monday.Police said the deceased, Saurav Goyal, was a resident of Phase 1 and ran a spare parts shop in Phase 9.After the accident, the driver of the Mahindra Pick-up (PB65-AK-8434) rushed Goyal to Cheema Hospital in Phase 4, from where he was taken to the Phase-6 civil hospital and again referred to ESI Hospital in Phase 7, Industrial Area. However, doctors declared him brought dead.The accused driver fled after dropping Goyal at the ESI Hospital. He has been booked. The deceased is survived by his wife and two children, who are studying in Class 7 at a private school in Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/morning-walker-killed-after-being-hit-by-pick-up-truck-in-mohali-101620678921225.html
11-05-2021||Other||Covid rampage continues in Ludhiana as 30 more succumb||Just 24 hours after the district recorded its highest-ever single-day death count, Ludhiana reached yet another grim milestone on Monday with 30 fatalities. This is a 36% jump from Sunday’s tally of 22 deaths. The district’s toll now stands at 1, 580.Apart from that, 1, 470 residents also tested positive and took the cumulative count of cases to 68,465. The surge in deaths and cases sent a shockwave across the city on the first day of the imposition of the 17-hour curfew.“The writing is on the wall. Authorities are working day and night to control the spread but residents also need to act responsibly. The rate will come down only when people stop venturing out unnecessarily and stay indoors,” said deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma.Of the 30 who succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours, 19 are women. The youngest fatality is a 26-year-old woman of Rahon Road while the oldest is a 91-year-old woman from Khalsa School Road. A 27-year-old woman from Kishan Pura also lost the battle.Ten of the total 30 deceased were in their fifties, while five were in their forties and another three in their thirties and two in their 20s. The rest ten were above the age of 60.Shockingly, three of the total deaths are from Shimlapuri alone.One of the deceased is from Doraha while the rest belong to different residential areas across the city.29 in Samrala, including 20 children, found +ve in 2 daysIn the past two days, 20 cases have been reported in which children aged between 1 and 12 years were found infected. Another nine, aged between 16 and 18, also tested positive.While 15 children, living in a factory unit in Lall Kalan village in Manopur block near Neelo, tested positive two days ago, another five children were found positive on Monday. All belong to families of labourers and reside in the migrant quarters on the factory premises.In addition to this, a 12-year-old boy from near Utalan village was found infected and is said to be critical.Karanveer Singh, the uncle of the child, said that boy had undergone a Covid test last Wednesday when the family fell ill. Seeing the condition of the child, he was shifted to Ludhiana, where he was undergoing treatment. Dr Tarikjot Singh, senior medical officer, Samrala Hospital, confirmed the five fresh cases of Covid-19 among children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-rampage-continues-in-ludhiana-as-30-more-succumb-101620678801260.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Negative Covid report mandatory at Chandigarh airport||Air travellers need to produce a negative Covid test report not older than 72 hours or a vaccination certificate over two weeks old before boarding a flight at the Chandigarh International Airport.Issuing the order, district magistrate Girish Dayalan said the airlines will be responsible for ensuring compliance. Also, all incoming passengers, headed to a destination in Punjab, need to install COVA mobile app before exiting the airport. They also necessarily need to keep their smart phone’s Bluetooth and GPS on. Airlines have been directed to publicise this extensively to ensure this information is available to passengers well before departure. Any violation will invite action as per law. Chandigarh International Airport Limited (CHIAL) CEO will monitor compliance and report any deviations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/negative-covid-report-mandatory-at-chandigarh-airport-101620678681191.html
11-05-2021||Other||7-hr curfew relaxation spells doom as Ludhiana residents throng roads, markets||The district administration’s decision to impose a 17-hour curfew to control the infection spread proved to be an exercise in futility as residents thronged the city roads and markets during the seven-hour relaxation window between 5am and 12pm. Maddening crowds were witnessed in stores, especially those selling groceries, around 11am – one hour before the curfew was to kick in. The situation went out of control at noon, prompting panic-stricken shopkeepers to bring their shutters down to prevent more people from entering the shops. Some even closed their stores as early as 11.30. Massive traffic jams were witnessed across the congested roads of Chaura Bazar, Kesar Gunj Mandi, Saban Bazar, Kitab Bazaar, Ghumar Mandi, Field Ganj and Jawahar Nagar camp market. At Chaura Bazar and Nanu Halwai Chowk, commuters could be seen yelling at each other to clear the passage. The infuriated traders who were busy loading and unloading the goods in their vehicles complained that if the stress of Covid-19 was not enough, the awkward timing of curfew relaxation only added to their miseries.While commuters continued to remain stranded in the jam, there were no cops to streamline the traffic flow. Panic buying was witnessed at grocery shops with buyers scrambling for trolleys and essentials, and then standing in queues to pay the bill. “Is this how Covid can be curbed? I am scared of coming out now as the virus will spread fast in such a closed environment with so many people,” said Ankita, a college student. At one time, more than 50 buyers were present in a closed environment in a grocery-cum-departmental store in BRS Nagar. “On one hand gatherings are banned and on the other, shops are witnessing huge crowds due to the narrow relaxation window,” said Naresh, a trader. While grocery store owners made saw good sales, those dealing with cloth, utensils and kitchen appliances complained of low footfall. Representations of the various market associations also expressed their reservations over the move. “It is an absolutely bizarre decision to let everything open in the morning. The timing of curfew has done more harm than good. Though the markets began to open by 7am, the customers started to arrive at 10am. By 11am, there was utter chaos and shopkeepers began closing their shops. If in other districts shopkeepers have been allowed to open their establishments from 8am to 2pm, why can’t the same be implemented here. There were almost negligible sales at garment shops due to the odd timings,” said Sanjeev Choudhary, the owner of a garment shop and president of the Chaura Bazar Market Association.In Ghumar Mandi market, which is famous for garments, jewellery and utensils stores, the shops were decked up but there were hardly any customers.Pawan Kumar Batra, president of Ghumar Mandi market shopkeepers, requested the authorities to allow shops to be opened on alternate days. Darshan Kumar Sharma, a mechanic, also demanded a change in timing. “This relaxation will not work. It is absolutely ruining our business. Customers began arriving at 9am and no one came after 11am. And those getting their vehicles fixed also started panicking when the curfew timing was nearing,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/7hr-curfew-relaxation-spells-doom-as-ludhiana-residents-throng-roads-markets-101620678621229.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali’s Covid cases break yet another record, tricity touches fresh peak||Mohali on Monday reported an all-time high of 1,382 Covid-19 cases, shattering its previous single-day record by 30%.The district’s last peak was reported on May 5, when 1,056 people had tested positive.With this, the tricity also touched a fresh peak of 2,612 infections, up from its last record of 2,527 cases on May 5, even though there was a dip in cases in Chandigarh and Panchkula on Monday.Chandigarh reported 863 cases, 4% lesser than 895 on Sunday, while Panchkula logged 367 cases, 30% lower than 477 a day ago.The daily tricity deaths, though down from 30 to 25, still remained high. Mohali again led the toll with 14 deaths, followed by seven in Chandigarh and four in Panchkula.Over the past two weeks, the tricity has witnessed 20+ deaths as many as 12 times, hitting an all-time high of 38 on May 5.Similarly, the cases have remained over 2,000 on 15 out of the 19 days since April 22 when the figure had first crossed the 2,000 mark.23,096 cases active in tricityThe fresh cases took tricity’s active cases to 23,096, 6% higher than 21,793 on Sunday.Chandigarh’s total cases reached 51,070, of which 8,653 patients are still getting treated at hospitals or in home isolation. A total of 714 persons were cured on Monday, taking the number of recoveries to 41,842 (81%), but still behind the national average of 82.4%. Of the seven fatalities, six were females.In Mohali, the active cases soared to a record 11,758. The cumulative cases stand at 56,140, of which 43,676 patients (78%) have been cured and 706 have died. Panchkula’s caseload is lowest at 25,927. There are 2,685 active cases in the district, while the recoveries are 22.359 (88%) and 253 people have died.Monday’s casualties in the district included an 84-year-old man from Railly, a 66-year-old man from Sector 11, a 60-year-old man from Sector 15 and a 58-year-old woman from Chandimandir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohalis-covid-cases-break-yet-another-record-tricity-touches-fresh-peak-101620678441310.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Lockdown extended in Chandigarh till May 18||With the Covid-19 pandemic showing no signs of slowing down, the UT administration on Monday extended the partial lockdown by another week. The administration had clamped seven-day partial lockdown on May 4, which was to end at 5am on May 11. But now, it will continue till 5 am on May 18. As such, non-essential shops will continue to remain closed. Night curfew, prohibiting public movement, will be implemented from 6pm to 5am. Day time movement is allowed, but the administration has advised residents to avoid non-essential travel. Also, in line with Haryana’s directions, UT has also curtailed gatherings at marriage functions. While earlier, 50 people were allowed, the number has been capped at 20. Besides, written permission from the deputy commissioner will be needed for the event. Even for funerals, the number has been reduced from 20 to 10, though no separate permission is required. The decisions were taken at the Covid review meeting chaired by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore.UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “The current figures relating to the pandemic, including positivity rate, are dangerous. A 15-day continuous lockdown is what the health experts have suggested. So, we have extended the lockdown by one week. The results should be visible after two weeks are completed.”But, if the situation did not improve, Parida said, the administration will rethink its strategy.Panchkula shut, partial curfew in MohaliIn neighbouring Panchkula, there is a complete lockdown till May 17, during which public movement is allowed only with an e-pass. Only 11 people are allowed at weddings.In Mohali’s urban areas, shops are allowed to open on odd-even basis from 5am to 5pm, following which night curfew will remain in force from 6pm to 5am. But, all shops are allowed to remain open in villages. Weekend lockdown will continue, when only shops selling essentials will remain open. Four-wheelers can ferry only two people from the same house at a time, while only person should ride a two-wheeler.Unified command centre for tricityKeeping in view the directions of Punjab and Haryana high court for setting up a unified command centre for tricity, the administrator will be holding a meeting with the three chief secretaries on Tuesday. “We will be discussing tricity’s Covid management during the chief secretaries’ meeting called by the administrator. Improvement in coordination with regard to the lockdown, accessibility to hospitals, oxygen supply and other measures will be taken up,” said Parida. Badnore also directed top doctors to meet through video conference every day, where senior doctors from PGIMER should guide all concerned regarding new medications and up-to-date protocol for treatment of Covid patients. He also stressed that there should be an audit of each fatality, so to improve medical treatment and rectify lapses, if any.30 areas notified as restricted zonesTwo days after the UT administration declared 33 micro-containment zones, it added 30 more areas to the list on Monday. The affected areas are spread across Sectors 7, 20, 27, 28, 29, 33, 47, 48 (Astha Apartment), Manimajra, Govind Pura, Shanti Nagar, Modern Housing Complex, Mauli Jagran Complex, Mauli Jagran (Sunder Nagar), Behlana, Hallomajra, Kishangarh and Ram Darbar, Phase 2. District magistrate Mandip Singh Brar said regular screening and sanitation of these areas will continue, and residents were advised to strictly maintain social distancing norms, wear masks and follow hand hygiene.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lockdown-extended-in-chandigarh-till-may-18-101620678083441.html
11-05-2021||Other||12,400 more birds culled at Kila Raipur poultry farm||On the second day of culling operations at Kila Raipur poultry farm where bird flu has been confirmed, as many as 12,400 birds were culled on Monday by the rapid response teams of animal husbandry department. Besides, 7,200 eggs were also destroyed. The approximate number of birds to be culled is 75,000. On Sunday, 19,200 birds were culled. The National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, had confirmed avian influenza in samples of birds sent from a poultry farm at Kila Raipur on May 7 prompting the administration to order culling of birds. The samples were collected after owner of Suba Singh Poultry Farm informed the administration about the mysterious death of 1,500 birds. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma has already declared one-kilometre radius area around the farm as infected zone and up to 10km as surveillance zone. He also constituted a nine-member committee to oversee the process and ensure that no bird, unprocessed poultry meat, eggs, feed or any other material was taken out from the poultry farm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/12400-more-birds-culled-at-kila-raipur-poultry-farm-101620678081150.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Turmoil in Punjab Cong: 3 ministers seek Sidhu’s scalp after his fresh salvo at Captain||The ruling Congress appears to be in turmoil in Punjab over the sacrilege and police firing cases with former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu again targeting chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday and three cabinet ministers demanding disciplinary action against the “dissident MLA” for his anti-party actions. While the Amritsar East MLA, who has been hitting out at Amarinder on a daily basis, accused the chief minister of “nefarious intentions”, five party leaders, including three cabinet ministers and two senior MPs, met here at jails minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa’s official residence and discussed the disenchantment in the party over the botched-up investigation in the politically sensitive case. Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu, Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa and cabinet ministers Charanjit Singh Channi and Gurpreet Singh Kangar were among the party leaders present at the minister’s residence. “There is widespread resentment among the party MLAs who are not sure how they will go and face the people in their constituencies if justice is not delivered in these cases,” Bittu told a private channel said after the meeting, demanding prompt action against the Badals. Bittu assails AmarinderAttacking the CM, Bittu said if he cannot do anything, he should give the home ministry to some other party MLA or member of his cabinet to ensure justice in the matter. “Our fight is not against any individual, but it is a question of our identity and existence. We are trying to pressure our government to get the new SIT to file the challan in the police firing cases in a month and ensure day-to-day hearing,” Bajwa said after the meeting.The chief minister’s camp tried to placate Randhawa, who had offered his resignation at a cabinet meeting two weeks ago over the special investigation fiasco. Randhawa and Channi, who has also been critical of the state government’s handling of the matter, were among half-a-dozen MLAs who met Sidhu and his close associate, Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh, in Panchkula last week. The meeting was seen as an attempt by the Captain’s detractors led by Sidhu to bring together the ministers and MLAs upset over the 2015 incident. One of the discontented ministers also called up the SC MLAs for a meeting here on Tuesday. “He asked me to come to Chandigarh to discuss issues related to the community,” said a party legislator who did not want to be named. Taking exception to Sidhu’s continued no-holds barred attacks, the chief minister’s camp has demanded strict disciplinary action against him. Cabinet ministers Brahm Mohindra, Sunder Sham Arora and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot said the dissident MLA’s unmitigated onslaught on the CM was an act of gross indiscipline and an attempt to undermine the Congress government. Sidhu’s personal attack on Amarinder was an anti-party act, which called for immediate disciplinary action, they said in a statement. Open rebellion can trigger unrest: Capt camp“The open rebellion is damaging the interests of the Congress at a time when the state assembly elections are less than a year away,” they said. The ministers warned that the failure to take action against Sidhu now could trigger unrest in the party’s state unit, which would be fatal for the party, which has suffered major electoral blows in the recently concluded assembly polls in five states. The ministers appealed to the party’s central leadership to nip this insurgence in the bud. The demand for action came hours after Sidhu accused Amarinder of first attacking the high court and then accepting its orders from the backdoor to deflect people’s attention. “Nefarious intentions are evident. No high court stopped you in four-and-a-half years! When DGP/CPS appointments are set aside, orders are challenged in higher courts. Now, first you attack the high court, then from backdoor accept same orders to deflect people’s attention,” Sidhu posted on Twitter, sharing the video clip of the chief minister’s interview to a private channel in which he called the court order as “totally political” and “one sided”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/turmoil-in-punjab-cong-3-ministers-seek-sidhu-s-scalp-after-his-fresh-salvo-at-captain-101620677182198.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||18+ vaccination drive moves at snail’s pace as J&K awaits stocks||Amid a spike in Covid deaths and at a time when breaking the chain of the lethal virus holds key to tackle the pandemic, the vaccination programme for the 18-45 age group in Jammu and Kashmir has been moving at a snail’s pace. Though, as a part of the nationwide programme, Jammu and Kashmir also kick started the vaccination drive for optics at Srinagar and Jammu, it has not gained the desired momentum since then. A senior health official said, “Doses for the 18-45 age group haven’t arrived in sufficient quantity and as a result, the vaccination drive is moving at a snail’s pace.” The J&K had ordered 1.24 crore doses for the age group but given just 1.5 lakh — 75,000 for Kashmir and as many for Jammu. “Inadequate amount of doses were given to us and hence the vaccination has been slow for this age group. As and when the Centre provides us more stocks, the 18-45 age group will be vaccinated accordingly,” said the official. He, however, informed that the vaccination of people above 45 years of age was going on without any hiccups. The Jammu and Kashmir had ordered 1.24 crore Covid vaccines to cover the entire 18-45 age group. It may be stated here that on April 30, the Jammu and Kashmir administration had stated that the inoculation will not begin on May 1 for the age group as stocks were awaited. However, on May 1, the government all of a sudden came up with a brief statement with some pictures of the youngsters showing them getting the first jab in Jammu and Srinagar. “It was purely an exercise for optics,” said another health official, adding that they didn’t have sufficient stocks with them to inoculate the age group. The government had also requested those falling in the age group not to crowd vaccination centres without booking slots. The government has asked the age-group to register themselves on COWIN App for getting first jab. On Monday, a couple of slots were opened in Jammu and Srinagar. It may be stated here that the L-G Manoj Sinha announced free vaccination to the 18-45 age group as well in Jammu and Kashmir. “Covaxin will be administered to this age group free of cost. It will be by prior registration and prior appointment only,” he had said. A youngster, Shruti, 21, said, “I am trying to get myself registered on the COWIN, but the portal is not being opened. What sort of arrangement this government has made amid this raging pandemic?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/18-vaccination-drive-moves-at-snail-s-pace-as-j-k-awaits-stocks-101620676941063.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Capital’s positivity dips below crucial 20% level||There were 12,651 new cases of Covid-19 reported in Delhi on Monday, the lowest since April 12, and the test positivity rate dipped below 20% for the first time since April 14 as more indications emerged of the Capital having been able to arrest to some degree the fourth wave of the coronavirus outbreak.While the numbers reported in the government’s Covid bulletin corresponded to the typically fewer tests carried out on a Sunday, these are still lower than the numbers for the last three Sundays, when the city reported 23,582 (May 3), 20,201 (April 26) and 23,686 (April 19) cases.More importantly, the fall in the positivity rate – the proportion of samples turning up a positive result – reinforced the signal, which was also supported anecdotally by several doctors who said they now have some room to let in new patients to their otherwise overburdened health care facilities.At its peak, Delhi recorded 28,395 cases on April 20, soon after the chief minister expanded the night and weekend curfew protocols into a lockdown. That protocol has now been renewed several times, and will stay at least till May 17 in order to further flatten the curve.The Capital’s active case load too has come down from 99,752 recorded on April 28 to 85,258 on Monday, while the number of available hospital beds has nearly doubled from 1,683 to 3,229 in this period, the Delhi government’s health bulletin.Also read | Delhi records 12,651 fresh Covid-19 cases, 319 deaths; positivity rate dipsThe test positivity rate reached a peak of 36.2% on April 22, and stayed above 30% for eight more days before starting to decline. In Monday’s bulletin, it dipped below the 20% mark for the first time in over three weeks. To be sure, this number needs to come down below 5% for the outbreak to be considered under control, according to World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines.Experts said the surge in cases was a stark reminder of why India cannot afford to be careless in its preparations. “The number of cases being reported has come down but the hospitals and ICUs are still full. To prevent another surge like this, we need to look at why it happened. It happened because of the absolute complacency -- people not wearing masks, having parties and weddings, travelling and thinking that Covid is in Maharashtra but Delhi is free of it.“The second reason is the natural course of a viral disease -- Covid-19 resurges every 50 to 100 days or so. Third, there were variants of concern causing infections,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.According to staff in two hospitals, the rush of patients seen towards the end of April appears to have abated, and improvements in the supply of medical oxygen has alleviated a crisis that at one point led to repeated distress calls.“We have now set up an oxygen generation plant that augments our daily requirement. We are better off now and are able to admit more patients. We have 110 oxygen-dependent patients at the moment against our listed capacity of 76 oxygen beds,” said Dr Sunil Kohli, head of the department of medicine at Hakeem Abdul Hameed Centenary Hospital. Several beds were not being utilised as the supply of oxygen was uncertain last week.Dr PK Bharadwaj, chief executive director of Saroj Hospital said, “Now that the supply of oxygen has stabilised we have increased the number of beds in our hospital from 120 to 150 and the number of ICU beds have been increased from 53 to 63 now.”In all, the city has recorded 1,336,218 cases and 19,663 deaths, of which 319 took place on Sunday.This is the fourth distinct wave of cases in the Capital -- at the peak of the first, there were 84 deaths recorded in a day on average in mid-June. In the second wave, which peaked in early October, 42 people died in a day.Watch | Oxygen Express with highest volume of LMO leaves from Hapa to Delhi﻿A third surge occurred after Diwali, claiming the lives of 116 people on average a day in the third week of November.Till now, in the fourth wave, the most number of deaths recorded as an average of seven days is at 398, which was recorded on May 3.On Sunday, Kejriwal announced the extension of the lockdown and said the curbs will be stricter, with the Delhi Metro services halted and people no longer allowed to hold wedding ceremonies in public places.“We must prepare for the third wave. In this wave, Delhi recorded a maximum of 28,000 cases in a day. The whole infrastructure was under pressure after this. The scale at which we are creating infrastructure, we will be able to deal even if 30,000 daily cases are reported in next wave,” Kejriwal told reporters on Monday.Experts now believe the city will need to accelerate the vaccination campaign in order to avoid a crisis as the one seen in recent weeks if it wants to allow businesses, offices and shops to reopen. “Along with the lockdown we need to increase vaccination. The vaccination drive started with a bang but has slowed down for the want of doses. Unless we vaccinate a large number of people transmission will not stop in the long run,” said Dr Khilnani.The city has raised an alarm about the availability of its vaccine stocks, with the process becoming shrouded in uncertainty since the Union government stepped away from a part of the process, leaving states and private hospitals to negotiate with manufacturers directly.“There is only one day of Covaxin left in Delhi and only three to four days of Covishield. We need vaccines at the earliest,” Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-capital-s-positivity-dips-below-crucial-20-level-101620676268609.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||56 people succumb to virus, 3,614 more test positive in J&K||As many as 56 people lost their lives to Covid-19 and 3,614 fresh infections were reported in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday, taking the overall death toll to 2,782 and total cases to over 2.2 lakh.So far, 500 people have died of the disease this month in the UT, making it the highest monthly death toll since the pandemic began in March last year. In September last year when the first wave had peaked, as many as 478 persons had lost their lives to the virus. Of the 56 deaths in the UT, 39 were reported in Jammu division and 17 in Kashmir. The month of April so far has recorded the highest monthly case tally of 45,123 infections besides 289 deaths this year as against 4,519 cases and 37 deaths in March. Of the new cases, 2,118 are from Kashmir while 1,496 are from Jammu, besides 75 travellers.“Wearing masks below the chin doesn’t serve its purpose, venturing out unnecessarily is affecting the management and containment of virus. The public needs to understand that efforts are being made to break the chain of transmission of coronavirus and there is no need to create panic,” said Dr Khurshid Ahmad Bhat, consultant, endocrinologist at Super Speciality Hospital in Srinagar. “More and more people should come forward to get vaccinated. Besides, repeated testing after an asymptomatic person has recovered is also not required,” he added. Officials said with 701 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 658 in Jammu district, 343 in Budgam, 254 in Kulgam and 187 in Kupwara.The number of active cases has reached 49,951, officials said. Most of these cases have been added after February 9 when the UT had the lowest active case tally of 593.Dr Khurshid cautioned that venturing out unnecessarily will assist the spread of virus. “During the first wave of Covid, there was fear among people and they avoided going out which is why the cases were less. But now people have been moving out freely without fear or concern of getting infected which has resulted in increased number of cases, morbidity and deaths,” he added. Nearly 2,855 patients recovered on Monday, including 1,785 from Kashmir and 1,070 from Jammu.As many as 1,67,813 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 76.08% against 98% in the first fortnight of February. Over 7.7 million tests have been conducted in the UT so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/56-people-succumb-to-virus-3-614-more-test-positive-in-jk-101620676341654.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Congress forms Covid relief work panel, starts helpline||Himachal Pradesh Congress has formed a Covid-19 relief work committee which would be headed by senior leader and former minister GS Bali.The panel will reach out to the needy people besides monitoring pandemic situation in the state, said Bali.He said that the party has also constituted subcommittees across the state which would work under the supervision of the state panel. He said that party has launched a corona helpline number 01892-260038 which would be functional round the clock within two days.“Any person needing any kind of help can call on this number and he or she will be provided assistant at earliest by teams of party volunteers,” he said.Bali also told that the party has also launched three free ambulances in the Kangra-Chamba region.“The ambulance service will be launched in the entire state in coming days,” he said.The former minister said that the party’s objective is not only save people from infection but also spread awareness. He said party would also provide Covid-19 kits to the frontline warriors in the state.“We are also formulating a plan to carry out sanitisation drive across the state. The campaign would start from urban areas and later would be expanded to block level and village level,” he said.Questions absence of health minister The Congress leader further questioned the absence of state health minister Rajiv Saizal during the hour of crisis.“Instead of playing his part in pandemic situation the health minister has disappeared,” he said.He urged the government to take preventive measures to stop black marketing of medicines and medical equipment and ensure that medicines and oximeters are available at a regional cost to the general public.Bali was accompanied by AICC joint secretary Gokul Butail and state youth Congress president Nigam Bhandari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-forms-covid-relief-work-panel-starts-helpline-101620676280469.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||HP Police go tough on violators||Himachal Pradesh Police have gone tough on people violating Covid-safety protocols as the state underwent a seven-day strict lockdown to curb the coronavirus spread on Monday.The state has recorded 32,136 infections in first nine days of May while 389 people have lost their lives.Since Sunday (May 9), the state police have detected 603 violations of various kinds and collected a cumulative fine amounting to ₹3.8 lakh. Maximum 486 offences were pertaining to people not wearing masks. Highest 81 violations were reported in Kangra where violators were slapped a fine of ₹61,000. BBN police district reported 68 violations and collected the fine of ₹35,500 followed by Mandi, where ₹37,500 fine was realised from 66 violators. Kullu police collected ₹36,000 penalty from 36 offenders and in Shimla, 44 violators were fined ₹32,500.The state police had received permission for 79 marriage functions wherein surprise checks were held at 75 functions and a total of ₹24,000 was collected as fine. Maximum violations in marriage functions were found in Sirmaur, where ₹19,000 was realised from violators. One marriage was being held without permission in Sirmaur and the organisers were slapped a penalty of ₹5,000. Besides, 20 violations were found in market places and a fine of ₹35,500 was collected while 41 fines were that of violation during transport and penalty of ₹39,500 was realised. Penalty of ₹13,500 was also realised for not wearing mask while commuting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-police-go-tough-on-violators-101620676222057.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 4,359 fresh infections, 53 fatalities||Himachal Pradesh recorded 4,359 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday taking the state’s tally to 1,35,782 while death toll mounted to 1,925 after 53 more patients succumbed to the infection. Of the new cases, the highest 1,551 were recorded in Kangra, 438 in Sirmaur, 424 in Una, 402 in Solan, 381 in Hamirpur, 317 in Bilaspur, 269 in Chamba, 241 in Shimla, 147 in Kullu, 96 in Mandi, 74 in Kinnaur and 27 in Lahaul and Spiti. Highest numbers of fatalities (18) was reported in Kangra, eight in Solan, seven in Shimla, five each in Mandi and Solan, four in Chamba, three in Una, two in Hamirpur and one in Kinnaur. To date Kangra has recorded 530 fatalities followed by 407 in Shimla and 222 in Mandi. Active cases have climbed to 34,417 while recoveries reached 99,400 after 2,355 people recuperated. The case fatality ratio in the state is 1.41% while recovery rate has slipped to 73.2%. With 27,806 cases Kangra is the worst hit district followed by Mandi where 18,509 people have been detected positive and Shimla with 18,383 cases. Solan’s caseload has climbed to 16,784, followed by Sirmaur (10,505), Hamirpur (9,383), Una (8,909), Bilaspur (8,218), Kullu (6,753), Chamba (6,184), Lahaul-Spiti (2,195) and Kinnaur (2,153).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-4-359-fresh-infections-53-fatalities-101620676221072.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||3 govt docs quit job to join pvt hospitals in two weeks||At least three specialist doctors of Punjab health department who were deputed at Covid care wards quit the government service in the past fortnight to join as private healthcare facilities. This has given way to debate within the medical fraternity on the ethical side of such decisions at a time when their services were required more than ever before. Two of the doctors were posted at Bathinda civil hospital and temporarily attached with the Covid care wards keeping in view the increasing number of serious Covid-19 patients. The third doctor belongs to Muktsar district and was posted as a specialist (medicine) at Gidderbaha civil hospital. According to a senior health department official, one specialist doctor of Bathinda civil hospital, who was a Doctor of Medicine (MD), quit the government job and joined a private hospital of his relatives that offers treatment for Covid patients. Having served for two-and-half years in the department, he was serving the probation period, the official said. The second case, a lady doctor, also posted at Bathinda civil hospital, who was also a specialist in medicine, joined a private hospital providing Covid care, disclosed a senior district health functionary. The medico who was posted at Gidderbaha also joined a prominent private hospital providing Covid care. Two of three anesthesia specialists posted in Fatehgarh Sahib, who were also attached with Rajindra Medical College at Patiala, joined work at the health facilities for critical Covid patients after a delay of a week that too after the intervention of the senior officers, it is learnt. Third one is yet to report at the medical college, a senior officer from Patiala said. Bathinda civil surgeon Dr Tejwant Dhillon said the doctors cited personal reasons behind the resignations. “We tried to persuade them but they didn’t budge. While one has deposited his one-month salary advance, the lady doctor is yet to clear her dues,” he said. A senior government functionary of the health department, requesting anonymity, said, “Initially it was said that the pressure of dealing with the Covid patients made these doctors to resign but now we have learnt that they have joined private hospitals treating patients infected with the virus.” Meanwhile, the medical fraternity is raising questions over the resignations of the doctors when society needed them the most. Punjab Civil Medical Services (PCMS) association president Dr Gagandeep Singh said, “To be in government service or not is a personal right of a doctor but leaving the job at this hour is something unethical.” President of Punjab Rural Medical Services Association Dr Aslum Parvez said, “If any doctor is under stress due to Covid duties, he or she has so many other ways to address their problems, including getting psychiatric consultations or psychological evaluation. But if a government doctor leaves the job in lure of private practice during the pandemic, a criminal case should be registered against him or her under the Pandemic Act.” Health minister Balbir Sidhu said the department was aware of the stress or the other issues the staff was facing. “But it’s the time to show the human as well as the national character. It’s a fact that private hospitals pay more money to specialists but it’s the time to rise to the occasion. Doctors should lead by example,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-govt-docs-quit-job-to-join-pvt-hospitals-in-two-weeks-101620676162298.html
11-05-2021||Other||Four oxygen plants to be set up in Patiala||The process to install four oxygen generation units in Patiala district has been initiated, officials said on Monday.Patiala deputy commissioner Amit Kumar said two oxygen plants will be set up at Mata Kushalya Hospital, while the remaining two will be commissioned at Nabha civil hospital and Model Town dispensary, respectively. He directed the officers concerned to complete the work on priority.Kumar said that one unit each was being set up by Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and Nabha Power at Mata Kushalya Hospital, while Torrent Gas was setting up oxygen units at Nabha civil hospital and Sarbat Da Bhala Trust in Model Town.“The installation work of the medical oxygen unit being set up by DRDO at Mata Kushalya Hospital has been started. It will be able to generate 10,000 litres of oxygen per day. The estimated cost of the work is ₹10 crore,” the DC said.He said that foundation-cum-platform was being set up for commissioning the unit and after that the unit would start production, soon after installing the machinery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-oxygen-plants-to-be-set-up-in-patiala-101620676100899.html
11-05-2021||Other||Kotkapura firing: Tough task ahead for new probe team||The newly constituted three-member special investigation team (SIT) of the Punjab Police to probe the 2015 Kotkapura firing case has an uphill task ahead to examine what its predecessor termed a “conspiracy”.The high court on April 9 had quashed all the reports filed by the previous SIT headed by inspector general of police (now retired) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh into the Kotkapura firing — police had opened fire at people protesting over the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib in Bargari village of Faridkot district. Acting on the HC orders, the state government constituted the new three-member SIT headed by additional director general of police (vigilance bureau) LK Yadav, who will be assisted by Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal and Faridkot range DIG Surjit Singh.The new SIT has been directed to complete the investigation within six months.An official, who is part of the government’s legal team, said that the Yadav-led SIT needs to find something beyond call records to prove the conspiracy theory. “Kunwar Vijay’s team had mainly relied upon the records of telephone calls to prove this was a conspiracy hatched by the cops and politicians, but there is not one substantiate evidence to prove the nature of conversation on record. So, the new SIT needs to look into other angles to back this theory as right now evidence only limits to cops being present on the spot,” the official said.To claim conspiracy between then chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA and then senior police officers, Kunwar Vijay relied upon call records exchanged between them on October 14, 2015. His SIT named former SAD MLA Mantar Singh Brar as accused claiming it was probing the contents of 157 calls he exchanged with the chief minister’s office (CMO), then DGP office, some ministers and local administration officials on the night before the firing took place.However, the high court had stated that the SIT had claimed that then CM Badal talked through the phones of his principal secretary and OSD. “However, none of their versions have been taken on record by the SIT to substantiate the nature of conversation. No other witness is stated to have even remotely suggested that then CM conspired to kill the protestors by police firing,” the court had said.“Mere factum of a CM talking to the district administration or DGP in a situation where the law and order is disturbed, in itself, would not be sufficient to infer his conspiracy to kill or injure anybody through firing by the police upon the protestors, unless there is some other material collected by the investigating officer to establish a prior meeting of minds for conspiracy and then directly linking the CM to such conspiracy,” the court had added.Role of protesters to be looked into The new SIT will investigate the role of the protesters as the high court has observed that police firing was not “unprovoked”. Sources said that the probe team will also investigate the role of Sikh preachers who were declared “innocent” by Kunwar Vijay’s SIT.Kunwar Vijay’s team had declared Sikh preachers Bhai Panthpreet Singh, Bhai Ranjit Singh Dhadrianwale, Amrik Singh Ajnala, Harjinder Singh Manjhi, Giani Kewal Singh, and 18 others as innocent in the Kotkapura violence case registered in 2015 claiming they were framed by cops. On October 14, 2015, police registered an FIR against 15 Sikh preachers and unknown persons at Kotkapura city police station for allegedly instigating the protesters to attack the police with sharp-edged weapons and opening fire on cops.The high court said the magistrate present on the spot had assessed the situation and granted permission to use tear gas in the first instance, lathi charge thereafter, and the gun firing at the third stage. “Before that, as per records, the protestors were recorded on video to have chased and attacked the police, even with swords. Therefore, the conclusion that the protestors were sitting peacefully when the police started firing and also, the conclusion that firing by the police was unprovoked is against the record even on this count,” the HC had said.A total of 77 medico-legal reports (MLRs) of policemen who were injured in the firing incident are on the record.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kotkapura-firing-tough-task-ahead-for-new-probe-team-101620675804064.html
11-05-2021||Other||Doctors on Covid duty seek vaccine for children on priority||Even as the Punjab government has started Covid-19 inoculation drive for the 18-plus category in the state, doctors working in the field have sought vaccines for children on priority.They claimed that as they are working with infected patients, going home to their family, especially children, is fraught with risk of the latter contracting the virus.“We are working hard to save people from the virus. However, the worries about our children increase anxiety because we spend the nights at home. Every day that a doctor and other health staff return home after work, there is high risk of them carrying the virus. Though I have got a vaccine shot, my young daughter is not entirely safe till she gets vaccinated too. The government should think about our families,” said a senior government doctor not wanting to be named.Dr Amandeep Aggarwal, executive member of Indian Medical Association’s Sangrur chapter, said risking their own health and lives, all health workers are doing their best to treat Covid patients in these difficult times, but their families are exposed to threat too.“The government must make necessary arrangements for taking responsibility for the best treatment of doctors and their family members. It’s unfortunate that even a fully equipped hospital per district hasn’t been reserved for doctors and their families. The government has not even offered priority vaccination to the family members of health workers,” added Dr Aggarwal.Sangrur deputy commissioner Ramvir said that the concerns of doctors and other staff will be taken up with the state government to address their demand. However, vaccines for the 18-plus population will be available in a short period, he assured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/doctors-on-covid-duty-seek-vaccine-for-children-on-priority-101620675800738.html
11-05-2021||Other||Army to run Covid facility for civilians at Patiala hospital||With the Covid-19 patient load rising by the day, the army has stepped in to assist the Patiala district administration in providing medical treatment to infected patients.A team of 70, including seven doctors of the army’s Western Command, has landed in Patiala to take over the 100-bed super-specialty wing of the Rajindra Hospital, where it will run a Covid treatment facility.Army doctors Major Suleman, Major Gaurav, Major Ramneek Kaur and others visited the site and took stock of medical facilities. Ramneek hails from Patiala and has served in many sensitive places, including Kashmir.It was after the appeal of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh that the army decided to join the administration in the fight against the virus.Patiala Development Authority chief administrator Surbhi Malik, who is the coordinator between the army and the hospital authorities, said the forces will run a facility independently at Rajindra Hospital. “This initiative will further boost the Covid treatment facilities at Rajindra Hospital, which is catering to a huge population of the state,” she said.The army is already deployed at the hospital to handle the bodies of Covid victims.Meanwhile, the Jalandhar police commissionerate has opened its hospital to civilians to ensure vaccination of all citizens against Covid-19. “Due to a deadlier second pandemic wave, it is imperative that all eligible citizens be inoculated, so the police hospital has opened doors to the public for the same,” said police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar. He added that till now 3,168 people have been vaccinated at the police hospital out of which 789 were cops and 2,236 were civilians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/army-to-run-covid-facility-for-civilians-at-patiala-hospital-101620675740851.html
11-05-2021||Mumbai||Internal, entrance exam surveys: FYJC aspirants remain confused||The state education department’s move to conduct surveys asking students and schools for feasibility of internal assessments and entrance exams for Class 10, and first-year junior college (FYJC) admissions has created confusion in the absence of clear guidelines from the department. More than two weeks after the Maharashtra government declared the cancellation of SSC (Class 10) exams in the state, the education department on May 9 asked schools to fill out a survey form indicating whether or not marking students on internal assessments will be feasible. The department has also sent out another survey form asking for feedback on the conduct of entrance exams for FYJC, a plan that it has been mulling over the past few days after receiving suggestions to that effect.More than 83% schools are prepared for internal assessments, while over 66% students are ready for entrance tests, said an official So far, the education department has got responses from over 19,000 schools and more than 2.73 lakh students and the last date to submit is May 11.Schools said that while they have been asked to fill out the forms indicating their preparedness, it has led to further panic among students as they do not know what decision will be ultimately taken for marking and admissions to junior colleges. “The government cannot ask students who have studied for an entire year for their boards if they can give an entrance exam now for admissions to colleges. Students are not prepared for it and even if they agree to undergo these exams, there is a lot of uncertainty around what their syllabus will be and how they will be conducted. The government should first come up with a decision basis its consultations with stakeholders such as schools, experts and students, instead of creating further confusion,” said the principal of a suburban school.Officials at the education department claimed that a majority of students and schools have said that such a format is feasible.Many however questioned the survey methodology and said its results cannot be trusted. “It is an open Google form which anyone can fill and one has no idea whether the people filling it are from schools,” said a teacher. Meanwhile, the BMC education committee in its meeting held on Monday discussed the need to stay prepared for vaccinating students as and when guidelines with regards to come from the Centre and state. “We’ll also have to ensure that all teachers and staff are vaccinated in coming days,” said Sainath Durge, member of BMC education committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/internal-entrance-exam-surveys-fyjc-aspirants-remain-confused-101620675500770.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Partap Bajwa demands removal of AG Nanda||Congress’ Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa on Monday demanded removal of advocate general Atul Nanda for shirking his duty with regards to the sacrilege cases and to safeguard the image of the Congress in the state. Bajwa said he has been consistently raising the issue of the incompetence of the AG with chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and it is essential to remove the albatross from around the government’s neck by showing Nanda the door. “Nanda has continuously been hiring special counsels from New Delhi at high costs to burden the public exchequer. The continued failures in important cases have led to public questioning his competence for the job,” he said in a statement, reiterating his demand for Nanda’s removal. The MP said the son of Krishan Bhagwan Singh, who was killed in the police firing at Behbal Kalan in 2015, has declared that he will not cooperate with the new SIT, especially as the AG failed in his duty to competently argue the case in the high court. He said the fact that families of victims have started speaking out against the AG and have begun to refuse to help the SIT shows the serious lack of faith the citizens have in the AG in this most important fight for justice. “We have reached at a crossroads, both in the state and the party. The AG must be removed if the government wishes to truly rebuild bridges with the public. Anything less would also be breaking the solemn promise of the INC in bringing the perpetrators of these heinous crimes to justice,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/partap-bajwa-demands-removal-of-ag-nanda-101620675441284.html
11-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbaiites say they’re being sent back sans shot, portal shows they got 1st dose||In the midst of vaccine shortage, there’s a new hassle. Potential beneficiaries with appointments are being sent back home without jabs, only to receive auto-generated messages from the centralised Co-WIN portal about completion of vaccination, leading to panic and confusion among citizens. Take for instance, Sunita Madhur, 37, who, after trying for two days finally got a slot for vaccination at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) jumbo centre on May 9. She reached the centre by 4pm, and after waiting in the queue for an hour was informed that vials for those above the age of 18 years got over. She, along with many others in the same age category, were asked to try again the next day and sent back home. But on reaching her Parel home, she got a message stating completion of her first Covishield shot The message also contained a link through which she could get the final vaccination certificate.“There is so much harassment. We are unnecessarily exposing ourselves to contracting the virus at overcrowded centres just to be sent back home. Also, due to this technical glitch, I can’t even book another slot,” she said. In another incident, S Ramanathan, 61, went to Cama Hospital on May 9 to take his second shot of Covishield. After waiting for three hours, around 3.15pm in the afternoon, he couldn’t get the shot as the vials got over. But in the evening, he got a similar message about completion of the second dose. Later, when he logged into the Co-WIN portal, it showed that he had completed both the shots. “I was extremely confused and didn’t know what to do. I called BMC’s helpline number for guidance but didn’t get much help. Yesterday, I visited the hospital again and explained the technical glitch. Thankfully, they understood and gave the shot,” he said. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has informed the central health department about the technical glitch. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, said such a technical glitch has been observed in a few cases. “It is not in our hands as the error is in Co-WIN, so we have informed the central government about it. People who are witnessing such issues should visit the centres again immediately and explain the issue.” People across the state are experiencing a similar situation. Shruti Nair, 33, a resident of Pune went to get her first shot at rural Kanhe Phata hospital around 9.30am on May 5. Later, those public above 18 years were referred to another vaccination centre. But still didn’t get the shot. However, like many others, she also received a message of completion of the first dose. Now, to get the vaccine, she had to re-register on the Co-WIN portal again with a different number and identify proof. “When I tried to book the slot again, I was shown June 2 as my next appointment date for my second shot. I didn’t have any other option but to create a new profile. But I will wait until the state has enough vials, as I don’t want to go through the same harassment,” she said. Despite repeated attempts, Dr Dilip Patil, state immunisation officer, did not respond to calls or messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaiites-say-they-re-being-sent-back-sans-shot-portal-shows-they-got-1st-dose-101620675321357.html
11-05-2021||Other||Maharashtra to treat mucormycosis for free under MJPJAY scheme||The state government on Monday decided to treat patients suffering from mucormycosis under health scheme Mahatma Jyotirao Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY), health minister Rajesh Tope said. Mucormycosis is a rare fungal infection that is found in immunodeficient patients.“In a few districts, patients suffering with Covid-19 and high diabetes have been found infected with a fungal infection called mucormycosis. Taking a serious cognisance of it, the state government has decided to provide free treatment to those infected with the disease under MJPJAY,” Tope told reporters in Jalna on Monday. “There is no need to panic as patients will have to keep diabetes under control by means of proper diet, regular exercise and advice from the doctors,” he added.He said the state has also decided to create public awareness drive about the disease. “A delay in its treatment results in respiratory problems. It is also found to have an adverse effect on the brain and eyes. Its early diagnosis is necessary, and hence a public awareness drive will be undertaken,” Tope said.MJPJAY facilitates cashless treatment of needy patients at government-empanelled hospitals for 1,100 diseases and surgeries . The state also made Covid-19 treatment free under the scheme. Transfers put on hold till June 30The state government on Monday decided to hold the transfers of all its employees till June 30 amid the surge in Covid-19 cases in the state. “Considering the rise in cases, no transfer, be it regular or those in exceptional cases, of the officials and employees will be made till June 30. Only those to be made for filling up vacant positions against retirement, necessary to deal with pandemic, or in case of a serious complaint should be allowed,” stated a government resolution by the general administration department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-to-treat-mucormycosis-for-free-under-mjpjay-scheme-101620675320132.html
11-05-2021||Mumbai||₹1,100-crore Mission Oxygen to add 1,000 MT in six months||To prepare for the third wave and take the state to self-sustainability in terms of oxygen supply for medical purposes, the Maharashtra government has planned a ₹1,100-crore Mission Oxygen. It is expected to get a cabinet nod this week.Under the plan, the state has set a target of taking the daily generation of oxygen to 2,300 metric tonnes (MT) in the next six months, and to extend it to 3,000 MT in two years. It is also considering an option to invest in oxygen plants, instead of depending entirely on private sector. The state’s current requirement of oxygen is 1,600 MT daily. Maharashtra has a local production of 1,295 MT a day, and gets around 400-500 MT by way of allocation from the Central government from other states. Although the state has been able to fulfil its current demand for Covid-19 patients, it has chalked out a plan in anticipation of the third wave. Its Mission Oxygen will have short- and long-term plans, with the first phase of addition of 500 MT to be achieved in next three months and additional another 500 MT in six months as its short-term goal. Currently, a majority of plants are owned by private sector, but now the state wants to invest in plants to build its capacity at the earliest. “38 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plants have already started generating 53 MT a day, while work orders to set up 240 such plants with a generation capacity of 240 MT a day have already been issued. The daily oxygen generation capacity of these plants vary from 0.5 to 5 MT and cost ₹20 lakh and above. Similarly, we are planning air separation units (ASUs), which take some time for installation across the state. Besides it, we are planning to utilise the existing capacity of 600 MT of generation plants in gaseous form, by providing compression and bottling facilities to them. This would help take the generation to 2,300 MT in six months,” said an official from Mantralaya. The official, who does not wish to be quoted as the proposal is yet to be formally approved by the cabinet, said that some of the liquid medical oxygen plants are expected to be installed by private players. He said the programme also includes capacity building by private sector to add to their current generation of oxygen.The official said the state government is also augmenting its storage capacity to more than 10,000 MT by installing tanks at district and divisional levels. “Currently, we have been consuming the stock we get on daily basis, without having any buffer stock. It is not an ideal situation during the time of a pandemic. We waste hours filing the oxygen from steel plants in other states and then its transportation. By creating storage capacity of over 11,000 MT, we will be in position to stock the oxygen to last for at least for seven days,” the official said. The state cabinet is expected to give its formal nod to the ₹1,100-crore programme in its meeting this week. By implementing the programme, the state government wants to end its dependence on Central government for additional oxygen for Covid patients. “Though the Centre has been allocating 400-500 MT in addition to our domestic consumption of 1,295 MT, the Central government may ask Maharashtra to supply oxygen to other states from domestic consumption. We have been asked to supply 11 MT from generation in Kolhapur to Goa, when we have been facing shortage locally. Besides its allocation of 60 MT from Bellary in Karnataka was blocked leading to shortfall in the supply. By ramping up our own capacity through Mission Oxygen, we want be self-reliant in the next six months,” said another official.Meanwhile, Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT), India’s premier container port, successfully executed the handling of four containers carrying 80 MT medical oxygen in cryogenic state in the vessel MV. GSF GISELLE of AXS service. The medical oxygen containers were sent by United Arab Emirates.MV. GSF GISELLE, carrying the containers reached JNPT on Monday, after departing from Jebel Ali, on the southern outskirts of Dubai on May 5. Inputs from G Mohiuddin Jeddy||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/1100crore-mission-oxygen-to-add-1-000-mt-in-six-months-101620675080662.html
11-05-2021||Other||Aviation ministry should vaccinate crew on priority basis, say pilots||As the country fights the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, frontliners employed with various Indian airlines are facing the brunt. Sources from various airlines said that as pilots and cabin crew were not vaccinated on a priority basis, they are contracting Covid-19. Sources in Air India said in Mumbai and Delhi alone, six senior pilots are in intensive care units (ICU) fighting the virus. A senior Air India pilot said, “At least six of our pilots are critical and many are getting treated for Covid-19. We recently lost our fellow pilot to the virus, and this has brought fear among the pilots and their families.”Meanwhile, international carriers Etihad and Singapore Airlines vaccinated all their pilots and cabin crew in February. In March, Qatar Airways operated the world’s first fully vaccinated flight with all 188 passengers, two pilots and 18 cabin crew having received the vaccine. The airline has been advertising the same in order to assure safety to its customers.Blaming the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) for not making it mandatory for airlines in India to vaccinate their pilots on priority, pilots across the airlines said the situation of the crew is currently grim because they are not being vaccinated on time.“Crew across airlines are either home quarantined or hospitalised. These include the ones in critical condition too. We operated flights with life-saving drugs and cargo materials throughout the pandemic only to see our colleagues lose their battle to Covid-19,” said a senior private airline pilot, adding that they are facing the brunt due to a delayed action by authorities. While MoCA had not responded on the matter till the time of going to press , an Air India spokesperson said, “The vaccination programme is charted out after an elaborate study carried out by the government in the best interest of all. Air India is following all the guidelines in this regard and is determined to stand by its employees during this crisis. We have mobilised all resources to counter the crisis. A fully 24-hour Covid assistance cell manned by medical department has been set up to cater to the needs of the affected. A network-wide vaccination plan was in place and eligible employees were being vaccinated. The moment government announced vaccination for citizens from 18 years, Air India rolled out a schedule with a deadline to vaccinate every employee by May end.”MoCA had on May 6 issued guidelines to ensure vaccination of all stakeholders (airline crew, ground staff and air traffic controllers) after civil aviation secretary TK Pandey wrote to states to accord priority status to vaccination in the first week of May. While private airlines have begun vaccination drives, Air India is expected to commence drives from May 15. However, it seems that the airline is facing issues for arranging the drive, at least in Delhi. An internal message sourced from Air India on Monday read, “The proposed vaccination camp at GSD complex IGI (Indira Gandhi International Airport) on 11.05.2021 and 12.05.2021 stands cancelled because govt authorities have expressed inability to hold these camps due to non- availability of vaccines. Fresh dates will be notified once we get re-confirmation from govt authorities (sic).”The guidelines issued by MoCA advised airport operators to establish dedicated vaccination facilities at their respective airports to facilitate expeditious vaccination for aviation personnel. They came in days after pilots of Air India, earlier this week, threatened to stop work if the airline failed to set up vaccination camps across the country for its flying crew.“We’ve been writing to MoCA and our management to vaccinate the crew on priority since long. If our crew would’ve been fully vaccinated by February, the situation would have been much better,” the senior pilot said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aviation-ministry-should-vaccinate-crew-on-priority-basis-say-pilots-101620675080107.html
11-05-2021||Other||No pre-arrest bail to Mumbai man for failing to supply ₹17.6-L gloves to trader||The Bombay high court (HC) recently rejected the anticipatory bail application of a man who was booked for allegedly defrauding a trader from Mumbai of ₹17.6 lakh in connivance with two others. The trader lodged the complaint in February after his order for 5,000 A+ quality Nitrile gloves, for which he had made the payment, did not reach him though the applicant had showed him documents pertaining to the dispatch. Though the applicant claimed that he was cheated by another supplier, the court held that as he portrayed himself to be the seller and had issued fake documents of the delivery of the gloves, he could not be granted anticipatory bail. A single bench of justice Prakash Naik, while hearing the anticipatory bail application of Saiyed Faiz Hasan, was informed by advocate Shahid Pathan that after the complainant had placed the order for gloves with his client in January, Hasan had contacted another supplier of the gloves at Greater Noida who agreed to supply the order. Hasan then issued the invoices, e-way bills and LR copy (lorry receipt) to the complainant, based on which he remitted ₹17.6 lakh to the accused. Pathan informed the court that Hasan had transferred the complainant’s payment to Shoeb Khan and Atif of Sabri Enterprises, and they had issued the tax invoice and railway transport bill with the railway parcel booking services on January 14. However, after the goods did not reach Mumbai on January 16, the complainant inquired with the railways and found that the documents were forged. Pathan submitted that his client was willing to cooperate with the investigation and was not the main perpetrator. However, the complainant’s advocate and the state opposed the anticipatory bail application, stating that Hasan was not traceable at his office and residence addresses. After hearing the submissions, the court observed, “There is every likelihood that the applicant and Shoeb Khan and Atif acted in connivance to deceive the complainant.” HC held that the transaction appeared to be suspicious and as Hasan was not agreeable to pay the complainant over ₹20 lakh (the money paid for the gloves and the expenses incurred for the case), his application was rejected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-pre-arrest-bail-to-mumbai-man-for-failing-to-supply-17-6-l-gloves-to-trader-101620675020062.html
11-05-2021||Mumbai||How Mumbai NGOs are helping spread the vaccine safety net||As the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has made it compulsory for citizens across all age groups to have a prior online appointment for vaccination, several non-government organisations (NGO) and corporators have stepped forward to help slum dwellers who have no access to smartphones and internet or don’t know how to use the booking app or portal. The BMC, on May 6, citing overcrowding at several vaccination centres across the city, suspended the walk-in vaccination drive, and made it mandatory for citizens to register and book an appointment to take the jab. This came in the backdrop of a stampede-like situation reported at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) jumbo vaccination centre. Starting May 7, the BMC has been allowing only those with online appointments for vaccination, which has added to the struggle of senior citizens and those with no access to the internet. Sachin Nachnekar from NGO YUVA, said, “The vaccine help desks in 12 slums of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region have reached out to 860+ people and helped 260+ people on board the Co-WIN platform since April 29. In Mumbai, we have set up help desks in areas such as Dahisar, Kandivli, Malad and Jogeshwari with 116 volunteers helping citizens.”Maharashtra Peco Net – a group of NGOs, citizen volunteers, corporate and government bodies – have reached out to around 1.1 million citizens in the state and assisted around 77,902 citizens get vaccinated by setting up 51 vaccination help desks. Poornima Nair, director-health & disability from NGO Apnalaya, said, “We are training around 20 volunteers who will tour Shivaji Nagar in Govandi, spread awareness about Covid-19 vaccines, manage misinformation of vaccines and lastly helping citizens register and book online slots. We are operating door-to-door and will cover a population of 52,000-55,000 citizens.” Another NGO Alert Citizen Forum is also helping many get vaccinated by helping them book a slot online. Several corporators across the city too have lent a helping hand to senior citizens and those who are not tech-savvy. Corporators across party lines are opening up tele-guidance and setting up help desks in their wards. Abhishek Ghosalkar, former corporator from Dahisar, said, “I have formed a team of 10 youngsters who are available in my party office for four hours. In these four hours, we take requests from senior citizens or slum dwellers. Later, when the slots are open, we book slots for them. We help around 40 to 50 citizens in the 45+ age group daily… Earlier, we were arranging buses, but citizens did not show up for vaccination, and now citizens want to get vaccinated, but we are not able to ensure a slot to everyone. However, in the coming days, as more stock arrives, I will increase the number of volunteers to ensure more citizens get the benefit.” As per the 2011 census, of the 12.4 million population in the city, over 4 million lives in slums and not everyone has access to smartphones. Raees Shaikh, Samajwadi Party corporator from Mumbai Central, said, “Aadhaar card is not enough to get the jab. Rather, a car and high-speed internet are also a big necessity. It can’t get more elitist than this. When we talk about online registration and appointments, we are forgetting senior citizens, those who do not own a smartphone, and those residing in slums.” Sandeep Patel, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporator from Goregaon, said, “Earlier, when walk-in vaccination was allowed, we used to ensure that senior citizens and every citizen who does not know how to go online and register gets vaccinated. We had set up a help desk to register citizens outside the vaccination centre in my ward. But today, nothing is in our hands and the complete system is online.” Patel said, “I am getting calls from citizens in my ward that many from outside the ward are coming to the centres near their houses and are getting vaccinated. This is injustice to locals. We will have to allow walk-ins.” On Monday, a BJP delegation led by leader of Opposition Pravin Darekar met municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal to raise the issues of citizens. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of the ward, which covers Dharavi, said, “We are taking help from NGOs and elected representatives for vaccination of citizens in Dharavi. Earlier, we organised buses for citizens to travel till vaccination centres, but now we are having a dedicated vaccination centre in Dharavi. NGOs are helping citizens complete the online registration.” Prithviraj Chauhan, assistant municipal commissioner covering Chembur, said, “We are having citizen desks at ward offices and even vaccination centres are guiding citizens on how to book online. It is also expected that every house has at least one person who is tech-savvy. But all this will change once we have more vaccine doses and walk-ins will be allowed.” On Monday, 31,043 citizens were vaccinated in the city, of which 4,837 were between the ages of 18 and 44, 11,047 in the 45-59 age group, 10,591 were senior citizens and the rest were healthcare and frontline workers. The BMC said on Tuesday 16 additional vaccination centres will be made operational in the city from the 190 centres, as of Monday. The BMC has stock of around 100,000 vaccine does of which around 20,000 are Covaxin and the remaining are Covishield. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “The vaccination drive will continue on Tuesday and all those given appointments will be accommodated.”Reacting on those who cannot book appointments online, state minister Aadtiya Thackeray said, “We are working on a way to make vaccines more accessible to people who are unfamiliar with technology.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/how-mumbai-ngos-are-helping-spread-the-vaccine-safety-net-101620674960698.html
11-05-2021||Other||After plaints, University of Mumbai postpones LLM exams to June||The University of Mumbai (MU) has pushed the exam schedule for Master of Law students after they complained that admission to the course was still going on and there was not enough time between the process and the exams. While the LLM exams were earlier scheduled to start on May 17, the university on Saturday issued a revised schedule announcing that exams will kick off on June 1. Confused with the university’s decision to hold exams on May 17 – which would have affected at least 800 students across six LLM divisions of MU – many had approached the examination department for clarity. A spokesperson from the exam department said that the dates have been pushed to accommodate the demands of students. However, law students are not too happy with the decision as the revised schedule does not provide breaks between the exams. “We have been telling the university that we need gaps between exams. We never asked for a postponement. Now the university has postponed exam and tests will be held every day. When will students have the time to prepare,” said Sachin Pawar, president of Student Law Council. Ashutosh Choughle, one of the LLM students, said, “Our online classes have barely started and we are already staring at an exam schedule with no breaks in between.”After a long wait, MU had declared dates for commencement of exams across departments and courses in the first week of April. Considering the delay in admissions to the undergraduate law (three-year and five-year) courses, exams for the first-year LLB students had been pushed to June, while those for LLM students were scheduled to begin in mid-May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-plaints-university-of-mumbai-postpones-llm-exams-to-june-101620674960092.html
11-05-2021||Other||Mumbai doctor couple collects 20kg of unused Covid-19 meds in 10 days||A doctor couple from Cuffe Parade has collected 20kg of unused Covid-19 medicines from recovered patients in just 10 days. These medicines will be donated to the primary health care centres in rural districts across India for the timely treatment of the underprivileged, who are infected with Sars-CoV-2 – the virus that causes Covid-19. On May 1, Dr Marcus Ranney and his wife Dr Raina, both aged 37, started Meds For More — a citizen initiative to collect unused medicines from Covid-19 recovered patients – from their apartment building Atur Terraces. Since then, residents from around 100 buildings have donated their unused, unexpired medicines for the campaign. “Covid-19 patients all across the country are facing an acute shortage of medicines. So why waste even a single dose? These can be used for treating those living in rural and tribal areas, who are the most affected. Through this initiative, we want to help such underprivileged people,” said Dr Ranney, who along with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), worked in the slums of Dadar for the screening and treatment of Covid-19 patients during the first wave of the pandemic last year. Meds for More collects all kinds of unused medicines such as antibiotics, Fabiflu, pain relief, steroids, inhalers, vitamins, antacids, among others, that are being used to treat Covid-19 patients. Additionally, they are also collecting basic medicinal equipment like pulse oximeters and thermometers.“All donated medicines are segregated and checked for expiry dates. We have collected around 2kg of Fabiflu, 1kg of steroids, 6kg of vitamins, 4kg of acetaminophen like paracetamol, among others,” said Dr Ranney. With the growing awareness about the initiative, residents from neighbouring buildings have started volunteering to collect medicines. Colaba resident Meghna Chhabria, who is a volunteer, said, “I wanted to help underprivileged people in this pandemic but I was too scared to go on the field as I haven’t been vaccinated yet. So when I got to know about this initiative, I helped in collecting the unused medicines from my building and neighbours.” The 39-year-old also handles the social media account of the campaign to raise awareness about the cause. The team has tied up with different non-government organisations (NGOs) to dispense medicines to needy patients. They have also finalised their first consignment which will be sent to the tribal residents in Gujarat. “At present, our first priority will be tribals from Maharashtra and Gujarat. We will then gradually, expand it to other states,” Dr Marcus said. The initiative is not only limited to south Mumbai. “Any recovered patient from any part of the city can send us their unused medicines. There are no geographical restrictions. We want to extend the initiative all across the city. It is extremely feasible and can be also replicated in other cities,” said Ruchie Kothari, 37, a team member.Those interested in donating their unused medicines, can contact medsformoreindia@gmail.com or reach out to their Instagram page @medsformore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-doctor-couple-collects-20kg-of-unused-covid-19-meds-in-10-days-101620674840044.html
11-05-2021||Other||Mumbai civic body to procure 5mn vaccines from global market||In order to ensure a speedy vaccination process of citizens, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will float a global tender to procure Covid-19 vaccines directly from the international market. Currently, BMC gets Covishield and Covaxin vaccine doses of domestic manufacturers from the Central and state governments. BMC also issued detailed guidelines allowing housing societies and private establishments to tie-up with private hospitals for vaccinating residents and employees, respectively, in their premises.“Looking at the need for adequate vaccines to ensure that vaccination is swift and efficient, after discussing the issue with CM (chief minister) Uddhav Thackeray ji, as guardian minister of Mumbai, we have asked BMC to explore possibilities of global procurement of vaccines (sic),” Mumbai suburban guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray tweeted.“Today the @mybmc has also issued guidelines for vaccination policy of housing societies partnering with hospitals for vaccination within society complexes,” read Thackeray’s tweet.A circular signed by civic body commissioner IS Chahal stated that it is necessary to expand the number of vaccination centres in Mumbai and also ensure swift vaccination before the third wave hits. “Our efforts to increase vaccination centres are constantly on going and the BMC shall be having a centre in every municipal ward, along with a drive-in vaccination centre across all zones of Mumbai. I request all other cities to also have the drive-in vaccination for citizens above the age of 65 for their ease and comfort,” Thackeray said in another tweet.According to BMC officials, the civic body will explore possibilities to get vaccines including Pfizer, Johnson and Johnson and Russia’s Sputnik V and the tender to procure around five million doses will be floated in a week’s time.Additional civic commissioner Suresh Kakani said that all the manufacturers who have licences will be allowed to supply vaccines directly to the city. According to BMC guidelines, the payment for each dose would have to be mutually decided by the private hospital and workplace/housing society. Workplaces and societies are required to designate one of their senior staff as nodal officers to coordinate with private centres. The nodal officer shall oversee and facilitate all aspects of vaccination at the workplace/ society like registration of beneficiaries and availability of physical and IT infrastructure. The beneficiaries must be registered on CoWIN app prior to the vaccination drive. In case of a workplace, on-the-spot registration shall be available only to employees, while their family members have to register on CoWIN.Each team from a private vaccine centre should compulsorily have a doctor, a vaccinator and a vaccination officer who will verify the CoWIN details and an additional officer to manage the crowd. An ambulance has to be stationed at the place of the drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-civic-body-to-procure-5mn-vaccines-from-global-market-101620674780157.html
11-05-2021||Lucknow||SP leader Azam Khan shifted to ICU as his oxygen requirement goes up||Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Azam Khan was shifted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of Medanta Hospital in Lucknow on Monday after his oxygen requirement shot up, the hospital said. The 72-year-old Rampur Lok Sabha MP, along with his 30-year-old son Abdullah, had been brought to the private hospital in the state capital on Sunday from Sitapur district jail, where they had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 30.The oxygen requirement of former Uttar Pradesh urban development minister Azam Khan shot up to 10 litres per minute and this required shifting him to ICU, according to the medical bulletin released by Medanta hospital. Currently, he is under strict observation of doctors.His son Abdullah as recovering, and his condition was satisfactory, the bulletin added.The duo had been in jail since February 26, 2020, when a Rampur court rejected their bail application in a case related to alleged forgery in age-proof documents of Abdullah, a jail official had said on Sunday.In September 2019, the court had issued summons to Azam Khan, his wife Tazeen Fatima and their son taking cognizance of the charge sheet filed by Rampur police, in which all three were charged with forgery and cheating. On January 3, 2019, local BJP leader Akash Saxena had lodged a complaint alleging that Azam and his wife helped their son in obtaining two fake birth certificates – one from Lucknow and another from Rampur – following which an FIR was registered.In December 2020, the Allahabad high court had granted bail to Tazeen Fatma in all 34 cases registered against her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/spleader-azam-khan-shifted-to-icu-as-his-oxygen-requirement-goes-up-101620674362358.html
11-05-2021||Kolkata||Centre brings all 77 BJP MLAs in West Bengal under VIP security cover||The Centre on Monday accorded ‘X’ category VIP security cover of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) to 61 Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLAs in West Bengal in view of the alleged violence against the party leaders and workers in the state, people familiar with the development said. With this, all newly elected 77 MLAs of BJP in the 294-seat assembly are now being provided security cover by the central forces. BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya said, “We had requested the home minister to provide security to our 77 MLAs as they were not able to travel anywhere, including their constituencies to their work. If the violence goes down, then they can rethink (the security cover) but for now we need this”. Leader of opposition in the state, Suvendu Adhikari, who defeated Mamata Banerjee from Nandigram seat, already has a second highest ‘Z’ category security cover from the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF). Officials cited above said the ministry of home affairs (MHA) approved the security cover for 61 MLAs, who had no protection till now, after taking into consideration a report prepared by intelligence agencies as well as the inputs shared by the four-member team that visited the state last week to assess the post-poll violence there. BJP has claimed that 14 of its party workers have been killed by Trinamool Congress goons while hundreds had to flee as their workplaces were burnt and family members attacked. Under the ‘X’ category cover, three to five armed commandoes will protect each MLA wherever they travel in the state. Others are already enjoying the central security cover under the next category of ‘Y’, which comprises 10-12 men. When contacted, TMC leader Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar said, “Narendra and Amit (first names only, since they do the same to women politicians) ran a vile and filthy campaign. They should answer your question”. However, a TMC leader said on condition of anonymity that “the real reason for giving security to all the BJP MLAs is that half of them will now run away from the party. The BJP feels that the MLAs are very unhappy with Suvendu Adhikari being the Leader of Opposition”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/centre-brings-all-77-bjp-mlas-in-west-bengal-under-vip-security-cover-101620674360808.html
11-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees rise in vaccinations with 288,581 beneficiaries on Monday||A day after clocking around 110,000 vaccinations, the Covid-19 immunisation drive in Maharashtra saw a slight improvement with 288,581 beneficiaries getting inoculated on Monday across 4,404 centres in the state. So far, the state has vaccinated 18,374,452 beneficiaries and 3,489,266 of them have received both the doses. In the past one month, the state has administered over 8.1 million doses.However, the state government has a vaccine stock that would last only for the next two to three days, officials said. A state health department official who did not wish to be named said, “We have received stock in the weekend that has allowed us to continue the vaccination drive. Our vaccination drive will continue on a slow pace for want of enough doses. We are expecting another batch of vaccine from the Centre during the week to allow us to continue vaccination across all centres.”In case of failing to get more doses from the Centre, the state could reduce the number of active vaccination centres. “Looking at our speed, the Centre ought to send us 1.5 to 2 million doses in a week, but it is not happening. We received a little over 700,000 doses in the weekend. After Monday, there would be around 350,000 to 400,000 vaccines remaining, which will suffice for two or three days,” the officer added.Meanwhile, the state is still awaiting the stock of Covaxin from the Centre even as nearly 550,000 people in the state are due for the second shot of the Bharat Biotech vaccine. The state government has written to Centre seeking Covaxin and has received a meagre 36,000 doses. “Despite following up with the Centre, they are not giving us Covaxin for people aged over 45 years. It is their responsibility to provide it. People are getting agitated. I will again speak to the Union health minister over this,” said Rajesh Tope, state health minister. Officials added that the state government will decide to divert its stock of Covaxin to inoculate the people who are yet to take their second shot.Tope also said that the state government will decide on the categorisation of the 18-44 age group this week. The state is expected to give priority to people between the age of 35 and 44, with preference to people with comorbidities. “The plan for categorisation will be ready within this week. We will add criteria such as comorbidities,” Tope said. He further added that they intend to start vaccination of 18-44 age group on their app, but so far they have not received a go-ahead from the Centre to create a new app for the state. Officials added that one option before the state is to start offline vaccination. However, officials are wary to start offline vaccination of such a large group. Offline vaccination could also require a go-ahead from the Centre. When asked if the state plans to write to Centre seeking permission to allow offline vaccination of 18-44 group, Tope said, “We can do offline, but the issue is that keeping a record is a major issue. We have to record each vaccination properly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-rise-in-vaccinations-with-288-581-beneficiaries-on-monday-101620674240077.html
11-05-2021||Mumbai||BMC to add 500 beds to treat Covid-19 in children and infants||To prepare for a possible rise in Covid-19 cases among infants and children in the projected third wave which is likely to hit mid-year, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to add at least 500 beds to exclusively treat Covid-positive children and infants. These can be increased as and when needed, civic authorities said. As part of the plan, the civic body will convert three maternity homes — one each in the island city, and eastern and western suburbs — into dedicated Covid-19 paediatric hospitals. This is among decisions taken by the civic body last Friday in a meeting chaired by chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of BMC’s public health department, said, “We aim to start by adding 500 beds in the paediatric wards. But if the need arises, this can be scaled to as many beds as we need. All existing jumbo facilities will have a reserved paediatric ward. The jumbo facilities have a capacity to add 200 to 250 beds to the paediatric section.” Presently Mumbai has six jumbo facilities — NSCI at Worli, Bandra-Kurla Complex, Nesco in Goregaon, Dahisar jumbo facility which has two wings, Mulund, and one at Richardson and Cruddas. BMC will also identify maternity homes across the city where a part of the beds will be reserved for children and infants. Kakani said, “Presently, some hospitals have maternity wards that are already treating pregnant women who are Covid-positive. For example, BYL Nair Hospital in Mumbai Central has a maternity ward for pregnant women with Covid-19 infection. Such wards will have partial number of beds reserved for Covid-positive children and infants.” The civic body has asked all private hospitals in the city to prepare their maternity wards to handle Covid cases in kids and to ramp infrastructure to handle such cases. Presently, at least 173 municipal, private and government hospitals treat Covid-19 patients in the city. The four upcoming Jumbo facilities at Malad, Sion, Kanjurmarg, and Mahalaxmi will also have dedicated paediatric wards, Kakani said. Meanwhile, Mumbai has reported a steady decline in the number of daily Covid-19 cases with 1,782 cases and 72 deaths on Monday. The city has reported less than 2,000 cases for the first time since March 16, when it had reported 1,922 cases. There are now 677,412 total cases in Mumbai and the toll is 13,855. The city has 47,054 active cases. On Sunday, Mumbai conducted 23,061 Covid-19 tests, which reported Monday’s cases, with a positivity rate of 7.7%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-add-500-beds-to-treat-covid-19-in-children-and-infants-101620674180003.html
11-05-2021||Kolkata||Covid-19: West Bengal reports fresh spike of over 19,000 new cases, 134 deaths||West Bengal on Monday registered its highest single day Covid-19 death of 134 people taking the toll due to the pandemic in the state to 12,461, the health department said.The state also reported highest single day spike of 19,445 fresh cases pushing the tally to 10,12,604, it added.North 24 Parganas district accounted for 42 deaths, while there were 34 Covid-19 deaths in the city, the bulletin said.In neighbouring South 24 Parganas there were 14 deaths, eight in Hooghly, six in Howrah while the rest are from other districts of the state, it added.Out of the 134 deaths, 55 were due to the comorbidities where Covid-19 was incidental, the health department said.Among the fresh cases, North 24 Parganas registered 3,971 of them, while in the city 3,948 cases pushing the number of active cases to 1,26,663, it said.There were 18,675 recoveries reported in the state in the last 24 hours improving the discharge rate to 86.26 per cent. So far, 8,73,480 people have recovered from the disease in West Bengal.Since Sunday, 62,186 samples have been tested in the state taking the total number of such tests to 1,10,30,927, the bulletin mentioned, the health department said.On Monday, at least 1,31,975 people were vaccinated in West Bengal and there were no cases of adverse effect following immunisation reported from anywhere in the state, an official of the department said.Meanwhile, the state government has decided to start the inoculation process of transport workers involved in the private sector from Tuesday, its new Transport Minister Firhad Hakim said.The minister said that hawkers will also be vaccinated soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/covid19-west-bengal-reports-fresh-spike-of-over-19-000-new-cases-134-deaths-101620673553653.html
11-05-2021||Other||Active cases data in Meerut not matching up with health dept figures||Mismatch in active number of Corona cases and patients undergoing treatment in home isolation and hospitals has raised doubt about the actual number of cases in the district. The daily bulletin of health department about Covid showed that till May 9 the district had 16,238 active cases, that included 2009 patients in 27 hospitals and 6020 in home isolation. This adds up to 8029 active cases which is 8209 short of the cases shown by the health department bulletin. Responding to the issue of difference in numbers, chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Akhilesh Mohan described it as a discrepancy in managing the data. He claimed that many hospitals, who admitted and discharged patients, didn’t upload their data. Therefore, data of active cases are showing more than actual number of patients undergoing treatment. He also mentioned that his office was facing shortage of staff as more than 150 staff members were infected. But he assured to “look into the issue”. Meanwhile, 6927 samples were tested on Sunday in which 1365 tested positive while 6 persons succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/active-cases-data-in-meerut-not-matching-up-with-health-dept-figures-101620673819949.html
11-05-2021||Other||300 oxygen plants coming up in state, says UP CM||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said the process was on to set up 300 oxygen plants in Uttar Pradesh to make sure there was no oxygen crisis in the fight against Covid-19. He was in Ayodhya to review medical arrangements made by the district administration there.“The state government is in the process of setting up 300 oxygen plants which will be made operational soon. Out of this, 18 are coming up in Ayodhya division and six of them have already been installed,” he said to reporters.“The state’s sugarcane department is also installing one oxygen plant in each district across the state,” he said.On the increasing demand for oxygen, the chief minister said: “In normal situations, there was a requirement of 300 metric tonnes (per day) of oxygen in the state. But the second wave of Covid-19 has posed a challenge before us.”Adityanath also said that the state was getting 1000 metric tonnes of oxygen (per day).He said 2000 ambulances had been engaged in the state for ferrying Covid patients.Commenting on the Covid vaccination drive, the chief minister said: “At 4,300 vaccination centres, people have been vaccinated. From May 1, those above 18 years are being vaccinated at places where there are more active cases.” The CM also issued an appeal to people not to venture out of their homes unnecessarily and to step out only after wearing mask. He urged them not to take the pandemic lightly.Earlier, the CM inspected Covid-19 command centre at Vikas Bhawan and then presided over a meeting at the collectorate to review arrangements of fight the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/300-oxygen-plants-coming-up-in-state-says-up-cm-101620673639897.html
11-05-2021||Lucknow||Daily positivity rate goes below 10% in UP||The daily Covid positivity rate — the number of positive cases against the total tests done — on Monday dipped below 10% in Uttar Pradesh for the first time since the middle of last month, according to official data. This rate was at its highest at 16.84% on April 24 during the second wave of the pandemic. It is now 9.92%,The previous instance of the rate being below 10% in the state during the second wave was on April 14 when it was recorded at 9.76%, the data showed. It had crossed the 10-mark (10.86%) on April 15. An expert said the fall in the positivity rate was a good sign. “Fall in positivity rate indicates we have been able to contain the infection spread. The restrictions on movement have somewhere helped to slow down the rising number of fresh daily cases,” said Prof Kauser Usman, head of the department of geriatric medicine at King George’s Medical University (KGMU) here. For his part, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had said at a Covid-19 review meeting on Sunday: “The positivity rate has been steadily falling since April 30 and the recovery rate is rising.” On Monday, he said that the state had recorded a decline of 85,000 in active Covid-19 cases in 10 days with their number going down from 3.10 lakh on April 30 to about 2.25 lakh on May 10.Uttar Pradesh on Monday reported 21,331 fresh Covid-19 cases, including 1,274 in Lucknow and 278 more deaths, 26 of them in the state capital alone. Meerut recorded 2,269 cases, the maximum on the day.The overall tally of cases in the state has gone up to 15,24,767 and the death toll is 15, 742 since the beginning of the pandemic in March last year.The (daily) positivity rate for Covid kept rising since April 1 when it was 2.09% and there were 11,918 active cases (the number of patients under treatment) in the state. Both the positivity rate and the number of active cases kept rising thereon.By April 7, the positivity rate reached 3.73% and the active cases went up to 31987, more than double the number recorded on April 1.On April 23, the positivity rate reached 16.53% and the number of active cases stood at 2,73,653. On April 24, the positivity rate touched 16.84% and the active cases reached 2,88,144.On April 30, the 24-hour positivity rate came down to 14.18% but active cases still kept rising and reached 3,10,783, the maximum during the second wave in the state. On May 9, positivity rate came down to 10.18% and the active cases receded to 23,39,81On May 10, the daily positivity rate fell below 10% and stood at 9.92% while the active cases came down to 2,25,271.(Since the pandemic began in March last year, the overall positivity rate in the state is 3.53% with 4,31,69,533 Covid tests having been done and 15,24,767 cases reported till now).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/daily-positivity-rate-goes-below-10-in-up-101620673159853.html
11-05-2021||Mumbai||Param Bir’s allegations: Team of 5 to assist panel||More than five weeks after the appointment of a single-member probe committee under retired high court judge KU Chandiwal, the state on Monday appointed a team of five officials to assist it. The delay in deciding the remuneration of the probe committee chief and appointment of the staff to assist it is reportedly because of the parallel probe started by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the case.The committee, appointed on March 30, will probe the allegations levelled by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh against former home minister Anil Deshmukh. In his letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Singh had alleged that the home minister had asked police officers from crime branch to collect Rs100 crore a month from bars, restaurants and hookah parlours.The government resolution issued on Monday has named Bhaiyaasaheb Behere, deputy collector with BMC, as secretary of the committee, Ad Shishir Hire as its counsel. Other three retired government officers have been appointed administrative officer (sheristadar), stenographer and office superintendent. The panel has been asked to submit its report in six months. The three-point terms of reference given to the committee include whether Singh has submitted any proof in his letter dated March 20 to establish that Deshmukh or anyone from his office committed any offence as alleged; whether the allegations levelled by Singh, citing the messages from ACP Sanjay Patil, (suspended) API Sachin Vaze, have any truth; and whether they need to be investigated by the ACB or any other agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/param-bir-s-allegations-team-of-5-to-assist-panel-101620672859708.html
11-05-2021||Mumbai||1 litre of petrol crosses ₹100 in Parbhani, diesel at ₹90.10||The price of one litre of petrol crossed ₹100 in Parbhani in Maharashtra on Monday. One litre of petrol was available at ₹100.24, while one litre of diesel was priced at ₹90.10.With an increase of 25 paise on petrol and 35 paise on diesel on Sunday, one litre of petrol was priced at ₹97.86 and one litre of diesel was available at ₹89.17 on Monday. The hike comes after the prices of petroleum products stabilised on Sunday. On Saturday, petrol was priced at ₹97.61 for one litre and diesel was priced at ₹88.82. Transporters have stated they will urge the Central Government to reduce the prices. “The government should have cut the excise duties and asked the states to lower their Value Added Tax (VAT) to provide some relief, but its insensitivity towards the plight of people continues unabated.” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motors Transport Congress. The rise in fuel prices in the city was witnessed on Tuesday after remaining constant since April 15. On April 15, the price of one litre of petrol was ₹96.83 and diesel was ₹87.81.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/1-litre-of-petrol-crosses-100-in-parbhani-diesel-at-9010-101620672679812.html
11-05-2021||Other||Bombay HC refuses admission to MMS course aspirant by creation of supernumerary seat||Mumbai The Bombay high court (HC) last week refused to grant admission to a student to the master’s in management studies (MMS) course at Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management Studies (JBIMS) by creating a supernumerary seat under the Children of Indian Workers in Gulf Country (CIWGC) category. The student, Dev Karthik, had moved HC contending that his name appeared in the merit list prepared and displayed by the state common entrance test (CET) cell on January 28, but JBIMS illegally refused to admit him to MMS course under the CIWGC category. His lawyer pointed out that the petitioner had approached the institute on January 25 but was asked to wait for the merit list prepared by the CET cell. He submitted that the petitioner, though having secured position in the merit list prepared by the CET cell, has been deprived of an admission to the course purely on account of the illegal manner in which the admission process was implemented by JBIMS. He had, therefore, urged the court to direct JBIMS to create a supernumerary seat in CIWGC category and give him admission for the course. Advocate Rui Rodrigues, who represented Mumbai University (MU), which runs JBIMS as an autonomous institution, pointed out that admissions under CIWGC category are made at the institute level and the CET cell had no role to play in it. Rodrigues opposed the petition contending that the petitioner was entirely at fault for not having participated in the admission process initiated by the institute, which was given due publicity. He also pointed out that the list prepared by CET cell was just a list of candidates seeking admission through CIWGC category and not a merit list. Besides, advocate Rodrigues also pointed out that the course had started in January and from April 1, even the summer internships had started. Thus, the petitioner, who moved HC on February 10, was way late for seeking admission. The division bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice CV Bhadang accepted the arguments advanced on behalf of the institute and the university, and rejected the plea for interim relief. The bench took note of the fact that the foot note of admission notice for CIWGC category candidates instructed them to directly approach the institutes where such quota seats were available for admission but the petitioner did not formally apply to JBIMS and therefore, no case for creation of the supernumerary seat was made out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bombay-hc-refuses-admission-to-mms-course-aspirant-by-creation-of-supernumerary-seat-101620672619722.html
11-05-2021||Mumbai||Dreams Mall fire started at computer shop||The fire at Dreams Mall in Bhandup on March 25, which killed 11 people, started due to a short-circuit at a computer shop located at the upper ground floor of the mall, the investigation into the incident has revealed.Meanwhile, two persons arrested in connection with the fire were produced in the court after their five-day police custody ended on Monday, and both have been remanded in judicial custody for 14 days. A team of six police personnel headed by assistant commissioner of police Priya Dhakane (Mulund division) has been conducting an investigation in the incident and have recorded statements of around 100 people including shopkeepers and others, so far. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Prashant Kadam (zone 7) said, “We are trying to find out whether someone was working inside the shop or not when the incident occurred… The person has taken the shop on rent, his statement has been recorded and we are verifying few facts. We cannot disclose the details at this stage as investigation is on.”The incident took place on March 25 and the fire soon spread to the third-floor, which housed Sunrise Hospital, resulting in the death of 11 people. Police officers said that during investigation they found that George Puthhu Seri, chief executive officer of Privilege Health Care which owns Sunrise Hospital, had in connivance with Haresh Dayalal Joshi of fire safety inspection firm Pona Corporation obtained a fire no-objection certificate (NOC) for the mall by certifying that its fire safety system was functional, whereas it was not working. Police found water pumps and smoke detectors were not functional at the mall. Pona Corporation, a licenced agency authorised by the Mumbai civic body, claimed to have tested the fire-fighting system in the mall and submitted bogus certificate. Based on this, the fire department issued an NOC to the mall, said Dhakane. “Both were arrested on May 5. After five days of police custody, they were produced in the court which sent them to judicial custody for 14 days. Further investigation is going on to find out who else are responsible behind the fire. There are several people affected due to Covid-19, so we have to take precautions before arresting others, but soon action will be taken against responsible persons,” said Dhakane.Bhandup police also booked several people, including HDIL directors Rakesh Wadhawan and his son Sarang; Nikita Amitsingh Trehan and Deepak Shirke, as well as Amitsingh Trehan and Sweetie Jain who are the directors of Privilege Health Care Services Private Limited, for culpable homicide not amounting to murder soon after the fire incident. Police have added sections 409 (criminal breach of trust), 465 (forgery) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) of the Indian Penal Code to the case on May 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dreams-mall-fire-started-at-computer-shop-101620672559667.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt procures 990 ventilators for 15 hospitals||In order to scale up intensive care unit facilities in the national capital, the Delhi government has procured 990 portable ventilators for 15 hospitals and temporary Covid facilities. Of the 990, the highest allocation -- 150 ventilators -- is for the newly constructed Indira Gandhi hospital in Dwarka that the Delhi government is currently operationalising for Covid-19 patients. Health minister Satyendar Jain had earlier said the hospital would start functioning with 500 oxygen beds for Covid patients. “To augment medical resources, optimum utilisation of space is being done. A 500 oxygen bed centre will be set up here by next week,” Jain had said last Wednesday. Two new hospitals in Burari and Ambedkar Nagar, operationalised last year by the Delhi government for treating Covid-19 patients, have also been allocated 80 ventilators each. Other hospitals that are to receive 80 each ventilators are Deen Dayal Upadhaya in Hari Nagar and Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital in Rohini. The government allocated 80 ventilators each to temporary facilities such as the Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre in Chhatarpur, an extension of Burari hospital, and the Sant Darshan centre. Two hospitals of the Employees State Insurance Corporation in Okhla and Jhilmil were allocated 50 ventilators in total. Currently, Delhi has 5,872 intensive care unit beds, of which about 98.9% of the beds are occupied, but not all of them have ventilators. The occupancy is likely to reduce over the week as the number of Covid cases in the city has started going down once again. After recording over 20,000 fresh Covid-19 cases from April 16 to May 5, the numbers fell below 20,000 on May 6, when 19,133 fresh cases were reported. On Monday, Delhi recorded 12,651 fresh cases with a test positivity rate of 19.1%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-procures-990-ventilators-for-15-hospitals-101620672560141.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||33 MCD schools to have vaccination centres for 18-44 age group||After Delhi government schools, municipal schools in the national capital were turned into Covid-19 vaccination centres on Monday to inoculate the 18-44 age group. Officials at the three civic bodies -- east, north, and south-- have been requesting the Delhi government to turn their schools into vaccination centres so that more beneficiaries in this age group are covered.The Delhi government has approved to turn 15 schools of the north corporation, 11 of the south corporation, and seven of the east corporation into Covid-19 vaccination sites. North Corporation Mayor Jai Prakash said four of the 15 centres started functioning on Monday. “The remaining 11 centres will start functioning on Tuesday. We have been requesting the Delhi government to start centres in each ward to ensure that young people do not have to travel to different parts of the city to get the shot, given the present situation. Municipal staff are already working at vaccination centres in Delhi government schools and some of them can be deployed to these schools as well,” he said.In East corporation, four schools were converted into vaccination centres on Monday and the remaining three will start functioning from Tuesday. East corporation mayor Nirmal Jain said, “We had also written to the chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on May 6, requesting permission to set up vaccination centres in our schools. Now the government has allowed us to set up seven such centres.”The South corporation on Monday started four of 11 centres. South civic body education committee chairperson Mukesh Suryan said, “I had written to the Delhi government on Saturday requesting that it allow the south corporation to open vaccination centres in its schools. We had highlighted that some wards under the south civic body, including west Sagarpur and Dwarka assembly 46, had no vaccination centre for the age group of 18-44. We appreciate that the government quickly reacted and gave the nod for us to do so.”Suryan said the staff at these centres will mostly be deputed from the respective corporations. “The government will provide us with the vaccine. We will ensure all other support systems,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/33-mcd-schools-to-have-vaccination-centres-for-18-44-age-group-101620672499679.html
11-05-2021||Other||AU finalises promotion formula for students sans exams||After deciding to promote all second and third year students of undergraduate courses of AU and its constituent colleges for the academic session 2020-21, the Allahabad University (AU) authorities have now derived a formula for granting this promotion. Under this, the students getting promoted will be given an extra 7 per cent numbers in each subject over the marks scored by a student in the previous year’s exam which he or she has passed. The examination committee has approved this promotion formula and the same has been uploaded on the official website of AU, said central varsity officials. Public relation officer (PRO), AU, Jaya Kapoor said, “As per the formula developed by the varsity, the graduating third year students will be passed with an additional 7 per cent marks granted over marks obtained in the second year. This additional score will be awarded in each subject. Apart from this, the students of BA and BSc who had to appear in backpaper will also be given 7 per cent extra marks in each subject over the marks obtained by him/her in second year.” Students of BCom and BSc home science will be given these additional marks in each subject, considering the average marks obtained in the first and second year of graduation, she explained. “If there are two papers in a subject in the second year of graduation and three papers in the third year, then the average marks obtained in the two papers of second year will be taken as the basis for the marks in the third paper,” said the PRO. In addition to this, if maximum marks of a subject paper is 50 in the second year of graduation and the maximum marks in the third year is 75, then the simple scaling procedure will be adopted. Apart from this, it has also been clarified those marks of viva-voce and practical exams will be given by the department concerned, Kapoor said. “The results of UG backpaper examination of BA, BSc, BCom and BSc home science will be declared by May 30 and similarly the result of examination for BCA, MCA, PGDCA will be held in online mode in this very month and results will also be declared by the end of this month”, said the PRO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/au-finalises-promotion-formula-for-students-sans-exams-101620672319740.html
11-05-2021||Delhi||Govt prepping for 3rd wave, city will be able to tackle 30k daily cases: CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said the national capital is preparing for the third wave of Covid-19 by augmenting infrastructure to a level where the city will be able to handle even 30,000 daily cases.“We are increasing oxygen beds... We must prepare for the third wave. In this wave (second for the country and fourth for the city), Delhi recorded a maximum of 28,000 cases in a day. Going by the scale at which we are creating infrastructure now, we will be able to handle the situation even if 30,000 daily cases are reported in the next wave,” Kejriwal said during a visit to the makeshift Covid care centre near GTB hospital in east Delhi.As on Monday, Delhi had 22,801 Covid-19 beds of which 3,242 were vacant. Also, of the total 5,839 ICU beds, 56 were vacant.Emphasising that vaccination can play a major role in curbing fresh cases, Kejriwal said the Delhi government has been left with 3-4 days stock of Covid vaccines. “Vaccine has played a major role in curbing the Covid-19 cases. We can prevent the third wave, if we vaccinate people on a large scale but the supply of vaccines is an issue,” he said.Elaborating the infrastructure augmentation plan, senior government officials said it includes increasing beds in hospitals as well as creating more centres in open grounds, sites run by religious organisations and stadiums.Government officials said they are already implementing plans to ramp up beds, opening up makeshift centres as well as adding infrastructure in the hospitals.Also read | Covid-19: Capital’s positivity dips below crucial 20% levelAt least 12,200 beds are ready and can be made available in a week or two. These include nearly 1,000 across all hospitals in the city, 11,000 across non-Hospital centres and around 200 in the municipal corporations, senior government and civic body officials said.Experts pointed out that the current Covid wave has shown that besides normal Covid care centres which accommodated patients with moderate symptoms, the city will need more beds with oxygen and critical care support both in hospitals as well as the informal set ups, if it encounters another wave of the infection.“The number of cases has gone down, but the hospitals and ICUs are full. For now, we must focus on breaking the chain of transmission; along with the lockdown we need to vaccinate more people. We also have to keep in mind that the current surge happened because of absolute complacency -- people were not wearing masks, they were gathering for parties and marriages, and travelling. The pandemic is not yet over,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonary medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.Hospital bedsThe number of ward and oxygen beds in Delhi have gone up by 1,380 and intensive care unit beds by 689 over last week, according to data on Delhi Corona app.Health department officials said Delhi government-run hospitals such as Lok Nayak, Deen Dayal Upadhyay, and Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospitals have added 237 ICU beds. Others such as the Rajeev Gandhi Super Speciality hospital, which rolled back its number of beds from 550 to 350 due to paucity of oxygen, have added 25 beds. “We will slowly scale up the number of beds again now that the oxygen supply has stabilised,” a senior doctor at the hospital said.The Delhi government on Monday also allocated 990 ventilators to 15 hospitals and makeshift healthcare facilities in order to ramp up ICU beds in the city. Currently, there are 5,872 ICU beds, 98.9% of which were occupied.At the Delhi government’s new 370-bed Burari hospital, the admissions had been restricted for a couple of days when there was an acute shortage of oxygen. “We are not facing any problems now. The supply has stabilised. In addition to that the requirement for oxygen has also gone down. There are fewer new admissions. The pressure on the healthcare system is slowly easing,” said a senior doctor from the hospital. The hospital plans to scale up the number of beds from 370 to 500 in the coming days.The private hospitals too have started admitting more patients.Also read | Hoarding of oxygen devices: Look-out circular against Khan Market restaurateur“We have now set up an oxygen generation plant that augments our daily requirement. We are better off now and are able to admit more patients. We have 110 oxygen-dependent patients at the moment against our listed capacity of 76 oxygen beds,” said Dr Sunil Kohli, head of the department of medicine at Hakeem Abdul Hameed Centenary Hospital. Several beds were not being utilised at the hospital as the supply of oxygen was uncertain last week.Dr PK Bharadwaj, chief executive director of Saroj hospital said, “Now that the supply of oxygen has stabilised we have increased the number of beds in our hospital from 120 to 150 and the number of ICU beds have gone up from 53 to 63 now.”Non-hospital bedsThe Delhi government has readied at least 11,000 beds which is in addition to the Covid care centres that are already operational. This includes 5,000 beds at Radha Soami Satsang’s South Delhi campus, 2,500 beds in two places in Burari, 1,000 beds in Commonwealth Games Village, another 1,000 beds in Yamuna Sports Complex, 1,000 ICU beds at two Ramlila grounds and at least 400 beds at the Rakabganj Gurudwara.Apart from this, a number of schools and colleges are also being cleaned and readied so they can be converted into isolation centres. On Monday, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia visited Mount Carmel School where its auditorium has been converted into a 40-bed covid care centre equipped with oxygen concentrators and medicines.From Tuesday, the government is opening its 500-bed ICU centre at Ramlila ground outside east Delhi’s GTB hospital. Another 500 ICU beds will be operational in the “next 2-3 days” at the main Ramlila Ground near Lok Nayak hospital, officials said.“There has been a huge demand for ICU beds. We hope that these 1,000 additional ICU beds will help meet the demand. By this evening, we are expected to receive 1,000 oxygen cylinders, and in the next 3-4 days we expecting more oxygen cylinders to arrive. We are creating new oxygen beds across the city, and hope that Delhi will no longer see any shortage of beds,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday.Similarly, the air-conditioned facility at the Rakabganj Gurudwara is also now ready to admit patients, health minister Satyendar Jain said on Monday. “The centre has been attached with Lok Nayak hospital. The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee has set up this fully AC infrastructure. The Delhi government has supplied medical facilities and equipment. Similar Covid care centres have been set up in various parts of Delhi. We do have ample number of beds and in case patients admitted here go critical, they can be shifted to the ICU ward of the hospital they are attached to,” Jain said.Watch | Oxygen Express with highest volume of LMO leaves from Hapa to Delhi﻿Beds in municipal facilitiesThe three municipalities — north, south and east— are treating Covid patients at nearly six facilities, including hospitals and community centres. Civic bodies officials said at least 610 beds are currently operational across the facilities being run by the three corporations, of which 440 beds are under the north civic body, 85 in east and 60 in south DMC.Officials said that nearly 200 more beds will be created in a week’s time for Covid-19 patients. Out of 610, nearly 440 beds are operational in the north civic body, 85 in east and 60 under the south corporation.Jai Prakash, mayor North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said, “In Hindu Rao hospital, we have dedicated 280 beds for Covid treatment; 100 in Rajan Babu and 35 in Balakram hospitals. We will add 65 more beds at Balakram and convert two more community centres in Ashok Vihar and Nabi Karim into Covid dedicated facilities of 25 beds each. So far we have also no dearth of oxygen supply for the three hospitals where Covid patients are being treated.”South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s (SDMC) nodal officer for bed augmentation and Covid management programme, Radha Krishna, said the south body’s Kalkaji hospital will start functioning as a Covid facility with 20 beds and the Tilak Nagar Super Speciality Covid-19 hospital could add 40 beds. He added that to meet the oxygen supply requirements, the SDMC is also installing a plant at its Tilak Nagar hospital.Similarly, the east Delhi municipal corporation (EDMC) has dedicated 85 beds at its Swami Dayanand Hospital. “We will create 25 more beds here. It is a partially Covid-19 facility as maternity and child care facilities are also being provided here,” EDMC mayor Nirmal Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kejriwal-says-govt-preparing-for-next-covid-19-wave-as-city-augments-health-infrastructure-101620672259668.html
11-05-2021||Other||Varanasi ESIC Hosp gets oxygen plant from Israel||An oxygen plant from Israel has been set up at ESIC Hospital Varanasi on Monday. NDRF team brought the plant from Delhi to Varanasi and its technical team helped install it here. The oxygen plant has capacity of producing 500 litres of oxygen per minute. Responsibility to carry the oxygen plant from Delhi to Varanasi was given to NDRF, said NDRF officials in a press statement. NDRF, Varanasi, Commandant Manoj Kumar Sharma said that the oxygen plant was brought to Varanasi by road and has been set up at ESIC Hospital by technical team of NDRF with the cooperation of hospital management. The plant will help provide smooth oxygen supply to the patients at the hospital, he added. NDRF is also carrying out sanitization at various places and helping local administration in its fight against Corona.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/varanasi-esic-hosp-gets-oxygen-plant-from-israel-101620672199657.html
11-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra likely to extend lockdown by two weeks||The Maharashtra government is likely to extend the lockdown till May-end, even as it reported its lowest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases in 41 days. With 37,236 new Covid-19 infections (27,918 cases were reported on March 30), the state’s tally went up to 5,138,973, while the toll rose to 76,398 with 549 more deaths.The significant dip in cases on Monday can be attributed to the drop in number of tests to 192,330 in 24 hours, below the daily average of over 2,50,000 tests over the past few weeks. The test positivity rate on Monday stood at 19.36%, against the weekly rate of 20.82%. Mumbai, too, saw its lowest one-day spike in 56 days (1,782 cases), after reporting 1,713 infections on March 15. The state government is, however, all set to extend its current lockdown by another two weeks after it ends at 7am on May 15. The lockdown will be as strict as it is currently, while in some districts where the cases are on the rise, the local administration is expected to impose stricter curbs. The decision is expected to be taken in the state cabinet on Wednesday. At present, cases are on the rise in 21 districts and dropping in 15, including Mumbai and Thane. The slowed-down vaccination drive is another reason for extension of the lockdown.“Though the daily caseload has stabilised over the past few weeks, it is still at the average of over 55,000, which is much higher than the peak of the first wave, when the highest daily peak was 24,886 cases on September 11 last year. We will still have to follow stricter curbs to bring the cases down. The strain on the health infrastructure has been reduced significantly with more than 25% beds in the state vacant. In some districts, the percentage is 40. But some districts like Kolhapur, Sangli are witnessing rise in the number of cases. More than half the districts are still logging rise in daily cases. In such a scenario,the lockdown will continue in its current form at least for two more weeks,” said an official from Mantralaya.Currently, only essential establishments are allowed to operate between 7am and 11am, while attendance in government offices has been brought down to 15%. People are not allowed to venture out without a valid reason. The inter-district travel, too, has been restricted only for the medical and valid reasons.A senior Shiv Sena minister said that the decision of extension by two weeks was taken in the cabinet when it was unanimously decided, in last week of April, to impose lockdown. “We had decided to extend it by two weeks instead of announcing it for four weeks at a go,” he said.Mumbai’s guardian minister Aslam Shaikh on Monday said the decision over the lockdown will be taken after discussion in the cabinet. “We have been augmenting our health infrastructure during the lockdown to face the second wave and in anticipation of the potential third wave of the pandemic. We have been witnessing good result of the lockdown as cases in Mumbai and other cities have come down significantly. Considering this, the decision over giving relaxations in the districts with a drop in cases and stricter norms where cases are on the rise, will be taken,” he said.Some of the districts have imposed stricter lockdown amid the rise in cases. Buldhana district’s guardian minister Rajendra Shingne announced that the district has terminated internal public transport service until May 20. The shops, too, have been shut down for more than a week beginning from Tuesday.Pune district remains on the top in term of daily cases with 4,685 cases reported on Monday, followed by 3,813 cases in Ahmednagar, 2,545 in Nagpur, 2,234 in Nashik. The daily caseload in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) dropped to 4,883 on Monday from over 10,000 cases a few days ago. After Mumbai, Latur (51), Beed(42), Kalhapur (26) districts reported high number of deaths.With the drop in active cases to 590,818, the state’s recovery rate improved to 86.97%. Highest active patients, 97,593, are in Pune, followed by 47,054 in Mumbai and 34,185 in Thane. State has 3,670,320 people in home quarantine and 26,664 institutionally quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-likely-to-extend-lockdown-by-two-weeks-101620672019691.html
11-05-2021||Lucknow||‘Thai woman who died of Covid was spa therapist in Lucknow’||The police team formed to probe the controversy around the death of a Thai woman, who reportedly died of Covid-19 in Lucknow last week, on Monday claimed the deceased was a professional therapist and worked at a local spa in the city.“The woman was a professional spa therapist and worked at a local spa centre. When she contracted Covid-19 virus, she was admitted to a hospital by spa centre manager Salman, who also performed her last rites as per the wish of members of the deceased family following permission from Thai embassy officials,” said DCP Sanjiv Suman, who is heading the team set up to probe the matter.The probe was initiated after reports on social media claimed she was an escort and was invited to Lucknow by son of a politician and a prominent builder at a time when cases of Covid-19 were rising.On Sunday, the said politician refuted the claims and wrote to local police requesting an investigation into the matter.The probe team found that the deceased was a regular visitor to India since 2010 and to Lucknow since 2019.“We questioned the owner of the spa and the manager regarding the matter and have not found anything suspicious or illegal yet. The investigation is still on, and we are looking into other aspects of the case,” said the officer.The woman was admitted to Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences, Lucknow, on April 28 and she died on May 3, as per ADM (administration) Amar Pal Singh. Later, her family was contacted in Thailand via embassy. As per their wishes, her last rites were performed by the police and district administration on May 5, he had said.An official statement released by the Lucknow police said the probe team had spoken to people connected with the case.“Further investigation in the case will be done on the basis of facts collected by the team,” read the police statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/thai-woman-who-died-of-covid-was-spa-therapist-in-lucknow-101620671659596.html
11-05-2021||Patna||Horror sinking in, bodies found floating in Ganga||Amid the current wave of Covid-19 infections, over two dozen partially decomposed bodies, some bloated, were found floating in Ganga river near Chausa in Buxar district of Bihar on Monday, setting off panic among locals and prompting a probe by the district administration.“There are 30-35 bodies floating in Ganga in a spread of over 2 km,” said K K Upadhyay, subdivisional officer (Sadar), who has been asked by the district administration to probe the matter.Upadhyay, however, was quick to claim that these bodies could have floated downstream from neighbouring Uttar Pradesh.“Here at Chausa, there is curve in the river. These bodies seem to have floated downstream from other places and washed up near the bend. It is not clear how they died. The administration is making arrangements to dispose of the bodies,” he said.Ashok Kumar, block development officer at Chausa, which borders UP, said, “We were alerted by the local chowkidar that many bodies had been spotted floating from upstream. We have so far recovered 15 of these. None of the deceased happens to be a resident of the district,” he told PTI.“Many districts in UP are situated right across the river and the bodies may have been dumped in the river for reasons not known to us. We cannot confirm whether the deceased were indeed Covid-19 infected. The bodies have started decomposing. But we are taking all precautions while ensuring that these are disposed of in a decent manner,” he said.Addressing a press conference in the evening, Buxar’s district magistrate Aman Samir said the bodies found floating in Ganga near Chausa were three-four days old. “This makes it clear that the bodies are not from Buxar but have floated downstream from neighbouring UP. We have contacted officials from neighbouring districts. To prevent a repeat of this, it has been decided to start boat patrolling,” he said.However, social activist and lawyer Ashwani Verma countered the claims of the administration. “For the last 10 days, I have been approaching the local administration over bodies in the river. Because of the lockdown, people do not prefer to go to Buxar and instead dispose bodies in Ganga. You never know they could be infected with Covid-19,” he said.A large number of villages, situated on the banks of Ganga, use river water for drinking purposes as several villages have reported presence of arsenic in ground water in Buxar and adjoining Bhojpur district.A K Singh Kushwaha, a local, said there is hardly any facility at Chausa funeral ground. “People have to bring wood from a distance of 1 to 1.5 kms to the funeral site,” he said, adding that those manning the funeral ground ask for exorbitant sums for a wooden pyre.While enforcing the lockdown, the state government had announced free funeral (at government cost) for all Covid-related deaths and made urban and rural development departments as nodal agencies for this.Former MP and Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) leader Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav, who has been exposing the malfunctioning of system by visiting different districts, called for a thorough probe into the manner. “This is government failure. Poor people are hesitant to take bodies to villages or consign them to flames. They simply dump bodies directly into the Ganga. The state has failed to rise to the occasion,” said Yadav.Meanwhile, Bihar on Saturday reported 11,259 new Covid cases, taking the number of active cases to 110,814.Buxar district on Saturday reported 62 new cases, which increased to 81 on Sunday. The district has so far reported 26 deaths and has a total of 1,216 active cases.The positivity rate in the state, for the first time, showed signs of a declining trend, from a high of 16.1% on April 30 to 10.3% on May 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/horror-sinking-in-bodies-found-floating-in-ganga-101620658938427.html
11-05-2021||Pune||Corporators accused of running pvt token system for vaccine drive; Pune mayor defends allegations||PUNE Even as the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has increased the numbers of vaccination centres in the city, citizens and activists, allege that the entire vaccination process is being hijacked by corporators. Corporators, and their followers, are being accused of setting up a token system for those wanting to get jabs, especially for the second dose. The PMC has a total of 116 vaccination centres across the city. However, five wards have only one vaccination centre each, while all of the remaining wards have at least two centres each. Of these 116 centres, five are reserved for vaccination of those in the of 18-to-44 year age group. Corporators have provided basic support, such as chairs, covered waiting spaces, water and other necessary backup aid.Bhapu Kamble, a resident of Vimannagar said, “My wife and I took the first dose of Covishield on March 23. I got a message for the second dose due on April 20. I was trying to book an appointment and it did not happen. At the Viman nagar centre volunteers asked me to come at 7am for a token. I went continuously for three days to get a token, but did not get it. Finally, my son approached the local corporator’s office. He arranged for the vaccination without a token.” Citizens allege that tokens also go to party workers who bypass the queues.Mulrlidhar Mohol, mayor, said, “There is a lot of pressure on the PMC health staff. They have to take care of swab collection centres, crematoria management, and ambulance services. There is a lack of manpower to provide these facilities. Corporators are helping medical staff manage the crowds by distributing tokens. They also take care of senior citizens with seating, water and snacks.” Mohol added: “I appealed to all to avoid any irregularities with the vaccinations and to help PMC increase its vaccination numbers.” Haribhau Joshi, a resident of Kothrud said, “When I could not get an appointment for my second shot, one of my neighbours told me to approach my local corporator. I called the office, and he fixed my appointment without a token.”Suryakant Devkar, PMC’s assistant medical officer said, “Central government provides vaccines for 45+ and above and the state is getting vials for the age group of 18 to 44. Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agrawal takes the decision on how to distribute these to each centre. Normally, we distribute 100 doses to each centre. We hand it over to the ward medical officer.” Another medical officer, requesting anonymity, said after the mistreatment of two senior medical officials by public representatives, the morale of the staff is down. “We are feeling insecure and we don’t confront corporators or political parties. We just do our job of vaccinating people. We don’t bother who sends or recommends them. If we question them, they put pressure and mistreat us. ” Dr Abhijit Vaidya, founder and national president of the Arogya Sena said, “The rate of vaccination in the country is three per cent. Corporators are interfering. How can people take political advantage in this pandemic situation?”Prashant Jagtap, city president of the Nationalist Congress party (NCP) and corporator of Wanowrie, said, “Vaccination is controlled by the mayor, standing committee chairman and leader of the house in the PMC. They decide the slots. They are unevenly distributing vaccines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/corporators-accused-of-running-pvt-token-system-for-vaccine-drive-mayor-defends-allegations-101620658038383.html
11-05-2021||Lucknow||Dominated by Hindus, Ayodhya village elects Muslim man as gram pradhan||A Hindu dominated village in Ayodhya has elected a Muslim gram pradhan in the recently concluded panchayat elections.Residents of village Rajanpur of Mavai block in Rudauli assembly constituency elected Hafiz Azimuddin Khan as their gram pradhan (village head). Hafiz Azim’s family is the only Muslim family in this predominantly Hindu village. In this electoral battle for gram pradhan there were eight candidates in fray. Hafiz was the lone Muslim candidate. Hindu candidates in the contest tried to win over constituents by promising pension, house under the PM Awas Yojana and allotment of land (patta). But villagers voted for Hafiz Azimuddin and rejected all other candidates.Azimuddin’s victory in Panchayat election has become a talk of the town. Crediting his victory to Hindu-Muslim unity, Hafiz Azimuddin said: “My victory is an example of Hindu-Muslim affinity not only in village Rajanpur but entire Ayodhya.” Listing out his priorities for the village, Azimuddin said: “All funds for gram pradhan will be utilised for development of the village. Basic amenities will be augmented, and jobs will be provided to all those entitled under the MNREGA.” Radhay Shyam, 53, a native of village Rajanpur, was happy with Azimuddin’s victory. “Azimuddin’s victory is a signal of Hindu-Muslim unity in this village and the rest of Ayodhya. The day Azimuddin filed for his candidature, most of us decided to vote for him.” Sampat Lal, 61, points out that Azimuddin’s victory will also ensure that there is no animosity between any castes in the village. “As Hindu candidates had also sought votes on the basis of their caste, victory of any candidate other than Azimuddin might have led to bitterness between various castes of the Hindu community,” said Sampat Lal.Due to Covid-19 pandemic, the state government has postponed oath taking ceremony of gram pradhans and zila panchayat members. The government has also postponed election of chairman, zila panchayat and block pramukhs. Newly elected zila panchayat members elect zila panchayat chairman in all 75 districts of the state. Now, these elections are expected to take place after June 15. Ayodhya, around 155 km from the state capital, has been in focus for the ongoing construction work of Ram Mandir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/dominated-by-hindus-ayodhya-village-elects-muslim-man-as-gram-pradhan-101620655999395.html
11-05-2021||Mumbai||Beechcraft aircraft lands on belly after wheel falls off, probe initiated||It was around 5.50pm when Ravi Kanth Avala, a Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) head constable, was on duty at the watchtower number 12 on the airside of the Nagpur airport. His INSAS rifle resting by his side, as he turns towards the active runway, Avala spots a Beechcraft King Air C90 plane taking off.“For some reason, I kept watching the plane as it was speeding on the runway. I noticed that the moment it took off, the rear left wheel of the plane broke and got separated. The speed of the aircraft was such that the detached wheel went rolling at least half a kilometre (km) ahead, towards the left of the runway, before it came to halt. The plane, however, took off, unaffected,” Avala, the only witness to the incident, told HT.Sensing the gravity of the incident, the 48-year-old head constable immediately picked up his rifle and rushed towards the runway, which is barely 300 metres from watchtower number 12.“I went to the spot where the wheel had fallen. As it was a charter jet, I was sure it would land somewhere within a maximum of two-three hours. I also knew that such planes have a capacity of seven-eight passengers and therefore lives are at stake. At that time, I didn’t know that it’s an air ambulance carrying a Covid-19 patient. Thinking that it can lead to a fatal accident upon landing, I immediately reported the matter to my superiors who further alerted the authorities concerned. It was found that the plane was destined to Mumbai and officials there were briefed about the incident to be able to make the timely arrangements to handle the aircraft as it prepared to land,” Avala said.The medical flight which was on its way to Mumbai from Bagdogra, had stopped at Nagpur for refuelling.On Friday, CISF also announced a reward of ₹10,000 for Avala and the director general’s commendation certificate and disk for his mindful action that saved lives and averted a major disaster from happening.Avala said he feels fortunate to have saved a tragedy from unfolding.“My seniors and colleagues appreciate my quick reaction. My alertness and promptness was lauded. My family members, wife and children are also proud of me,” said Avala, who has been posted at Nagpur airport since 2017.The Jet Serve Aviation’s Beechcraft C-90 aircraft, registered as VT-JIL, had to make a belly landing at Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) on Thursday evening. The non-scheduled medical flight with five people on board had taken off from Bagdogra to land in Mumbai. It however had to land on its belly, as its left rear wheel got separated immediately after take-off and fell off at Nagpur airport, where it had a halt for refuellingWhile Avala’s presence of mind played a vital role in saving the lives of five passengers on board, top AAI sources said that after learning about absence of rear left wheel, the pilot had requested the ATC to get in touch with the aircraft type’s (C-90) expert from DGCA to figure out the best possible procedure to be followed in the situation.At times when a full emergency is declared at airports, all the stakeholders get into action to prepare for the extraordinary situation. While the role of every stakeholder matters, air traffic controllers (ATC) play one of the most crucial roles at such times. From deciding on the line of action to coordinating with the pilot, airport operator and safety experts, if needed, ATCos swing into action with an aim to make the aircraft land safely.“The checklist with the pilot did not state his course of action needed, in case one of the rear wheels went missing,” claimed an AAI official. “Though the pilot had communicated to go for belly landing, he shared a contact with an expert for C-90 aircraft and asked the on-duty controllers to re-confirm the course of action needed,” the official added. It is then that the air traffic controllers (ATCos) got in touch with two experts from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) to have their view on the situation. The experts also agreed and asked the ATCos to go ahead and perform belly landing.Mohan Ranganathan, aviation safety expert and former instructor pilot of Boeing 737, said, “Absence of standard operating procedure on partial landing gear failure is a very serious lapse on DGCA’s part.”DGCA director general Arun Kumar said that investigation will reveal the facts. “We will not like to speculate,” he added.The Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB), however, confirmed that they have taken over the investigation.“AAIB is conducting an investigation as per Aircraft (Investigation of Accidents and Incidents) Rules, 2017, into the causes of the occurrence,” read AAIB’s reply to the email sent by the paper.At times when a full emergency is declared at airports, all the stakeholders get into action to prepare for the extraordinary situation. While the role of every stakeholder matters, air traffic controllers (ATC) play one of the most crucial roles at such times. From deciding on the line of action to coordinating with the pilot, airport operator and safety experts, if needed, ATCos swing into action with an aim to make the aircraft land safely.“Those two hours were not only challenging but also worrisome for all those involved in planning safe landing of the Beechcraft C-90 aircraft. Thankfully, the aircraft had fuel for two and a half hours more even after reaching Mumbai. This gave us good time to consider all possibilities and take a call,” recalled an Airports Authority official who was on duty on Thursday night.AAI officials said that the Nagpur ATC contacted Mumbai ATC around 6.45pm to inform them that the aircraft’s wheel had fallen off in the airport premises.“The pilot was unaware of the situation until the Mumbai ATC got in touch with Capt Kesari Singh to inform him about it. However, none of us knew which wheel of the aircraft was detached,” said the AAI official.AAI officials at Mumbai airport said in order to understand which wheel fell off at Nagpur, Capt Singh suggested to ‘low pass’ the runway. This means the aircraft passes around 50m above (adjacent) the runway. It was during the low pass at around 7.30pm that the Mumbai ATC with the help of fire department officials learnt that the aircraft’s rear left wheel was missing.“The pilot was cleared to conduct the ‘low pass’ immediately at around 6.45pm when the aircraft was 200Nm away from Mumbai,” said a controller at Mumbai.A Delhi-based AAI official said that the absence of either side of the wheel is riskier as compared to issues with the nose wheel.“This is because the two rear wheels come in contact with the runway first, followed by the nose wheel.”“ATCos were asked to go ahead with belly landing after which the airport operator was contacted and asked to prepare for foam-based landing. Arranging for foam and making it available at the touchdown point of runway 27 took some time,” said a senior AAI official in Mumbai.“At first, when the arrangement of foaming the runway was taking time, we were even thinking on the lines to send the aircraft back to Nagpur, however, by then the airport operator confirmed that foam was being arranged,” the official added.The aircraft however touched down safely at 9.09pm after which the fire department officials took over and handled the situation so that the aircraft did not catch fire. Though the aircraft suffered substantial damage, there were no injuries. The mid-aged male patient, who was one of the passengers was being treated for Covid-19, was rushed to Nanavati hospital. Sources from the hospital said that the patient is on oxygen support, but he is conscious and stable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/airbus-wheel-falls-off-lands-on-belly-aircraft-accident-body-to-probe-101620414421780.html
11-05-2021||World||Pakistan would not hold talks with India until New Delhi reverses its decision on Kashmir: Imran Khan||Prime Minister Imran Khan said on Tuesday that Pakistan would not hold talks with India until New Delhi reverses its decision of scrapping the special status of Jammu and Kashmir.India abrogated the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 on August 5, 2019 and bifurcated it into two Union territories."Unless India retreats from the steps taken on August 5…, the Pakistani government will not talk to India at all," Khan said while responding to questions from the public during a live broadcast session.Earlier in the day, Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi said that no talks presently were taking place with India but parleys could be held if New Delhi revisited its policy regarding Kashmir and provided relief to the people of Kashmir."Jammu and Kashmir cannot be an internal issue of India as it is on the agenda of the UN and there are several Security Council resolutions on it,” he said while addressing a news conference in Islamabad.India has repeatedly said Jammu and Kashmir is an integral part of India and the country is capable of solving its own problems.New Delhi has told Islamabad that it desires normal neighbourly relations with it in an environment free of terror, hostility and violence.Indo-Pak relations deteriorated after India announced withdrawing special powers of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcation of the state into two union territories in August, 2019. India has maintained that issue related to Article 370 of the Indian Constitution was entirely an internal matter of the country.However, lately there has been some improvement when the two countries agreed in February to restore peace on the Line of Control. It is said that the rival officials have been interacting through the back channel diplomacy to ease tension.Khan also responded to several questions about domestic issues and defended the performance of his government which came to power in August 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-would-not-hold-talks-with-india-until-new-delhi-reverses-its-decision-on-kashmir-imran-khan-101620755205840.html
11-05-2021||World||Inside the secretive Swiss bank for the world’s richest people||In the mythology of private banking, Banque Pictet & Cie SA stands apart. Over the course of more than two centuries, the Swiss institution has discreetly tended to the assets of the very rich, led by a small crop of partners who form the most exclusive men-only club anywhere outside the Vatican.In its entire history, only 43 individuals — all men, all white — have risen to the rank of Pictet managing partner, creating a bond more enduring than your typical marriage. From their Geneva perch, they oversee more than 600 billion francs ($662 billion) in assets under management and a level of profitability far beyond larger, publicly-listed peers, often rewarding each of them with more than 20 million francs a year.  But in recent years, an unsettling new trend crept into Pictet, cracking the façade of corporate cohesion: key employees began leaving. Over the course of 2019, a dozen long-tenured relationship managers at the wealth unit departed. Within days in September of that year, four leading bankers from the team looking after Russian clients handed in their resignations. Bankers for Scandinavia and Israel followed, putting billions in assets under management at stake.At the heart of the exodus lies a culture clash. Longtime employees were bristling at the brash style of the flood of recent hires brought on to manage the money of the ultra rich, particularly the explosive growth of new wealth in Asia that has set off an aggressive race for assets and talent with bigger rivals like UBS Group AG and HSBC Holdings Plc.Yet for others, change wasn’t happening fast enough; some newcomers who had signed up to the promise of the rejuvenated Pictet were departing again in frustration.Interviews with a dozen people familiar with Pictet’s private-wealth arm reveal a business at a crossroads, confronted with the reality that, in order to stay ahead, Switzerland’s preeminent private bank must adapt. That means embracing more risk and changing the client relationship — away from the concierge-like approach that endured for generations toward a more transactional model.That can be tough for employees accustomed to the principle of caution and secrecy that guided Pictet through the centuries. But change has also brought opportunity to rethink old habits and expand the bank on the global stage.The people asked not to be identified discussing the bank’s inner workings. Pictet declined to comment for this story.While overall attrition at Pictet Wealth Management stands at an all-time low of 2.8%, the evacuation of longtime talent has reverberated through the corridors of the five-story modernist headquarters. The departures startled the partners, who viewed the outflow as an assault on an institution priding itself in flat fluctuation. So late in 2019, they gathered in a spartan conference room for what the partners call their salon meeting to learn more about what was behind the defections.Sitting in tiered formation at the large conference table, much in the same way they congregate several times a week to discuss the order of business, the men heard of tensions, a dispute over restraint and renewal rippling through the bank’s private wealth subsidiary.  “Pictet is in between two worlds,” says Pedro Araujo, a senior researcher at the University of Fribourg, who has studied Switzerland’s elite families. “They are in the old world of Geneva private bankers, and the new world of globalized finance, where they want to be present internationally, they want to grow, they want to present themselves as modern, but not too much. Two worlds that are on a collision course.”For all its tradition, Pictet has become more attuned to change in recent years. The company transformed its legal status after the end of banking secrecy in 2014, disclosing more performance metrics as a result. One of its partners, Rémy Best, had already made his mark revamping the asset-management unit. Next, he turned his attention to the wealth division, long the beating heart of Pictet. It turned out that the operation required fresh blood. And the bank found it in Boris Collardi, who performed one of the most audacious maneuvers in Swiss banking in 2018 when he abruptly left as CEO of Zurich private-banking nemesis Julius Baer and decamped to the shores of Lake Geneva to join Pictet.On the face of it, Collardi is everything that the typical Pictet stakeholder is not. More bonvivant than ascetic financier, Collardi, 46, stands apart as the first outside partner in decades. He also brought serious star power and a dose of bonhomie to the Pictet franchise that values uniformity over individualism, down to the subdued color palette of the partners’ perfectly tailored suits.Collardi, by contrast, is known to greet close colleagues with a hug or a peck on the cheek; in meetings, he is the first to take off his suit jacket and jokingly complains about having to wear a tie. His ascent to the Pictet partnership not only made him one of the youngest people in recent history to hold that title, it also tipped the scale for the first time to a majority of members in the group who aren’t descendants of the founding families.In Collardi, the partners identified a peer who could pick up from Best, a longtime acquaintance who had introduced the new hire to the other partners. And Collardi was already well versed in Asia, where Pictet was keen to tap into an affluent class of newly minted billionaires preparing to pass on their wealth to the next generation.But Collardi also had to adjust to the new reality of no longer being the undisputed leader. Instead, he is now one voice among seven, where every decision is made in unison. The weekly meetings are presided over by senior partner Renaud de Planta, who declined to comment for this story. Given that the average tenure of an active partner is 20 years, collegial harmony is the glue that holds together the senior team. That hasn’t stopped Collardi from moving swiftly in his new role. Within a year, more than 100 of his loyalists had followed him to Pictet, including close to the complete teams for the Middle East and Latin America.Collardi also accelerated an overhaul of the investment and trading platforms, replacing some of the longest-serving portfolio managers with investment advisers half their age. By the end of 2020, Pictet's wealth bankers had swelled to 1,098 from 740 just five years earlier, an expansion not dissimilar to absorbing a full-blown acquisition. The changes echo the overhaul that Collardi enacted at Julius Baer. Over the course of a decade, he turbo-charged the storied private bank, sending it on a breakneck expansion from Sao Paulo to Singapore, doubling assets under management as a result. But despite his meteoric rise, Collardi remained, by his own account at the time of the move, “only an employee.” Pictet, by contrast, offered a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to become an entrepreneur with extra financial legroom but without the daily grind of running a publicly-listed company. Making Pictet partner brings a stake in a steady business whose owners share in more than 500 million francs in annual profit. Up until a few years ago, the firm was so old-fashioned that managing partners were expected to be addressed as Notre Sieur, a formal French title for sire. The challenge facing the partners is that in order to grow, they need to aggressively target Asia, the epicenter of wealth creation. But that requires the embrace of new — and potentially riskier — investment assets, chief among them structured products, which use derivatives to track the performance of an underlying asset.Collardi spent more than a year trying to win backing from the other partners to push Pictet to sell its own products in that asset class. The others weren’t convinced, priding themselves in their track record of never having endured a defaulted loan. The project was watered down in early 2020 and Pictet settled for the less-risky option of being a broker selling other bank’s structured products.Asia has nevertheless remained an important focus for Collardi’s reorganization, where he wants to break into the ranks of the top 10 private banks. For now, Pictet is willing to wait for clients to come to the bank once they are ready for a risk-averse approach to wealth management. Collardi appointed Fong Seng Tee, a banker he knew from his time at Credit Suisse Group AG, as the head for the wealth arm’s Asia division, pushing the existing leader into a more ceremonial chairmanship position. He also brought an ally over from Baer to run a new Middle East region, stripping the territory from the longtime banker who oversaw the wealth business for Greece, Turkey and the Middle East.While Pictet has steadily grown over the years, it has so far avoided the tense transitions to a modernized corporate structure embraced by other well-known former partnerships, notably Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Lazard Ltd.  Pictet may still be much smaller than publicly-listed wealth managers, but the bank packs a punch when it comes to profitability. Pictet long managed to achieve a return on equity above 40%, a number that's unheard of for any modern bank. While the figure has come down to between 16% and 21% in the past half decade, it's still a cut above UBS, Credit Suisse and Julius Baer.The transformation in 2014 into a limited partnership removed the risk of the partners bearing the full brunt of losses. As a result of the change in legal status, Pictet began publicly disclosing performance data. Suddenly, Pictet was forced to reckon with its haphazard organization that often put personal relationships before a systematic structure. Until then, it wasn’t unusual for bankers to act independently with no uniform approach to clients, for example sending out correspondence using their own fonts and letterheads. Among historic quirks, some employees didn’t have a formal work contract — joining the bank was a social compact with a benevolent patriarchy holding a protective hand over its flock. Pictet embarked on a long march into the 21st Century, guided by one of its partners. A former McKinsey executive, Rémy Best was attuned to performance metrics and organizational optimization. Fresh from turning Pictet’s asset management arm into a metric-minded profit generator, Best next set his eyes on wealth management, long a protected sanctuary at Pictet because it used to bring in the bulk of money.The bank took a hard look at which private wealth customers were bringing in the lion’s share of revenue, realizing that some were costing Pictet too much, while others still should be targeted more aggressively to buy more services.Best’s forensic approach caused a stir among employees. Pictet’s private bankers hadn’t previously been required to disclose their clients, or say how much money they were making for the bank. Personal customer relationships gave way to faceless scorecards measuring net new money, return on assets, and whether bankers met growth targets.The details were made available to an army of internal business managers poring over the numbers, often re-assigning clients by funneling them into categories based on wealth, location and level of activity with the bank. Some individual bankers lost coveted clients to new teams with regional focuses, and others bristled at what they saw as an unvarnished style of the newer hires. Still others threw up their hands and decided to leave.The tone of modern corporate efficiency can grate in a firm where former managing partner Nicolas Pictet once told his employees that retaining a client was more important than making a profit. The company has also grown past the point where partners could regularly act as rainmakers on a hard-fought deal or bringing on a big client.But as owners of a private partnership, they still stand apart from the rank-and-file. After all, a confidential calculation determines how much profit is kept for the partners and how much is distributed to the rest of the bank to support the firm’s entire equity structure.  Each time a partner joins the reigning fellowship, he is required to purchase a substantial stake of the company. To finance the transaction, existing partners provide a loan to their newest member, who pays them back over time. A departing partner must start selling his share back to the bank. To support this ebb and flow of stakes, the bank aims for a minimum 20% return on equity.Maintaining that level has become harder amid mounting competition and higher compliance costs. When profitability has dropped below 20%, employees have felt the pain in their personal compensation, which contains a variable component tied to the annual results. That, in turn, has led to a growing divide between average employees and the partners, who have continued to enjoy their steady inflow.During a presentation in February, a cherished Pictet ritual held online for the first time this year, de Planta laid out last year’s key numbers. The bank was buoyed like many others by the market volatility the pandemic provided — from the boom in investing revenue to a rebound in variable compensation for employees and a record number of assets under management as clients sought safety.But while the partners spoke at length about performance, charitable efforts or Pictet’s gleaming new building slowly rising on the outskirts of Geneva, one member from their group remained conspicuously absent: Collardi didn’t speak or show once during the presentation.Instead, the man most associated with Pictet’s turbulent last years had slipped into the background.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/inside-the-secretive-swiss-bank-for-the-world-s-richest-people-101620747721099.html
11-05-2021||World||Beijing's new Covid-19 firewall shores up to keep out infection||China is shoring up its border to fence all provinces and cities to keep out the novel coronavirus after the nation largely banished the pandemic after it first emerged in the city of Wuhan, known as Beijing's new Covid firewall.Frank Chen, writing in Asia Times, said that Beijing's authorities aren't taking any chances of a premature reopening as vaccinations lag and new Covid variants ravage neighbouring nations, particularly India.The measures were hastily put in place before the summer of 2020 and now China's firewall has become nearly impregnable and is being strengthened as the West edges towards loosening its entry requirements as caseloads fall amid vaccination campaigns.Meanwhile, the different approaches of China and the West are plain to see as Chinese ministries responsible for health and border protection have scrambled to send updated directives to border cities, airports and checkpoints that aim to beef up the country's defenses against so-called "backflows", wrote Chen.In the West there is widespread optimism about travel bubbles, vaccine passports and mutual recognition of tests and inoculations for transatlantic travel and exchanges now that the focus of the global contagion has shifted back to Asia.Dr Jennifer Huang Bouey, an epidemiologist and China policy studies specialist at the California-based think tank RAND Corporation, noted in her blog that huge risks could be lurking beneath the surface of China's weeks-long streak of zero local infections as any resurgence could be "explosive" with such a low level of vaccinations. The last time Chinese state media acknowledged local cases was in early April.The expert noted that strict border controls meant few Chinese have naturally acquired immunity against the new viral mutants while at the same time the efficacy of China's vaccines against the new strains remains largely uncertain.Currently, China only grants admission to foreigners with work visas and stay permits who must get clean slates in blood serum and polymerase chain reaction tests 24 hours before their departure. Upon arrival in China, they must undergo up to three weeks of quarantine as well as multiple subsequent tests before they are granted admission, reported Asia Times.Also, China's slow vaccine take-up also means the masses are ill-prepared for any influx of the virus from border re-openings. The NHC's previous vaccination target of 40 per cent of the entire population, or 560 million Chinese, by the end of June now looks unachievable as daily jabs administered nationwide continue to hover around five million, half of the original goal.The NHC said on Monday that more than 324 million doses had been given, though it didn't say how many have received the two shots needed to be fully vaccinated. Experts now warn that the slow pace of vaccination combined with people's hesitancy has left Beijing with no choice but to fortify the border firewall, reported Asia Times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/beijings-new-covid-19-firewall-shores-up-to-keep-out-infection-101620752398444.html
11-05-2021||World||Myanmar marks 100 days of junta rule with protests||Protesters rallied in towns and cities around Myanmar on Tuesday to denounce its military rulers, 100 days after the generals' overthrow of an elected government plunged the country into its biggest crisis in decades.Demonstrators took part in marches, motorcycle convoys and flash protests to evade security forces, some making three-finger gestures of defiance as anti-coup groups renewed calls for the toppling of a junta condemned around the world for killing hundreds of civilians.The junta has struggled to govern Myanmar since seizing power on Feb. 1, with protests, strikes and a civil disobedience campaign crippling businesses and the bureaucracy, in an overwhelming public rejection of the return of military rule.Protesters in the biggest city Yangon carried a banner saying "Yangon strikes for complete removal of the enemy", while demonstrators in Hpakant in northern Kachin State marched chanting "the revolution must prevail".Demonstrators in Hpakant, the Saigang region and elsewhere held signs in support of strikes and a National Unity Government (NUG), a coalition of anti-junta elements that has declared itself Myanmar's legitimate authority.The military arrested elected leader Aung San Suu Kyi hours before a coup that it said was to protect the country's fledgling democracy after a November election whch it said was marred by fraud. Suu Kyi's party, which won in a landslide, has rejected that.Despite the imposition of limited economic sanctions by the United States, the European Union and others, the junta has shown no sign of compromise. It has the tacit support of neighbouring China, a major investor and a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council.Tuesday's protests took place amid sporadic violence in the country that has included fatal attacks on military-appointed administrators and a weeks of small blasts involving homemade bombs, which the junta says is the work of the ousted government.The NUG has said the military has orchestrated much of the unrest as a pretext to intensify its crackdown.News reporting and information flow inside Myanmar has been severely impacted since the coup, with restrictions on internet access, a ban on foreign broadcasts and some news organisations ordered to close, accused by authorities of inciting rebellion.Security forces have killed 781 people since the coup, including 52 children, and 3,843 people are in detention, according to monitoring group the Association for Political Prisoners, whose figures are being used by the United Nations.The U.N. human rights body on Tuesday said the military was showing no letup in its efforts to consolidate power.In said in a statement that human rights violations went beyond the killings and included raids on homes, forced disappearances, illegal detention and the dismissal or suspension of thousands of civil servants."It is clear that there needs to be greater international involvement to prevent the human rights situation in Myanmar from deteriorating further," said Rupert Colville, spokesman for the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-marks-100-days-of-junta-rule-with-protests-101620737962064.html
11-05-2021||World||Covid in France: Number of hospitalised patients continue to fall, shows data||The number of patients in French hospitals with Covid-19 fell further on Tuesday, health ministry data showed.The ministry reported a total of 4,743 people in intensive care units with Covid-19, down by 127 and the eight consecutive fall. The overall number of people in hospital with the virus also fell for the eight consecutive day and was down by 638 to 25,028.The number of coronavirus deaths in hospitals increased by 236 to 80,628, compared to an increase of 243 a week ago and 325 two weeks ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-in-france-number-of-hospitalised-patients-continue-to-fall-shows-data-101620749540083.html
11-05-2021||World||Uber, Lyft to offer free rides to vaccination sites in US: White House||The White House announced new efforts to vaccinate Americans, including an expansion of free rides from Uber Technologies Inc. and Lyft Inc. to get shots and a partnership with community colleges to administer vaccines.Lyft and Uber will offer free rides through July 4 to anyone going to get vaccinated in the U.S., the White House said on Tuesday. It’s an expansion of programs they were already providing to some low-income users in cooperation with pharmacies and non-profits.The Biden administration and its federal pharmacy partners are also seeking to start on-site vaccination clinics at community colleges in a bid to inoculate students, staff and those in nearby communities. The White House said it had selected community colleges because of the diversity of their student populations.The announcement comes as President Joe Biden is poised to meet virtually on Tuesday with the leaders of Massachusetts, Utah, Ohio, New Mexico, Maine and Minnesota to discuss “innovative ways governors are working to get the people in their states vaccinated,” White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said.Dara Khosrowshahi, Uber’s chief executive officer, and John Zimmer, Lyft’s president, urged Americans to get vaccinated in separate statements confirming the expanded programs.Biden has said the country is in a new phase of its vaccination campaign as domestic demand weakens. The U.S. is administering about 2.1 million shots per day, down from 3.4 million about a month ago, even though there’s enough supply to give more.But coronavirus cases are falling at an even faster pace than vaccinations. The U.S. reported 21,767 new cases on Sunday, the lowest daily total since June 2020. In early April, the country was still averaging more than 60,000 new cases a day, according to federal data.The pool of people who will eagerly seek out an appointment to get a vaccine is all but exhausted, forcing the government to shift its attention to those willing to take it but who don’t want to go out of their way.The administration’s moves include winding down mass vaccination clinics while steering more shots to rural and mobile sites. Some states are offering incentives: West Virginia Governor Jim Justice has proposed giving a $100 savings bond to anyone age 16-35 who gets a shot, while leaders in New Jersey, New Orleans and Washington, D.C., have offered beers and shots of liquor.“We always expected we’d be in a different phase,” Psaki said Monday. “And it means we have to work extra hard to get into communities, to have partnerships with local doctors, with primary care physicians, to expand access, expand mobile units that are going into communities to get the supply out to people.”Biden and his team have repeatedly dismissed any suggestion of requiring vaccination or creating a federal registry of people who have gotten their shots, instead focusing on increasing information about vaccine safety and efficacy and access to shots.Biden’s latest target calls for 70% of U.S. adults to receive at least one shot by July 4; about 58% have gotten one as of now.Anthony Fauci, the head of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and a top Biden medical adviser, said reaching the president’s target likely will prevent major flare-ups later this year.“The larger proportion of the population that’s vaccinated, the less likelihood that in a season like the coming fall or winter you’re going to see a significant surge,” Fauci said on NBC’s “Meet The Press” on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uber-lyft-to-offer-free-rides-to-vaccination-sites-in-us-white-house-101620751094968.html
11-05-2021||World||Ukraine advances treason case against Kremlin ally Medvedchuk: Reports||Viktor Medvedchuk, a prominent ally of the Kremlin in Ukraine, has been formally put under suspicion for high treason and the attempted theft of national resources in annexed Crimea, Ukrainian media reported on Tuesday, citing prosecutors.The move is part of a widening crackdown against Medvedchuk, an opposition lawmaker and businessman, that began in February when he and associates were put under sanctions and three television channels owned by an ally were forced off air.It comes after months of tensions between Kyiv and Moscow over a build-up of Russian troops on Ukraine's eastern border and rising clashes in eastern Ukraine. The Kremlin has sharply criticised the crackdown on Medvedchuk.Medvedchuk could not immediately be reached for comment. He has previously denied all wrongdoing and described the crackdown against him and his associates as illegal and designed to deflect from the Ukrainian government's policy blunders.Ukraine's Prosecutor General Iryna Venediktova said in a statement that she had put her signature "on the reports of suspicion of two deputies of the Ukrainian Parliament - M and K."Interfax Ukraine and other media said the initials referred to Medvedchuk and Taras Kozak, the owner of the three television channels that were put under sanctions in February. Kozak could not immediately be reached for comment.Venediktova is due to give a news conference at 1500 GMT alongside the head of the state security service.Medvedchuk is a Ukrainian citizen but has close ties with Russian President Vladimir Putin and has said the Russian leader is godfather to his daughter. The Kremlin in February said it was alarmed by the sanctions against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ukraine-advances-treason-case-against-kremlin-ally-medvedchuk-reports-101620741244104.html
11-05-2021||World||Veteran AP journalist Sally Buzbee to head The Washington Post, first woman to hold the job||Sally Buzbee, senior vice president and executive editor of The Associated Press, was named Tuesday as executive editor of The Washington Post, succeeding the recently retired Marty Baron.As AP’s top editor since 2017, Buzbee has directed AP’s journalism through the Covid-19 pandemic, Donald Trump’s presidency, the #MeToo movement, Brexit, protests over racial injustice and the 2020 U.S. election.Her emphasis on live coverage of breaking news events in all formats, augmented by deep enterprise reporting, has helped yield top awards, including Pulitzer prizes in feature photography and international reporting, along with six other Pulitzer finalists.In appointing Buzbee to one of the most high-profile jobs in journalism, Fred Ryan, the newspaper's publisher and CEO, pointed to her achievements and experience in leading a global news organization.“In an extensive search that included many of the best journalists in America, Sally stood out as the right person to lead the Post going forward,” Ryan said. “She is widely admired for her absolute integrity, boundless energy and dedication to the essential role journalism plays in safeguarding our democracy.”Buzbee previously served as the agency’s Washington bureau chief, and before that was Middle East editor, among many other positions in an AP career stretching back to 1988.At the Post, Buzbee succeeds the widely revered Baron, who had led the Post since 2013, guiding the news organization’s resurgence under the ownership of Amazon founder Jeff Bezos. Baron retired earlier this year at age 66.“I’ve been blessed to have one of the best jobs in journalism, and I’m excited to take on a whole new challenge,” Buzbee said. “The Post has a strong legacy, a committed staff, and is doing some of the most innovative work to engage new audiences.”Buzbee, originally from Olathe, Kansas, joined the AP as a reporter in Topeka. She was correspondent in San Diego, and then in 1995 joined the Washington bureau, where she eventually became assistant chief of bureau.In 2004, Buzbee became AP’s Middle East editor, based in Cairo, where she led coverage of the war in Iraq, the conflict between Israel and Hezbollah, the Darfur crisis and the growth of terrorist cells in Saudi Arabia, Yemen and elsewhere.In early 2010, she was promoted to deputy managing editor at the agency’s New York headquarters and led the founding of the Nerve Center, AP’s now-integral hub for global news coordination and customer communication. Later that year, she was named chief of the Washington bureau, where she oversaw coverage of the 2012 and 2016 presidential elections, the White House, Congress, the Pentagon and the bureau’s polling and investigative teams.“This is bittersweet news for the AP,” President and CEO Gary Pruitt said. “Sally has been an exceptional leader, guiding AP’s journalists and news report through some of the most pivotal news events of our time. We are sorry to lose Sally but very happy for her as she takes the next step in her career. We look forward to watching Sally succeed at the Post.”Buzbee will begin her new position on June 1. and The AP announced Tuesday that it was immediately launching a search for a new executive editor. The process is expected to take a few months.Until a selection is made, the executive editor duties will be shared by AP Vice President and Managing Editor Brian Carovillano, who will lead AP’s news report, and AP Vice President and Managing Editor David Scott, who will handle news operations.“The journalists of the AP are some of the world’s best people —bold, brave and utterly committed to the facts,” Buzbee said. “Each day they tell the world’s stories with accuracy, precision and flair, and the world depends on AP for that solid information. It has been a huge honor and joy to work with them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/aps-sally-buzbee-to-head-the-washington-post-first-woman-to-hold-the-job-101620745382961.html
11-05-2021||World||Israel hits Gaza with airstrikes as Netanyahu vows to step up attacks on Hamas||Israel unleashed new airstrikes on Gaza early Tuesday, hitting a pair of high-rise buildings believed to be housing militants, as Hamas and other armed groups bombarded southern Israel with hundreds of rockets. The conflict escalated relentlessly throughout the day, and Israel vowed that its strikes would only increase.The latest exchange of fire was sparked by weeks of tensions in contested Jerusalem.Since sundown Monday, 26 Palestinians — including nine children and a woman— were killed in Gaza, most by airstrikes, Gaza health officials said. The Israeli military said at least 16 of the dead were militants. During the same period, Gaza militants fired hundreds of rockets toward Israel, killing two Israeli civilians and wounding 10 others.But Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu warning in the evening that more was coming. He said after meeting with senior defense officials that Israel would “increase even more the strength of the strikes and also the rate of the strikes” against Hamas and Islamic Jihad militants in the Gaza Strip.“Hamas will receive blows now that it didn’t expect,” he said in a statement.In a further sign of rising tensions, Israel signaled it is widening its military campaign. The military said it is sending troop reinforcements to the Gaza border and the defense minister ordered the mobilization of 5,000 reserve soldiers.Even as the two sides ramped up tensions, officials said Egypt was working on brokering a cease-fire.Also Read | Explained: What's behind the Israeli-Palestinian clashes in Jerusalem?The barrage of rockets and airstrikes was preceded by hours of clashes between Palestinians and Israeli security forces, including dramatic confrontations at Jerusalem’s Al-Aqsa Mosque compound, a sacred site to both Jews and Muslims. The current violence, like previous rounds, including the last intifada, or uprising, has been fueled by conflicting claims over Jerusalem, which is at the emotional core of the long conflict.In a sign of widening unrest, hundreds of residents of Arab communities across Israel staged overnight demonstrations — denouncing the recent actions of Israeli security forces against Palestinians. It was one of the largest protests by Palestinian citizens in Israel in recent years.Israel and Hamas, an Islamic militant group that seeks Israel’s destruction, have fought three wars and numerous skirmishes since Hamas seized control of Gaza in 2007. Recent rounds of fighting have usually ended after a few days, often helped by behind-the-scenes mediation by Qatar, Egypt and others.An Egyptian official confirmed that the country was trying to broker a truce. But the official, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was discussing sensitive diplomacy, said Israeli actions in Jerusalem had complicated those efforts. A Palestinian security official, also speaking on condition of anonymity, confirmed the cease-fire efforts.Even before he vowed more strikes, Netanyahu had warned that fighting could “continue for some time.” Lt. Col. Jonathan Conricus, an Israeli military spokesman, told reporters Tuesday that the military was in “the early stages” of its strikes.Israel carried out dozens of airstrikes, including two that targeted high-rise buildings where militants were believed to be hiding.At midday, an airstrike hit an apartment building in central Gaza City. Local media said an unknown number of militants had been killed. But the force of the blast sent terrified residents, including women and children who were barefoot, running into the streets.An earlier airstrike struck a high-rise elsewhere in Gaza City as people were conducting dawn prayers, residents said. Health officials said two men and a woman were killed. The woman’s 19-year-old disabled son was among the dead, residents said.Ashraf al-Kidra, spokesman for the Gaza Health Ministry, said a total of 26 people, including nine children and the woman, were killed and 122 people were wounded. He said Israel's “relentless assault” was overwhelming the health care system, which has been struggling with a COVID-19 outbreak.The escalation comes at a time of political limbo in Israel.Netanyahu has been acting as a caretaker prime minister since an inconclusive parliamentary election in March. He tried and failed to form a coalition government with his hard-line and ultra-Orthodox allies, and the task was handed to his political rivals last week.One of those rivals is Israel’s defense minister, who is overseeing the Gaza campaign. It was not clear whether the toxic political atmosphere is spilling over into military decision-making, though the rival camps have unanimously expressed support for striking Hamas hard.The support of an Arab-backed party with Islamist roots is key for the anti-Netanyahu bloc’s efforts. But the current tensions might deter the party’s leader, Mansour Abbas, from joining a coalition for now. The sides have three more weeks to reach a deal.The current round of violence in Jerusalem coincided with the start of the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan in mid-April.Critics say heavy-handed police measures helped stoke nightly unrest, including a decision to temporarily seal off a popular gathering spot where Palestinian residents would meet after evening prayers. Another flashpoint was the Jerusalem neighborhood of Sheikh Jarrah, where dozens of Palestinians are under treat of eviction by Jewish settlers.Over the weekend, confrontations erupted at the Al-Aqsa Mosque compound, which is the third holiest site of Islam and the holiest site in Judaism.Over several days, Israel police fired tear gas, stun grenades and rubber bullets at Palestinians in the compound who hurled stones and chairs. At times, police fired stun grenades into the carpeted mosque.On Monday evening, Hamas began firing rockets from Gaza, setting off air raid sirens as far as Jerusalem. From there on, the escalation was rapid.Conricus, the army spokesman, said Gaza militants fired more than 250 rockets at Israel, with about one-third falling short and landing in Gaza.The army said that a rocket landed a direct hit on a seven-story apartment block in the coastal Israeli city of Ashkelon. Israeli paramedic service Magen David Adom said it treated six people injured in the rocket strike. Two were hospitalized in moderate condition.Later, a second building in the city of Ashdod was hit, lightly wounding four people, Israeli police said.Conricus said the military hit 130 targets in Gaza, including two tunnels militants were digging under the border with Israel. He said Israel’s new system of concrete barriers and electronic sensors, intended to thwart tunnel digging, has proven effective.He did not address Gaza Health Ministry reports about the dead children.In Gaza, most of the deaths were attributed to airstrikes. However, seven of the deaths were members of a single family, including three children, who died in an explosion in the northern Gaza town of Beit Hanoun. It was not clear if the blast was caused by an Israeli airstrike or errant rocket.Dozens of mourners took part in the funeral of Hussein Hamad, an 11-year-old boy who was among the dead.More than 100 Gazans were wounded in the airstrikes, the Health Ministry said.Israel struck scores of Gaza homes in its 2014 war with Hamas, arguing it was aiming at militants, but also killing many civilians. The practice drew broad international condemnation at the time.Israel’s tactics in Jerusalem have drawn angry reactions from the Muslim world.Regional power house Saudi Arabia on Monday condemned in the strongest terms what it said were attacks by Israeli forces against the sanctity of Al-Aqsa and the safety of its worshippers. The Saudi Foreign Ministry called Tuesday on the international community to hold Israeli forces responsible for any escalation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-hits-gaza-with-airstrikes-as-netanyahu-vows-to-step-up-attacks-on-hamas-101620741944926.html
11-05-2021||World||Covid-19 antibodies last 8 months after infection, says study||Antibodies against coronavirus remained in the blood of patients with Covid-19 for at least eight months after they were infected, Italian researchers said Tuesday.They were present "regardless of the severity of the illness, the age of the patients or the presence of other pathologies," according to a statement from the San Raffaele hospital in Milan.The researchers, working with Italy's ISS national health institute, studied 162 patients with symptomatic coronavirus who turned up at the emergency room during the country's first wave of infections last year.Blood samples were taken in March and April and again at the end of November from those who survived. Some 29 patients died."The presence of neutralising antibodies, while reducing over time, was very persistent -- eight months after diagnosis, there were only three patients who no longer showed positivity to the test," said the statement, issued jointly with the ISS.The study, published in the Nature Communications scientific journal, also emphasised the importance of the development of antibodies in recovering from coronavirus."Those who failed to produce them within the first 15 days of infection are at greater risk of developing severe forms of Covid-19," it said.Two thirds of the patients surveyed were men, and the average age was 63. Some 57 percent of them had a pre-existing pathology, notably hypertension and diabetes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-antibodies-last-8-months-after-infection-says-study-101620741297024.html
11-05-2021||World||India shouldn’t copy China’s birth-control policies, say experts||India should not copy China’s birth-control policies and instead try to learn from its neighbour’s experience of countering the challenges of an ageing population, experts have said.Experts told HT that it is already too late for China to reverse the falling fertility rate, and the one-child policy, which is said to have kept China’s population down by hundreds of millions, should have been reversed at least three decades ago.China’s latest census on Tuesday revealed that its population increased by only about 72 million in the last decade to reach 1.41 billion compared to India’s 1.37 billion.The world’s most populated country is now staring at a shrinking labour force, an ageing population dependent on social welfare, and falling demand in the years ahead.“India should stop making population an excuse (for all its problems) and plan for a large population through investment in health, nutrition and skill development,” said Poonam Muttreja, executive director of the New Delhi-based Population Foundation of India.“Population is a boon, not a bane,” said Huang Wenzheng, a demography expert at the Beijing-based think-tank Centre for China and Globalisation, indicating that India should not put in place any strict birth-control measures.For China, Huang said the situation is going to get “worse and worse” as “demand shrinks, labour force shrinks, and the burden of pension goes up”.Huang added, “India is in a much better situation. Now and in the future. If you look at the number of births, India has twice as many as China’s children per year. I am very jealous of India frankly.”“Population is positive, future population is strength. Not weakness,” said Huang, who has studied and researched on demographics at Johns Hopkins and Harvard universities in the US.Yi Fuxian, a scientist at University of Wisconsin-Madison, has long argued that India’s population has already overtaken China’s because officials here had overestimated the number of births between 1990 and 2016 by almost 90 million.In an email interaction with HT, Yi shared a paper he had written on China’s latest census.“On May 22, 2017, I was invited to speak at a seminar on demographic situation and economic development organised by Peking University. I said at the symposium that China’s population was overestimated by 90 million (100 million if taking account of Chinese migration to other countries), and India’s population had already overtaken China’s,” he wrote in the paper.India has maintained a fertility rate of around 2.3, which indicates that its population may surpass China’s by 2023 or 2024, He Yafu, an independent demographer told Chinese state media on Tuesday, which is sooner than a UN prediction in 2019 that this would happen by 2027.Some Chinese demographers also predicted that India’s population may overtake that of China as early as in 2022. Huang said that in the future, India will experience a sharp decline in fertility rate. “When India gets richer, I think you also need to handle this problem. But now I think the people in India have the mindset of China 30 years ago, which is that we have too many people. That’s not the case,” he said.“India’s population is certainly young compared to China and bodes well for the future. Demographers call this advantage ‘demographic dividend’, which means the share of the working age population has risen, implying a fall in dependency ratio. We must learn from China’s experiences and the proven inefficacy of coercive population policies,” Muttreja said.Muttreja said that every year, 12 million to 14 million people enter the workforce in India, and India needs to take advantage of that “dividend”.For that, India should invest in quality education, particularly for girls, different skill-building initiatives, and identifying employment pathways. Women’s empowerment and a greater gender equitable environment will assist girls and young women to complete their education, delay marriage and pregnancy and enter the labour force, she argued.“Stepping up investments in health, nutrition, and social conditions will naturally result in fertility decline and help India achieve its development goals,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-shouldn-t-copy-china-s-birth-control-policies-say-experts-101620741987158.html
11-05-2021||World||WHO reviewing Seychelles Covid-19 data after fully vaccinated people test positive||The World Health Organization (WHO) said on Tuesday it was reviewing coronavirus data from Seychelles after the health ministry said more than a third of people who tested positive for Covid-19 in the past week had been fully vaccinated.Both the ministry and the WHO stressed that the majority of those who tested positive had not been vaccinated or had only received one dose, that no one who had died had been fully vaccinated and that nearly all of those needing treatment for severe or critical cases were unvaccinated.But the WHO said it was closely following the situation in the Indian Ocean nation, which has a population of less than 100,000 and daily cases numbers in the low hundreds."Our teams continue to review the data, assess progress and understand the trends," a spokeswoman said by email.The seven day rolling average of positive cases increased from 120 on April 30 to 314 on May 8, the ministry said in a statement late on Monday, with almost two thirds of the positive cases being close contacts of another person testing positive.Some 37% of those testing positive had received both doses of a vaccine, it said.To date, 57% of those who have been fully vaccinated have received the vaccine from China's state-owned drugmaker Sinopharm, while 43% have received AstraZeneca shots, it said. Nearly 60% of the population have had two doses, the WHO said.The ministry said 80% of those needing hospital treatment had not been vaccinated and tended to be people with co-morbidities. The ministry could not immediately be reached for further comment.The WHO has said a large Phase III trial of Sinopharm has shown that two doses, administered at an interval of 21 days, have an efficacy of 79% against symptomatic infection, 14 or more days after the second dose. AstraZeneca said its March its Covid-19 vaccine was 76% effective.The WHO approved the Sinopharm vaccine for emergency on Friday. The decision also clears the way for the vaccine to be included in COVAX, a global programme to provide vaccines mainly for poor countries.The total number of confirmed cases in Seychelles since the pandemic began is less than 8,200. Cases dropped slightly from May 7 to May 8, the ministry statement said, but "the rate of transmission remains high and is of concern".The WHO said vaccination alone would not stop transmission entirely, and preventive health measures such as social distancing, mask-wearing and hand washing must continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-reviewing-seychelles-covid-19-data-after-fully-vaccinated-people-test-positive-101620740707448.html
11-05-2021||World||Facebook ordered to stop collecting German WhatsApp users’ data||Hamburg’s data regulator ordered Facebook Inc. to stop collecting German user data from its WhatsApp unit, saying the company’s attempt to make users agree to the practice in its updated terms isn’t legal.Hamburg watchdog Johannes Caspar issued a three-month emergency order, prohibiting Facebook from continuing with the data collection. He’s also asking a panel of European data regulators to take action and issue a bloc-wide regulation. The new WhatsApp terms formally authorizing the data scoop are invalid because they are intransparent, inconsistent and overly broad, he said.“The order aims to secure the rights and freedoms of millions of users which are agreeing to the terms Germany-wide,” Caspar said in a statement on Tuesday. “We need to prevent damage and disadvantages linked to such a black-box-procedure.”A German spokeswoman for Facebook didn’t immediately reply to an email seeking comment.Also Read | Users not accepting privacy terms to face limited functionality: WhatsAppThe company has faced global criticism over the new terms WhatsApp users are required to accept by May 15. Caspar said Facebook may already be wrongfully handling data and said it’s important to prevent misuse of the information to influence the German national election in September.The order strikes at the heart of Facebook’s business model and advertising strategy. It echoes a similar and contested step by Germany’s antitrust office attacking the network’s habit of collecting data about what users do online and merging the information with their Facebook profiles. That trove of information allows ads to be tailored to individual users -- creating a cash cow for Facebook.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-ordered-to-stop-collecting-german-whatsapp-users-data-101620737831435.html
11-05-2021||World||Taiwan denounces China's 'shameless lies' about WHO access||Taiwan's foreign minister criticised what he called China's "shameless lies" on Tuesday in an escalating dispute about Beijing blocking the island from the World Health Organization (WHO), saying China clearly did not care about Taiwan's people.The United States and the rich-nation Group of Seven (G7) have called for Chinese-claimed but democratically ruled Taiwan to attend the WHO's decision-making body, the World Health Assembly, which meets from May 24.Taiwan is excluded from most global organisations such as the WHO because of the objections of China, which considers the island one of its provinces not a country.China's foreign ministry said on Monday that "appropriate arrangements" have been made for Taiwan's participation in global health matters and that nobody cared more for Taiwan's people than the Chinese government."Shameless lies! Just goes to show the CCP can't tell the truth," Taiwan Foreign Minister Joseph Wu said on Twitter, referring to China's ruling Communist Party."After what Beijing has done to Xinjiang, Tibet & Hong Kong, no sane person would believe it could take care of Taiwan's health needs or otherwise," Wu added. "Thank God we aren't under China's control! Please help us keep it at a distance."Wu said China's Communist Party could not claim to speak for Taiwan as it has never ruled it and only the island's democratically elected government can represent its people.In Beijing, Chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said the blame lay with Taiwan's ruling Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) for refusing to accept the island was part of China."The DPP authorities know this well. Taiwan compatriots are our flesh and blood. The Chinese central government takes all necessary measures to ensure the health and well-being of the Taiwan compatriots," she added.While the WHO cooperates with Taiwan's technical experts on COVID-19, it is up to member states whether to invite Taiwan to observe the WHO meeting, the WHO's principal legal officer Steve Solomon said on Monday.China can easily corral enough countries to support blocking Taiwan from the World Health Assembly, according to diplomats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taiwan-denounces-china-s-shameless-lies-about-who-access-101620724351439.html
11-05-2021||World||Dogecoin spikes after Elon Musk asks whether Tesla should accept it||Dogecoin, the cryptocurrency started as a joke, jumped on Tuesday after billionaire Elon Musk tweeted about whether Tesla Inc. should accept it for payments.Musk, who’s been a vocal supporter of the Shiba Inu-themed token, posted a survey on Twitter asking “Do you want Tesla to accept Doge?” Within about thirty minutes, the survey had 750,000 respondents.The token jumped from around 46 cents to as high as 54 cents after Musk’s tweet, according to Coinmarketcap.comThe fourth-largest cryptocurrency has proved famously volatile after the Tesla CEO appeared on “Saturday Night Live” last weekend and jokingly called Dogecoin “a hustle.” Its market capitalization has fallen from as high as $95 billion to $67 billion currently.SpaceX, Musk’s commercial rocket firm, will embark on a Moon voyage in 2022 carrying a mini-satellite from Geometric Energy Corp. that’s been paid for entirely in Dogecoin.And it wouldn’t be Tesla’s first foray into cryptocurrencies. The company announced in March that it would accept Bitcoin as payment for its electric cars, a month after disclosing a $1.5 billion investment in the largest virtual token.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dogecoin-spikes-after-elon-musk-asks-whether-tesla-should-accept-it-101620726553439.html
11-05-2021||World||US schools fight to keep students amid fear of dropout surge||US educators are doing everything they can to track down high school students who stopped showing up to classes and to help them get the credits needed to graduate, amid an anticipated surge in the country's dropout rate during the coronavirus pandemic.There isn't data available yet on how the pandemic has affected the nation's overall dropout rate — 2019 is the last year for which it is available — and many school officials say it's too early to know how many students who stopped logging on for distance learning don't plan to return. But soaring numbers of students who are failing classes or are chronically absent have experts fearing the worst, and schools have been busy tracking down wayward seniors through social media, knocking on their doors, assigning staff to help them make up for lost time and, in some cases, even relaxing graduation requirements.“When students drop out, they typically look for an out, an opportunity to leave. And this has provided that, unfortunately,” Sandy Addis, chairman of the National Dropout Prevention Center, said recently, referring to the pandemic. His group believes the dropout rate has spiked this year and will remain high for years.At one high school in Kansas City, Kansas, staff members have made thousands of calls to the families of at-risk students, said Troy Pitsch, who supervises high school principals in the city.“If we lose a student, it is going to be after kicking and screaming and fighting tooth and nail for them,” Pitsch said.Many districts were forgiving last spring when schools shut down abruptly, freezing grades unless students wanted to improve them. That made this year the first for which schools would feel the full effects of the pandemic on student performance and engagement.The early signs aren't encouraging. The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization warned that the pandemic had put 24 million children worldwide at risk of dropping out of school. And the pandemic's effects could erase gains the U.S. made in reducing its dropout rate, which fell from 9.3% in 2007 to 5.1% in 2019, according to the National Center for Education Statistics. Not finishing high school significantly hurts a person's earning potential, with dropouts bringing home an average of $150 less per week than graduates, according to U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics data.To keep students on track, some local governments and school systems have waived certain testing requirements for graduation or changed grading policies so that missed assignments aren't as damaging. But such leniency carries the risk of watering down academic standards, said Russell Rumberger, a professor emeritus of education at the University of California, Santa Barbara, who has written about dropouts.“If they let you pass with a D and you don’t have to do very much to do it, maybe technically you are getting a diploma, but you are not getting the same type of diploma you may have gotten prior to the pandemic, when the standards were higher," he said.A National Dropout Prevention Center report predicted a doubling or tripling of the number of students who were at risk of falling behind academically and not graduating.Among them for much of this school year was Jose Solano-Hernandez, a 17-year-old senior at Wyandotte High School in Kansas City, Kansas. In January, when he was at his lowest point following the deaths of one grandparent from COVID-19 and another from cancer in the same week, he estimated that he had missed eight assignments in each of his classes.“I wouldn’t make my parents proud,” he recalled thinking as he struggled to learn virtually at night while working by day at a mechanic's shop.Solano-Hernandez has been slowly chipping away at his backlog of work since his school brought back him and other struggling seniors for extra in-person help more than a month before the rest of the student body returned at the end of March. He said the change brought “relief" and he's now hopeful he'll graduate.Mary Stewart, the school's principal, said there was “radio silence” from hundreds of students in the fall. But the number who weren't accounted for shrank to about 40 by the spring after staff hunted down siblings and scrolled through Facebook searching for clues to their whereabouts.“I went to a house of a young man the day before Thanksgiving and found that he had self-isolated in his room because of a mental health issue,” she said. “That is very common. Whatever happens in the community and in the world, we are a micro-system of that.”The pandemic also has taken a toll on students at North Grand High School in Chicago.Principal Emily Feltes said some of her students took on jobs to support their families and others fell ill. Her students returned for part-time in-person instruction in April, but she's worried that dropout numbers will rise.“We have done everything that we think that we can to try to re-engage kids — to try to help them. And I know that my colleagues are all working really hard too," she said. “But the reality is that this has been a worldwide and a national trauma."Persuading reluctant students to return isn't easy. At Orange County Public Schools in the Orlando, Florida, area, substitute teacher Patrice Pullen was assigned in December to oversee a group of 13 seniors who fell behind during virtual learning. She said it became clear on her first day that her most important job would be “rebranding” the students, who had come to see themselves as failures.“You have kids — and I’m not exaggerating — they had zeros. They had not turned in anything since August, since school started,” she said. Now, eleven are on track to graduate and the other two are close to being on track.At Fairfax County Public Schools in Virginia, the 185,000-student district saw the percentage of middle school and high school students earning F’s in at least two classes jump by 83% in the fall.The spring numbers returned to more normal levels as the district made several changes, including dropping the minimum number of assignments per quarter from nine to six and allowing teachers to accept late work on major assignments with minimal penalties, said district spokeswoman Lucy Caldwell. Still, she said, it is hard to say how many students disappeared or what will happen with dropouts.“The pandemic was extraordinarily difficult on families — emotionally, economically, and physically," Caldwell said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-schools-fight-to-keep-students-amid-fear-of-dropout-surge-101620737078913.html
11-05-2021||World||Vaccines, medicines effective against triple-mutant Covid variant from India, says WHO official||The World Health Organization (WHO) representative to India on Tuesday said that the vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics continue to be effective against the coronavirus variant B.1.617, first identified in India, after the UN health agency classified it as a variant of global concern. According to news agency ANI, Dr Roderico H Ofrin’s statement on vaccine efficacy against the variant of concern was based on what the WHO knows so far as per the discussions with experts globally."There has been an increasing rate of detection of this variant along with an increase and a surge of Covid-19 cases in parts of India. However, the relative contribution of this variant in the rapid increase of cases in the country remains unclear," said the WHO official.The B.1.617 variant is the fourth variant that has been classified as a variant of global concern. Dr Maria Van Kerkhove, Covid-19 technical lead at WHO, earlier told a briefing that there is some available information to suggest increased transmissibility. Dr Kerkhove stressed that the scientists need much more information about the B.1.617 variant and all of the sub-lineages."Our Epi teams and our lab teams internally, there is some available information to suggest increased transmissibility of B1617, as such we are classifying this as a variant of concern at the global level," she said.Read | Covid-19: What we know about the Indian variant as coronavirus sweeps South AsiaWhile the Union health ministry on Tuesday said that an early trend of decline in daily new Covid-19 cases and related deaths has been noted in India, the country continues to record over 3 lakh daily infections, overwhelming the healthcare infrastructure. In an interview with ANI, WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan called on governments to boost exercises on reporting actual numbers, terming the rate of infections and fatalities “worrying”."I would say that at this point of time, the situation is very worrying, the daily number of cases and deaths that we are seeing today in India and other countries in the Southeast area region is a big concern for us and we also realise that these are underestimates. Every country in the world, in fact, the number of cases and deaths has been underestimated to its true number," she told ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-official-gives-verdict-on-vaccine-efficacy-against-indian-covid-variant-101620736267275.html
11-05-2021||World||Most in US who haven't got Covid-19 jab need convincing, poll says||Fewer Americans are reluctant to get a Covid-19 vaccine than just a few months ago, but questions about side effects and how the shots were tested still hold some back, according to a new poll that highlights the challenges at a pivotal moment in the U.S. vaccination campaign.Just 11% of people who remain unvaccinated say they definitely will get the shot, while 34% say they definitely won't, according to the poll by The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research.That leaves a large swath of Americans in the middle who might still roll up their sleeves — including 27% who say they probably will and 27% who say they probably won't — if someone credible addressed their concerns. That's where National Institutes of Health immunologist Kizzmekia Corbett comes in.Corbett helped lead development of the Moderna shot, and she spends hours giving plain-spoken answers to questions from Americans — especially Black Americans like her — to counter misinformation about the three vaccines used in the U.S.Read more: 20-metre-long escape tunnel found at Australian detention centre: ReportNo, COVID-19 vaccines won’t cause infertility: “Whoever started that rumor, shame on you.”No, the shots’ speedy development doesn’t mean corners were cut: “We worked our butts off for the last six years” hunting vaccines for earlier cousins of COVID-19 — a head start that made the difference, Corbett recently told the AP.Getting as many people vaccinated as fast as possible is critical to returning the country to normal. More than 150 million people — about 58% of all adults — have received at least one dose, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.As that number grows, reluctance is inching down. Overall, the AP-NORC poll found about 1 in 5 American adults say they probably or definitely won’t get vaccinated, compared to about a third in January, when the shots were just rolling out.Black Americans likewise are becoming more open to the shots, with 26% now saying they definitely or probably won’t get vaccinated compared with 41% in January. That’s similar to the 22% of Hispanic Americans and white Americans the poll found unlikely to get vaccinated. Among Asian Americans, just 9% say they definitely or probably won’t get the shots.Read more: US congresswoman urges Biden to send more direct Covid support to IndiaHoldouts are from all over American society — fueling experts' advice that there is no one-size-fits-all vaccine message and that people need to hear from trusted sources, whether that's scientists like Corbett or their own doctors. Adults under 45, rural Americans and Republicans are especially likely to say they will avoid vaccination, the poll found. But again, attitudes are changing: 32% of Republicans now say they probably or definitely won’t get vaccinated, down from 44% in January.About three-fourths of those who say they are unlikely to get vaccinated have little to no confidence that the vaccines were properly tested, and 55% are very concerned about side effects, the poll found. Even among those who say they will probably get vaccinated but have not done so yet, concerns about proper testing are elevated compared with people who have received their shots already.In forums hosted by colleges, Black pastors, doctors and even basketball great Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Corbett says the best way to overcome distrust is to put the science in understandable terms for strangers just like she does for family. Later this spring, she's moving from the NIH to Harvard's School of Public Health to continue both her vaccine research and that outreach to communities, the school plans to announce on Tuesday.The vaccines’ speedy development “is historic and it is brag-worthy,” said Corbett, whose NIH team was able to customize a shot that matched the new virus after spending six years developing vaccines against other dangerous coronaviruses such as MERS.But “really, we should have started the conversations very early about what went into it,” she said, so the public understood that no steps were skipped.A combination of huge studies and real-world data show the main side effects of the U.S. vaccines are temporary fevers or aches as the immune system revs up. The shots are undergoing unprecedented safety monitoring, which last month led to a temporary pause in Johnson & Johnson vaccinations to determine how to handle an incredibly rare risk of blood clots.Even after that pause, overall confidence in the vaccines is up slightly compared with a few months ago, with 45% of all adults now very or extremely confident that the shots were properly tested for safety and effectiveness, compared with 39% in an AP-NORC poll in February.But side effect myths persist. Corbett calls the fertility concern “completely absurd,” and in forum after forum explains why it’s biologically impossible for the vaccines to alter anyone’s DNA.The repetition is OK: “People need to hear things multiple times,” she said.Plus, many Americans have some of the same questions scientists are still trying to answer, such as whether or when people might need a booster dose.“Those are things that even I can’t even answer. But what I can say is that we’re doing everything we can to make sure we can answer it as soon as possible,” Corbett said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/most-in-us-who-haven-t-got-covid-19-jab-need-convincing-poll-says-101620734920739.html
11-05-2021||World||UK to ban LGBT conversion therapy and provide more support||Britain will move to ban conversion therapy and provide more support to those in the LGBT community who have undergone the treatment, as part of its post-pandemic government agenda.Prime Minister Boris Johnson's government said measures would be brought forward to prevent these "abhorrent practices which can cause mental and physical harm", starting with a consultation on how best to protect people and how to eliminate coercive practices.Johnson's party has come under increasing pressure on the issue after former leader Theresa May vowed in 2018 to eradicate a procedure that aims to change or suppress someone's sexual orientation or gender identity.Also read | Time for change: Queen sets out UK Johnson's post-pandemic agendaHowever some faith leaders had argued that a wide ban could implicate those who offer pastoral support including prayer.Setting out the new parliamentary agenda in a briefing document alongside the Queen's Speech, the government said: "We will ensure medical professionals, religious leaders, teachers and parents can continue to be able to have open and honest conversations with people."A 2017 National LGBT survey found that 5% of those who responded reported being ordered, and 2% reported having undergone, conversion therapy. In more than half of the cases the therapy was offered or conducted by faith organisations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-to-ban-lgbt-conversion-therapy-and-provide-more-support-101620732252671.html
11-05-2021||World||Time for change: Queen sets out UK Johnson's post-pandemic agenda||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson promised to tackle inequality and "level up" the country on Tuesday with a post-pandemic raft of laws presented by Queen Elizabeth to parliament.In a ceremony stripped back because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the queen, who wore a day dress instead of the usual robes and crown, read out the bills the government hopes to pass during the next year on everything from job creation and healthcare to stripping back post-Brexit bureaucracy.In the 18 months since Johnson's Conservatives were re-elected with a big parliamentary majority, his agenda has been eclipsed by the pandemic, which caught his government off guard and has absorbed many of its resources for making policy.With Britain's vaccination programme now far ahead of many other countries and the spread of the virus at low levels, Johnson is hoping to revive his 'levelling up' agenda and re-set a premiership that has been clouded by accusations of cronyism."My government's priority is to deliver a national recovery from the pandemic that makes the United Kingdom`stronger, healthier and more prosperous that before," the 95-year-old queen told parliament in the speech written by the government."To achieve this, my government will level up opportunities across all parts of the United Kingdom, supporting jobs, businesses and economic growth and addressing the impact of the pandemic on public services."In an introduction to the pages of government pledges, Johnson said: "The crisis has in no way diminished the government's ambition or appetite for change... We have been given an historic opportunity to change things for the better.""RHETORIC INTO REALITY"After completing Britain's exit from the European Union at the end of 2020, Johnson has wanted to showcase what he sees as the benefits of Brexit. But he has so far been unable to match a pledge made in the 2016 Brexit referendum campaign of handing the health service 350 million pounds ($494 million) a week.His government will instead try to reduce what it saw as excessive EU bureaucracy by streamlining state aid and procurement rules so it can target funds to ailing businesses more quickly and directly.That was part of the government's strategy to "build back better", which also included education reforms to help adults access life-long learning - seen by ministers as key to reshaping the British workforce.On climate change, the government repeated its commitment to achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, a pledge it hopes will spur other nations to cut their emission targets before a United Nations climate summit in November in Scotland.Much of Tuesday's 'Queen's Speech' comprised policies and proposals already flagged, prompting the opposition Labour Party to challenge the government to turn its "rhetoric into reality"."The Conservatives have so far tried to hide their lack of a long-term plan by making people and places scrap over funding pots," Labour leader Keir Starmer said in a statement."This piecemeal approach won't deliver the fundamental change our country needs. Instead, we must today see meat on the bones of a proper, ambitious plan to deliver the change people across the country deserve."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/time-for-change-queen-sets-out-uk-johnson-s-post-pandemic-agenda-101620730478237.html
11-05-2021||World||US congresswoman urges Biden to send more direct Covid support to India||A US congresswoman has urged President Joe Biden to send more direct support to India which is battling an unprecedented second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.Congresswoman Haley Stevens, in a letter to Biden on Monday, said that India is now the epicentre of the Covid-19 pandemic.“This past week India registered over 400,000 daily cases. On May 4, there were 3,786 deaths, bringing the total to 226,188 fatalities. The sharp increase in cases has severely strained the healthcare system, overwhelming hospitals, and depleting oxygen supplies. India is in great need of oxygen, therapeutics, and vaccines,” Stevens wrote.Asking the White House to increase shipments of oxygen cylinders, Remdesivir, Tocilizumab and ventilators to Indian hospitals, she thanked Biden for his support of more than USD 100 million to India.“I urge you to provide the following items: Oxygen Cylinders, 10 liters and 45 liters Liquid Medical Oxygen Capacity; Oxygen Concentrator; Oxygen Generator Plants; Remdesivir; Tocilizumab, Ventilators/BiPAP,” she said.“As you continue to assess the situation in India, I urge you to consider fulfilling the additional needs outlined above. As long as Covid persists in India, there is the potential for additional variants that could pose a serious threat to a vaccinated America. We must do our part to quell the virus everywhere it persists,” Stevens added.Also Read | Outpouring of support from US for India, Covid-19 help touches USD half a billionIndia has been severely affected by the unprecedented second wave of the coronavirus and hospitals in several states are reeling under the shortage of health workers, vaccines, oxygen, drugs and beds.After recording over four lakh fresh cases for four consecutive days, India witnessed a single-day rise of 3,66,161 Covid-19 cases on Monday, which pushed its tally to 2,26,62,575, according to the health ministry.The death toll due to the viral disease climbed to 2,46,116 with 3,754 more people succumbing to it, the ministry's data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-congresswoman-urges-biden-to-send-more-direct-covid-support-to-india-101620729652011.html
11-05-2021||World||Pope Francis creates lay ministry to boost supply of faith teachers||Pope Francis on Tuesday formally created a new lay ministry to encourage greater participation of secular women and men in the teaching of the Catholic faith, especially in places where priests are in short supply.The new law creating the lay ministry of catechists officially recognizes for the universal Catholic Church a practice that has been used for centuries in local dioceses.In many parts of the world, lay men and women introduce people to the Catholic faith, educate them on receiving the initial sacraments of baptism and Communion and accompany them in their faith journey.Soon, the Vatican’s liturgy office will publish a specific rite of installation to be used around the world when lay catechists formally begin their ministry, the pope said in the new law.It’s the latest reform by Francis to address longstanding complaints that lay people — and specifically women — have been shut out of all levels of church decision-making, governance and participation in favor of the all-male clerical class of priests, bishops and cardinals.Earlier this year Francis issued another law decreeing that women can be installed in the lay ministries of lectors, to read Scripture, and acolytes to serve on the altar as eucharistic ministers. Such roles had been officially reserved to men even though exceptions were made.Francis has firmly upheld Catholic doctrine that women cannot be ordained priests. He remains under pressure, however, to allow women to be deacons — ministers who perform many of the same functions as priests, such as presiding at weddings, baptisms and funerals. Currently, the ministry is reserved for men even though historians say the ministry was performed by women in the early church.In the new law published Tuesday, Francis recalled that throughout the history of the church, lay catechists have been fundamental in spreading the faith, particularly in mission territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pope-francis-creates-lay-ministry-to-boost-supply-of-faith-teachers-101620729618590.html
11-05-2021||World||'We decide our foreign policy': Bangladesh's curt response to China over warning to join Quad||China has warned Bangladesh against joining the US-led Quad alliance, saying that Dhaka's participation in the anti-Beijing "club" would result in "substantial damage" to bilateral relations.The unusual warning from Chinese Ambassador to Bangladesh Li Jiming came weeks after visiting Chinese Defence Minister Gen. Wei Fenghe emphasied to Bangladesh President Abdul Hamid that Beijing and Dhaka should make joint efforts against powers from outside the region establishing a "military alliance" in South Asia and practising "hegemonism"."Obviously it will not be a good idea for Bangladesh to participate in this small club of four (Quad) because it will substantially damage our bilateral relationship,” Ambassador Li said at a virtual meeting organised by the Diplomatic Correspondents Association, Bangladesh on Monday.Reacting to the Chinese envoy's controversial remarks, Bangladesh Foreign Minister Dr AK Abdul Momen said Dhaka maintains a non-aligned and balanced foreign policy and it will decide what to do according to those principles."We're an independent and sovereign state. We decide our foreign policy. But yes, any country can uphold its position," he told reporters on Tuesday."Naturally, he (Chinese ambassador) represents a country. They can say what they want. Maybe they don't want it (Bangladesh joining the Quad)," Momen said, adding that no one from the Quad has approached Bangladesh yet.The comment has been preemptive, the United News of Bangladesh (UNB) news agency reported, quoting said the foreign minister as saying.Initiated in 2007, the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, Quad for short, is an informal grouping of India, the US, Australia and Japan.Quad is a “small group of elites” working against China, Ambassador Li said.“Quad says it is only for economic purposes and security and so on. But that’s not true. We know that Quad is aimed at China,” the envoy was quoted as saying by BDNews24.com news portal and other newspapers.“Japan, together with the US, has stated it very clearly – they are participating in [Quad] because of China,” Li said.Li described the Quad as a "narrow-purposed" geopolitical clique, and Bangladesh should not join it as the country will not derive any benefit from the initiative."History has proved again and again such partnership surely damages our neighbours' own social, economic development and people's well-being," Li was quoted as saying by the UNB news agency.Chinese Defence Minster Gen Wei, who visited Dhaka on April 27 had said that to jointly maintain regional peace and stability, China and Bangladesh "should make joint efforts against powers outside the region setting up military alliance in South Asia and practicing hegemonism."China has vehemently opposed the formation of the Quad with a Chinese foreign ministry spokesman emphasising in March that exchanges and cooperation between countries should help expand mutual understanding and trust, instead of targeting or harming the interests of third parties.The four Quad member countries have resolved to uphold a rules-based international order in the Indo-Pacific amid growing Chinese assertiveness in the strategically vital region.The first summit of the Quad leaders was hosted by US President Joe Biden on March 12 and the virtual meeting was attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga.The four Quad leaders have vowed to strive for an Indo-Pacific region that is free, open, inclusive, healthy, anchored by democratic values, and unconstrained by coercion, sending an clear message to China against its aggressive actions in the region.During Monday's virtual event, the Chinese ambassaor also raised the possibility of China aiding Bangladesh’s efforts on the Teesta River management project, stating that their involvement in the project would be ‘seriously considered’ once Dhaka submitted a feasibility report.The Bangladesh government had yet to formally propose that China take part in the project, he said.The Teesta River management project would dredge and embank large portions of the river in order to form a single, manageable channel.Li dismissed concerns that water sharing disputes between Bangladesh and India could affect the project.“I think it is the legitimate right of Bangladeshi people to build this kind of project within the lower reach of a shared river,” he said. “If this was made in the upper reaches, you would have to consult the opinions of countries from the lower reaches. But as you are building it in the lower reaches, I don’t think there are any sensitive issues,” Li was quoted as saying.The Teesta deal was set to be signed during then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s visit to Bangladesh in September, 2011 but was postponed at the last minute due to objections raised by West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee.Banarjee had expressed strong reservations against giving Bangladesh a greater share of water from the Teesta river.The issue also figured during Prime Minister Modi's visit to Bangladesh in March during which he reiterated India's "sincere and continued efforts" to conclude the Teesta water-sharing agreement in consultation with relevant stakeholders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/we-decide-our-foreign-policy-bangladesh-s-curt-response-to-china-over-warning-to-join-quad-101620729070540.html
11-05-2021||World||Covid-19: Australia aims to vaccinate all adults by end of 2021||Australia set a new target of vaccinating all willing adults by the end of 2021 on Tuesday, hoping to speed a glacial vaccine roll-out that threatens the country's pandemic success story.Treasurer Josh Frydenberg -- unveiling a free-spending, crisis-tinged budget -- said the continuation of the country's "roaring" economic recovery depended on "effective suppression of the virus".To that end, he said, the conservative government expected Australia's borders to remain closed well into 2022 and for all adults "who seek to have that vaccine" to have received two doses by the end of the year.Australia has ridden out the coronavirus pandemic by effectively sealing itself off from the rest of the world, and with a series of snap local lockdowns.It remains one of the few places where there is no widespread community transmission and daily life is relatively normal.But very few Australians are immunised and there have been repeated outbreaks linked to quarantine facilities, raising fears success could be fleeting."We don't know what is around the corner with respect to the virus," Frydenberg said. "The assumption is that there will be new cases."So far Australia has delivered just 2.5 million vaccine shots, versus the roughly 50 million jabs needed to vaccinate the entire population -- lagging other rich countries, and the government's own targets.After a series of problems with vaccine delivery and the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine for those under 50, the government is now in talks to manufacture promising mRNA vaccines domestically.Spend, spend, spendFrydenberg also unveiled a new round of tax cuts and stimulus spending that could set the stage for an election as soon as this year.Prime Minister Scott Morrison is seeking reelection and a fourth consecutive victory for his conservative Liberal-led coalition.Jettisoning the party's traditional talk of belt-tightening and fiscal prudence, Frydenberg said "unavoidable" spending would see the deficit swell to Aus$161 (US$125) billion this year, almost eight percent of GDP.The government has committed Aus$291 billion to virus-related stimulus, including a swathe of tax cuts and income support that is equivalent to almost 15 percent of gross domestic product.The deficit explosion was limited only by increased tax revenue -- as people go back to work more quickly than expected -- and surging iron ore prices."We're giving a very big thanks to Western Australia and the iron ore industry," Frydenberg said.Amid fierce criticism of the government's handling of a series of rape allegations by officials, the budget for the next year also sets aside Aus$2 billion for women's safety, the bulk of which will go to childcare subsidies.Defence spending is expected to rise about 10 percent in the next three years, as relations with China sour and American security guarantees look less ironclad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-australia-aims-to-vaccinate-all-adults-by-end-of-2021-101620728441593.html
11-05-2021||World||Covid-19 certificate will be a signal for travel in EU, Germany says||Germany hopes for a swift agreement on a Covid-19 certificate that could allow citizens to travel more easily in the European Union, as more and more countries are opening up amid falling infection rates ahead of the summer holiday season.European affairs ministers met on Tuesday in Brussels to discuss the details of the "green certificate" that the EU aims to introduce in June, but talks between the European Commission, EU lawmakers and EU governments have yet to reach an agreement.German Europe Minister Michael Roth told reporters he hoped for a solution within weeks."This is not only important for countries depending on tourism but for all of us: It is ... a clear signal for freedom of movement and for mobility in the European Union," Roth said in Brussels."We should send a clear message that we are making progress. This is very important with a view to the summer," he added.The pass would allow those vaccinated, recovered from Covid-19 or with negative test results to move more easily in the 27-nation bloc, where restrictions on movement have weighed heavily on the travel and tourist industry for over a year.As the vaccination campaign in the EU is gaining speed with 200 million jabs delivered and Covid-19 infections rates falling, Europe is starting to reopen cities and beaches, raising hopes for the summer holiday season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-certificate-will-be-a-signal-for-travel-in-eu-germany-says-101620726462424.html
11-05-2021||World||20-metre-long escape tunnel found at Australian detention centre: Report||A 20-metre-long underground escape tunnel has been discovered at an immigration detention centre in Australia, according to refugee advocates. The unfinished tunnel dug around three metres deep in the Falcon compound of Yongah Hill detention centre in Western Australia was reportedly found on Monday morning.The campaign group Refugee Action Coalition said that the tunnel ran from beneath the floor of room 6F in one of the accommodation blocks, underneath two inner fences to within five metres of the outer perimeter fence. The Guardian, quoting the refugee advocates, reported that the tunnel was built “over several months”, but it has not yet been established who dug the tunnel or with what.In 2001, 23 asylum seekers escaped by tunnelling out of the Villawood detention centre in Sydney. The refugee advocates said that the fresh escape attempt has highlighted the prolonged detention of those held in the onshore detention centres. According to Australian Border Force statistics, around 320 people were held at Yongah Hill as of February 28, 2021, and many of the asylum seekers are very long-term detainees who have been held for over five years.Ian Rintoul, a spokesperson for the Refugee Action Coalition, said in a statement that the “systematic abuse of long-term detention” is hidden behind the fences of the country’s detention regime. Rintoul accused the detention regime of depriving asylum seekers of their liberty and mental health, claiming that almost none of the oversight that applies to prisoners of the judicial system are applied to detainees.“The government, for example, is vindictively holding Iranian asylum seekers for years, even though it knows that they cannot be returned to Iran. Indefinite detention is pointless and destructive. Visa cancellation powers allow asylum seekers and refugees to be punished twice, first by the judicial system and then by immigration detention,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/20metrelong-escape-tunnel-found-at-australian-detention-centre-report-101620727105457.html
11-05-2021||World||China loses workers as its 1.4B people age||The number of working-age people in China fell over the past decade as its aging population barely grew, a census showed Tuesday, complicating Chinese leaders' efforts to create a more prosperous and influential nation.The total population rose to 1.411 billion people last year, up 72 million from 2010, according to the once-a-decade census. Slow growth fell closer to zero as fewer couples had children.That adds to challenges for Chinese leaders who want to create a richer society and increase its global influence by developing technology industries and self-sustaining economic growth based on consumer spending.The ruling Communist Party has enforced birth limits since 1980 to restrain population growth but worries the workforce is shrinking. It has eased birth limits, but couples are put off by high costs, cramped housing and job discrimination against mothers.The population of potential workers aged 15 to 59 fell to 894 million last year, the National Bureau of Statistics reported. That would be down 5% from a 2011 peak of 925 million. The percentage of children in the population edged up compared with 2010, but the group aged 60 and older grew faster.Changes in birth limits and other policies “promoted a rebound in the birth population,” the bureau director, Ning Jizhe, said at a news conference.However, Ning said 12 million babies were born last year, which would be down 18% from 2019’s 14.6 million.China, along with Thailand and some other developing Asian countries that are aging fast, faces what economists call the challenge of whether it can grow rich before it grows old. Some warn China faces a “demographic time bomb.”The potential shortage of workers needed to generate economic activity and tax revenue comes as President Xi Jinping's government boosts spending on its military and efforts to create global competitors in electric cars and other technologies.Reflecting the issue’s sensitivity, the statistics agency took the unusual step last month of announcing the population grew in 2020 but gave no total. That looked like an effort to calm companies and investors after The Financial Times reported the census might have found a surprise decline.“We are more concerned about the fast decline in the proportion of the working age population compared to the total population,” said Lu Jiehua, a professor of population studies at Peking University.The working-age population will fall from three-quarters of the total in 2011 to just above half by 2050, according to Lu.“If the population gets too old, it will be impossible to solve the problem through immigration,” said Lu. “It needs to be dealt with at an early stage.”Couples who want a child face daunting challenges.Many share crowded apartments with their parents. Child care is expensive and maternity leave short. Most single mothers are excluded from medical insurance and social welfare payments.Some women worry giving birth could hurt their careers."When you have a kid, you take pregnancy leave, but will you still have this position after you take the leave?” said He Yiwei, who is returning from the United States after obtaining a master’s degree. “Relative to men, when it comes to work, women have to sacrifice more.”Japan, Germany and some other rich countries face the same challenge of supporting aging populations with fewer workers. But they can draw on investments in factories, technology and foreign assets. By contrast, China is a middle-income country with labor-intensive farming and manufacturing.The decline in the working-age population “will place a cap on China’s potential economic growth,” said Yue Su of the Economist Intelligence Unit in a report. That is a “powerful incentive to introduce productivity-enhancing reforms.”The International Monetary Fund is forecasting Chinese economic growth of 8.4% this year following a rebound from the coronavirus pandemic. The Communist Party wants to double output per person from 2020 levels by 2035, which would require annual growth of about 4.7%.The numbers reported Thursday reflect a gain of 11.8 million people, or 0.8%, over the official estimate for 2019, when the government says the population edged above 1.4 billion for the first time.The working-age population fell to 63.3% of the total from 70.1% a decade ago. The group up to age 14 expanded by 1.3 percentage points to 17.9%. Those 60 and older — a group of 264 million people who on their own would be the world's fourth-biggest country — rose 5.4 percentage points to 18.7% of the population.“Labor resources are still abundant,” said Ning of the statistics agency.The party took its biggest step in 2015 when rules that limited many couples to having only one child were eased to allow two.However, China’s birth rate, paralleling trends in South Korea, Thailand and other Asian economies, already was falling before the one-child rule. The average number of children per mother tumbled from above six in the 1960s to below three by 1980, according to the World Bank.Demographers say official birth limits concealed what would have been a further fall in the number of children per family.The one-child limit, enforced with threats of fines or loss of jobs, led to abuses including forced abortions. A preference for sons led parents to kill baby girls, prompting warnings millions of men might be unable to find a wife, fueling social tension.Thursday’s data showed China has 105.7 million men and boys for every 100 women and girls, or about 33 million more males.The ruling party says the policy averted shortages of food and water by preventing as many as 400 million potential births. But demographers say if China followed Asian trends, the number of additional babies without controls might have been as low as a few million.After limits were eased in 2015, many couples with one child had a second but total births fell because fewer had any at all.Some researchers say China’s population already is shrinking.Yi Fuxian, a senior scientist in obstetrics and gynecology at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, says the population started to fall in 2018. His book “Big Country With An Empty Nest” argued against the one-child limit.“China’s economic, social, educational, tech, defense and foreign policies are built on the foundation of wrong numbers,” said Yi.Chinese regulators talk about raising the official retirement age of 55 to increase the pool of workers.Female professionals welcome a chance to stay in satisfying careers. But others resent being forced to work more years. And keeping workers on the job, unable to help look after children, might discourage their daughters from having more.The latest data put China closer to be overtaken by India as the most populous country, which is expected to happen by 2025.India’s population last year was estimated by the U.N. Department of Economic and Social Affairs at 1.38 billion, or 1.5% behind China. The agency says India should grow by 0.9% annually through 2025.___Wu reported from Taipei. AP researcher Yu Bing and video producer Liu Zheng in Beijing contributed to this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-loses-workers-as-its-1-4b-people-age-101620725860868.html
11-05-2021||World||Taiwan tightens restrictions after new domestic Covid-19 cases||Taiwan's government on Tuesday tightened rules on public gatherings after reporting six new domestic Covid-19 cases with no clear source of infection, a rare rise on the island which has kept the pandemic well under control.Taiwan largely closed its borders early on in the pandemic and has a robust contact tracing and quarantine system, meaning its low case numbers - 1,210 infections to date including 12 deaths - have allowed life to carry on more or less as normal.Already dealing with an outbreak amongst pilots of Taiwan's largest carrier China Airlines and at a hotel where some of them stayed, Health Minister Chen Shih-chung told reporters they had confirmed six new cases with no clear source of infection.Five of these are in the northeastern county of Yilan and one in New Taipei, which surrounds the capital Taipei. None have a recent history of overseas travel, Chen added."We hope that this does not spread," he said, calling on people to wear masks, wash their hands and ensure social distancing while the government tracks down those who had been in contact with the infected to quarantine and test them.Effective immediately until June 8, all outdoor activities of more than 500 people and inside activities of 100 or more should be cancelled, Chen said. Food and drink will also be banned on trains.Similar restrictions have been put in place before, though Taiwan has never gone into a total lockdown. More than 90% of Covid-19 cases have been imported from abroad.The rise in domestic infections, reported in local media before being officially announced, helped drag down the stock market, which ended off 3.8% on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taiwan-tightens-restrictions-after-new-domestic-covid-19-cases-101620722501415.html
11-05-2021||World||Thousands suspended at Myanmar universities as junta targets education||More than 11,000 academics and other university staff opposed to Myanmar's ruling junta have been suspended after going on strike in protest against military rule, a teachers' group told Reuters.The suspensions come as the resumption of universities after a year closed due to the coronavirus epidemic prompts a new confrontation between the army and the staff and students who are calling for boycotts over the Feb. 1 coup."I feel upset to give up a job that I adored so much, but I feel proud to stand against injustice," said one 37-year-old university lecturer, who gave her name only as Thandar for fear of reprisals."My department summoned me today. I'm not going. We shouldn't follow the orders of the military council."A professor on a fellowship in the United States said she was told she would have to declare opposition to the strikes or lose her job. Her university authorities had told her every scholar would be tracked down and forced to choose, she told Reuters.As of Monday, more than 11,100 academic and other staff had been suspended from colleges and universities offering degrees, an official of the Myanmar Teachers' Federation told Reuters, declining to be identified for fear of reprisals.Reuters was not immediately able to ascertain exactly what proportion of total staff that figure represents. Myanmar had more than 26,000 teachers in universities and other tertiary education institutions in 2018, according to the most recent World Bank data.Students and teachers were at the forefront of opposition during nearly half a century of military rule and have been prominent in the protests since the army detained elected leader Aung San Suu Kyi and halted a decade of tentative democratic reforms.Many teachers, like medics and other government workers, have stopped work as part of a civil disobedience movement that has paralysed Myanmar. As protests flared after the coup, security forces occupied campuses in the biggest city, Yangon, and elsewhere.A spokesman for the junta did not respond to phone calls seeking comment on the suspensions.The junta-controlled Global New Light of Myanmar newspaper said teachers and students should cooperate to get the education system started again."Political opportunists do not wish to see such development by committing sabotage acts," it said.BOYCOTTSIt was not clear to what extent the 11,000 staff suspensions would hamper efforts to reopen colleges but many students are also boycotting classes.At the public West Yangon Technological University, the student's union published a list of 180 staff who had been suspended to hail them as heroes."I don't feel sad to miss school," said 22-year-old Hnin, a student of the Yangon University of Education. "There's nothing to lose from missing the junta's education."Zaw Wai Soe, education minister in a rival National Unity Government set up underground by opponents of the junta, said he was touched that students had told him they would only return "when the revolution prevails".Doubts have also been raised over the return to school of younger students, with institutions now taking registrations for the start of a new year. There are nearly 10 million school students in the country of 53 million.Protesters daubed "We don't want to be educated in military slavery" at the entrance of a school in the southern town of Mawlamyine last week, a phrase that has been echoed at demonstrations across Myanmar by students."We'll go to school only when Grandmother Suu is released," read a banner of students in the northern town of Hpakant at the weekend, referring to detained leader Suu Kyi. "Free all students at once," said another sign.Many students are among at least 780 people killed by security forces and the 3,800 in detention, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners activist group.At least 47 teachers are also among the detainees while arrest warrants have been issued for some 150 teachers on charges of incitement.Myanmar's education system was already one of the poorest in the region - and ranked 92 of 93 countries in a global survey last year.Even under the leadership of Suu Kyi, who had championed education, spending was below 2% of gross domestic product. That was one of the lowest rates in the world, according to World Bank figures.Students could have little expectation of progress in Myanmar this year, said Saw Kapi, a founding director of the Salween Institute for Public Policy think tank."When it comes to education, I would suggest that instead of thinking about getting a bachelor's degree, you must go to the University of Life with a major in revolution," he wrote on social media. "You can go for a Masters or PhD later."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thousands-suspended-at-myanmar-universities-as-junta-targets-education-101620725596419.html
11-05-2021||World||Queen Elizabeth to set out UK government's post-pandemic agenda||Britain's Queen Elizabeth will set out the government's post-pandemic agenda on Tuesday, outlining a raft of new laws Prime Minister Boris Johnson hopes will help him fulfil his promise to tackle inequality and "level up" the country.In a ceremony stripped back because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the queen will list the government's areas of focus, which media reports say will include legislation on the environment, job creation and health and social care.In the 18 months since Johnson's Conservatives were re-elected with a big parliamentary majority, his agenda has been eclipsed by the pandemic, which caught his government off guard and has absorbed much of its resources in forming policy.With Britain's vaccination programme now far ahead of many other countries and the spread of the virus at low levels, Johnson is hoping to revive his 'levelling up' agenda and re-set a premiership that has been clouded by accusations of cronyism.The speech - written by the government and delivered by the queen - will set out reforms of the education system, including some to help adults access life-long learning - seen by ministers as key to reshaping the British labour force and making it better placed to adapting to new technologies in areas such as climate change."These new laws are the rocket fuel that we need to level up this country and ensure equal opportunities for all," Johnson said in a statement before the speech. "We know that having the right skills and training is the route to better, well-paid jobs.""RHETORIC INTO REALITY"Britain's main opposition Labour Party said it was time for the government to turn its "rhetoric into reality"."The Conservatives have so far tried to hide their lack of a long-term plan by making people and places scrap over funding pots," Labour leader Keir Starmer said in a statement."This piecemeal approach won't deliver the fundamental change our country needs. Instead, we must today see meat on the bones of a proper, ambitious plan to deliver the change people across the country deserve."In a break with tradition, the usually grand 'State Opening of Parliament', a heavily choreographed and costumed ceremony led by the 95-year-old monarch, will this year involve face masks, social distancing, and fewer guests.The Queen's Speech usually lasts around 10 minutes and is fleshed out by a raft of documents containing details of legislative proposals, consultation plans and other policy papers.It is expected to detail plans for new asylum rules, reforms of the social care system and to make good a manifesto promise to scrap legislation which limits government's powers to call new elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/queen-elizabeth-to-set-out-uk-government-s-post-pandemic-agenda-101620722463346.html
11-05-2021||World||Hong Kong won't mandate vaccination against Covid for foreign domestic workers||Hong Kong officials dropped a plan to mandate foreign domestic workers be vaccinated against the coronavirus, after hearing international criticism the move would be discriminatory.Most of Hong Kong’s approximately 370,000 domestic workers come from Indonesia and the Philippines, both severely impacted by the pandemic.Hong Kong officials initially proposed the mandate after a foreign domestic worker tested positive for a coronavirus variant in April, with an unknown source of infection. Another worker arriving from the Philippines had also tested positive for a variant.Those findings prompted the city to order domestic workers to be tested for the virus at the end of April.The plan for mandatory vaccinations was dropped after officials assessed public health needs and the potential legal issues, Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam said at a regular news briefing Tuesday.The Philippines’ Secretary of Foreign Affairs Teodoro Locsin Jr. previously slammed the Hong Kong government for its mandatory vaccination plan for foreign domestic workers, saying that it “smacks of discrimination.”On Tuesday, Lam also announced a second round of mandatory tests for domestic workers as a precaution, which will begin on Saturday and last until the end of the May.She urged employers to allow the workers to take the test on a workday instead of on their day off.Hong Kong has so far reported 11,812 infections of the coronavirus, with 210 deaths.Indonesia has reported more than 1.7 million people infected and 47,000 deaths, while the Philippines has confirmed 1.1 million infections and 18,500 deaths from Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-won-t-mandate-vaccination-against-covid-for-foreign-domestic-workers-101620722756611.html
11-05-2021||World||At least 7 killed in Russian school shooting, Putin orders gun control review||At least seven people were killed Tuesday, most of them children, in a shooting at a high school in the central Russian city of Kazan, officials and news agency reports said.Officials said at least one gunman had been involved and detained, though there were unconfirmed reports of two attackers including one who had been killed.A police spokesman said officers were dispatched to School No. 175 in Kazan, the capital of the Russian republic of Tatarstan, after reports of shots being fired.Amateur footage on social media, apparently filmed from a nearby building, showed people escaping from the school by jumping from second- and third-floor windows, with sounds of gunshots echoing in the schoolyard.Russia's National Anti-Terrorism Committee said seven children had been killed and 16 people wounded.The mayor of Kazan said eight people had been killed, while Russian news agencies, citing official sources, said 11 people had died.There were initial reports of two shooters, with one reportedly barricaded on the fourth floor of the building and killed, but officials later said a lone attacker had been responsible.The Investigative Committee, which probes major crimes in Russia, said a local resident born in 2001 had been detained in connection with the attack.Russian President Vladimir Putin called for a review of gun control laws after the shooting, while the authorities declared a day of mourning for Wednesday.- 'Major tragedy' -Tatarstan regional leader Rustam Minnikhanov arrived at the scene and entered the school after it had been declared secure by law enforcement."We are deeply saddened that this has happened," Minnikhanov said in televised remarks. "It's a major tragedy for our republic."He said earlier that four boys and three girls were among those killed."Sixteen more people are in hospital," Minnikhanov said, including 12 children and four adults.He described the detained assailant as a "terrorist" and said the 19-year-old shooter had a licence to carry a firearm.Images broadcast on state television showed dozens of people outside the school with fire services and police vehicles lining nearby streets."I was in class, I first heard an explosion, then gunshots," news agency TASS quoted a student as saying.Elena, a Kazan resident who said she was outside the school, told the Echo of Moscow radio station that law enforcement was removing people from outside the premises."Parents are crying, medics are giving out medicine. People are hysterical," she told the radio station.Putin expressed his "deep condolences" to the victims and ordered a review of gun control legislation, the Kremlin said."The president gave an order to urgently work out a new provision concerning the types of weapons that can be in civilian hands, taking into account the weapon" used in the attack, Putin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters.- Tight school security -Russia has relatively few school shootings due to normally tight security in education facilities and the difficulty of buying firearms legally, although it is possible to register hunting rifles.In November 2019, a 19-year-old student in the far eastern town of Blagoveshchensk opened fire in his college, killing one classmate and injuring three other people before shooting himself dead.In October 2018, a teenage gunman killed 20 people at the Kerch technical college in Crimea, the peninsula Russia annexed from Ukraine in 2014.The 18-year-old attacker, who also set off explosives in one of the school's buildings, shot himself dead at the site.He was shown in camera footage wearing a similar T-shirt to Eric Harris, one of the killers in the 1999 Columbine High School shooting in the US, which left 13 people dead.Putin at the time blamed the attack on "globalisation" and online communities dedicated to American school shootings which promoted "fake heroes".The Crimea shooter, Vladislav Roslyakov, was able to legally obtain a gun licence after undergoing marksmanship training and being examined by a psychiatrist.The shooting led to calls for tighter gun control in Russia.The country's FSB security service says it has prevented dozens of armed attacks on schools in recent years.In February last year the FSB said it had detained two teenagers on suspicion of plotting an attack on a school in the city of Saratov with weapons and homemade explosives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/second-gunman-in-russian-school-shooting-killed-report-101620722324808.html
11-05-2021||World||At least 11 killed in school shooting in Russia, several injured||At least 11 people have been killed and many more wounded after one or more gunmen opened fire in a school in the Russian city of Kazan, the RIA news agency reported on Tuesday, citing the emergency services ministry.Two children could be seen leaping from the third floor of the four-storeyed school number 175 as gunshots sounded, in a video filmed by an onlooker that was circulated by RIA.Some Russian news agencies reporting two teenage gunmen were involved and others said a sole shooter took part.RIA said one 19-year-old gunman had been detained and that an explosion had been heard at the school. Footage posted on social media showed a young man being pinned to the ground outside the school building by a police officer.Footage also showed emergency service vehicles parked outside the school, with people running towards the building.It was not clear whether any other shooters remained at large. Nor was it immediately clear what the motive for the attack was.School shootings are rare in Russia. One of the last major shootings of its kind took place in Russian-annexed Crimea in 2018 when a student at a college killed 19 before turning his gun on himself.Kazan is the capital of the Muslim-majority region of Tatarstan and located around 450 miles (725 km) east of Moscow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-11-killed-in-school-shooting-in-russia-several-injured-101620721601085.html
11-05-2021||World||Pakistan says Indian variant of Covid-19 not present in country||The Indian variant of the coronavirus has not been found yet in Pakistan, a senior minister in charge of the coronavirus task force has said, rejecting reports that the Indian strain of the virus reached Thailand from the country.According to reports, health authorities in Thailand on Monday confirmed the country's first cases of the Indian variant of the coronavirus, in a Thai woman and her 4-year-old son who have been in state quarantine since arriving from Pakistan.The finding comes amid Thailand battling a new wave of coronavirus.Reacting to the reports, minister of planning Asad Umar, who also heads the National Command and Operation Centre (NCOC) -- a centralized body set up to coordinate the national Covid-19 response -- on Monday said it is not possible that two Thai nationals had contracted the Indian coronavirus variant from Pakistan as it is not yet present in the country.Some of the variants such as UK, Brazilian, and South African were reported in the country, but not a single case of Indian variant has been reported yet, he was quoted as saying by the Dawn newspaper.The Indian variant -- officially known as B.1.617 -- was first detected in the state of Maharashtra in October last year. The strain has reportedly been spotted in at least 21 countries.It was quite possible that the woman had contracted the virus from Thailand or somewhere else as the virus was not reported in Pakistan, Umar said.Thailand has banned travellers from India, other than Thai citizens, starting on May 1 to prevent the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.It extended the entry ban to foreigners visiting from Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Nepal on Monday in an effort to keep the Indian variant from spreading, Thai Foreign Ministry spokesperson Tanee Sangrat said.Meanwhile, Pakistan's coronavirus death toll reached 19,106 on Tuesday with 113 succumbing to the viral infection in the last 24 hours, health officials said.The nationwide confirmed cases now stand at 864,557 with 3,684 new cases, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-says-indian-variant-of-covid-19-not-present-in-country-101620719934070.html
11-05-2021||World||Moscow rejects US ransomware attack claims||Russia on Tuesday rejected US accusations that a Russia-based group was behind a ransomware attack that forced the shutdown of the largest oil pipeline in the eastern United States."We categorically reject the baseless fabrications of individual journalists and reiterate that Russia does not conduct 'malicious' activity in the virtual space," the Russian embassy in the United States said in a statement.On Monday, US President Joe Biden said there was no evidence of Russian government involvement in the cyber attack on the US fuel pipeline but said there were indications the ransomware was "in Russia.""They have some responsibility to deal with this," he said.The FBI identified the group behind the hack of Colonial Pipeline as DarkSide, a shadowy operation that surfaced last year and attempts to lock up corporate computer systems and force companies to pay to unfreeze them.The Russian diplomatic mission said Moscow had repeatedly advocated dialogue with Washington on international information security issues.It said that last year the embassy suggested that the United States directly contact the Russian National Coordination Center for Computer Incidents to address such issues."At the moment, the embassy has no information about requests for assistance from the American side," it said in the statement posted on its Facebook page.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moscow-rejects-us-ransomware-attack-claims-101620720035626.html
11-05-2021||World||Gaza militants, children among 24 dead as Israel hits Hamas||Israel unleashed new airstrikes on Gaza early Tuesday, hitting the high-rise home of a Hamas field commander and two border tunnels dug by militants, as Hamas and other armed groups fired dozens of rockets toward Israel. It was an escalation sparked by weeks of tensions in contested Jerusalem.Since sundown Monday when the cross-border fighting erupted, 24 Palestinians - including nine children - were killed in Gaza, most by airstrikes, Gaza health officials said. The Israeli military said 15 of the dead were militants. During the same period, Gaza militants fired more than 200 rockets toward Israel, injuring six Israeli civilians.This was preceded by hours of clashes Monday between Palestinians and Israeli security forces, mainly in Jerusalem but also across the West Bank. More than 700 Palestinians were hurt, including nearly 500 who were treated at hospitals.The current violence, like previous rounds, was fueled by conflicting claims over Jerusalem, home to major holy sites of Islam, Judaism and Christianity. The rival national and religious narratives of Israelis and Palestinians are rooted in the city, making it the emotional core of their long conflict.In the past, cross-border fighting between Israel and Hamas, the group that rules Gaza, would typically end after a few days, often helped by behind-the-scenes mediation by Qatar, Egypt and others. It was not clear if that trajectory would be repeated this time.Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu warned Monday that fighting could “continue for some time.” Lt. Col. Jonathan Conricus, an Israeli military spokesman, told reporters Tuesday that the military was in “the early stages” of strikes against Gaza targets it had planned well in advance.The escalation comes at a time of political limbo in Israel.Netanyahu has been acting as a caretaker prime minister since an inconclusive parliament election in March. He tried and failed to form a coalition government with his hardline and ultra-Orthodox allies, and the task was handed to his sworn political rivals last week. One of those rivals is Israel's defense minister who is overseeing the Gaza campaign. It is not clear if and to what extent the toxic political atmosphere is spilling over into military decision-making, though the rival camps have unanimously expressed support for striking Hamas hard.The tensions in Jerusalem coincided with the start of the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan in mid-April. Critics say heavy-handed police measures helped stoke nightly unrest, including a decision to temporarily seal off a popular night-time gathering spot where Palestinian residents would meet after evening prayers. Another flashpoint was the Jerusalem neighborhood of Sheikh Jarrah where dozens of Palestinians are under treat of eviction by Jewish settlers.Over the weekend, confrontations erupted at the Al-Aqsa Mosque compound in east Jerusalem, which was captured and annexed by Israel in the 1967 Mideast war. The compound, located in Jerusalem's Old City, is the third holiest site of Islam and the holiest site of Judaism.For four successive days, Israel police fired tear gas, stun grenades and rubber bullets at Palestinians in the compound who hurled stones and chairs. Hundreds of Palestinians were hurt, requiring treatment at hospitals. Two dozen officers were also injured. At times, police fired stun grenades into the carpeted mosque.On Monday evening, Hamas began firing rockets from Gaza, setting off air raid sirens as far as Jerusalem, after giving Israel a deadline to withdraw Israeli security forces from the compound. From there on, the escalation was rapid.Conricus, the army spokesman, said Gaza militants fired more than 200 rockets at Israel, with about one-third falling short and landing in Gaza.The army said that a rocket landed a direct hit on a seven-story apartment block in the coastal Israeli city of Ashkelon. Photos and videos from the scene showed a large blast hole on the side of the building. Israeli paramedic service Magen David Adom said it treated six people injured in the rocket strike. Two were hospitalized in moderate condition.Conricus said the military hit 130 targets in Gaza, including the high-rise home of a Hamas field commander and two tunnels militants were digging under the border with Israel. In all, Israel killed 15 militants, Conricus said, including some tunnel diggers. He said Israel's new system of concrete barriers and electronic sensors, intended to thwart tunnel digging, has been operational for the past six months and has proven itself.He did not address Gaza Health Ministry reports that nine children were among 24 Palestinians killed overnight.In Gaza, most of the deaths were attributed to airstrikes. However, seven of the deaths were members of a single family, including three children, who died in a mysterious explosion in the northern Gaza town of Beit Hanoun. It was not clear if the blast was caused by an Israeli airstrike or errant rocket.More than 100 Gazans were wounded in the airstrikes, the Health Ministry said.In one sign of escalation, an Israeli missile hit the upper floors of an apartment building in the Shati refugee camp on the edge of Gaza City early Tuesday, killing two men and a woman inside, according to health officials.Israel had struck scores of Gaza homes in its 2014 war with Hamas, arguing it was aiming at militants, but also killing many civilians. The practice drew broad international condemnation at the time..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gaza-militants-children-among-24-dead-as-israel-hits-hamas-101620715483169.html
11-05-2021||World||FBI names pipeline cyberattackers as company promises return||Hit by a cyberattack, the operator of a major US fuel pipeline said Monday it hopes to have services mostly restored by the end of the week as the FBI and administration officials identified the culprits as a gang of criminal hackers.US officials sought to soothe concerns about price spikes or damage to the economy by stressing that the fuel supply had so far not experienced widespread disruptions, and the company said it was working toward “substantially restoring operational service” by the weekend.The White House said in a statement late Monday that it was monitoring supply shortages in parts of the Southeast and that President Joe Biden had directed federal agencies to bring their resources to bear.Colonial Pipeline, which delivers about 45% of the fuel consumed on the East Coast, halted operations last week after revealing a ransomware attack that it said had affected some of its systems.Nonetheless, the attack underscored the vulnerabilities of the nation's energy sector and other critical industries whose infrastructure is largely privately owned. Ransomware attacks are typically carried out by criminal hackers who scramble data, paralyzing victim networks, and demand large payments to decrypt it.The Colonial attack was a potent reminder of the real-world implications of the burgeoning threat. Even as the Biden administration works to confront organized hacking campaigns sponsored by foreign governments, it must still contend with difficult-to-prevent attacks from cybercriminals.“We need to invest to safeguard our critical infrastructure,” Biden said Monday. Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm said the attack “tells you how utterly vulnerable we are” to cyberattacks on U.S. infrastructure.The attack came as the administration, still grappling with its response to massive breaches by Russia of federal agencies and private corporations, works on an executive order aimed at bolstering cybersecurity defenses. The Justice Department, meanwhile, has formed a ransomware task force designed for situations just like Colonial Pipeline, and the Energy Department on April 20 announced a 100-day initiative focused on protecting energy infrastructure from cyber threats. Similar actions are planned for other critical industries, such as water and natural gas.Despite that, the challenge facing the government and the private sector remains immense.In this case, the FBI publicly assigned blame Monday by saying the criminal syndicate whose ransomware was used in the attack is named DarkSide. The group's members are Russian speakers, and the syndicate’s malware is coded not to attack networks using Russian-language keyboards.Anne Neuberger, the White House deputy national security adviser for cyber and emerging technology, said at a briefing that the group has been on the FBI's radar for months. She said its business model is to demand ransom payments from victims and then split the proceeds with the ransomware developers, relying on what she said was a “new and very troubling variant.”She declined to say if Colonial Pipeline had paid any ransom, and the company has not given any indication of that one way or the other. Though the FBI has historically discouraged victims from making payments for fear of promoting additional attacks, she acknowledged “the very difficult” situation that victims face and said the administration needs to look “thoughtfully at this area" of how best to deter ransomware."Given the rise in ransomware, that is one area we’re definitely looking at now to say, ‘What should be the government’s approach to ransomware actors and to ransoms overall?’”Speaking later in the day at a conference on national security, Neuberger said the administration was committed to leveraging the government's massive buying power to ensure that software makers make their products less vulnerable to hackers.“Security can't be an afterthought,” Neuberger said. “We don't buy a car and only then decide if we want to pay for seatbelts and airbags.”The U.S. sanctioned the Kremlin last month for a hack of federal government agencies, known as the SolarWinds breach, that officials have linked to a Russian intelligence unit and characterized as an intelligence-gathering operation.In this case, though, the hackers are not known to be working at the behest of any foreign government. The group posted a statement on its dark web site describing itself as apolitical. “Our goal is to make money, and not creating problems for society,” DarkSide said.Asked Monday whether Russia was involved, Biden said, ”“I’m going to be meeting with President (Vladimir) Putin, and so far there is no evidence based on, from our intelligence people, that Russia is involved, although there is evidence that the actors, ransomware, is in Russia.“They have some responsibility to deal with this,” he added.U.S. officials have sought to head off anxieties about the prospect of a lingering economic impact and disruption to the fuel supply, especially given Colonial Pipeline's key role in transporting gasoline, jet fuel, diesel and other petroleum products between Texas and the East Coast.Colonial is in the process of restarting portions of its network. It said Monday that it was evaluating the product inventory in storage tanks at its facilities. Administration officials stressed that Colonial proactively took some of its systems offline to prevent the ransomware from migrating from business computer systems to those that control and operate the pipeline.In response to the attack, the administration loosened regulations for the transport of petroleum products on highways as part of an “all-hands-on-deck” effort to avoid disruptions in the fuel supply.“The time of the outage is now approaching critical levels and if it continues to remain down we do expect an increase in East Coast gasoline and diesel prices,” said Debnil Chowdhury, IHS Markit Executive Director. The last time there was an outage of this magnitude was in 2016, he said, when gas prices rose 15 to 20 cents per gallon. The Northeast had significantly more local refining capacity at that time.The pipeline utilizes both common and custom technology systems, which could complicate efforts to bring the entire network back online, according to analysts at Third Bridge.Granholm, the Energy Secretary, said “Cyber attacks on our critical infrastructure — especially energy infrastructure — is not going away."“This is a serious example of what we’re seeing across the board in many places and it tells you that we need to invest in our systems, our transmission grid for electricity. We need to invest in cyber defense in these energy systems," she told Bloomberg TV.The attack has not affected the supply of gasoline, she said, “but if it goes on too long, of course that will change.″Gasoline futures ticked higher Monday. Futures for crude and fuel, prices that traders pay for contracts for delivery in the future, typically begin to rise anyway each year as the driving season approaches. The price you pay at the pump tends to follow.The average U.S. price of regular-grade gasoline has jumped 6 cents over the past two weeks, to $3.02 per gallon, which is $1.05 higher than a year ago. The year-ago numbers are skewed somewhat because the nation was going into lockdown due to the pandemic.The attack on the Colonial Pipeline could exacerbate the upward pressure on prices if it is unresolved for a period of time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fbi-names-pipeline-cyberattackers-as-company-promises-return-101620711715682.html
11-05-2021||World||Why all the fuss over falling debris from China's most powerful rocket?||China launched into orbit last month the first piece of a permanent space station using its most powerful rocket, but international focus has fallen instead on the re-entry of debris which critics say has been shrouded in secrecy.WHAT HAPPENED?The Long March 5B rocket successfully delivered its payload into orbit on April 29, in the first of 11 missions needed to complete China's first permanent space station by 2022.Media reports warned of an "uncontrolled" re-entry of the rocket's core stage, rekindling memories of debris from the flight of the first Long March 5B in May 2020, which damaged buildings when it landed in Ivory Coast.Remnants from the rocket finally fell harmlessly in the Indian Ocean on Sunday after a 10-day descent, but China has drawn criticism for not being transparent about the timing of the debris re-entry and predictions of its trajectory.WHAT DID CHINA SAY?The China National Space Administration (CNSA) said nothing about the rocket's re-entry until shortly before its arrival on Sunday morning Beijing time, in contrast to normal international practice when initial public announcements can be made days in advance."That left foreign observers scrambling to map the discarded heavy stage of the Long March 5B and guesstimate its final destination on Earth," said Richard de Grijs, professor of astrophysics at Macquarie University."This caused anxiety to a large number of nations in the potential impact area."The debris landed in the Indian Ocean near the Maldives and India.CNSA declined to comment.Hua Chunying, a spokeswoman for the Chinese foreign ministry, told reporters on Monday that China had shared the results of re-entry predictions through "international cooperation mechanisms," when asked whether the Maldives and India had been informed.She did not say when the results were shared.Space-faring nations must minimise the risks to people and property and maximise transparency, and China failed to meet "responsible standards" in both aspects, said NASA.LITTLE KNOWNScientists know little about the rocket itself - including its design for demise.The core stage was not discarded until its payload - the space station module Tianhe - reached orbit. In contrast, rocket stages typically drop off more quickly, making their landing sites more predictable.But falling off too quickly could have run the risk of not inserting a huge payload into orbit. The Long March 5B has only one core stage, unlike other rockets with two or even three stages."It seems that China's rocket design has prioritised power above all else, that is, enough power to lift heavy payloads to orbit," said de Grijs.The chances of space junk damaging property and taking human lives are tiny, scientists say, with most burning up in the Earth's atmosphere, but sturdier components can survive."(The rocket) was not forced to re-enter and was left to natural processes to remove it from orbit," said Moriba Jah, associate professor in aerospace engineering at the University of Texas.He said "natural rocket decay should be avoided at all costs" because of the risk that chunks of the rocket could survive the re-entry.'DEVIATION FROM THE NORM'The rocket's main stage is about 33 metres long, and has a diameter of 5 metres.The government gave no official data on its mass, but observers say it weighs about 21 tonnes - heavier than China's two earlier prototype space stations combined - Tiangong-1 and Tiangong-2.There have been no reports of damage so far from the recently launched rocket."In the past year, two of China's Long March 5B rocket stages have not fully burned up on re-entry, so that is a noticeable deviation from the norm," said de Grijs.Within China, media reports of debris from rocket launches are common.The Long March 5B is next expected to deliver two other space station modules in May and August next year. Other missions will involve the smaller Long March 7 and 2F rockets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/why-all-the-fuss-over-falling-debris-from-china-s-most-powerful-rocket-101620710187886.html
11-05-2021||World||Myanmar military's pretense of control after 100 days of takeover||After Myanmar’s military seized power by ousting the elected government of Aung San Suu Kyi, they couldn’t even make the trains run on time: State railway workers were among the earliest organized opponents of the February takeover, and they went on strike.Health workers who founded the civil disobedience movement against military rule stopped staffing government medical facilities. Many civil servants were no-shows at work, along with employees of government and private banks. Universities became hotbeds of resistance, and in recent weeks, education at the primary and secondary levels has begun to collapse as teachers, students and parents boycott state schools.One hundred days after their takeover, Myanmar’s ruling generals maintain just the pretense of control. The illusion is sustained mainly by its partially successful efforts to shut down independent media and to keep the streets clear of large demonstrations by employing lethal force. More than 750 protesters and bystanders have been killed by security forces, according to detailed independent tallies.“The junta might like people to think that things are going back to normal because they are not killing as many people as they were before and there weren’t as many people on the streets as before, but... the feeling we are getting from talking to people on the ground is that definitely the resistance has not yet subsided,” said Thin Lei Win, a journalist now based in Rome who helped found the Myanmar Now online news service in 2015.She says the main change is that dissent is no longer as visible as in the early days of the protests — before security forces began using live ammunition — when marches and rallies in major cities and towns could easily draw tens of thousands of people.At the same time, said David Mathieson, an independent analyst who has been working on Myanmar issues for over 20 years, “Because of the very violent pacification of those protests, a lot of people are willing to become more violent."“We are already starting to see signs of that. And with the right training, the right leadership and the right resources, what Myanmar could experience is an incredibly nasty destructive, internal armed conflict in multiple locations in urban areas.”Meanwhile, the junta also faces a growing military challenge in the always restive border regions where ethnic minority groups exercise political power and maintain guerrilla armies. Two of the more battle-hardened groups, the Kachin in the north and the Karen in the east, have declared their support for the protest movement and stepped up their fighting, despite the government military, known as the Tatmadaw, hitting back with greater firepower, including airstrikes.Even a month ago, U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet was describing the situation as grim, saying Myanmar’s “economy, education and health infrastructure have been brought to the brink of collapse, leaving millions of Myanmar people without livelihood, basic services and, increasingly, food security.”It was not surprising that The Economist magazine, in an April cover story, labeled Myanmar “Asia’s next failed state” and opined it was heading in the direction of Afghanistan.The U.N.’s Bachelet made a different comparison.“There are clear echoes of Syria in 2011,” she said. “There too, we saw peaceful protests met with unnecessary and clearly disproportionate force. The State’s brutal, persistent repression of its own people led to some individuals taking up arms, followed by a downward and rapidly expanding spiral of violence all across the country.”Junta chief Senior Gen. Min Aung Hlaing has shunned all efforts at mediation, from the United Nations as well as the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, of which Myanmar is a member.Myanmar’s resistance movement, meanwhile, has organized widely and swiftly underground.Within days of the junta takeover, elected parliamentarians who were denied their seats convened their own self-styled Parliament. Its members have formed a shadow National Unity Government with guidelines for an interim constitution, and last week, a People’s Defense Force as a precursor to a Federal Union Army. Many cities, towns and even neighborhoods had already formed local defense groups which in theory will now become part of the People’s Defense Force.Aside from being morale boosters, these actions serve a strategic purpose by endorsing a federal style of government, which has been sought for decades by the country’s ethnic minorities to give them autonomous powers in the border areas where they predominate.Promoting federalism, in which the center shares power with the regions, aligns the interests of the anti-military pro-democracy movement with the goals of the ethnic minorities. In theory, this could add a real military component to a movement whose armaments are generally no deadlier than Molotov cocktails and air rifles — though homemade bombs have been added to its arsenals in recent weeks.In practice, at least for the time being, the guerrilla armies of the Kachin in the north and the Karen in the east will fight as they always have, to protect their own territory. They can give military training to the thousands of activists that are claimed to have fled the cities to their zones, but are still overmatched by the government’s forces. But on their home ground they hold an advantage against what their populations consider an occupying army. That may be enough.“The only thing that the military is really threatened by is when all of these disparate voices and communities around the country actually start working against it, not as a unified monolith, but all working against the military’s interests,” said the analyst, Mathieson. ”And I think that’s the best that we can hope for moving forward, that the people recognize that all efforts have to go against the military. And if that means fighting up in the hills and doing peaceful protests and other forms of striking back against the military in the towns and the cities, then so be it.”It’s hard to gauge if the army has a breaking point.Mathieson said he's seen no signs the junta was willing to negotiate or concede anything. The Tatmadaw is “remarkably resilient. And they recognize that this is an almost existential threat to their survival."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-military-s-pretense-of-control-after-100-days-of-takeover-101620708748493.html
11-05-2021||World||North Korea claims it has no Covid-19 infections, again||North Korea has told the World Health Organization that it has tested 25,986 people for the coronavirus through April but still has yet to find a single infection.The WHO said in a weekly monitoring report that North Korea's testing figures include 751 people who were tested during April 23-29, of which 139 had influenza-like illnesses or severe respiratory infections.Experts have expressed skepticism about North Korea's claim of a perfect record in keeping out Covid-19, given its poor health infrastructure and a porous border it shares with China.North Korea has described its anti-virus efforts as a “matter of national existence.” It has barred tourists, flown out diplomats and severely restricted cross-border traffic and trade.The North has stopped providing the number of people it quarantines this year, but previously said it had quarantined tens of thousands who had exhibited symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-again-claims-it-has-no-covid-19-infections-101620706837678.html
11-05-2021||World||Colombia protesters, government at odds after initial meeting||A meeting between Colombian protest leaders and President Ivan Duque broke up on Monday with little sign of progress on curbing nearly two weeks of sometimes deadly anti-government protests.Protest leaders said the government had not shown empathy for their demands, while the government emphasized the meeting was exploratory and said it wanted to reach agreements with demonstrators.Protests, fueled by outrage at a now-canceled tax plan, began on April 28. Amid more than 20 deaths, mostly of marchers, demands have expanded to include action to tackle police violence and the withdrawal of a long-debated health reform.The National Strike Committee, made up of major unions and student groups, attended the meeting with Duque, other government officials and representatives from the United Nations and the Catholic Church."There was not empathy from the government with the reasons, with the demands that have taken us to this national strike," said Francisco Maltes, president of the Central Union of Workers (CUT).The meeting was an echo of similar discussions held after protests in 2019, to little result, student leader Jennifer Pedraza said."The discourse of President Ivan Duque was permissive toward the excesses of the security forces," she said, calling on Colombians to participate in further protests on Wednesday."There was an environment of listening and of respect," said High Peace Commissioner Miguel Ceballos, speaking on behalf of the government. "I repeat before the country: the clear, express willingness of the president of the republic is to create a space to reach deals."Attendees agreed on the need to reject violence, said Ceballos, who repeated a government call for road blockades around the country to be lifted. The government has proposed a further meeting with the strike committee, he said.Protests continued in several cities on Monday, with an estimated 13,000 participants according to a police estimate.Duque made a lightning-fast visit to the city of Cali - a protest epicenter - earlier on Monday, after it was the scene of weekend violence which left over a dozen injured.Nine indigenous demonstrators, who were marching as part of a "minga" or protest, were wounded by gunshots, the Regional Indigenous Council of Cauca said in a statement on Sunday.Four people were wounded by minga protesters, Cali's police said.The human right ombudsman has reported 26 people killed since protests began, but says seven were unrelated to the marches themselves.Human Rights Watch said it has reports of 38 deaths, while local rights groups Temblores and Indepaz have reported 47 killings, the majority by police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/colombia-protesters-government-at-odds-after-initial-meeting-101620707682091.html
11-05-2021||World||Canadian senators call on govt to scale up pandemic-related donations for India||Canadian senators have called upon the government to match donations made by citizens to assist India as it struggles to tackle the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. They have also called upon the Trudeau government to support a temporary waiver of intellectual property rights (IPR) protections on coronavirus vaccines and pharmaceuticals necessary to counter the crisis.Indo-Canadian Senator Ratna Omidvar has tabled a motion in the Senate, “asking the government of Canada to match the generous donations made by Canadians to India for Covid-19 related relief”.That motion has garnered support from about six other senators, including Leo Housakos, who tweeted, “I would like to wholeheartedly lend my support as well to this initiative. The situation in India is one of truly a humanitarian crisis and our government must step up Canada’s efforts.”Senators supporting the motion have written to Prime Minister Justin Trudeau reiterating the point, noting that research by Library of Parliament has found that in the last 10 years, the government has matched the donations of Canadians 10 times. “This is certainly another disaster that needs the same support,” they jointly wrote.The release from Omidvar also said that earlier this year, “India came to Canada’s aid by shipping vaccines to support the nation’s vaccination drive. It is now time for Canada to be generous in return and send much needed support before it is too late.” Separately, a group of 14 senators has written to the government asking it to support a motion submitted by India and South Africa at the World Trade Organization, seeking temporary suspension of IPR protections on Covid-19 vaccines and medicines under the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPs) agreement.“Should the government support the TRIPS waiver initiative, it will send a strong signal of solidarity with global public health efforts and support the health and well-being of the most vulnerable,” they argued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadian-senators-call-on-govt-to-scale-up-pandemic-related-donations-for-india-101620708024759.html
11-05-2021||World||Scientists improve method to stop viruses causing respiratory infections in children||Researchers have improved a method in rodent models intended to help keep children healthy by engineering a short chunk of protein, or peptide, that can prevent the attachment of human parainfluenza viruses to cells.Human parainfluenza viruses, or HPIVs, are the leading cause of childhood respiratory infections, responsible for 30% to 40% of illnesses like croup and pneumonia. The viruses also affect the elderly and people with compromised immune systems. The researchers published their findings in the Journal of the American Chemical Society.To sicken people, HPIVs must latch onto cells and inject their genetic material to start making new viruses. HPIV3 is the most prevalent among these viruses. There are currently no approved vaccines or antivirals for HPIV3 infection in people.In a study led by the Sam Gellman lab in the chemistry department at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, and the lab of Anne Moscona and Matteo Porotto at Columbia University, researchers built upon years of work on peptide treatments to generate one capable of blocking the HPIV3 attachment process.To enter host cells, HPIVs use specialized fusion proteins that resemble three corkscrews laid side-by-side. Earlier work by the Moscona-Porotto lab showed that scientists could a partial chunk of this corkscrew protein from HPIV3, introduce this peptide to the virus, and prevent the corkscrew from driving the infection process. The peptide, itself a corkscrew, essentially zippers up with the virus's corkscrews, creating a tight bundle of six corkscrew shapes.The new peptide persists longer in the body, making it about three times more effective at blocking infection in rodent models of disease than the original form.The research team started by trying to engineer the original peptide to be more resistant to protein-digesting enzymes in the body, which can easily shred proteins and make them useless. So, the Gellman lab turned to unusual building blocks to create a hardier peptide.Cells build proteins out of alpha-amino acids. But chemists can create beta-amino acids, which are similar but have an extra carbon atom. When peptides use these beta-amino acid building blocks, they often take a different shape because of the extra atom. This can help a peptide hide from protein-digesting enzymes and survive longer.However, the researchers also knew that if the peptide's shape changed too much as a result of these unusual building blocks, they might not lock together with HPIV's corkscrew fusion protein.That's where the Gellman lab's decades of experience testing and modifying beta-amino acid-containing peptides became critical."We know which side of the peptide is binding to its protein target. So, we (knew that we) can modify only residues that are not directly involved in binding the viral protein," says Victor Outlaw, a postdoctoral researcher in the lab and one of the co-first authors of the report. In lab tests, they saw that the carefully modified peptide still bound strongly to the virus's protein.In another improvement pioneered by the Moscona-Porotto lab, the scientists hooked the peptide up to a molecule of cholesterol. This fatty addition helps the peptide slide into the greasy cell membrane, where it can best block the virus."Our hypothesis was that the combination of beta-amino acids and cholesterol would increase anti-viral efficacy," says Outlaw, who explained that the cholesterol helped get the peptide to where it needed to go, while the shape change from the beta-amino acids allowed the peptide to persist longer in the body.As the research team hoped, when they gave the new peptide to cotton rats it lasted much longer in the lungs than the previous version did thanks to its resistance to digestion by enzymes. The peptide was delivered into the rats' noses.To test how well the peptide worked to prevent infection, cotton rats received the new peptide before they were exposed to HPIV3. Compared to animals given no antiviral peptides, those given the improved peptide had 10 times fewer viruses in their lungs.And compared to the peptide that was more susceptible to enzymes, the hardier peptide reduced viral load by about three times, suggesting that the new peptide's ability to avoid digestion in the body helps it better block infection.While the approach hasn't yet been tested in humans and researchers must further refine and test the system, it does provide a new strategy for potentially preventing or treating these common infections.The research collaboration is now looking to make second-generation peptides that last even longer in the body. They also want to test how well the modified peptide might block infection by related viruses. That additional research could move the peptide treatment closer to clinical trials."This was a very fortunate coming together of groups that had complementary needs and capabilities," says Gellman. "It's really been a great joint effort."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/scientists-improve-method-to-stop-viruses-causing-respiratory-infections-in-children-101620706468236.html
11-05-2021||World||Thai police arrest journalists fleeing coup-hit Myanmar||Three Myanmar journalists have been arrested in Thailand after fleeing across the border to escape a crackdown by the military junta, their employer has said.The trio were set to appear in court on Tuesday, their editor added, urging Thai authorities not to repatriate them to the coup-hit country.Myanmar has been in turmoil since the military ousted civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi on February 1, triggering a mass uprising as large swathes of the population take to the streets to demand democracy.The junta has responded with force -- shooting protesters, arresting suspected dissidents in night raids, and targeting journalists and news outlets by shutting them down."They were arrested during a random search by the police and charged for illegal entry in Thailand," said a Monday statement by Aye Chan Naing, chief editor of Democratic Voice of Burma (DVB), which had its broadcast licence revoked in March, sending its journalists into hiding."DVB strongly urges the Thai authorities to not deport them back to Burma, as their life will be in serious danger if they were to return," said the Oslo-based editor, referring to Myanmar by its old name.He told AFP the group was set to appear in court Tuesday.Thai authorities on Tuesday confirmed the arrests, but did not say if they were journalists.DVB confirmed in a statement late Monday night that three of its journalists -- along with two Myanmar activists -- had escaped to neighbouring Thailand and were arrested by authorities Sunday in the northern city of Chiang Mai.A well-known news organisation within Myanmar, DVB started as an exile media outlet during the previous junta, broadcasting uncensored reports on TV and radio.It moved into Myanmar in 2012, a year after the military dictatorship loosened its grip.Despite losing its broadcast licence in March, it has continued to report, posting regular updates on its Facebook page about the daily protests and crackdowns across the country.It also broadcasts via satellite television -- a move that the junta attempted to halt when it banned homes from having satellite dishes.The Foreign Correspondents' Club of Thailand said in a statement Tuesday that if the arrested Myanmar nationals were deported, they would face "certain arrest and persecution, if not worse"."The world is watching what the Thai authorities do in this important case for press freedom in Myanmar and the region," it said.More than 70 journalists have been detained since the February 1 coup, according to a local monitoring group -- which has tracked a total of nearly 5,000 arrests nationwide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thai-police-arrest-journalists-fleeing-coup-hit-myanmar-101620706872528.html
11-05-2021||World||China now has 1.41 billion people; growth in 10 years only 72 million||China’s population is growing at its most sluggish pace in decades, latest census data released on Tuesday said with the country adding only 72 million people in the past decade. The average annual growth rate was 0.53% over the last 10 years, down from 0.57% between 2000 and 2010, taking the population to 1.41 billion. The total population on the mainland stood at 1.41178 billion on November 1.The population growth rate is the slowest since 1953 when the first census was carried out. The slump in the growth rate – despite Beijing withdrawing the one-child policy in 2016 after being in force since the late 1970s -- will add pressure on Beijing to incentivise childbearing as the most populous country deals with a rapidly ageing population and the added economic burden.The fresh census results showed that China’s “…population is not just declining but also its demographic structure is deteriorating with a growing aging population, will serve as an important reference for China’s population and economic policy adjustment as well as plans to put off retirement, which may come in the next year or two”, a state media report said.Ning Jizhe, head of China’s National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) said 12 million babies were born last year - a significant decrease from the 18 million in 2016 and 14.65 million in 2019. Ning, however, added that it was “still a considerable number”. Ning said a lower fertility rate is a natural result of China’s social and economic development.The average age of the Chinese population stood at 38.8 in 2020 compared to 38 in the US.Also Read | China marks separator from Nepal on EverestChina’s demographic situation is similar to Japan, South Korea and other developed countries, which are facing the problem of an ageing and dependent population. But it will have to deal with the reality that, unlike the developed countries, China has not been able to yet generate similar levels of household wealth.The census found there has been a rapid shrinking of China’s labour force in the past decade while the ageing population continued to increase. The proportion of people aged between 15 and 59 was 894 million, down by 6.79 percentage points from that in the 2010 census.“The number of people aged 60 and above grew to 264 million, up from 177.6 million in the 2010 census, and the number of people aged 65 and above grew to 190 million, up from 118.8 million in the 2010 census,” the state-run tabloid, Global Times reported, quoting the new data.Huang Wenzheng, a demography expert at the Beijing-based think-tank Centre for China and Globalisation, said: “That (the census data) means the official number of the births every year for the past 10 years were mostly accurate. It also means the downward trend is more significant than what we expected in the recent years.”The two-child policy, which was implemented in 2016, has failed to make an impact on the low birth rates. “From the trend of population development in recent years, the population growth will continue to slow in the future,” NBS head Ning said. “China’s population will reach a peak in the future, but the specific time is still uncertain. It is estimated that China’s total population will remain at more than 1.4 billion in the near future.”The severity of China’s ageing crisis is beyond anyone’s imagination, said Yi Fuxian, senior demography researcher from the University of Wisconsin-Madison.“China’s adoption of one-child policy for four decades played a significant role by changing people’s views of childbearing; and, the economy, social environment, education and almost everything else relates back to the one-child policy. The willingness to give birth in Mainland China is lower than that in Taiwan and South Korea, and the contraceptive rate and female labour participation rate are higher than those in Taiwan and South Korea,” Yi said.He Yafu, an independent demographer, told the Global Times that there is no doubt that China will “fully lift birth restrictions in the near future…likely to remove its family planning policy as early as this autumn during the sixth plenary session of the 19th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China (CPC).” Fully lifting birth restrictions may not be enough to avert a fall in total population, or prevent China from becoming another Japan, demographers said, noting that Beijing should come up with more measures to encourage childbirth, such as subsidising couples who choose to have more than one baby.A total of 679,000 census-related institutions were created in the country’s provinces, cities, counties, townships, and villages. Over 7 million census takers were organised to document demographic information door to door across the country.The census does not include Hong Kong, Macao, and Taiwan residents and foreigners, who live in the Mainland’s 31 provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities, the NBS said.China conducted national censuses in 2010, 2000, 1990, 1982, 1964, and 1953.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-now-has-1-41-billion-people-growth-in-10-years-only-72-million-101620705264489.html
11-05-2021||World||US approves Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine for kids between 12 and 15 years of age||US health regulators have approved Pfizer-BioNTech’s Covid-19 vaccine for people between 12 and 15 years of age, making it the first for children.It’s the same vaccine that is being administrated to people 16 years and older and will be delivered in two separate shots of primer and a booster. In a trial involving 2,260 participants, none of those given the vaccine contracted Covid-19 while 16 among those given a saline placebo tested positive.Calling the emergency use authorisation “significant step” in the fight against the epidemic, Janet Woodcock, acting head of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), said, “Today’s action allows for a younger population to be protected from Covid-19, bringing us closer to returning to a sense of normalcy and to ending the pandemic.”She added: “Parents and guardians can rest assured that the agency undertook a rigorous and thorough review of all available data, as we have with all of our Covid-19 vaccine emergency use authorizations.”Also Read | Covid-19 Pandemic plateauing with deaths and cases declining: WHOThe health regulator said that Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine has “met the statutory criteria to amend the EUA, and that the known and potential benefits of this vaccine in individuals 12 years of age and older outweigh the known and potential risks, supporting the vaccine’s use in this population.More that 152 million Americans — 57% of the eligible population of those 16 and older and 46% of the total population — have received at one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine. Only 12% of Indians have been vaccinated thus far in comparison, an estimated 170 million doses have been administered.“This is a promising development in our fight against the virus,” President Joe Biden said in a statement. “If you are a parent who wants to protect your child, or a teenager who is interested in getting vaccinated, today’s decision is a step closer to that goal.”The Biden administration plans to expand the programme with a new focus on children. The US president said last week that 20,000 pharmacies will be involved in the roll-out of vaccines for children. Vaccinating children is key part of his strategy to get the United States back on track.Moderna, the other major maker of Covid-19 vaccines, is also working towards an authorisation of its vaccine for children. And Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine is up for authorisation in Europe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-approves-pfizer-covid-19-vaccine-for-kids-between-12-and-15-yrs-of-age-101620703044232.html
11-05-2021||World||China's population grew only 5% over past decade to pass 1.4 billion, shows census data||China's population has grown more than five percent over the past decade to pass 1.4 billion people, Beijing said Tuesday, as it unveiled its census results.China's birthrate has been in steady decline since 2017, despite Beijing's relaxation of the decades-old "one-child policy" in order to try and avert a looming demographic crisis.Ning Jizhe, an official from the National Bureau of Statistics, said "the data showed that the population of China maintained a mild growth momentum in the past decade."The increase of 5.4 percent over the last 10 years comes amid fears that an aging population and a slowing birth rate pose a looming demographic crisis for the country.China conducts a census every ten years to determine population growth, movement patterns, and other trends. Sensitive data plays a major role in government policy planning.The 2020 survey was completed in December with the help of over seven million volunteers who surveyed residents door-to-door.Beijing changed family planning rules in 2016 to allow families to have two children as fears grew about China's fast-aging population and shrinking workforce.But there has been growing concern that the policy change is yet to produce the expected baby boom to help offset the country's aging population.This is partly due to falling marriage rates in recent years, couples struggling with the high cost of raising children in major cities, as well as women naturally delaying or avoiding childbirth due to their growing empowerment.China recorded its slowest birthrate since 1949 for the year 2019, at 10.48 per 1,000 people.And preliminary data published in February suggested the birth rate was also down significantly in 2020, although the number of actual births has not yet been announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-population-grew-only-5-over-past-decade-to-pass-1-4-billion-shows-census-data-101620701350386.html
11-05-2021||World||Covid-19 Pandemic plateauing with deaths and cases declining: WHO||The World Health Organization said on Monday the world was seeing a plateauing in the number of Covid-19 cases and deaths, with declines in most regions including the Americas and Europe, the two worst-affected regions.WATCH| ‘Global disparity in vaccines biggest risk in ending pandemic’: WHO Chief"But it’s an unacceptably high plateau, with more than 5.4 million reported Covid-19 cases and almost 90,000 deaths last week," WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told a briefing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-pandemic-plateauing-with-deaths-and-cases-declining-who-101620701457501.html
11-05-2021||World||China reports population growth closer to zero in 2020||China's population growth is falling closer to zero as fewer couples have children, the government announced Tuesday, adding to strains on an aging society with a shrinking workforce.The population rose by 72 million over the past decade to 1.411 billion in 2020, the National Bureau of Statistics said. It said annual growth averaged 0.53%, decelerating from the previous decade.Chinese leaders have enforced birth limits since 1980 to restrain population growth but worry the working age population is falling too fast, disrupting efforts to create a prosperous economy.They have eased birth limits, but couples are put off by high costs, cramped housing and job discrimination faced by mothers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-reports-population-growth-closer-to-zero-in-2020-101620699662624.html
11-05-2021||World||Biden urges employers to boost wages, get people vaccinated||President Joe Biden on Monday urged U.S. companies to help workers gain access to vaccines and to raise their pay while touting an infusion of $350 billion in federal aid to state and local governments, saying that will help more parents obtain child care and return to work.Biden's remarks were designed to address ways employers can hire more workers and to help more people take jobs.The Labor Department reported on Friday the economy added 266,000 jobs in April, short of the million jobs that most forecasters had expected. Republicans have blamed enhanced unemployment benefits for the numbers, saying the benefits discourage people from returning to work."My expectation is that, as our economy comes back, these companies will provide fair wages and safe work environments," Biden told reporters at the White House. By doing so, he said, the companies will "find plenty of workers, and we're all going to come out of this together better than before."Biden also defended himself against critics who have said expanded unemployment benefits offered in the Covid-19 relief bill passed in March are keeping Americans from taking new jobs.He said the administration will remind U.S. states this week that any unemployed American offered a comparable job must take it or risk losing unemployment benefits.Biden, a Democrat, said he will direct the U.S. Labor Department to work with states to reinstate requirements that those receiving unemployment benefits must demonstrate they are actively looking for work.He said school closures, child care constraints and fears of contracting the coronavirus had hindered job creation last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-urges-employers-to-boost-wages-get-people-vaccinated-101620699542160.html
11-05-2021||World||20 killed as Israel strikes Gaza in retaliation after Hamas rocket barrage||Israel launched deadly air strikes on Gaza Monday in response to a barrage of rockets fired by Hamas and other Palestinian militants, amid spiralling violence sparked by unrest at Jerusalem's Al-Aqsa Mosque compound.At least 20 people were killed, including nine children and a senior Hamas commander, and 65 others wounded, Gaza authorities said.Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu warned that Hamas had crossed a "red line" by directing missiles towards Jerusalem and that the Jewish state would "respond with force".Also Read | Explained: What's behind the Israeli-Palestinian clashes in Jerusalem?"We will not tolerate attacks on our territory, our capital, our citizens and our soldiers. Those who attack us will pay a heavy price," said Netanyahu, who held meetings with the heads of the army and the Shin Bet security agency.Israel's army said 150 rockets had been launched from Gaza, dozens of which were intercepted by the Iron Dome Aerial Defense System, with no casualties reported."We have started, and I repeat started, to attack military targets in Gaza," army spokesman Jonathan Conricus said."We have made preparations for various scenarios, including high intensity ones... Hamas will get the message."The military said it had targeted "two rocket launchers, two military posts", a tunnel and eight Hamas operatives in Gaza.Hamas sources confirmed to AFP that one of their commanders, Mohammed Fayyad, had been killed.Tensions in Jerusalem have flared since Israeli riot police clashed with Palestinian worshippers on the last Friday of the Muslim holy fasting month of Ramadan in the city's worst disturbances since 2017.Also Read: US expresses 'serious concerns' about Jerusalem clashes, Palestinians' evictionsNightly unrest since then at the Al-Aqsa compound has left hundreds of Palestinians wounded, drawing international calls for de-escalation and sharp rebukes from across the Muslim world.Diplomatic sources told AFP that Egypt and Qatar, who have mediated past Israeli-Hamas conflicts, were attempting to calm tensions.US Secretary of State Antony Blinken strongly condemned the rocket attacks by Hamas, saying they "need to stop immediately"."All sides need to de-escalate, reduce tensions, take practical steps to calm things down," he said.- Sirens, evacuation -Adding to the sense of chaos, a huge fire engulfed trees in the compound that houses the mosque, Islam's third holiest site, as hundreds of Jewish Israelis watched from the Western Wall esplanade below.Hamas, which controls the Gaza Strip, earlier Monday warned Israel to withdraw all its forces from the mosque compound and the east Jerusalem district of Sheikh Jarrah, where looming evictions of Palestinian families have fuelled angry protests.Sirens wailed across Jerusalem just after the 1500 GMT deadline set by Hamas as people in Jerusalem, including lawmakers in the Knesset legislature, fled to bunkers for the first time since a 2014 Gaza conflict.A spokesman for Hamas' armed wing the Qassam Brigades said the rocket attacks were in response to Israeli actions in Sheikh Jarrah and around the Al-Aqsa mosque."This is a message that the enemy must understand well: if you respond we will respond, and if you escalate we will escalate."A house in Beit Nekofa, about 10 kilometres (six miles) west of central Jerusalem, was also damaged by rocket fire, AFP TV reported.The Israeli army said on Twitter that, separate to the rockets, "as a result of an anti-tank missile fired from Gaza, an Israeli civilian in a nearby vehicle was lightly injured" in the Gaza border area.- 'Escalating aggression' -Fears of further chaos in the Old City had temporarily eased when Israeli organisers of a march to celebrate the Jewish state's 1967 capture of east Jerusalem cancelled the event.But then came the Hamas warning, followed by the rockets, which also forced the evacuation of the Western Wall and other sites.Militants in Gaza have recently also deployed incendiary balloons that have sparked dozens of fires in Israeli territory.On Monday evening, as during the previous nights since Friday, Palestinians hurled rocks at Israeli officers in riot gear who fired rubber bullets, stun grenades and tear gas.That came after morning clashes which left the ground littered with rocks, stun grenade fragments and other debris as loud booms and angry screams echoed from the ancient stone walls.There were dozens of newly wounded demonstrators. The Palestinian Red Crescent said at least 395 Palestinians were wounded, including more than 200 who were hospitalised, five of them in critical condition.Siraj, 24, was wheeled into surgery at the large Makassed Hospital after suffering a spleen injury from being hit by a rubber bullet."They shot everyone, young and old people," he said.Makassed director general Adnan Farhoud said most of Monday's injuries were to the head, chest, and upper and lower limbs.When "you mean to harm someone you shoot to the head", he told AFP.The Israeli police reported 32 injuries in their ranks.The violence since Friday has been fuelled by a long-running bid by Jewish settlers to evict several Palestinian families from their nearby Sheikh Jarrah neighbourhood.A Supreme Court hearing on a Palestinian appeal in the case originally set for Monday was pushed back by the justice ministry due to the tensions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/20-killed-in-palestine-in-israel-s-strikes-after-hamas-rocket-barrage-101620696606423.html
11-05-2021||World||Opposition parties gear up to form new govt in Nepal after Oli loses trust vote||Major opposition parties of the Nepali parliament have started preparations to form a new government after Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli lost the vote of confidence at Lower House on Monday.A coalition of more than two parties representing in the parliament, who will form Nepal's new government, have already started consultations over the next leadership."Majority of the lawmakers who were present today have rejected the Prime Minister's vote of confidence. The House has decided that KP Sharma Oli shall not remain in the post any longer. In order to make a new government, all the political parties would make attempts and we are confident that the nation would get a new Prime Minister," Bal Krishna Khand, opposition Nepali Congress leader and close aide to NC President Sher Bahadur Deuba told reporters as he exited the parliamentary building.Also Read: Nepal President asks parties to stake claim after PM Oli's govt fallsThree opposition leaders, namely, Deuba, Pushpa Kamal Dahal and Upendra Yadav had called on President Bidya Devi Bhandari to initiate government formation procedure, soon after the commencement of a special session of parliament on Monday.All leaders from the Nepali Congress, the Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist Centre) and a faction of the Janata Samajwadi party led by Yadav have urged President Bhandari to invoke Article 76 (2) of the Constitution.Later in the evening, the Nepal President called on all parties to stake claim to form a majority government after Oli's failed vote of confidence in the parliament."She has asked party leaders to come forward with the name of the candidate for the post of Prime Minister by 9 pm, Thursday," read a statement by Nepali Rashtrapati Bhavan.Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Oli lost a vote of confidence in parliament as he could only garner just 93 votes, way less than 136 that he needed to prove the House's majority. As many as 124 votes were cast against him and 15 lawmakers stood neutral. In the 271-strong House, only 232 lawmakers were present during Monday's voting.Also Read: Nepal Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli loses vote of confidence in parliament"Article 76 (2) of the constitution should be exercised now, there is a possibility of a coalition where more than two parties can come forward to form a new government. Today we stand with 124 votes, two others were absent today, so we have 126 votes in our favour and many others are not present here that is why we do not see any problem in crossing majority mark of 136," Dev Gurung, leader from Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist Center) told reporters after the vote.Chief Whip of the ruling CPN-(Unified Marxist-Leninist), Bishal Bhattarai has warned of taking stern action against 28 lawmakers who abstained from Monday's meeting. Terming the action as a violation of the whip, Bhattarai claimed that the absentees would be punished by the party."Twenty-eight of the lawmakers remained absent today. It is one of the major incidents in parliamentary history and is a serious matter as political whip has been violated or disobeyed. It is indeed a new incident in Nepali parliamentary record of not voting in favour of the Prime Minister of own party, going against him by either remaining absent or floor cross, the party would make serious decisions over it," Bhattarai said."Our steps would be dependent on its parliamentary legislation as well as of our own and other acts pertaining to political parties," he added.Upon the recommendation of the cabinet, President Bhandari has prorogued a special session of the lower house starting from Monday midnight.The office of the President issued a release on Monday evening announcing the prorogation of the lower house on the recommendation of the cabinet."President has exercised the right mentioned in Article 93 (2) which gives her permission to end the house session on recommendation of the cabinet. It would go into effect starting from Monday midnight," a release from Parliament secretariat announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/opposition-parties-gear-up-to-form-new-govt-in-nepal-after-oli-loses-trust-vote-101620695116526.html
11-05-2021||World||Covid-19 cases double in the world’s most-vaccinated nation||Seychelles, which has vaccinated more of its population against Covid-19 than any other country, saw active cases more than double in the week to May 7, raising concerns that inoculation is not helping turn the tide in some places.The World Health Organization said vaccine failure couldn’t be determined without a detailed assessment and that it was working on evaluating the situation.Kate O’Brien, director of the the WHO’s department of immunization, vaccines and biologicals, told a briefing Monday that the body was in direct communication with Seychelles and that a detailed assessment was needed looking at factors like strains of the virus and the severity of cases.The Health Ministry of the archipelago off of Africa’s east coast said Monday that the number of active cases had more than doubled since last week to 2,486 people, and 37% of those have received two vaccine doses. Cases are also surging in the Maldives, another Indian Ocean island nation that’s a popular tourism destination.In Seychelles, Sinopharm shots were issued to 57% of those who were fully inoculated and the rest with Covishield, a vaccine made in India under a license from AstraZeneca Plc. As of May 8 no one who had contracted Covid while being vaccinated had died, Seychelles News Agency reported, citing the minister for foreign affairs and tourism.The Seychelles, a group of palm-fringed tropical islands, last week re-imposed curbs including closing schools, canceling sports events and banning mingling of households.The country had raced to vaccinate its population of just under 100,000 -- first with a donation of doses from China’s Sinopharm and then with a gift of Covishield, so it could reopen to the tourists who are the lifeblood of its economy.Daniel Lucey, clinical professor of medicine at Dartmouth Geisel School of Medicine, said in a blog last week that data on genetic sequencing are not yet available for infections in Seychelles in April.Still, the B.1.351 variant, first identified in South Africa late last year, was found in the Seychelles in February, he said. AstraZeneca’s vaccine appeared to be less effective against that variant in a study, and South Africa halted plans to use those injections.A comparison between Sinopharm, Covishield and unvaccinated people who caught the coronavirus could be done using genetic sequencing and data on the severity of their infections, Lucey said.Cases in the Maldives, which has seen a surge in visits from affluent Indians, have also shot up. The country has the most new cases per 100,000 people in the past five, seven and 14 days. Active cases jumped from 4,978 to 9,423 on May 9.As of May 8, over 300,000 people in the Maldives had received at least one dose of a vaccine and 35% of the population had received two, according to the Health Protection Agency. The country has been using Sinopharm and Covishield.Positive test results in Greater Male, the area in and around the capital of the Maldives, are about 60% of the total. As of May 7 the government closed gyms and cinemas and imposed a curfew from 9 p.m. until 4 a.m, the agency said.The government is also now requiring that arrivals to the islands, including those who have been vaccinated, have a negative Covid-19 test administered four days before their departure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-cases-double-in-the-world-s-most-vaccinated-nation-101620695918476.html
11-05-2021||World||Why the Colonial Pipeline hack matters. Explained||A cyberattack on a critical U.S. pipeline is sending ripple effects across the economy, highlighting cybersecurity vulnerabilities in the nation's aging energy infrastructure. The Colonial Pipeline, which delivers about 45% of the fuel used along the Eastern seaboard, shut down Friday after a ransomware attack by gang of criminal hackers that calls itself DarkSide. Depending on how long the shutdown lasts, the incident could impact millions of consumers.WHAT HAPPENED TO THE COLONIAL PIPELINE?Colonial Pipeline, the owner, halted all pipeline operations over the weekend, forcing what the company called a precautionary shutdown. U.S. officials said Monday that the “ransomware” malware used in the attack didn’t spread to the critical systems that control the pipeline’s operation. But the mere fact that it could have done so alarmed outside security experts.Also Read | 'No evidence Russia involved in Colonial Pipeline ransomware hack': Joe BidenWILL THERE BE GASOLINE SHORTAGES?It depends on how long the shutdown lasts. Colonial said it's likely to restore service on the majority of its pipeline by Friday.There’s no imminent shortfall, and thus no need to panic buy gasoline, said Richard Joswick, head of global oil analytics at S&P Global Platts. If the pipeline is restored by Friday, there won’t be much of an issue. “If it does drag on for two weeks, it’s a problem,” Joswick added. “You’d wind up with price spikes and probably some service stations getting low on supply. And panic buying just makes it worse.”SO WHAT’S HAPPENING WITH GASOLINE PRICES?The average gasoline price jumped six cents to $2.96 over the past week, and it’s expected to continue climbing because of the pipeline closure, according to AAA. Mississippi, Tennessee and the East coast from Georgia to Delaware are the most likely to experience limited fuel availability and higher prices, and if the national average rises by three more cents, these would be the highest prices since November 2014, according to AAA.WHAT’S RANSOMWARE AGAIN?Ransomware scrambles data that can only be decoded with a software key after the victim pays off the criminal perpetrators. An epidemic of ransomware attacks has gotten so bad that Biden administration officials recently deemed them a national security threat. Hospitals, schools, police departments and state and local governments are regularly hit. Ransomware attacks are difficult to stop in part because they’re usually launched by criminal syndicates that enjoy safe harbor abroad, mostly in former Soviet states.Also Read: US pipeline hackers say their aim is money, not mayhemWHO IS BEHIND THE ATTACK AND WHAT MOTIVATES THEM?The hackers are Russian speakers from DarkSide, one of dozens of ransomware gangs that specialize in double extortion, in which the criminals steal an organization’s data before encrypting it. They then threaten to dump that data online if the victim doesn’t pay up, creating a second disincentive to trying to recover without paying.Ransomware gangs say they are motivated only by profit. Colonial has not said how much ransom s.WHY WASN’T COLONIAL ABLE TO PREVENT OR CONTAIN THE ATTACK?Neither Colonial nor federal officials have explained how the attackers breached the company’s network and went undetected. Cybersecurity experts believe that Colonial may not have employed state-of-the-art defenses, in which software agents actively monitor networks for anomalies and are programmed to detect known threats such as DarkSide’s infiltration tools.WHAT DOES COLONIAL NEED TO RESTORE ITS NETWORK AND HOW LONG WILL THAT TAKE?That depends on how extensively Colonial was infected, whether it paid the ransom and, if it did, when it got the software decryption key. The decryption process could take several days at least, experts say. Colonial has not responded to questions on these issues, although it said only its IT network was affected.DO PIPELINES FACE A GREATER RISK OF RANSOMWARE ATTACKS?They're not necessarily at greater risk, but they do pose unique challenges. The Colonial Pipeline structure is a vast piece of critical infrastructure that provides fuel supply to states along the East Coast. Such a large network is bound to have different control systems along its path where it connects with distributors or customers.“Every single time you connect something, you run the risk that you’re going to infect something,” said Kevin Book, managing director at Clearview Energy Partners. That variability can also make it harder for hackers to know where to find vulnerabilities, he said.Over time, as pipelines expand, companies can end up with a mix of technology — some parts built within the company and others brought in from outside, said Peter McNally, global sector lead at Third Bridge. Many large energy companies have been under pressure from investors to limit reinvestment in such assets, which can be decades old, he added. That can be a problem when dealing with modern criminals.The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission has established and enforced mandatory cybersecurity standards for the bulk electric system, but there are no comparable standards for the nearly 3 million miles of natural gas, oil and hazardous liquid pipelines that traverse the United States. “Simply encouraging pipelines to voluntarily adopt best practices is an inadequate response to the ever-increasing number and sophistication of malevolent cyber actors,” said Richard Glick, chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, and Democratic Commissioner Allison Clements, in a joint statement. They called for the U.S. to establish mandatory pipeline security standards.WHAT CAN BE DONE TO HALT RANSOMWARE ATTACKS?Previous attempts to put ransomware operators out of business by attacking their online infrastructure have amounted to internet whack-a-mole. The U.S. Cyber Command, Microsoft and cross-Atlantic police efforts with European partners have only been able to put a temporary dent in the problem.Last month, a public-private task force including Microsoft, Amazon the FBI and the Secret Service gave the White House an 81-page urgent action plan that said considerable progress could be possible in a year if a concerted effort is mounted with U.S. allies, who are also under withering attack.Some experts advocate banning ransom payments. The FBI discourages payment, but the task force said a ban would be a mistake as long as many potential targets remain “woefully unprepared,” apt to go bankrupt if they can’t pay. Neuberger said Monday that sometimes companies have no real choice but to pay a ransom.The task force said ransomware actors need to be named and shamed and the governments that harbor them punished. It calls for mandatory disclosure of ransom payments and the creation of a federal “response fund” to provide financial assistance to victims in hopes that, in many cases, it will prevent them from paying ransoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/why-the-colonial-pipeline-hack-matters-explained-101620691797385.html
11-05-2021||World||Suu Kyi ordered to show up in court on May 24||A judge on Monday ordered Myanmar’s deposed leader Aung San Suu Kyi to appear in person in court for the first time on May 24, her lawyer said, after weeks of delays in her case. The Nobel laureate has not been seen in public since she was detained in a February 1 military coup, when the junta ousted her from power and took charge of the country.She was later hit with a series of charges, and her lawyers faced an uphill battle to get a private audience with their client.Multiple court hearings in the capital Naypyidaw have seen Suu Kyi - who attended via video conferencing from under house arrest - express frustration at the pace of the proceedings.During the latest hearing on Monday, a judge ordered her cases to be heard with her present in a special courtroom near her residence.“She will appear in person in court on May 24,” lawyer Khin Maung Zaw told AFP. The decision came as the country neared 100 days of the coup.Myanmar poet Khet Thi, whose works declare resistance to the ruling junta, died in detention overnight and his body was returned with the organs removed, his family said. A spokesman for the junta did not answer calls to request comment on the death of Khet Thi.“He died at an hospital after being tortured in an interrogation centre,” the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners activist group said in a bulletin that put the toll of civilians killed since the military coup at 780.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/suu-kyi-ordered-to-show-up-in-court-on-may-24-101620691216429.html
11-05-2021||World||Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine shots authorised for US children as young as 12||U.S. regulators on Monday expanded the use of Pfizer's Covid-19 vaccine to children as young as 12, offering a way to protect the nation's adolescents before they head back to school in the fall and paving the way for them to return to more normal activities.Shots could begin as soon as Thursday, after a federal vaccine advisory committee issues recommendations for using the two-dose vaccine in 12- to 15-year-olds. An announcement is expected Wednesday.Most Covid-19 vaccines worldwide have been authorized for adults. Pfizer’s vaccine is being used in multiple countries for teens as young as 16, and Canada recently became the first to expand use to 12 and up. Parents, school administrators and public health officials elsewhere have eagerly awaited approval for the shot to be made available to more kids.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“This is a watershed moment in our ability to fight back the Covid-19 pandemic,” Dr. Bill Gruber, a Pfizer senior vice president who’s also a pediatrician, told The Associated Press.The Food and Drug Administration declared that the Pfizer vaccine is safe and offers strong protection for younger teens based on testing of more than 2,000 U.S. volunteers ages 12 to 15. The agency noted there were no cases of Covid-19 among fully vaccinated adolescents compared with 16 among kids given dummy shots. More intriguing, researchers found the kids developed higher levels of virus-fighting antibodies than earlier studies measured in young adults.The younger teens received the same vaccine dosage as adults and had the same side effects, mostly sore arms and flu-like fever, chills or aches that signal a revved-up immune system, especially after the second dose.Pfizer’s testing in adolescents “met our rigorous standards,” FDA vaccine chief Dr. Peter Marks said. “Having a vaccine authorized for a younger population is a critical step in continuing to lessen the immense public health burden caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.”Pfizer and its German partner BioNTech recently requested similar authorization in the European Union, with other countries to follow.The latest news is welcome for U.S. families struggling to decide what activities are safe to resume when the youngest family members remain unvaccinated.Also Read: Canada approves Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine for kids aged 12 and above“I can’t feel totally comfortable because my boys aren’t vaccinated,” said Carrie Vittitoe, a substitute teacher and freelance writer in Louisville, Kentucky, who is fully vaccinated, as are her husband and 17-year-old daughter.The FDA decision means her 13-year-old son soon could be eligible, leaving only her 11-year-old son unvaccinated. The family has not yet resumed going to church, and summer vacation will be a road trip so they do not have to get on a plane.“We can’t really go back to normal because two-fifths of our family don’t have protection,” Vittitoe said.Pfizer is not the only company seeking to lower the age limit for its vaccine. Moderna recently said preliminary results from its study in 12- to 17-year-olds show strong protection and no serious side effects. Another U.S. company, Novavax, has a Covid-19 vaccine in late-stage development and just began a study in 12- to 17-year-olds.Next up is testing whether the vaccine works for even younger children. Both Pfizer and Moderna have begun U.S. studies in children ages 6 months to 11 years. Those studies explore whether babies, preschoolers and elementary-age kids will need different doses than teens and adults. Gruber said Pfizer expects its first results in the fall.Outside of the U.S., AstraZeneca is studying its vaccine among 6- to 17-year-olds in Britain. And in China, Sinovac recently announced that it has submitted preliminary data to Chinese regulators showing its vaccine is safe in children as young as 3.Children are far less likely than adults to get seriously ill from Covid-19, yet they represent nearly 14% of the nation’s coronavirus cases. At least 296 have died from Covid-19 in the U.S. alone, and more than 15,000 have been hospitalized, according to a tally by the American Academy of Pediatrics.That’s not counting the toll of family members becoming ill or dying -- or the disruption to school, sports and other activities so crucial to children’s overall well-being.The AAP welcomed the FDA’s decision.“Our youngest generations have shouldered heavy burdens over the past year, and the vaccine is a hopeful sign that they will be able to begin to experience all the activities that are so important for their health and development,” said AAP President Dr. Lee Savio Beers in a statement.Experts say children must get the shots if the country is to vaccinate the 70% to 85% of the population necessary to reach what’s called herd immunity.In the meantime, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says unvaccinated people — including children — should continue taking precautions such as wearing masks indoors and keeping their distance from other unvaccinated people outside of their households.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pfizer-covid-19-vaccine-shots-authorised-for-us-children-as-young-as-12-101620690673129.html
11-05-2021||World||Australian court upholds India travel ban||An emergency legal challenge to Australia’s contentious ban on citizens returning from Covid-hit India failed on Monday, dashing stranded travellers’ hopes of an immediate return. Federal justice Thomas Thawley ruled the government had not overstepped its biosecurity powers in banning Australians from returning home temporarily.The move stranded an estimated 9,000 Australian citizens and threatened them with large fines and jail time if they tried to dodge the ban and return on non-direct flights.Thawley ruled that Morrison acted within the law, dashing the hopes of an Australian man who brought the case as he tries to return from Bengaluru.EU to launch Covid-19 health pass in JuneThe EU is “fully on track” to ensure all its citizens and residents are able to have a free Covid health pass next month to ease travel, a spokesman said on Monday. The EU is keen for anybody living in its 27 countries to be able to get a digital health pass - referred to as a “green certificate” - to display their vaccination status, results of Covid-19 tests and whether they recovered from a coronavirus infection.Bring back oxygen tanks: Nepal to Everest climbersNepal is so short of oxygen canisters for critical Covid-19 patients that it has asked climbers on Mount Everest to bring back their empty cylinders instead of abandoning them on mountain slopes.US biotech firm Novavax said it had positive results from preclinical studies of a shot combining its influenza and Covid vaccine candidates.England, Scotland and NI report no daily deathsNo coronavirus deaths were announced for England, Scotland and Northern Ireland on Monday, the BBC reported. Wales was the exception in the UK, reporting four Covid-19 deaths on Monday.The development came as the UK’s coronavirus alert level was lowered from four to three on the advice of experts. Alert level three means that although the coronavirus is still known to be in general circulation, transmission of the virus is no longer considered high or rising exponentially.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australian-court-upholds-india-travel-ban-101620690613968.html
11-05-2021||World||Non-hospitalised Covid patients have low risk of long-term effects: Study||Non-hospitalised Covid-19 patients have a low risk of serious long-term effects, but they report more visits to general practitioners following infection, according to a study published in The Lancet Infectious Diseases journal."The absolute risk of severe post-acute complications after SARS-CoV-2 infection not requiring hospital admission is low. However, increases in visits to general practitioners and outpatient hospital visits could indicate Covid-19 sequelae," the study found.It was a population-based cohort study using the Danish prescription, patient and health insurance registries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nonhospitalised-covid-patients-have-low-risk-of-long-term-effects-study-101620689396102.html
11-05-2021||World||WHO chief scientist says India's Covid-19 figures worrying||As India is in the grasp of a devastating second wave of Covid-19, World Health Organisation (WHO) Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan on Monday (local time) termed the rate of infections and deaths in the country as "worrying" and called on governments to boost exercises on reporting actual numbers.In an exclusive interview with ANI, Swaminathan said that the projections of one million deaths by August projected by the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) are based on models and available data, which are not predictions of the future and can be changed.Watch | ‘People not just dying of Covid…’: WHO Chief scientist on India’s Covid situation"I would say that at this point of time, the situation is very worrying, the daily number of cases and deaths that we are seeing today in India and other countries in the Southeast area region is a big concern for us and we also realise that these are underestimates. Every country in the world, in fact, the number of cases and deaths has been underestimated to its true number," she told ANI, adding that governments should boost exercises to report actual numbers.The WHO on Monday said that the coronavirus variant first identified in India last year was being classified as a variant of global concern, with some preliminary studies showing that it spreads more easily."We are classifying this as a variant of concern at a global level," Maria Van Kerkhove, WHO technical lead on Covid-19, told a briefing.The B.1.617 variant is the fourth variant to be designated as being of "global concern" and requiring heightened tracking and analysis and data collection must be done in a transparent way, the Chief Scientist added."It should be done and we should be aware because the better the data, the better the policies can be directed towards what is happening. Let's remember, people are not just dying of Covid, people are also dying of other illnesses for which they are not able to access healthcare," Dr Swaminathan asserted.Indian coronavirus infections and deaths held close to record daily highs on Monday, increasing calls for the Indian government to lock down the world's second-most populous country.Soumya Swaminathan said studies were underway in India to examine the variant's transmissibility, the severity of the disease it causes and the response of antibodies in people who have been vaccinated. The WHO scientist called for more genome sequencing in India to get a full picture of what is going on in different parts of the country, while saying that it should be hand-in-hand with clinical epidemiological studies."Sequencing does not give you the full picture. You do not know whether it is more transmissible, whether it causes more severe disease or what impact it has on your diagnostics," she said.While replying to a query on travel amid the pandemic, Swaminathan said that the Review Committee on International Health Regulations (IHR) has said that vaccine passports should not be a pre-condition for travel."The scientific reason is that just because you are vaccinated does not mean you cannot get infected. You can see infection or you could be asymptomatic but when you travel you may infect others. The ethical argument is that not everyone has access to vaccinations now," she said, while advocating safe travel with precautions.She also said that the double mutant - B.1.617 - is highly transmissible and a WHO committee has classified it as a 'variant of concern'."For now, the message is that it will be more transmissible, but it behaves the same way as other viral strains replicate the same proportions. Vaccines are still very effective against every variant in the world in protecting against severe disease and hospitalisations," she informed.Swaminathan also called on countries to continuously update policies regarding the pandemic, which should be based on science and data. "We have to continue to adapt our policies. We cannot become stagnant. What is needed first is to call strong leadership which is based on science and data at public health principles. That needs to be updated from time to time even if you take treatment," Swaminathan added. The WHO scientist also urged data transparency in different countries and that people should be explained why certain decisions are being made and the rationale behind them.Earlier today, WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said that the WHO Foundation was launching a "Together for India" appeal to raise funds to purchase oxygen, medicines and protective equipment for health workers.India is currently battling a deadly second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, which is believed to being led by the 'double mutant'. The current wave has strained the country's health infrastructure and overburdened frontline medical workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-chief-scientist-says-india-s-covid-19-figures-worrying-101620689401120.html
11-05-2021||World||China marks separator from Nepal on Everest||China will set up a “separation line” on the peak of Mount Everest to avoid possible Covid-19 infections by climbers from virus-hit Nepal, state media has reported.The decision was taken after a number of Covid-19 cases were diagnosed among climbers ascending the mountain from Nepal, official news agency Xinhua reported.Over 30 sick climbers were evacuated from base camp on the Nepalese side of the world’s highest peak in recent weeks as Nepal faces a deadly second wave, raising fears that the virus might ruin the spring climbing season. The country’s economy is heavily dependent on tourism revenue.While the virus first emerged in China in late 2019, it has largely been brought under control in the country through a series of strict lockdowns and border closures.Mount Everest straddles the China-Nepal border, with the north slope belonging to China.Also read | Covid-19 scales Mt Everest: At least 30 evacuated in recent weeksA team of Tibetan mountaineering guides will set up the separation line at the peak before climbers attempt to reach the summit from the Chinese side, Xinhua reported.The report did not make clear how the separation line will be drawn and defined or what it will be made of.Tibetan authorities said at a press conference they would take the “most stringent epidemic prevention measures” to avoid contact between climbers on the north and south slopes or at the top, Xinhua reported on Sunday.Twenty-one Chinese climbers have been approved to climb to the summit of Everest this year after having quarantined in Tibet since early April.Both countries suspended the climbing season on the world’s highest mountain last year due to the pandemic. Nepal has issued permits allowing 408 foreigners to attempt climbs this year as it tries to boost tourism revenue.An Everest permit alone from Nepal costs $11,000 and climbers pay upward of $40,000 for an expedition.More than a thousand people are typically camped at the bustling tent city at the foot of Everest on the Nepalese side at any one time, including foreign climbers and the teams of Nepali guides that escort them to the peak. In the last three weeks, Nepal’s daily case trajectory has shot up with two out of five people tested now returning positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-marks-separator-from-nepal-on-everest-101620677347539.html
11-05-2021||World||‘Migration pact will help return illegal settlers, offenders’: UK home secretary Priti Patel||The new India-UK migration and mobility partnership and a proposed British law on migration will facilitate the movement of Indian professionals and simultaneously streamline the process of returning illegal migrants and offenders, British home secretary Priti Patel said on Monday.The UK government understands the importance and significance of speedily resolving the cases of economic offenders such as Nirav Modi and Vijay Mallya and is working with the courts to address “legal challenges” in order to ensure “just outcomes”, Patel said in an interview.The migration and mobility partnership, signed by Patel and external affairs minister S Jaishankar to coincide with the virtual India-UK Summit on May 4, will facilitate up to 3,000 young Indian professionals availing employment in the UK every year, and also enhance bilateral cooperation in combating illegal migration.The two sides have set April 2022 as the deadline for implementing the partnership and Patel described the arrangement as an “unprecedented” and a “bespoke” route to benefit young professionals from the UK and India. “At some stage, when we publish the figures on the new points-based immigration system [introduced by the UK last year], you will see that India is benefiting enormously from this because it’s a professional route,” she said.Patel also spoke of her plans for introducing a new legislation on illegal migration during the state opening of the UK Parliament on Tuesday, which she described as a “big reform” that will “facilitate the path for [illegal Indian migrants] to be returned back to India”.Also read | Indian variant got to be monitored, says Boris Johnson as UK lockdown eases“So we have many legal obstacles in the UK, I’m not going to sugar-coat that. These legal obstacles end up in the courts, people will use appeal, it is a complete legal merry-go-round,” she said. These reforms will streamline the process of identifying illegal migrants and also address “some of the extradition challenges that we have faced over years”, she added.Asked specifically about the extradition of Nirav Modi and Mallya, Patel said many of the complexities and legalities surrounding illegal migrants also apply to both these cases. She contended she had changed the relationship between the UK and Indian governments in respect of extradition, and the British side was working to resolve these cases as speedily as possible.“So we are absolutely clear of the importance and the significance of these cases and quite rightly, we want them to progress as swiftly as possible. It serves no purpose to keep having these cases tied up within the legal wrangling,” she said.“I ordered on April 15 the extradition of Nirav Modi and... that’s in the public domain. He has indicated that... he’s appealing on extradition. So instantly, we’re in a legal process. So I can’t comment further on any of that whatsoever,” she said.Asked specifically if Mallya had applied for asylum in the UK Patel said: “I can’t sit and share with you the ins and outs of all of that because that would prejudice the case. That’s not right and I don’t want to do that.”Patel only said that there are “legal challenges” and “clearly we have to work with the courts and that is what we’re doing because we need just outcomes”. She added: “There are legal processes and the fairness and the firmness that comes with those legal processes need to be respected.”Fugitive businessman Nirav Modi’s extradition was cleared after a British court found him guilty of fraud and money laundering in the Punjab National Bank scam. He was the second high-profile economic offender after former liquor baron Mallya whose extradition was cleared by a trial court in the UK.Patel evaded a direct response to a question on whether the case of UK national Christian Michel, the alleged middleman in the AgustaWestland VVIP helicopter deal, had been taken up with the Indian side after a UN panel ruled his detention was arbitrary.“If you don’t mind, it’s not for me to disclose what is discussed in private meetings...there’s plenty of engagements around cases of that nature with FCDO [UK Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office] and those engagements will continue,” she replied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/migration-pact-will-help-return-illegal-settlers-offenders-uk-home-secretary-priti-patel-101620676827888.html
11-05-2021||World||UK home secy speaks to HT on illegal migration; Nirav Modi, Mallya extradition and more||The new India-UK migration and mobility partnership and a proposed British law on migration will facilitate the movement of Indian professionals and simultaneously streamline the process of returning illegal migrants and offenders, British home secretary Priti Patel said in an interview with HT on Monday.On the issue of Nirav Modi and Vijay Mallya’s extradition, Patel said that “we’re in a legal process”. Here are the excerpts from the interview. Q. What do the UK and India hope to achieve through the Migration and Mobility Partnership signed during the India-UK Summit? A: I used to come to India a lot in my ministerial capacity... and I used to receive a lot of umbrage about the lack of progress on mobility and migration issues. It was my determination, after becoming home secretary, and the prime minister’s conviction to really shift the relationship of India and the UK around mobility. I have to say it’s very much thanks to Boris Johnson, thanks to his vision and his leadership, and also to Prime Minister [Narendra] Modi’s conviction and leadership as well, to bring the two countries together to really move the needle. You’ve got two home ministries as well, with Amit Shah and myself in position, absolutely determined to make this work. We have created something that is unprecedented, we haven’t just taken something off the shelf, we have created a new bespoke and new reciprocal route for young professionals from the UK and India. Both our countries will benefit and that’s just so important, to benefit and take part in this new professional migration and mobility partnership, which will build upon our ‘living bridge’... the diaspora community and the flow of what we’ve had before. But this is fundamentally different. Of course, this is a key pillar of the 2030 Roadmap but this will work through mutual recognition and working together. From my side, I am now working with colleagues in the MEA’s office and the Indian high commission to make this practical and not just sort of say, here we have a partnership and isn’t that fantastic. It is fantastic but we will make sure that this builds upon the benefits that have come together from, for example, something else that I did last year for India’s benefit, which will be the points-based immigration system. At some stage, when we publish the figures on the new points-based immigration system, you will see that India is benefiting enormously from this because it’s a professional route. I’ve always spoken about the professional people of India, the close ties, the living bridge, clearly I understand this perhaps more than others but really channelling and bringing together these strands have made this mobility partnership unique and so beneficial to India and the UK, economically and professionally in terms of skills and actually cementing the bond between our two countries which is really important. As I said, this is unprecedented and the ways of working around this are unprecedented. The fact that I’m as plugged into the high commission here, working the teams there who are working with my teams here...same with the MEA’s office, [external affairs minister S] Jaishankar and the work of his team plugged into my policy team here. So it’s seamless on that basis. This isn’t just some kind of agreement that we’ve signed and then we’ve sort of ticked the box and move on. This is a living, live agreement and it speaks to the roadmap and our values that we have as two countries working together. Q. Do you expect to deliver on the April 2022 timeframe for implementing the Migration and Mobility Partnership? A: Yeah, totally, absolutely, no question about that. There is no delay. We started work the minute after we signed the agreement last Tuesday. So, follow up with our colleagues at the high commission already. I have to emphasise that we have the level of pro-activity and positivity on both sides, it’s really the key driver to all of this. This is not static, this is living, we are absolutely determined not just to make this work but this new route will be the roadmap for us in terms of enhanced mobility and an enhanced relationship for decades to come. The fact that in the 18 months that I’ve been home secretary, we’ve been able to energise the mobility discussions and the relationship by putting propositions forward that my predecessors did not put forward. I have led that, obviously with the leadership of my prime minister and colleagues in India, especially the leadership of the prime minister of India as well. Q. Have you addressed the issues that were holding up the return of illegal Indian migrants, and is there a ballpark figure for the number of people who would be coming back to India? A: I’m not going to disclose figures because that takes time to work through them. But there are many technical barriers, let me just be clear about this, and legal barriers that prevent us from returning people. Part of that is our system, it is very much our system...[on Tuesday] we have the state opening of Parliament in the UK. We will pass new legislation around illegal migration. It’s a big reform that I will be bringing in as home secretary which will facilitate the path for Indian nationals to be returned back to India. So we have many legal obstacles in the UK, I’m not going to sugar-coat that. These legal obstacles end up in the courts, people will use appeal, it is a complete legal merry-go-round. We are going to streamline much of that and bring new efficiencies and new transparencies and new accountability around that. So that will absolutely help with the ways of working between both our governments and with the high commission over travel authorisation documents, identifying individuals – all these things which are just wrapped up in endless bureaucracy and process. We are going to streamline that and make it much clearer on both sides because if we don’t, then we harbour people that obviously the Indian government want to have sent back and it works both ways. Which brings me on to not just illegal migration but some of the extradition challenges that we have faced over years, and even in my tenure of 18 months as home secretary, we have already energised and changed that relationship between the UK and India in respect of extradition – that has improved, it has absolutely improved in a way that benefits both our countries. It’s no point us having people sitting on both sides in both countries that we can’t send back to get on and deal with some of these really naughty, very serious and criminal issues. Q. Have the two sides agreed on documentation and processes to identify illegal migrants? A: We absolutely know what is needed in terms of process, identification, documentation, how we can remove people, how we can return people. This is case by case and it takes a long time but we have ways in which we can literally streamline a lot of this. But it is intense, we will work with the high commission here, we will work with the MEA’s office. The way of working that we are proposing is unprecedented because it speaks for the commitment that both sides have to bring about the changes that both governments want to see. Q. Could we have clarity on the issue of the extradition of Nirav Modi and Vijay Mallya? In the case of Mallya, the UK has said the extradition is being held up by a confidential legal issue but there is speculation here that he has applied for asylum. A: Speculation will always exist. What I will say – you’ve already heard me speak about some of the complexities [and] legalities around illegal migration. That equally applies here in both these cases. I ordered on April 15 the extradition of Nirav Modi and...that’s in the public domain. He has indicated that... he’s appealing on extradition. So, instantly, we’re in a legal process. So, I can’t comment further on any of that whatsoever. In a similar vein, with Vijay Mallya’s case, there’s an ongoing legal case. I can’t sit and share with you the ins and outs of all of that because that would prejudice the case. That’s not right and I don’t want to do that. So I can’t comment on that but what I would say to you and your readers – two things, first of all, I have changed that relationship between the UK government and the Indian government in respect of extradition. I understand the seriousness of these cases, I understand the desire as to why India, you know, it’s the same for us – there are individuals in India that we want to be returned and extradited to the UK. So that is changing fundamentally but alongside that, where we have legal challenges, clearly we have to work with the courts and that is what we’re doing because we need to have just outcomes. There are legal processes and the fairness and the firmness that comes with those legal processes need to be respected. So we are absolutely clear of the importance and the significance of these cases and quite rightly, we want them to progress as swiftly as possible. It serves no purpose to keep having these cases tied up within the legal wrangling. We are absolutely working with the persistence that we have and we understand the significance of all these cases. Q. Has the UK discussed with the Indian side the case of Christian Michel, especially after he wrote to the British government following the report of a UN panel of experts that his detention in India is arbitrary? A: If you don’t mind, it’s not for me to disclose what is discussed in private meetings...there’s plenty of engagements around cases of that nature with FCDO [UK Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office] and those engagements will continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-home-secy-speaks-to-ht-on-illegal-migration-nirav-modi-mallya-extradition-and-more-101620673880543.html
11-05-2021||World||US CDC says more than 261 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine administered so far||The United States has administered 261,599,381 doses of Covid-19 vaccines in the country as of Monday morning, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said on Monday.The figure is up from the 259,716,989 vaccine doses the CDC said had gone into arms by Sunday out of 329,843,825 doses delivered.The agency said 152,819,904 people had received at least one dose while 115,530,780 people are fully vaccinated as of Monday.The CDC tally includes two-dose vaccines from Moderna and Pfizer/BioNTech , as well as Johnson & Johnson's one-shot vaccine as of 6am ET on Monday.A total of 7,814,408 vaccine doses have been administered in long-term care facilities, the agency said.The number of vaccine doses delivered remained at 329,843,825, as of Monday morning as shipments are not always sent on Sundays, according to the CDC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-cdc-says-more-than-261-million-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-administered-so-far-101620671030186.html
11-05-2021||World||India’s consul general in Mazar-e-Sharif dies after testing positive for Covid-19||India’s consul general in the Afghan city of Mazar-e-Sharif, Vinesh Kalra, who had recently tested positive for Covid-19, died in a hospital in Kabul on Monday, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi announced Kalra’s death on Twitter but gave no other details. External affairs minister S Jaishankar condoled the diplomat’s death on Twitter. “@MEAIndia sincerely condoles passing away of Shri Vinesh Kalra, Consul General, Mazar-e-Sharif,” Bagchi tweeted. He described Kalra as a sincere, hard working and reliable officer who “showed exemplary commitment & dedication to the national cause by volunteering for a posting under difficult conditions to Afghanistan”.Jaishankar said he was deeply grieved at the passing away of Kalra. “A conscientious and dedicated colleague, he will be missed by us all. Sincerest condolences to his family,” he added.Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla tweeted that the ministry lost “a dedicated officer who volunteered for a challenging assignment”. He added, “Our thoughts and prayers are with the family at this difficult time.”People familiar with developments in New Delhi and Kabul said Kalra tested positive for Covid-19 recently and was being treated at a hospital in Kabul, where he died of cardiac arrest. It is believed Kalra is the first Indian diplomat to die of Covid-19-related complications, the people said.There have been several instances of diplomats at the headquarters in New Delhi and missions around the world getting infected by the Coronavirus disease. Jaishankar and a small delegation that accompanied him to the G7 foreign ministers meeting in London last week had to go into self-isolation after two members tested positive for the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indias-consul-general-in-mazar-e-sharif-dies-after-testing-positive-for-covid19-101620673101304.html
11-05-2021||India||Practically impossible to provide oxygen to other states: Kerala CM||As virus Covid-19 cases continue to soar in the coastal state, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday sent a fresh letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying it will be practically impossible to provide medical oxygen to other states as its buffer stock has dipped to 86 metric tonne. Addressing the media during a virtual meeting, Vijayan said going by the present surge the state’s active caseload is likely to cross 600,000 by the next week and the state will need at least 450 MT of medical oxygen. He said the state government was giving 40 MT of oxygen to Tamil Nadu daily as per the direction of central committee on oxygen pool. Kerala on Monday reported as many as 27,487 new Covid-19 cases and 65 fatalities, taking the caseload to 19,00,060 and death toll to 5,879, the state said.While the total number of active cases stands at 4,19,726, the positivity rate is at 27.56 per cent, showing signs of decline.With 31,209 recovering from the disease in the last 24 hours, the total number of people recovered reached 15,04,160.Ernakulam, which reported highest number of cases in the state in the last few days, added 2,834 new cases.As many as 99,748 samples were tested and the test positivity rate (TPR) was 27.56 per cent.“In view of rapidly rising cases it will be difficult for the state to meet demands of other states. So the state will be allowed to procure all 150 metric tonne produced at Kanjikode (Palakkad) plant,” he said. The main oxygen producing unit ‘Inox’ is located in Kanjikode and it was partly catering to the needs of two neighbouring state Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. He also requested the Centre to send more cryogenic tankers. In normal situation daily need of the state is 80 MT and it is producing around 219 metric tonne from big and small units. But as cases surge experts have warned that demand will rise at least five times in a week. Last week, the CM sent another letter to the PM requesting him to share imported oxygen concentrators and ventilators. The state has also started a vigorous drive to check oxygen wastage and technical teams will visit all generating and filling stations. In terms of daily caseload Kerala is on third spot after Maharashtra and Karnataka and it is under lockdown till May 16. “There is no let up in situation. In 72 panchayats TPR is above 50 per cent and in 300 it is above 30%. Cases are surging in Kannur, Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram districts. We have to strengthen lockdown to keep fatality down,” he said. Despite high load of active cases mortality rate in the state is lowest .04 against the national average of 1.40. He said the health department will hire more doctors, nurses and paramedical staff to meet the exigency and called back retired workers. The jail department has released 560 prisoners on parole as per the directive of the Supreme Court to ease virus surge in jails.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/practically-impossible-to-provide-oxygen-to-other-states-kerala-cm-101620673759909.html
11-05-2021||India||HC tells Centre to augment oxygen supply to Tamil Nadu||The Madras high court on Monday said it was necessary to take urgent measures to augment oxygen supply to Tamil Nadu and think of an alternate plan amid a sharp rise in demand of the life-saving gas. The bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy made the observations in the suo motu plea taken up by the court to monitor the second wave preparedness in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. The court observed that until a national task force is formed, as ordered by the Supreme Court on May 6, it is the Union’s responsibility to ensure continuous supply of oxygen and drugs to states and union territories. The court also asked Additional Solicitor General (R Sankaranarayanan) to take up the issue with the Centre. During the hearing, newly-appointed state advocate general R Shunmughasundaram submitted that Tamil Nadu’s demand about a week ago was for 475 MT of oxygen on a daily basis. On May 8, the Centre allocated daily quota of 419 MT. This includes 40 MT supply from Palakkad in Kerala till May 12.But the state’s assessment is that the demand for oxygen will rise to 800 MT “within the next few days”, the court noted. The court also took note of media reports that local residents stopped vehicles carrying oxygen from Palakkad towards Coimbatore and the neighbouring areas in view of the perceived shortage of supply in Kerala. “The State and the Centre should find ways of effective supply to the south-western region of the state since supply from Sriperumbudur or elsewhere in north or central Tamil Nadu may be logistically difficult and at any rate, less efficient than ensuring supply from neighbouring Palakkad which is about 40 km away,” the court said. It was also submitted to the court that the Sterlite facility in Thoothukudi district which was allowed to by the Supreme Court to re-open for the sole purpose of producing oxygen may begin production this week with an anticipated 40 MT per day as initial supply.With the present allocation and rising demand, the court said that it was necessary to think of a plan B and explore options such as oxygen generators being set up by Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) at short notice.As experts warned of a third wave, the court said, “It is necessary to be over-prepared and not require the resources being put to use rather than being unprepared and rue for not having garnered additional resources. The objective of the exercise is to prepare for the worst and hope that the worst does not hit us.”The bench, however, observed that given the lockdown in Tamil Nadu from May 10-24, will lead to tapering of cases. It also noted that given a new government formed in the state, most key officials have been transferred except health secretary J Radhakrishnan, to ensure continuing measures to fight the pandemic. The court said that though the state has augmented bed availability, “both Tamil Nadu and Puducherry seem to be crying out for the requisite supply of drugs and vaccines.” Due to lack of doses, the state hasn’t rolled out vaccination for the 18-45 age group. “Learned ASG has assured to take up the case of both the State and the Union Territory with the Centre, at least till such time that the National Task Force set up by the Supreme Court order gets down to the nitty-gritties of allocation and the like,” the court said in its orders. “It is necessary that immediate urgent measures be taken, both to augment the supply of oxygen in the state and of vaccines and drugs to both the state and the Union Territory.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-tells-centre-to-augment-oxygen-supply-to-tamil-nadu-101620673579899.html
11-05-2021||India||Kadapa blast: Quarry owner, aide arrested from bus stand||Two days after an explosion at a limestone mine in Kadapa district claimed 10 lives, police arrested C Nageshwar Reddy, owner of the quarry and E Raghunath Reddy, the supplier of explosive materials, from a bus stand on Monday.Briefing reporters on the same, district superintendent of police (SP) K K N Anburajan said the accused were allegedly trying to escape when they were arrested from the bus stand in Amagampalle village. “We shall take some more persons suspected to be involved in the procurement of detonators,” the SP said. The explosion took place when the labourers were trying to unload the detonators from a car brought from Pulivendula to Konda Gangamma Thalli limestone quarry at Mamillapalle village of Kalasapadu block on Saturday morning. Manager of the mine Lakshmi Reddy and driver of the vehicle Korivi Prasad were among the 10 labourers who died on the spot. Anburajan said investigations revealed that there were more than 1,000 detonators in the vehicle at the time of the explosion. “The quarry owner had no permission to possess or transport the explosives and had also gone in for excavation of mineral more than the permitted quantity,” he said. Nageshwar Reddy, who belongs to Chenchaiahgaripalle village, holds the general power of attorney for the quarry, which was originally leased out to C Kasturi Bai, wife of C Ramachandraiah, legislative council member of YSR Congress party 10 years ago. The lease will expire in November this year. “Raghunath Reddy, who belongs to Pulivendula town, has been supplying the explosive material to Nageshwar Reddy illegally, for using them in exploration of mineral in the quarry,” the SP said. The accused were booked by Kalasapadu police under section 304 (2) of Indian Penal Code, besides sections 3, 5 and 6 of the Explosive Substances Act. Preliminary investigations, the SP said, revealed that the accused was using explosive material without permission and undertaking mining activities without environmental clearance. “A multi-departmental probe has been ordered into the incident,” he said. He added that the original lease holder would also be served notices for appearing before the inquiry committee. “We shall take stringent action against all those who responsible for the explosion,” Anburajan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kadapa-blast-quarry-owner-aide-arrested-from-bus-stand-101620673520382.html
11-05-2021||India||Confusion, chaos prevail as strict lockdown kicks in||Bengaluru: The first day of the second lockdown announced by the Karnataka government resulted in chaos and anguish in many parts of the state including Bengaluru. In rural areas, citizens were seen flouting the guidelines and in some cases, police were forced to resort to lathi-charge. According to the lockdown guidelines, shops selling essential items like food, groceries, vegetables, fruits, dairy, milk, meat, fish and animal fodder are permitted to operate from 6 am to 10 am every day. As per the new regulations, public transport will remain suspended, and people will not be allowed to move around except in case of emergencies, essential services or vaccination. Use of private vehicles to buy parcel food and essentials is also not allowed except for home delivery of food.One of the biggest concerns was the decision not to allow people to use their private vehicles to purchase essential supplies. The move was criticised for being city-centric without looking at the realities of the rural parts. Sandeep Poonacha, a resident of Virajpet in Kodagu district said that it was impossible for him to walk more than 10km carrying loads of essential commodities. “People sitting in A/C rooms have made these decisions for Bengaluru city and implemented it for the entire state. How do they expect us to travel more than 10 km to get to a grocery store, pick essentials for a family of four and walk back with it? Do people in power know what they are doing,” he asked. Poonacha added that his cousin, who went on his private vehicle to purchase supplies for all the relatives, was thrashed by the police. Even in Bengaluru, similar concerns were raised. “The government said online deliveries will be available, but all slots are booked and if we call the shops for delivery, they refuse. If you go to the shop, there are large queues, and we only have a window of four hours to get milk and other supplies. Because vehicles are not allowed, we can’t go to other stores if the lines are huge. If this is the measure to control Covid-19, this is certainly not going to work,” said Naveen Sastry, a resident of Bengaluru’s Kammanahalli. Apart from this, on Monday, several videos of police personnel resorting to violence emerged on social media. In one case, in Hirikur in Haveri district, police were seen hitting vegetable vendors using plastic pipes. The police in Haveri alleged that these vegetable vendors remained opened after 10 am. However, the Karnataka government guidelines on lockdown have mentioned that the sale of vegetables and fruits on pushcarts and HOPCOMS (Horticultural Producers’ Cooperative Marketing and Processing Society)will be allowed from 6 am to 6 pm. In Bengaluru, roadside vendors faced the wrath of government action. In a video released by a group of social activists, Nagaraja, a vegetable vendor in Bengaluru’s Gandhinagar said officials arrived before 10 am and shut all footpath vendors. “How do we make our living with this deadline? We carry our business by maintaining physical distance and also keep sanitiser,” he said.GM Diwakar, president, K.R. Market Flower Merchants’ Association, said the government has been unfair. “Flowers are a permissible commodity. Since the markets are closed; only roadside vendors are allowed and it accounts for a fraction of the sales. While we are not added to the exception list, liquor is. How is liquor an essential commodity,” he asked. In a series of tweets, HD Kumaraswamy, the JD(S) second-in-command expressed his anger over the way lockdown has been implemented. “Strict lockdown and not just lockdown, where people will be beaten up like cattle has been implemented from today. It is a tragedy that the government thought lockdown means stopping vehicular movement. It forgot the woes of citizens in distress,” the JD(S) leader tweeted. He said these were not the restrictions the opposition had suggested.Responding to the allegations of police atrocities, Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant tweeted: “Contrary to the videos doing rounds on social media, police have been advised to only take action strictly as per law, in case anybody violates lockdown guidelines. They have been advised not to use any kind of force in this regard.”He also added that anyone having any complaint regarding travel to the place of work or carrying out permitted activities during the lockdown, can contact DCP Intelligence Santhosh Babu on 080-22942354.Meanwhile, Karnataka DG and IGP Praveen Sood late on Monday evening tweeted that people are allowed to use vehicles for buying essential goods. “To buy groceries, vegetables and daily needs there is NO BAR for using a vehicle to your neighbourhood shop in cities or nearest availability point in rural areas. Use this facility with discretion & not as a licence for a free run every day. Stay at home for your own safety,” he wrote. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/confusion-chaos-prevail-as-strict-lockdown-kicks-in-101620673519881.html
11-05-2021||India||16 Muslim Covid warriors reinstated||Bengaluru: The 16 Muslim Covid warriors who were named by Bengaluru south member of parliament, Tejasvi Surya in connection with the “bribe for bed scam” were reinstated back into their parent company on the instructions of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), on Monday. Special BBMP chief (south zone) Thulasi Maddineni however said that only 11 out of the 16 had asked for their suspension to be withdrawn and wanted to be employed again, while the others have not approached the BBMP. The developments come days after Surya and three other BJP legislators from Bengaluru--Ravi Subramanya, Uday Garudachar and Satish Reddy--barged into the BBMP war room in the south zone and questioned how these 16 were hired by the agency. Bengaluru police official said that no investigation has been ordered against these men either. Hours after BBMP’s decision, Surya, while addressing the media said that it was the BBMP that had prepared the list to dismiss or relocate. When Hindustan Times asked Surya why the 16 people were reinstated by BBMP, when they were part of the list of people to be dismissed, Surya shrugged his shoulders without an answer. When asked why he read out the names without knowing why such a list, which had 16 of the 19 Muslim employees of the war rooms, was made Surya said: “The list was given… I questioned how they were appointed and what is the process of appointing.” To the question on why such a list was made in the first place, Surya said: “You should ask the officers who made it.” The BJP MP further said that the MLA who accompanied him and claimed that the 16 men on the list were responsible for the ‘bribe for bed scam’, should be held accountable for his action and his words alone. He also made it clear that he has not apologised to any of the 16 Muslim employees. Changes made to bed booking system Meanwhile, earlier in the press conference, Surya announced four major changes in the BBMP bed booking systems. Following the expose by the MP, Bengaluru police had launched an investigation in which at least seven people have been arrested so far. Even on Monday, police arrested two men Sudhir and Venkoba Rao, who are accused of blocking beds and taking money to allocate it to patients. Surya said that major changes that were incorporated with the help of Infosys co-founder Nandan Nilekani were included such as instant SMS alert to a patient after a bed is booked, disabling of ‘manual unblock’ option, reducing reservation time of a hospital bed from 10 hours to 4 hours and two-factor authenticated person-specific logins. “Manual unblocking of beds, which was the biggest loophole used by miscreants to make proxy bookings, is now disabled. If a patient needs to be shifted to a different hospital, then a rebooking can be done. Another major reform is the instant SMS alerts to patients with the details of the beds booked in their name. This will henceforth prevent beds being booked in patients’ names without their knowledge,” he said. He also added that the team felt that the auto-unblock time of a bed, where a bed will be automatically unbooked if a patient does not report for hospital admission for 10 hours, is too long. “This is now reduced from 10 hours to 4 hours, meaning a hospital bed booked under your name is valid only for 4 hours with an option to re-block in exceptional circumstances,” Surya said. “Another important change is in the war rooms booking beds. We have also activated two-factor authenticated person-specific logins for more accountability. Earlier, war rooms had generic logins with common usernames used by multiple people. Bookings will now be tagged to individuals, and this will help in bringing transparency as every booking is tagged to one specific person,” he added. Several more reforms like a digital queuing system for allocation of beds, shortening of reservation time of a bed and an Aadhaar-enabled biometric or OTP verification during admission are in the pipeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-muslim-covid-warriors-reinstated-101620673459839.html
11-05-2021||India||EPS to be leader of opposition in TN Assembly||Former Tamil Nadu chief minister and All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) leader Edappadi K. Palaniswami was on Monday unanimously elected leader of the legislative party to become the leader of opposition in the state assembly. The decision was taken after a three-hour meeting at the party office in Chennai on Monday. The party had earlier met on Friday but failed to arrive at a consensus. It was important for the AIADMK to elect its legislative party leader on Monday as the newly-elected legislators are expected to take oath on Tuesday.At the meeting, senior leader K P Munusamy announced Palaniswami as the opposition leader to the newly-elected MLAs. “It is a unanimous decision of the new MLAs and senior leaders without any dissent,” C Ponnaiyan, one of AIADMK’s founding members, said.The announcement was followed by a statement signed by both Palaniswami and Panneerselvam. With this, political experts believe that Palaniswami has sealed his top position in the AIADMK.“EPS is now the most powerful man in the AIADMK but to be that, he requires the consent of OPS,” political analyst Raveendran Duraisamy said. “The dual leadership still prevails despite EPS commanding more support. OPS will not give up his signing authority. OPS fully knew that he was on the losing side of the battle, but he still gave a fight to establish that it is a dual leadership party and he also have a right and won’t be a push over.” The scene outside the party office was, however, different. The deployment of police increased after cadres supporting their respective leaders grew in number amid a statewide lockdown enforced in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.At Friday’s meeting, the newly-elected MLAs were seated on the first floor of the party office as several senior leaders, along with Palaniswami and Panneerselvam, discussed matters on the ground floor. When asked why Friday’s meeting was inconclusive if there was no dissent, Ponnaiyan said, “There was no actual problem, it was created by the media. Besides choosing the opposition leader, we had to discuss our electoral debacle. Our performance in the north and south regions isn’t appreciable.” In the recently-concluded Tamil Nadu elections, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK)-led alliance had won 159 seats in the 234-member Assembly. The AIADMK won 66 segments and its partners Bharatiya Janata Party and Paattali Makkal Katchi won four and five seats, respectively. The poll performance gave Palaniswami the upper hand as he and former top ministers hail from the western region where the party performed its best.Pannerselvam, on the other hand, hails from the south. In Theni district, his native place, the party saw its archrival DMK beating it convincinglyP Ayyapan, a new MLA from south Usilampatti constituency, said the AIADMK agreed to the leadership’s decision. “I’m from his (Panneerselvam) region. He hadn’t come to us for support in this matter. He didn’t say he wanted the post,” he said, adding: “It’s the cadre outside who are shouting slogans and leaving.” In what appeared to be a show of strength, Pannerselvam attended chief minister M K Stalin’s swearing-in ceremony last Friday before the AIADMK meeting and also ate together with Governor Banwarilal Purohit, former chief secretary Rajeev Ranjan and other senior DMK leaders.“Whether it is EPS or OPS, it is AIADMK’s internal politics but now that EPS has been elected, we respect the decision and expect that he will play a constructive role as opposition leader as well as in Tamil Nadu politics,” DMK spokesperson J Constantine Ravindran said.Both Palaniswami and Panneerselvam have been managing party affairs and the government since former chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s demise in office in December 2016. The dual leadership arrangement even saw Palaniswami as the chief minister and joint coordinator of the AIADMK while Panneerselvam as deputy chief minister and coordinator of the party. However, there has been frequent tension between the two over important decisions. Tension was also brewing over who would be the leader of opposition. “It is only natural and expected that both leaders had their own support base who put forth their points. We have resolved this now,” a former AIADMK minister said, preferring anonymity.It is for the second time that Panneerselvam has given up on an important post despite putting up a fight initially. In October 2020, after more than a week of MLAs scuttling between the two leaders, Panneerselvam announced the party’s decision to field Palaniswami as the chief ministerial candidate.The party deftly ousted Jayalalithaa’s close aide V K Sasikala and her nephew TTV Dhinakaran in 2017. While the duo wanted to reclaim the party, Sasikala in March announced to stay away from politics. Dhinakaran’s Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) did not win any seats during the polls but played spoiler for the AIADMK in 21 seats. For now, the party said, there will be no deflection.“Sasikala is a spent force. EPS and a majority of the cadre wouldn’t want her back. For any expulsion and inclusion to the party, both EPS and OPS have to sign,” Duraisamy said. Meanwhile, Rajya Sabha MPs Munusamy and R Vaithilingam tendered their resignations since they won as MLAs from Vepanahalli and Orathanadu constituencies. During the poll campaign, AIADMK’s RS MP Mohamed John died of a cardiac arrest and with that, three Upper House seats from Tamil Nadu remain vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eps-to-be-leader-of-opposition-in-tn-assembly-101620673400419.html
11-05-2021||India||Form task force to tackle third Covid wave, BSY tells officials||Bengaluru Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday directed his officials to prepare for an imminent third wave of Covid-19 infections and ordered the formation of a task force for the same.In a meeting held with officials on Monday evening at his residence “Cauvery” in Bengaluru, Yediyurappa took stock of the pandemic situation and response in the state.“We should be prepared for the third wave from now on itself,” according to a statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO), attributing it to Yediyurappa.The statement comes at a time when the Karnataka government is struggling to get a grip on the ongoing second wave of infections in the southern state and its capital, Bengaluru.The Karnataka government has been accused of ignoring warnings by the state-appointed technical advisory committee (TAC) in November on the imminent second wave and the required preparedness to deal with the same.Karnataka registered 39,305 new infections that takes its active caseload to 571,006. Positivity rate was at 31.66% while fatality rate stood at 1.51%, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department on Monday.Bengaluru saw a slight decrease in cases as the city reported 16,747 new infections, which some senior officials said was a sign of its plateauing. However, Bengaluru accounted for 374 out of the total 596 fatalities in the state.The situation in other districts of the state continues to deteriorate as they are yet to peak, according to officials.Chitradurga, with 172 cases was the lowest in the state while Tumakuru, about 70 kms from Bengaluru, was the highest with 2168, according to the daily bulletin of the state healthdepartment.Meanwhile, the number of fatalities too have seen a spike in these districts. There were 26 fatalities in Ballari, 22 in Hassan, 12 each in Haveri and Mandya, 15 each in Tumakuru and Bagalkote, 11 each in Shivamogga and Uttara Kannada. Only one district, Koppal, registered no deaths on Monday, according to the bulletin, that shows the severity of the spread and its impact on those infected.Though Karnataka has claimed acute shortage of oxygen, a senior government official has said that the supplies were more than the requirement.“The actual oxygen demand and requirement is more than the supplies: hence, therefore, at present, allocation can only be issued as per actual supplies,” according to Munish Moudgil, the state nodal officer for oxygen distribution.Karnataka had earlier estimated that it has a requirement of over 1700 MT of oxygen while the centre had allocated only 965 MT.CN Ashwath Naryan, deputy chief minister and head of the state’s Covid task force directed officials to immediately integrate the real time data of the supply of oxygen, anti-viral drug Remdesivir and bed allocated under government quota in private hospitals to SAST portal.“The above data should be made to be displayed in the SAST portal on a real time basis. This will enable us to know who needs what and to whom the supplied things are reaching on a real time basis. Ultimately this would result in streamlining the COVID services management,” he said in a statement on Monday.For Bengaluru, he said that there was a demand of around 7000 hospital beds.“To put a check on those who get unnecessarily hospitalized, triaging of these bed seekers will be done in 60 L-1 (includes maternity homes, medical colleges, and covid care centers,) and L-2 (PHCs) centers. After triaging the number of beds really needed may reduce to around 2500. Now the government is providing 1000 beds apart from the beds reserved in private hospitals. So, for Bengaluru city every day 2500 beds can be made available,” he said.The state government has also decided to procure 2,00,000 Pulse Oximeters and out of this 25,000 will be procured immediately in the first phase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/form-task-force-to-tackle-third-covid-wave-bsy-tells-officials-101620673399791.html
11-05-2021||India||For first time since May, city sees a dip in new Covid cases||Bengaluru: The city on Monday saw a significant reduction in single-day Covid-19 infections as India’s IT capital reported 16,747 new cases in the 24 hours. The cases fell sharply for the first time since the beginning of May, which is when experts have predicted a peak in Covid-19 infections in Bengaluru. According to the health bulletin of the state health department on Monday, this is just the second time in May that Bengaluru has reported under 20,000 infections in a single day. “If the same (stagnant number of infections) continue for a few more days, it may be an indication of a decline,” said a senior government official, requesting not to be named. Another senior official said that a decline is expected within the next 10 days. Bengaluru has seen the total number of infections increase from 6,813 cases in February to 31,886 in March. However, the health crisis spiralled out of control in the city as it reported 338,360 infections in April. In the first 10 days of May, Bengaluru has reported 191,547 new infections, according to data from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). The city now has 352,454 active cases out of total 571,006 in the state. The positivity rate in Bengaluru is nearly 40%, according to the data. However, the stagnation of infection numbers has not had much impact on the fatality rates which continues to rise rapidly. With a fatality rate of nearly 1%, Bengaluru accounted for 374 out of the 596 fatalities in the state. The city accounts for 8,431 out of the at least 19,372 fatalities reported in the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-first-time-since-may-city-sees-a-dip-in-new-covid-cases-101620673339838.html
11-05-2021||India||How Karnataka vexed its vaccination strategy||Bengaluru Tech savvy Bengalureans, with their hacks and skills, are managing to get vaccination slots in centres that are 40-80kms around India’s IT capital that is leading to an uneven inoculation drive in Karnataka.A sizable section of persons were seen posting questions to the police on Twitter, seeking information on if it was safe to travel to other districts like Bengaluru Rural, Tumakuru and Chikballapur among other nearby districts to get the vaccine.Salil Bagai, a 29-year-old scientist with the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) travelled nearly 80 kms to Chintamani to get his shot along with six others from his apartment in Ramamurthy Nagar, in East Bengaluru.“I have been trying to book a slot since May 1 with two browsers and laptops opened but could not get one,” Bagai told Hindustan Times. Even his office could not manage to get vaccinations done, prompting the young scientist to scout for slots on his own.An alert that about 130 slots opened up in a hospital in Chintamani was circulated on their apartment WhatsApp group on Sunday night, which led him and at least six others booking slots.Bagai is among many from Bengaluru who have been using these tech hacks to get slots booked as Bengaluru’s centres running full with most of them reporting severe shortage of vaccines. The move to go to another district has also come under some criticism online as this would deprive locals a chance to get inoculated only because they are not techsavvy or do not have online tools .At least two persons who booked slots in Chikkaballapur have since cancelled citing that such a practice would lead to an uneven distribution of vaccine. But such has been the experience of most persons in Bengaluru and other parts of the country between the age groups between 18-44 who have been trying to register themselves on CoWin app and get a slot.“Most people just register on CoWin and think they can get vaccinated. But there is an important step which is to schedule an appointment. Explaining this to people is taking up most of our time which we can treat more Covid-19 patients,” said one government doctor, requesting not to be named.The BS Yediyurappa-led Karnataka government has announced a lockdown to contain the raging pandemic but its lack of preparedness is leading to an acute shortage of hospital beds, medicines and oxygen. Touts, in collusion with doctors and government officials, have been accused of selling hospital beds to medicines to even oxygen in the black market.Yediyurappa had stated that his government aims to vaccinate around 300,000 persons per day but it has fallen short of its own targets, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department. As a result, the vaccination drive has been slow and not kept in pace with the infections in the state. There were 80,823 vaccinations done till 3.30 pm on Monday that takes the total to 10,608,539, according to the bulletin.But only 2,115,571 people have received both doses.K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education on Monday said that the government is mulling to postpone the vaccination of persons between 18-44 till the lockdown is in place as it was leading to more vehicular movement.“We have vaccines but not enough to give everyone. We have around five hundred thousand vaccines. We are thinking if it is possible to vaccinate persons between 18-44. As they have to come from their homes and may get into trouble due to the restrictions. We are thinking of postponing this for another 14 days (end of lockdown) and have discussed this with chief secretary and home minister,” Sudhakar said on Monday .However, Basavaraj Bommai, Karnataka’s home, law and parliamentary affairs minster on Monday evening said that they will continue with the vaccination drive for people between 18-44 but only for those who have registered (and got a slot) on CoWin. “There were discussions on how to do it during the lockdown,” Bommai said. He added that there were about 200 centres that were giving vaccination to these age groups and those who crowd around these places without registration will not be allowed.A board in Bowring Hospital read, “Vaccination for 18-44 years beneficiaries has not started yet” as people of all age groups jostled for space as small fights broke out between those waiting in queues and those trying to cut them. A significant number were asked to leave the centre as there was a shortage of vaccines.“The portal shows that about 150 persons (18-44) registered. But that was done by East Zone but the BBMP personnel were not aware at all that these many persons had registered so they did not get the vaccine,” Dr.Manoj Kumar HV, Dean cum Director at the Bowring & Lady Curzon Medical College & Research Institute Bengaluru said.Bengaluru, and the rest of Karnataka, have been under the tightening grip of the raging pandemic that claimed 596 more lives in the 24 hours on Sunday. Karnataka registered 39,305 new infections on Monday taking its active caseload to 571,006. Positivity rate was at 31.66% while fatality rate stood at 1.51%, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department.Bengaluru saw a slight decrease in cases as the city reported 16,747 new infections. However, Bengaluru accounted for 374 out of the total 596 fatalities in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-karnataka-vexed-its-vaccination-strategy-101620673219817.html
11-05-2021||India||Factionalism, poor local leadership behind poll losses: Leaders at CWC meet||Congress leaders on Monday blamed factionalism and poor local leadership and cited hurdles in campaigning and paucity of time for preparations as they analysed the party’s performance in the recent assembly polls in the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on Monday after party chief Sonia Gandhi asked them to take note of “our serious setback” and told them if they don’t “face up to the reality”, they will “not draw the right lessons.”The party again deferred its internal election to find a successor of president Sonia Gandhi “in view of the nationwide emergent conditions prevailing on account of unprecedented Corona pandemic” and several leaders maintained that organization has to be devoted to Covid-19 relief works. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who is recuperating from Covid-19, didn’t attend the CWC meeting on Monday.In her opening remarks, Gandhi asked the CWC to “take note of our serious setbacks” and said that “to say that we are deeply disappointed is to make an understatement”. She proposed the creation of a committee to analsze the results in Kerala, Assam, Puducherry and West Bengal and added, “but if we do not face up to the reality, if we do not look the facts in the face, we will not draw the right lessons.According to people present at the meeting, at one point, Gandhi quipped that under her stewardship the party has lost elections in 4 states after senior leader Salman Khurshid urged her to continue through the pandemic because the Congress has achieved much under her leadership.Also read | Sonia to remain Congress chief as party defers polls amid pandemicAfter the chief ministers of states ruled by the Congress who were present at the meeting described the Covid situation in their respective states, it was the turn of the general secretaries to give their assessment of the party’s performance in the recent assembly elections, added the people cited above, who summarised the points made by each. The Congress lost badly in Assam, went against a four-decade trend by losing in Kerala, performed badly in Puducherry, and didn’t win a single seat in the 294-member West Bengal assembly. It was, however, the junior partner in the victorious DMK-led alliance in Tamil Nadu.In his report, Jitendra Singh, in charge of Assam, said the Congress lost the state as it didn’t have sufficient time to prepare and to optimise its alliances with AIUDF and the Bodoland people’s Front. He also said that in upper Assam, the Congress did badly as the BJP backed two local parties to cut away the Congress votes. Singh also pointed out that the difference in vote share between the BJP and the Congress was very narrow, but senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh pointed out that the Congress would have actually done better if it had not partnered with Badruddin Ajmal’s AIUDF.Jitin Prasada , in charge of West Bengal, argued that the Congress could not do well in the last two phases of the West Bengal polls, in areas which were its strognhold as Covid impacted the party campaign. He also admitted that Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress managed to build up momentum in the first six phases that affected the Congress’ fortunes in the last two phases of polling.Dinesh Gundu Rao, in charge of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, congratulated Rahul Gandhi for aligning with the DMK in Tamil Nadu but squarely blamed former Puducherry CM V Narayanasamy for the debacle in the state. He pointed out that Narayanasamy refused to fight elections and many of his loyalists shifted to the BJP or the rival NR Congress.General secretary Tariq Anwar blamed infighting that weakened Congress organisation for the Kerala debacle. Rahul Gandhi campaigned extensively in the state, where the Congres-led UDF and the Left’s LDF have alternated in power since 1977.“The leadership continues to bury its head in the sand and refuses to confront its own failure to lead and direct the party,” Neera Chandioke, political scientist, said.Interestingly, there wasn’t much of an exchange over the poll results and almost all members stressed the importance of being united in this challenging time.Later, briefing the media, Congress general secretary KC Venugopal and party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said a group will be formed in 48 hours to look into the election results and promised to fix accountability. Surjewala claimed that “the Congress has lost the polls, but it has not lost its hope.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/factionalism-poor-local-leadership-behind-poll-losses-leaders-at-cwcmeet-101620672560869.html
11-05-2021||India||Former Congress leaders now helm six states||“There will now be three BJP-ruled states in the North East where Chief Minister is a former Congressman,’’ tweeted Congress Member of Parliament Abhishek Manu Singhvi, going on to list Assam’s Himanta Biswa Sarma who took oath as CM on Monday, Pema Khandu of Arunachal Pradesh and N Biren Singh of Manipur.Singhvi’s message was likely prompted by Sarma being sworn in as CM of Assam. Interestingly, two other CMs sworn in after the latest round of assembly elections are also Congress alumni -- West Bengal’s Mamata Banerjee who founded the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and Puducherry’s N Rangaswamy, founder of the NR Congress.Singhvi explained that he was just pointing out a coincidence.“I genuinely tweeted it when I noticed a striking coincidence in North Eastern states,’’ said Singhvi. “Now that you ask me, there are three other such CMs that have similar umbilical cords. This is merely underlining and not a value judgement on either the Congress or the persons concerned.’’Also read | Factionalism, poor local leadership behind poll losses: Leaders at CWC meetBut there were others who did make a value judgement.“Both Mamata Banerjee and Himanta Biswa Sarma who are taking oath as CM are former Congress leaders. They left because of our arrogance. And disrespect of their opinions. Add Jyotiraditya Scindia to the list. It’s long. It is never too late to learn from one’s blunders,” tweeted former Congress spokesperson Sanjay Jha.There’s also Andhra Pradesh’s Jagan Mohan Reddy.While there is no public acknowledgement of the fact, Hindustan Times learns that there is regret that the party couldn’t retain Sarma.Sarma quit the Congress before the 2014 elections after a fall out with his mentor Tarun Gogoi. The BJP’s decision to move him to the CM’s post is being seen as the party’s recognition of his influence beyond Assam, especially with key elections coming up in other North Eastern states“He is a self-made person and a dynamic leader,’’ a Congress leader said on condition of anonymity. “He would have really helped us grow.’’Congress spokesperson Pramod Tiwari chose to see the brighter side. “This shows that there is no dearth of talent in the Congress party. Now, people may leave because they have misunderstandings with one another but it also exposes that there is no talent in the BJP.”These misunderstandings have proved costly for the party. In late 2010, Reddy’s exit came after the party didn’t make him CM after his father, Y S Rajashekhara Reddy, died in a helicopter crash in 2009.Similarly, N Rangaswamy, who has now become the CM of Puducherry for the fourth time is a Congress veteran who formed his own party in 2011 . The Congress asked him to resign as CM in 2008. “The problem was that he didn’t get along with former Puducherry CM V Narayansamy,’’ said a party leader from the state who didn’t want to be identified. “And he couldn’t lobby with the Delhi leadership. So they only heard Narayansamy’s perspective and not his.’’Likewise, Khandu left in 2016, as did Singh.“No one trusts the Congress leadership,’’ said BJP’s general secretary Arun Singh, who was one of the party’s observers sent to Assam. “If people from there are inspired by (Prime Minister Narendra) Modiji and embrace our ideology, we will welcome them. It’s their weakness that gets exposed.”“The problem is not Congress’s inability to retain talent, but the BJP model of party building based on defections and breaking other parties,” said Zoya Hasan, Professor Emerita, JNU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-congress-leaders-now-helm-six-states-101620672440155.html
11-05-2021||India||Sonia to remain Congress chief as party defers polls amid pandemic||Sonia Gandhi will remain the Congress president for at least another three months with the party’s Working Committee on Monday, deciding against holding organisational polls by June due to the surging second wave of the Covid19 pandemic, a move that was accepted unanimously.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot was the first to demand that the polls be deferred. Then, Congress general secretaries Randeep Surjewala and KC Venugopal said that restrictions on physical gathering and movement meant that it made sense to defer the polls for two to three months.The move was not opposed by any of the members of the so-called G23 present at the meeting, people present at the meeting said. This is a group of Congress leaders that wrote to Sonia Gandhi in August, 2020, seeking a change in how the party works, and organisational elections. Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma and Mukul Wasnik, signatories to that letter were present at the meeting and supported the decision to defer the polls.Also read | Cong to form state-level panels to analyse assembly poll resultsGandhi took charge of the party in 2019 when Rahul Gandhi resigned following the Congress’ debacle in that year’s national elections. Since then, both she, as well as several of Rahul Gandhi’s loyalists have pushed for his return to the post -- but Rahul Gandhi himself appears reluctant to do so. To be sure, members of the G-23 have so far not talked about possible candidates for the polls.CWC also lashed out at the Narendra Modi government’s handling of the pandemic and said “the inhumane crisis of non-availability of oxygen, hospital beds, Remdesivir, Ivermectin , Tocilizumab, and vaccines reflects the criminal failure of the central government.”It termed the second wave “a direct consequence of the Modi government’s indifference, insensitivity and incompetence.” It also dubbed the Centre’s vaccination pricing policy as “opaque and discriminatory” and claimed that “the mandatory online registration without a walk-in option will exclude — and may have already excluded —millions of our citizens, particularly those in rural areas and those belonging to the weaker sections of society.”Watch | After poll debacle, Congress postpones internal President election citing CovidIn the meeting, Gandhi asked the CWC to deliberate on the internal polls. Madhusudan Mistry, chairman of the Congress Election Authority proposed that the polls could be held in the last week of June but nearly all leaders felt it would be impossible to do this till Covid subsides.After the Congress chief ministers spoke about the situation in their states, the CWC passed a resolution saying, the Covid19 second wave is “nothing short of a grave calamity” and the direct result of the central government’s “willful disregard of scientific advice, its premature declaration of victory over the pandemic and its unwillingness and inability to plan in advance.”The party said that while vaccine supplies are grossly insufficient, the Centre has “passed on the financial responsibility for vaccinating the 18-44 year population to the State governments, which are already facing severe financial stress.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-to-remain-congress-chief-as-party-defers-polls-amid-pandemic-101620672079694.html
11-05-2021||India||11 die in Tirupati hospital after oxygen supply disrupted for 5 minutes: Official||Eleven Covid-19 patients died on Monday evening due to disruption in oxygen supply at the state-run Sri Venkateswara Ramnarain Ruia Hospital (SVRR) in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district on Monday evening, officials said.Chittoor district collector M Harinarayanan said there was disruption in supply of oxygen for about 5-10 minutes due to a delay in arrival of an oxygen tanker from Sriperumbudur in Tamil Nadu to the SVRR hospital.“Soon after the arrival of the tanker at the hospital, the oxygen supply was restored, but by that time, 11 persons undergoing treatment for Covid-19 died of asphyxiation. We could prevent further loss of lives due to timely restoration of oxygen supply,” the collector said.Nearly 1,000 patients are undergoing treatment at the hospital and the disruption of oxygen supply led to loss of severe respiratory distress for several patients. The doctors could save the lives of some patients by cardio-pulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and also by pressing oxygen compressors into service.Angry attendants of the patients who died went on a rampage soon after, vandalising the hospital and forcing doctors and nursing staff to run for safety.Senior district officials rushed to the hospital to bring the situation under control.Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed shock and grief over the tragedy in SVRR Hospital in Tirupati. He expressed condolences to the families of the victims.The chief minister has called for a comprehensive probe into the incident and directed state officials to ensure that such a situation did not recur in any of the hospitals in the state. He told hospital and health department officials to continuously monitor the oxygen continuously and see to it that there was no shortage of oxygen in any of the hospitals.Telugu Desam Party president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu also expressed shock over the incident and demanded stringent action against the officials responsible for the tragic deaths. Naidu also lashed out at the Jagan government, insisting that he did not show interest in ensuring sufficient infrastructure in the hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-die-in-tirupati-hospital-after-oxygen-supply-disrupted-for-5-minutes-official-101620671405651.html
11-05-2021||India||MHA grants central security cover to all BJP MLAs in Bengal||The Centre on Monday accorded ‘X’ category VIP security cover of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) to 61 Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLAs in West Bengal in view of the alleged violence against party leaders and workers in the state, people familiar with the development said.With this decision, all newly elected 77 MLAs of BJP in the 294-seat assembly are now being provided security cover by the central forces.Leader of opposition in the state, Suvendu Adhikari, who defeated chief minister Mamata Banerjee from Nandigram, already has a second highest ‘Z’ category security cover from the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF).Officials cited above said the ministry of home affairs (MHA) approved the security cover for 61 MLAs, who had no protection till now, after taking into consideration a report prepared by intelligence agencies as well as the inputs shared by the four-member team that visited the state last week to assess post-poll violence there.At least 16 people were killed in violence that rocked West Bengal after Trinamool Congress won a thumping victory in the assembly polls last Sunday. BJP claimed many of its party workers were killed by TMC goons and hundreds of others had to flee as party offices were torched and family members attacked.Also read | BJP picks Suvendu Adhikari as Bengal leader of OppositionTMC has claimed that BJP leaders provoked the violence and shared fake information. West Bengal Police has said some reports of rape and violence were untrue.Under the ‘X’ category cover, three-to-five armed commandoes will protect each MLA wherever they travel in the state. Others are already enjoying the central security cover under the next category of ‘Y’, which comprises of 10-12 men.“We had requested the home minister to provide security to our 77 MLAs as they were not able to travel anywhere, including their constituencies to their work. If the violence goes down, then they can rethink (the security cover) but for now we need this,” said BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya.“Security cover is required not just for our MLAs but for people across Bengal...incidents of assault, arson and loot are taking place every day. Women are being raped and molested,” said Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya.TMC leader Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar said – “Narendra and Amit [first names only, since they do the same to women politicians] ran a vile and filthy campaign. They should answer your question”.Another TMC leader said on condition of anonymity that the real reason was discontent among BJP legislators. “The BJP feels that the MLAs are very unhappy with Suvendu Adhikari being the leader of opposition,” the leader claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-grants-central-security-cover-to-all-bjp-mlas-in-bengal-101620671661678.html
11-05-2021||India||No post-poll violence after May 8, Bengal govt tells HC||The West Bengal government on Monday told the Calcutta high court that not a single incident of post-poll violence has been reported in the state after May 8.Earlier, Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee had told media on May 6, a day after she took oath as the chief minister of West Bengal, that 16 people were killed in post-poll violence.“The state in its affidavit to the Calcutta high court has submitted that not a single incident of violence has been reported in the state,” said Anindya Sundar Das, who filed a PIL in the high court on May 6, highlighting post poll violence and alleged inaction of the police.The HC on Friday had set up a five-judge bench headed by acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal to hear a PIL related to post-poll violence in West Bengal. The court had directed the state to file an affidavit on Monday specifying the areas where violence took place and the steps taken by the state government.Also read | MHA grants central security cover to all BJP MLAs in BengalMeanwhile, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, who had expressed displeasure for not receiving any report from the state on post-poll violence, told the media on Monday that he would be visiting the places in the state where violence had erupted.“Post-poll retributive violence, acts of arson, loot now have graduated into intimidation and extortion. This is very worrisome. I have therefore decided to visit the affected parts in the state as part of my Constitutional duty. I indicated to the state government to make arrangements. Unfortunately, their response has not been very responsive to the situation,” said Dhankhar.Meanwhile, a team sent by the Union home ministry, to take stock of the post-poll violence that had rocked the state soon after election results were announced on May 2, was also camping in the state.On Monday, chief minister Banerjee took a dig at the team sent by the Union home ministry saying it was only visiting houses of BJP workers and supporters.“Law and order is a state subject. Why is the central team visiting villages and triggering tension? It is fine that they came and met the chief secretary. But why would they visit houses of BJP workers and supporters? Did they visit the house that belongs to workers and supporters of TMC or any other party? Half of the people who died were TMC men,” Banerjee said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-post-poll-violence-after-may-8-bengal-govt-tells-hc-101620671599612.html
11-05-2021||India||BJP picks Suvendu Adhikari as Bengal leader of Opposition||Suvendu Adhikari, the Nandigram strongman who defeated his former mentor Mamata Banerjee in the recent assembly elections in West Bengal, will now face off against her as leader of the opposition in the state assembly .Adhikari joined the Bharatiya Janata Party in December, defecting from the Trinamool Congress, and his win in Nandigram was one of the few bright spots for the former in an election in which it hoped to win at least 200 seats and unseat Banerjee, but eventually ended up winning only 77.The TMC won 213, and while Banerjee, who lost to Adhikari by a margin of 1,900 votes demanded a recount, this was turned down by the Election Commission.Adhikari, who underwent training at Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) camps in his youth, started his career as a youth Congress leader before joining the TMC in 1998.“As leader of the opposition my first priority will be to carry out a movement to free Bengal of political violence and establish parliamentary democracy. The killings and arson must stop,” said Adhikari.Also read | 43-member Bengal cabinet takes oathHis reference is to a spate of violence that has swept the state, with TMC workers allegedly targetting the political opposition, primarily the BJP but also Left Front workers.BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy, one of the founder members of the TMC and now a BJP national vice-president, proposed Adhikari’s name for the post of leader of the opposition when the BJP’s newly elected legislators met at the party’s election office at Hastings in south Kolkata on Monday afternoon. Of the 77 BJP MLAs, 52 were present at the meeting while the rest were in their constituencies in the districts.Since Roy is senior to Adhikari and he won the polls from Krishnanagar in Nadia district, many leaders in the party thought he would be elected leader of the opposition. But Roy brushed aside the speculations, saying, “I am too old.” Roy is 67, and Adhikari, 51.“Twenty-two MLAs supported Suvendu Adhikari’s nomination. I asked the others if they wanted to propose any other name. Since there was no other nomination, Adhikari was unanimously elected leader of the BJP’s legislative party in the West Bengal assembly,” announced Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, who attended the meeting with the BJP’s central election observers.Manoj Tigga, who won the Natabari seat in north Bengal for the second time, was elected the BJP’s chief whip in the assembly.Asked why only 22 of the 52 BJP MLAs supported Adhikari’s nomination, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said, “He was unanimously elected. Even those who are in the districts told us that they would accept the party’s decision.”TMC leaders declined comment on one of their former colleagues becoming leader of the opposition.Kolkata-based political science professor and poll analyst Udayan Bandopadhyay said, “Adhikari joined the BJP five months ago. His becoming leader of the opposition may demoralise many leaders (in the BJP) who worked hard for years and helped the party grow in Bengal.”Adhikari became a legislator for the first time in 2006 and was later elected to the Lok Sabha. He was also made president of the TMC’s youth wing but Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee replaced him in 2014. His younger brother Dibyendu Adhikari is the TMC’s Lok Sabha member from Tamluk. The youngest sibling, Soumendu, headed the Contai civic body before joining the BJP in January.Polls were held in 292 of Bengal’s 294 assembly seats. Polls at two seats in Murshidababd district will be held later as two candidates died of Covid-19 during the polls, held in eight phases between March 27 and April 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjppicks-suvendu-adhikari-as-bengal-leader-of-opposition-101620671539599.html
11-05-2021||India||43-member Bengal cabinet takes oath||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee retained six portfolios for herself while inducting 20 new faces on Monday in the 43-member cabinet for her third stint in office.Banerjee retained some of the most important portfolios such as home and hills affairs, health and family welfare, land and land reforms, personnel and administrative reforms and information and cultural affairs, among others.“We have inducted 20 new ministers in the cabinet. There are nine women ministers (including Banerjee herself), seven ministers representing the minority community and four each from the SC and ST communities,” Banerjee said.While the ruling Trinamool Congress returned to power for the third time with a thumping victory, winning 213 of the 292 seats that went to the polls in the 294-member state assembly, party supremo Banerjee lost to her protégé-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari by fewer than 2,000 votes at Nandigram in East Midnapore district.Soon after distributing the berths, Banerjee held the first cabinet meeting and hinted that her government prefers not to impose a lockdown despite a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases.“We have imposed multiple restrictions. Without imposing a total lockdown, I would urge people to behave as if there is a lockdown. If you impose a total lockdown then people won’t be able to earn a living. There are many poor people who depend on daily wages,” she said.On Banerjee’s team are 24 ministers of cabinet rank, 10 ministers of state with independent charge, and nine other ministers of state.Also read | Centre brings all 77 BJP MLAs in West Bengal under VIP security coverAmong the new ministers sworn in was former finance minister Amit Mitra. Even though he didn’t contest the elections because of his poor health, he was sworn in as finance minister. Among the new faces given ministerial berths were former IPS officer Humayun Kabir and ex-cricketer Manoj Tiwari.Though the TMC had fielded several Tollywood actors and nearly all of them won, none were inducted in the cabinet.The chief minister also made some important changes in the cabinet. Jyotipriyo Mullick who was the former food and supplies minister was made the forest and renewable sources minister. It was during Mullick’s tenure that the TMC had to face allegations of a ration scam.Firhad Hakim who was the former mayor of Kolkata and at the same time looked after the urban development department was given transport and housing, while minister of state for health Chandrima Bhattacharya was given the additional charge of urban development. Bratya Basu was returned the ministries of school and higher education.Adhikari, on his part, said the BJP’s priority was ensuring peace in the state.“As the main opposition party in the assembly our first priority would be to ensure that there is no violence and to establish democracy. We would attend the sessions and raise our voice against injustice and torture,” said Adhikari, after being chosen as the leader of the opposition in the assembly.For the first time, the Bengal assembly doesn’t have anyone from the Congress and the Left Front, projecting a bipartisan shade of political representation that was unthinkable in the state till 10 years ago.The chief minister, however, said: “Nothing has happened in Bengal. Bengal is peaceful. There was only one genocide which took place at Sitalkuchi (where central forces had shot dead for persons).”Later in the day, Banerjee also held a meeting with religious leaders, market associations and puja committees while urging them to issue public statements, advising people to follow Covid-19 protocols during festive seasons.While Eid is scheduled later this week, members of the Calcutta Khilafat Committee have decided not to hold prayers on Red Road, which usually witnesses a gathering of more than 200,000 people on the festival. The state has put on a cap of 50 people on religious and cultural gatherings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/43member-bengal-cabinet-takes-oath-101620671479585.html
11-05-2021||NA||Highlights: Sri Lanka to observe inter-provincial travel curbs amid Covid surge||India, battling the world's worst outbreak of the deadly virus witnessed 366,161 new infections in the previous 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry dashboard. The new cases took the active caseload of the country to over 3.74 million (3,745,237) and death toll to 246,116.The continued surge in infections led several state governments to extend their lockdown-like measures to break the chain of transmission. Delhi and Uttar Pradesh extended the lockdown till May 17 with stricter measures. Karnataka on Monday will enter a total lockdown, which will continue till May 24.Globally, the virus has affected the lives of more than 158 million people, while 3,288,638 lives have been lost due to the disease so far, as per the John Hopkins University Covid-19 tracker. Germany is reporting a continuous decline in infections since last month. The seven-day incidence rate was less than 120 for the first time since April and the country is looking towards gradually loosening the restrictions, as per a Bloomberg report. The infection rate in Russia is also stabilising and hospitalisations due to the viral disease are at a seven-month low in the United States, according to the report. Spain celebrated as the state of national emergency ended at midnight due to the decline in the cases. The curbs were eased for restaurants, travelling between regions, and social gatherings, reported Bloomberg.Follow all the updates here:Punjab sees record jump in daily Covid-19 deaths at 198; 8,625 new cases addedPunjab on Monday saw record single day jump in deaths due to the Covid-19 disease at 198, which took the death toll to 10,704, according to the health department's bulletin. As many as 8,625 new cases were reported on Monday and the state's caseload has climbed to 450,674, the bulletin showed.Sri Lanka to observe inter-provincial travel curbs amid Covid surgeSri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa on Monday told authorities to impose inter-provincial travel curbs with immediate effect due to the surge in cases of the Covid-19 disease. The restrictions will be imposed till May 30, according to news agency PTI. Rajapaksa also said that all public gatherings and events should be cancelled.Nagaland adds 133 fresh Covid-19 cases; tally climbs to 16,283Nagaland's tally of the Covid-19 disease climbed to 16,283 after 133 fresh cases were added on Monday, health minister S Pangnyu Phom told news agency PTI. Ten people succumbed to the disease on Monday, taking the toll to 150, Phom added.Odisha to float global tender for procurement of Covid-19 vaccinesOdisha is all set to float global tenders for procurement of Covid-19 vaccines from leading manufacturers around the world. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by chief minister Naveen Patnaik. The state government has asked the Centre to exempt imported vaccines from all tax liabilities.Maharashtra records 37,236 new cases of Covid-19, lowest since March 30Maharashtra records 37,236 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday, taking the total tally of cases to 5,138,973, as testing continued to dip in the state. A total of 1,92,330 samples were tested for Covid-19 in Maharashtra on Monday, as against 2,47,466 samples tested on Sunday, 2,60,751 samples on Saturday and 2,68,912 on Friday. 549 deaths were also reported in the state, the death toll now stands at 76,398.Malaysia to be put under a month-long Covid lockdown starting WednesdayA month long lockdown will be imposed in Malaysia from Wednesday till June 7, the Malaysian Prime Minister told reporters on Monday. However, business will be allowed to operate under restrictions and with reduced capacities during the lockdown period, reported PTI.Chandigarh reports 863 new cases of Covid-19Chandigarh reported 863 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday. Taking the total number of active cases and positive cases to 8,653 and 51,070 respectively in the span of 24 hours, reported news agency ANI.Novavax's Covid-19 vaccine shows promising results in preclinical studyNovavax Inc's combined vaccine for influenza and Covid-19 has reportedly shown promising results in a preclinical study, reported Reuters on Monday.Indian variant of Covid-19 detected in ThailandThailand government said on Monday that the Indian variant of Covid-19 has been detected in a woman and her 4-year old son, both of whom had travelled to the country from Pakistan and were in quarantine, reported the Associated Press.Chandigarh extends 'Corona Curfew' by another weekChandigarh administration has decided to extend the ongoing corona curfew by another week, reported ANI. The night curfew is currently being implemented from 6 pm to 5 am, with movement being allowed in the day timeAndhra Pradesh reports 14,986 new Covid-19 cases, 84 deathsAndhra Pradesh reported 14,986 cases of Covid-19 on Monday, pushing the state-wide tally of active cases to 1,89,367. 84 deaths and 16,167 recoveries have also been reported in the same time span, reported ANI.Delhi deputy CM flags vaccine shortageDelhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said the govt ordered nearly 1.5 crore coronavirus vaccine doses, but received around 3.5 lakh doses only. Sisodia also criticised the Union govt for exporting vaccines while the country experiences a brutal second wave of Covid-19.Delhi records 12,651 new Covid-19 cases, 319 deathsDelhi recorded 12,651 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday, taking the total tally of cases to 13,36,218. 319 deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 19,663.Sri Lanka records highest number of cases since onset of pandemicSri Lanka recorded 2600 new cases on Sunday, its highest ever single-day spike since the pandemic started last year. All public gatherings have been stopped in the state till May 20, reported PTI.Russia reports 8,465 new Covid-19 cases, tally climbs to over 4.8 millionRussia reported 8,465 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the last 24 hours on Monday. The national tally reached more than 4.88 million, reported Reuters.Uttarakhand starts vaccinating people aged 18-44 Uttarakhand launched the next phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive covering individuals aged 18-44 on Monday, reported PTI. Chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat told reporters that 50,00,000 youth will be covered under the third phase of vaccination in the state.Puducherry CM N Rangasamy tests positive for Covid-19Puducherry CM N Rangasamy tested positive for COVID19 and is currently receiving treatment at a private hospital in Chennai. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan inquired about his health wished him speedy recovery: LG Secretariat, Puducherry pic.twitter.com/aFTomWKsSEKerala receives 350,000 doses of Covishield vaccineKerala | The first batch of 3.5 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine arrived at Kochi airport from Pune around 12 noon today: Airport authorities pic.twitter.com/HPxAaQE1ReSocial distancing norms flouted in Covid-19 vaccination centre in AmritsarPunjab | People flout social distancing norms at COVID-19 vaccination centre in Amritsar"I was afraid of contracting the virus inside the vaccination centre as people are not following social distancing norms," says a local pic.twitter.com/OgniCwdNaLOver 18 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses provided to states/UTs so far: Centre#IndiaFightsCorona:📍Government of India has so far provided more than 18 crore vaccine doses to States/UTs Free of Cost(As on 10th May, 2021, 8:00 am)➡️ Over 9 Lakh doses, in addition, will be received by the states/UTs in the next 3 days#We4Vaccine #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/ikFmp6NIFg20 people detected with Indian Covid-19 variant in France, says health ministerAround 20 people in France have been detected with the variant of Covid-19 first found in India, a Reuters report quoted French health minister Olivier Veran as saying on Monday.Andaman and Nicobar Islands logs 26 new Covid-19 casesAndaman and Nicobar Islands reported 26 new Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours pushing the tally to 6,367. Two new deaths due to the virus rose the death toll to 76, PTI quoted a health department official as saying. 73 test positive for Covid-19 in Mizoram, including 19 childrenMizoram reported 73 fresh Covid- 19 cases on Monday. Of 73 people found to be positive over 19 were children. The state's tally stands at 7,623, PTI quoted an official as saying.Arunachal Pradesh logs 119 new Covid-19 casesArunachal Pradesh reported 119 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the coronavirus disease tally in the state to 20,165, PTI quoted a health department official as saying.Odisha reports 10,031 new Covid-19 casesOdisha reported 10,031 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the state's active caseload to 94,760, as per an ANI report.India reports 366,161 new Covid-19 cases, 3,754 deathsIndia on Monday reported 366,161 new Covid-19 cases and 3,754 deaths. The country's tally now stands at 22,662,575, according to the Union health ministry data.Maharashtra: Thane logs 1,752 new Covid-19 casesThane in Maharashtra reported1,752 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, raising the infection count in the district to 4,88,779, PTI quoted an official as saying.Ladakh reports 138 new Covid-19 cases, tally climbs to 15,317Ladakh reported 138 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 15,317. Two more fatalities pushed the death toll due to the viral disease to 155 in the Union Territory, PTI quoted the officials as saying.Uttarakhand imposes 8-day 'Covid curfew' from May 11 to 18'COVID curfew to be imposed in Uttarakhand from 6am on May 11 till 6am on May 18; shops selling fruits, vegetables, dairy items to remain open from 7am-10am, shopping malls, market complexes, gyms, theatres, assembly halls, bars, liquor shops to remain closed until further orders pic.twitter.com/nRC9GdRQmoBrazil reports 1,024 new Covid-19 fatalities Brazil reported 1,024 more deaths from the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The national death toll of the country reached to 422,340 after new fatalities, according to the health ministry, reported ANI.China reports 11 new Covid-19 casesChina reported 11 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 90,769, the national health authority, reported Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-covid-19-india-world-death-toll-may-10-2021-101620610391718.html
11-05-2021||India||Bodies found floating in Yamuna in UP’s Hamirpur: Cops||Amid a severe wave of Covid-19 infections in Uttar pradesh, several unidentified and partially burnt bodies were spotted floating in the Yamuna river in Hamirpur, according to residents of the town who alerted the police. Two bodies were partially burnt, police said on Sunday.Anoop Singh, the additional Superintendent of Police, Hamirpur, said that many families instead of burning the mortal remains of their dead kin preferred to immerse them in the river as the last rites. He said they were looking into the matter and were also in contact with the police of Kanpur Outer and Kanpur Dehat. “Two of the bodies were partially burnt. We have informed the two districts and have also stepped up vigil in our area,” he added.“In the second wave of the pandemic, people have died in large numbers in villages and people out of fear are not helping one another. In such a scenario, they are dumping their dead into the rivers,” said Dinesh Nigam, the councillor from Maudaha, Hamirpur Nagar Palika.On Thursday, some passers-by spotted over a dozen bodies floating in the river and informed police control room. Meanwhile, an investigation was underway and efforts were on to establish the identities of the deceased.The state recorded 23,175 fresh Covid-19 infections and 294 fatalities on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bodies-found-floating-in-yamuna-in-up-s-hamirpur-cops-101620584714442.html
11-05-2021||India||More than 5,000 soldiers battle Covid-19 in hospitals, 5-fold jump in 3 weeks||More than 5,000 soldiers from the three services are currently undergoing treatment for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in military hospitals across the country, almost a five-fold jump in hospital admissions in three weeks after the second wave of infections tightened its grip on the country, according to official figures accessed by Hindustan Times. The cases under hospitalisation in the military increased from 1,067 on April 18 to 5,134 on May 10, reflecting, to some extent, the wider national trend of a surge in Covid-19 infections. To be sure, the armed forces have done a better job than others in checking the transmission of the virus and keeping the mortality rate exceptionally low by adhering to strict Covid protocols --- 133 deaths of serving soldiers have been reported since the pandemic broke out last year (including 17 in the three weeks cited above). The figures show that the cumulative number of soldiers discharged from military hospitals after being treated for the disease after the first outbreak in 2020 stands at 45,413 (as of May 10, 2021). Almost all soldiers in the armed forces have been fully vaccinated against the coronavirus disease. Veterans suffering from Covid-19 also account for a considerable load at military hospitals. As many as 1,814 ex-servicemen are currently being treated at these hospitals, compared to 356 three weeks ago. At 1,027, the cumulative veteran deaths outnumber the serving fatalities - 44 veterans died on May 9 alone compared to a single serving soldier, a subedar. Military hospitals have discharged 5,242 veterans after treatment since last year. There are more than 3.2 million ex-servicemen in the country. Dependents of serving soldiers and ex-servicemen are also battling Covid-19 in military hospitals. As many as 3,662 dependents of serving soldiers and 1,439 dependents of veterans were undergoing treatment in military hospitals as of May 10, compared to April 18 figures of 667 and 166, respectively. The cumulative number of dependents in both categories discharged after treatment since last year stands at 11,820. Dependent deaths add up to 2,094. Dependents include spouses, sons (till the age of 25 or when they start earning, whichever is earlier), unmarried/divorced daughters, parents with a monthly income of less than ₹9,000 and special children for life. The number of military dependents in India is around 2.3 million. Taken together, as many as 12,049 soldiers, ex-servicemen and both their dependents are currently in military hospitals for treatment, with the cumulative death figure since last year being 2,611. In all, military hospitals admitted a total of 77,135 soldiers, veterans and their dependents over the last 14 months and discharged 63,631 patients. Civilians are also being treated at military hospitals and currently account for 448 admissions, up from 71 three weeks ago. The hospitals have recorded 177 civilian deaths since last year. While catering to the health needs of serving soldiers, veterans and their dependents, the military is also operating in full battle mode for national Covid-19 relief and foresees a bigger role for itself in the coming weeks and months to help civilian authorities tackle the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-5-000-soldiers-battle-covid-19-in-hospitals-5-fold-jump-in-3-weeks-101620754048074.html
11-05-2021||India||Odisha govt to set up Covid testing labs at 16 district headquarters||Odisha government on Tuesday informed that it would set up RT-PCR Covid-19 testing laboratories at 16 district headquarters.Chief minister Naveen Patnaik has sanctioned ₹20 crore for these Covid testing labs.These testing laboratories will be set up in Bhadrak, Boudh, Dhenkanal Gajapati, Khordha Jagatsinghpur, Jajpur, Kendrapada, Nabarangpur, Malkangiri, Nuapada, Sonpur, Kandhamal, Sundargarh, Rayagada and Bargarh districts of the state.A four-member team including one microbiologist and tree lab technician will be engaged in each facility for testing purposes.According to the state health department, Odisha registered as many as 9,793 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. The state also reported 9,706 recoveries and 18 related deaths in the same duration.The total tally of Covid cases in Odisha now stands at 5,54,666. 4,57,569 people have recovered and 2,215 have succumbed to the virus so far in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-govt-to-set-up-covid-testing-labs-at-16-district-headquarters-101620753073370.html
11-05-2021||India||Japan, UNDP to provide 8 oxygen-generation plants to NE: Union minister||Union minister Jitendra Singh on Tuesday said Japan and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) have partnered to provide eight oxygen-generation plants to ensure an uninterrupted supply of the life-saving gas at hospitals in the northeast.These plants will support over 1,300 hospital beds across the region, he said.Singh, the Minister of State for the Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), said all the eight northeastern states are pro-actively assisted by the Centre to fight the second wave of Covid-19 effectively.Chairing a review meeting with the chief secretaries, health secretaries, planning secretaries of the northeastern states and central government officers on Covid preparedness, he informed that Japan and the UNDP have partnered to provide eight oxygen-generation plants to ensure an uninterrupted supply of the life-saving gas at hospitals in the northeast, according to an official statement.Singh also assured the states that they will get their fair share from the foreign aid India is receiving and that all attempts will be made to ensure that they are not left behind in the fight against the coronavirus.He said the fund of ₹369 crore disbursed last year for 14 health and Covid-related projects had significantly helped to ramp up the health infrastructure, including the purchase of new equipment, and now, all the states are better prepared to fight the pandemic, according to the statement issued by the Ministry of DoNER.Taking note of the fact that all the states are getting severely affected by the pandemic compared to the first wave, the minister asked the northeastern states to send health-related proposals at the earliest and promised to process them on priority basis in the ministry, it said.He also instructed the senior officials of the ministry to coordinate with health, railways and other relevant ministries at the Centre to fulfil the demands of the northeastern states.Singh said almost all the states have flagged off issues such as a shortage of oxygen, vaccines and essential drugs like Remdesivir and assured them that he will personally take up these matters with the Union health minister.At the same time, he appealed to people not to hoard oxygen and essential drugs as a precaution and not to panic.Singh also underlined the need for community management of the pandemic by roping in youngsters, the civil society, religious heads and women self-help groups to create awareness among the public.He also recalled that in the early days of lockdown-1 last year, the Ministry of DoNER had stepped in pre-emptively and placed an amount of ₹25 crore at the disposal of the northeastern states for preparatory steps to tackle the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/japan-undp-to-provide-8-oxygen-generation-plants-to-ne-union-minister-101620738571914.html
11-05-2021||India||Chinese loan app cases: ED attaches over ₹76-cr assets||The ED has attached assets of over ₹76 crore, including of some fintech companies "controlled" by Chinese nationals and fintech major Razorpay, as part of a money laundering probe against certain Chinese 'loan app' companies whose bullying tactics are alleged to have forced many debtors to end their lives during the stressful times of Covid-19.The central probe agency said in a statement that its criminal investigation, under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), is based on multiple FIRs filed by the criminal investigation department (CID) Police in Bengaluru after they received "complaints from various customers, who had availed loans and faced harassment from the recovery agents of these money lending companies".Numerous reports of blackmail and extortion by these "loan sharks" leading to death by suicide of gullible debtors were reported last year after the coronavirus infection and the resulting lockdown began in the country. This is the first case of criminal attachment of assets by the ED in these instances which is probing some other cases of this nature in other states too.The amount attached by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), the statement said, "pertains to seven companies out of which three are fintech (financial technology) companies namely Mad Elephant Network Technology Private Limited, Baryonyx Technology Private Limited and Cloud Atlas Future Technology Private Limited which are controlled by Chinese nationals and three NBFCs (non banking financial companies) registered with RBI."The NBFCs are X10 Financial Services Private Limited, Track Fin-ed Private Limited and Jamnadas Morarjee Finance Private Limited, the ED said.It said the fintech companies have "agreement" with respective NBFCs for disbursement of loans through digital lending apps. "The amount attached by ED also includes an amount of fee charged by Razorpay Software Private Limited to the extent of ₹86.44 lakh for not conducting due diligence in case of one company enrolled with it for disbursement and collection of loans," it alleged.The total amount of properties attached as part of the latest provisional order issued under the PMLA is ₹76.67 crore and some Indians are also under the scanner of the ED in these cases.The agency said its probe found that Chinese loan apps "offered loans to individuals and levied usurious rate of interest and processing fees." "The loan apps through their recovery agents resorted to systematic abuse, harassment and threatening the defaulters through call centers for coercive recovery of the loans by obtaining sensitive data of the user stored on mobilephones such as contacts, photographs and using them to defame or blackmail the borrower," the ED said. It said that the people behind these loan apps "even threatened the borrowers by sending fake legal notices to their relatives and family members."ED said this money-lending business being run by these fintech companies was illegal or "not authorised" under any law."These NBFCs knowingly let these fintech companies use their names for the sake of getting commission without being careful about the conduct of these fintech companies in dealing with the customers who are vulnerable section of the society and are in dire need of funds due to the prevailing pandemic (Covid-19) situation.""This is also a violation of the fair practices code of the RBI," it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-loan-app-cases-ed-attaches-over-rs-76-cr-assets-101620749989433.html
11-05-2021||India||26 deaths at Goa Medical College in 4 hours. Health minister pushes for HC probe||Twenty six patients being treated for Covid 19 at the Goa Medical College and Hospital died between 2am and 6am on Tuesday, Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane said on Tuesday, pushing for a probe by the high court into the early morning deaths at the state-run hospital. “I think there needs to be an inquiry into this (deaths)... it would also be fine if the high court inquires into this,” Vishwajit Rane told reporters hours after chief minister Pramod Sawant visited the hospital to assess the gaps. The government needs the high court’s approval before a probe by a judge, sitting or retired, can get off the ground.“We are facing a shortage of oxygen. Yesterday we required 1,200 cylinders of oxygen but we got only 400. Because of interrupted oxygen supply, I think somewhere between the hours 2am to 6am, there are a lot of deaths happening. Even today between 2am to 6am, there were around 26 deaths,” Rane said.Goa recorded 75 deaths of Covid-19 patients on Tuesday, the highest single day toll since the onset of pandemic. The state also recorded 3,124 new cases, at a positivity rate of 37%, the health department said.Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said the logistics of maintaining a steady supply of cylinders rather than availability of medical oxygen appeared to be the primary problem. Sawant, who interacted with doctors, health workers and patients, promised to streamline the logistical issues involved in not just getting the cylinders, but also replacing them before they run out of oxygen.The hospital, which is dealing with patients up to three times its capacity, treats many of its patients lying on stretchers or on the floor because there aren’t enough beds. While patients on beds are supplied oxygen using the central piping system, the others are given oxygen supply through cylinders that need to be replaced and refilled.This is where there is a problem. If the cylinder is not replaced on time, it results in a drop in oxygen level of patients and a deterioration in their condition. On Monday night, SOS messages were sent out claiming that the oxygen cylinders were running low and there was no one to change them.Sawant said there was “some mismanagement”.“Cylinders have to be taken to the wards, the housekeeping. There needs to be a person in charge (of oxygen cylinders) for each ward. This cannot be left to nurses. Oxygen is there, but it doesn’t reach the wards/patients. We will streamline the process of ensuring that the supply is adequate. We will allocate the work properly,” Sawant said.“We have oxygen, but if the cylinder is not where it needs to be then it might as well be said that there is no oxygen,” Sawant added. Congress leader Sunil Kawthankar said the government wasn’t serious enough about the challenge at hand.“Since 12.30 am, people in GMC Ward 147 were told oxygen would arrive in 10 minutes only to arrive past 4am. That too, just four cylinders. How are patients supposed to survive those several hours in between? Surprised how even after so many deaths health authorities are okay with ‘favourite oxygen suppliers’ slow mode of transportation using tractor trolleys and how still no arrangements for adequate oxygen is made. Are the lives of people so cheap? That the authorities can sleep over calmly when innocent lives are lost,” Sunil Kawthankar, a Congress leader, who has also been coordinating relief efforts, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/26-deaths-at-goa-medical-college-in-4-hours-health-minister-pushes-for-hc-probe-101620752309311.html
11-05-2021||India||HC pulls up Karnataka govt over availability of second dose of vaccine||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday pulled up the state and Central government on its plans to provide the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccines for those above the age of 45 years, HT has learnt.The HC bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar subsequently ordered the state to come out with a road map for completing vaccinations. “We hope and trust that if both the governments don’t take serious note of the desperate situation of vaccination and if a greater number of vaccinations are not procured, the very object of vaccination will be frustrated. It may have a cascading effect,” the order said. During the proceedings, the Karnataka government informed the Court that it is stopping the first dose, to provide second doses to those above the age of 45 years. However, the court quoting numbers questioned the availability of the vaccines. “Only 9 lakh doses available. 16 lakh people need a second dose immediately. Forget about the 18-44 age group. They can’t even give a second dose. For people above 45 years, how will state give the second dose,” the bench pointed out. The bench further added that the second dose of Covaxin should be taken within four weeks while asking about the implications of the delay in giving the second dose. “As per the target of 1.71 crores, 72 lakh have been given first dose and over 11 lakh given the second dose. Hence, it is obvious that if the present scenario continues, the first dose cannot be given to front-line workers and 18-44 years… If the present scenario continues, the entire vaccination drive will be completely ineffective,” the bench said.Talking about the availability of oxygen, the court also pointed out that despite the Centre telling the court that the state’s oxygen quota is being increased from 965 MT to 1200 MT, no document has been placed on record to prove this said allocation. “The Court, therefore, proceeded to direct the state government to place on record its daily requirement of oxygen from May 5 till May 11 and quantum of oxygen actually procured. The state government should also place on record projected requirement of state for at least for 1 week from tomorrow (Wednesday),” the HC direct. The court also observed the incidents of the police excesses that were reported on the first day of the second lockdown. “Police excesses should be avoided, and people must co-operate with the government. If people are not cooperating, take them to the nearest police station,” said the bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-pulls-up-karnataka-govt-over-availability-of-second-dose-of-vaccine-101620751107623.html
11-05-2021||India||'2nd Covid-19 wave may have flattened but...': Virologist Shahid Jameel warns||India’s second Covid-19 wave seems to have flattened but the climb down will be a more prolonged, long drawn-out process than the first and will possibly run till July, eminent virologist Shahid Jameel said here on Tuesday.Though the new variants of the virus may partly be responsible for the explosion in the number of cases, there is no indication the mutant versions are more lethal, added the director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences, Ashoka University, amid mounting worries about what is fuelling the second wave in India.Addressing an online event organised by the Indian Express, Jameel noted that it is a little too early to say if the Covid wave has peaked.“The curve may have flattened but the other side of the peak is not going to be an easy climb down. It's possibly going to be a more prolonged long-drawn-out process running possibly till July, That means, even if the curve starts to decline, we will continue to have to deal with a large number of infections every day,” Jameel said. According to the scientist, Covid-19 cases in the second wave also won’t come down in as steady a fashion as they did after the first wave. Read more: Amplify govt message on Covid-19: Centre tells states“In the first wave, we did see a steady decline. But remember… this time we are starting from a higher number. Instead of 96,000-97,000 cases, we are starting from over 400,000. So it will take that much longer. And during the process at every time point, you'll have a lot of cases,” Jameel explained.In his view, the actual mortality data for India is completely wrong. “… not because of some evil design of someone or a group of people or the state or whatever. But the way we record data I think is faulty.” Discussing why India faced a second wave, he said the constant narrative was that somehow Indians are special and have some special kind of immunity. “You know, we had BCG shots when we are children. We get a lot of malaria. So you get all sorts of arguments,” he said. The BCG vaccine is primarily used against tuberculosis.The noted virologist also said people gave opportunity to the virus not to just spread but also to transmit quickly by not adhering to Covid-19 protocols.Read more: Empowered groups on vaccine and oxgyen working since 2020: Cabinet Secretary“..by the time we came to December and the cases kept going down, we did start believing in this narrative (of immunity). There were a lot of big weddings that we had in January and February. So super spreading events happened,” he added.  He cited other "super spreading events", including elections rallies and religious congregations, for the high number of cases in the second wave. Vaccine coverage is a matter of concern in his view.Enough people, he said, did not get vaccinated when they had the opportunity in January and February.  “… around the third week of February when numbers started going up, we had very, very little vaccine coverage, possibly about 2 per cent of people,” Jameel said, adding that some people believed in the messaging that vaccines were not safe.“Vaccines are safe and the side effects are very rare. There are more chances of someone dying from lightning than due to rare side effects of vaccines.” Referring to the vaccine shortage in some states, he noted that all big countries that had vaccinated a considerable proportion of their population had booked their doses around June 2020. “India didn't do that. We did have a big vaccine enterprise but remember our biggest vaccine companies are private limited companies. You know, it's another story that going back a few years we closed down all our public vaccine enterprises. So we depend entirely on the private sector. “Private sector does not work on charity. The private sector needs to be given orders for them to be confident or, you know, building facilities to make vaccines. And that is where we took our eye off the ball,” he said. However, the virologist said funds have now been allotted to Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and the Serum Institute of India, Pune, and both are expanding facilities. But it will take around July by the time vaccine supplies normalise. Calculations done during the first wave suggested that herd immunity may set in when about 65 per cent of the population gets infected or vaccinated. It no longer holds true, Jameel said. Herd immunity is a form of indirect protection that can occur when a sufficient percentage of a population has become immune to an infection, whether through vaccination or previous infections. However, for Covid-19, it is not known when such immunity will set in. “Now you have a virus that is moving at least twice as fast as thought, if not more. So what you need is you know, at least possibly 75 per cent of the population to be infected or vaccinated before we can achieve what you call herd immunity. So it's a shifting goal post right now. “ “And that is why it is so important for us to go and get vaccinated as soon as vaccines are available,” he added. The virologist also said India may possibly see many waves of Covid-19 pandemic depending upon the conditions at that time and the progress of the vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2nd-covid-19-wave-may-have-flattened-but-virologist-shahid-jameel-warns-101620750001402.html
11-05-2021||India||Amplify govt message on Covid-19, hold daily briefings at district level: Centre tells states||The Centre on Tuesday sent a directive to states and union territories to organise daily briefings on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation at the district level. The decision was taken during a review meeting on public health response to Covid-19 to check the misinformation around it.The order has been sent to chief secretaries of the state by secretary, information and broadcasting Amit Khare, who also heads the empowered group working on communication."Since timely dissemination of correct information acts as a check on spread of misinformation and rumours/fake news, you may like to suitably advise the district collectors and senior officers of district administration in your state/UT to hold daily press briefings," the order said.It further said that the briefings will highlight "salient initiatives taken by the government and civil society/individuals"."This is crucial at this stage as the pandemic has spread its wings in the rural areas and correct information about the guidelines issued and steps taken by the government should reach the local people from trustworthy sources," the order said.The Centre's directive highlighted the regular briefings held by the ministry of information & broadcasting, which it said help in disseminating facts and latest information about the various aspects of the pandemic before the people.In another order, Khare also asked the chief secretaries to intensify awareness drive on Covid-19 with a focus on vaccination.He also said that various ministries of central government - like AYUSH, health, home and panchayati raj - have issued various advisories and guidelines in the wake of second wave of Covid-19. The order said that the messages and advisories need to be amplified to reach the last mile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amplify-govt-message-on-covid-19-hold-daily-briefings-at-district-level-centre-tells-states-101620749528017.html
11-05-2021||India||Covid-19: DRDO to set up 7 medical oxygen plants in Odisha||To ensure the availability of medical oxygen for treatment of Covid-19 patients, the Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) has decided to set up seven medical oxygen plants in Odisha.The plants will come up at Boudh, Cuttack, Bhadrak, Gajapati, Jharsuguda, Nayagarh and Koraput districts, CGM of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), Odisha, Ram Prasad Panda, said. The civil and electrical works of the plants will be done by the NHAI while the DRDO will look after the technical aspect, he said. The DRDO's move is a part of its massive drive under which it has decided to set up 500 medical oxygen plants in the country within three months with the help of its indigenous developed technology. Construction of the plants has already started in Boudh and Cuttack, Panda said. Once completed, each plant will generate 1,000 litres per minute (LPM) of oxygen and the life-saving gas will be supplied to hospitals through pipelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-drdo-to-set-up-7-medical-oxygen-plants-in-odisha-101620747387905.html
11-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu logs 29,272 new Covid-19 cases, 298 related deaths||Tamil Nadu on Tuesday recorded 29,272 fresh Covid-19 cases in the single biggest day spike so far, pushing the caseload to 14,38,509 while 298 deaths in the last 24 hours took the toll to 16,178.According to a medical bulletin, 19,182 people were discharged today, taking the tally to 12,60,150, leaving 1,62,181 active infections.With an increase in new infections, Chief Minister M K Stalin appealed to the general public and industries to donate to the Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund to fight against the raging pandemic.The state capital accounted for 7,466 new infections, totaling 4,04,733 till date.The metropolis also leads in the number of fatalities with 5,368 deaths.The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours was at 1,56,111, pushing the cumulative number of specimens examined so far to 2,43,10,931.Besides Chennai, Chengalpet added 2,419 cases, Coimbatore 2,650, Thiruvallur 1,204 and Madurai 1,024, while the remaining 31 districts clocked new infections in triple digits.Among the 298 deceased, 78 were without comorbidities which include a 25-year old man from Coimbatore who succumbed to the virus due to 'cardio respiratory arrest'.As many as 25 people who tested positive Tuesday were returnees from other destinations.Meanwhile, in an official release, Stalin appealed to the general public and industries to donate generously to the Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund towards strengthening the health infrastructure with Covid-19 pandemic being virulent in the State.In a statement, he assured the funds received would be used only for stepping up medical infrastructure like ramping up production of medical oxygen production and storage facilities, purchasing of RT-PCR kits, life saving devices among others."The funds collected will be used only to fight the Covid-19 pandemic and the details related to the expenses made (through the funds generated) would be available on a public domain ensuring transparency," he said.The funds received would be 100 per cent tax exempted, he added.Earlier in the day, the chief minister inaugurated a SIDDHA Covid-19 Care facility at the A M Jain College in Meenambakkam in the city under the health department's plan to set up 14 such facilities across the State.The first Siddha Covid-19 Care Centre was recently inaugurated by medical minister Ma Subramanian at Vyasarpadi.The facilities would offer traditional SIDDHA food and herbal medicines to the Covid-19 patients who are under treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-logs-29-272-new-covid-19-cases-298-related-deaths-101620747765269.html
11-05-2021||India||Empowered groups on vaccine and oxygen working since 2020: Cabinet Secretary||At a meeting chaired by Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba on Tuesday to review the Covid situation in the country, it was made quite evident that the groups of experts on vaccination and supply of liquid medical oxygen had been working since April 2020 and August 2020 respectively. This flies against opposition accusation that the Narendra Modi government was caught unawares by the rise in infection in the past month."We had an issue of Liquified Medical Oxgyen (LMO) during September 2020 due to rise in infection so we ramped up supply from 1,000 metric tonnes to 3,000 metric tonnes to cater to demand. This demand dropped to 1000 metric tonnes in February 2021 but last month we supply nearly 8,000 metric tonnes of oxygen to meet up the increased demand due to exponential increase in infection due to mutant virus," said a member who attended the meeting today.The cabinet secretary made it clear the the second doses of vaccine should be a priority to build effective immunity against the virus and that the states and UTs should minimise the wastage of vaccine. The meeting was attended by chief secretaries and health secretaries of all states and union territories (UTs).Gauba shared with states the work done by the national task force and experts' groups constituted by the Centre on crucial matters like improvement and augmentation of health infrastructure, research and production of vaccines, welfare of poor people and supply of oxygen.He also briefed the states on the action taken by the government of India in controlling the effect of the Covid-19 pandemic since last year.The cabinet secretary appreciated the work done in real-time by states and UTs to augment health infrastructure and informed them about the various advisories issued by Union health ministry and other ministries of government of India on home isolation and care of mild Covid-19 cases.He informed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's active engagement with domestic industries for production and supply of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) since September last year has helped in resolving various logistics issues of its transport through land, water and air routes.Gauba emphasised the need of keeping the public informed about the action taken by the central and state governments and assured that no stone would be left unturned to provide timely oxygen supply and other medical resources to the hospitals.The cabinet secretary also expressed concern over misinformation on vaccination, saying that all vaccines that are procured either by the central government or the state governments are actually meant for the public and there is no consumption at the central level.Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, who was also present at the meeting, urged the states and UTs to prioritise in terms of testing, intensive action and local containment of the pandemic, strengthening of hospital infrastructure, augmentation of human resources and rational utilisation of oxygen.Reiterating the judicious use of vaccines, he stressed upon the need for an awareness campaign on the importance of completion of both doses of vaccination, for better immunity.The secretary of Information and Broadcasting emphasised the importance of continuation of Covid appropriate behaviour and requested the states to spread awareness about it in the rural and tribal areas by involving the field- level functionaries like anganwadi and ASHA workers.The meeting comes on a day when India recorded a fall in daily cases of Covid-19. A total of 3,29,942 infections were reported in a span of 24 hours, according to Union health ministry data.After registering a steady rise for two months, the active cases reduced to 37,15,221 comprising 16.16 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 82.75 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/empowered-groups-on-vaccine-and-oxgyen-working-since-2020-cabinet-secretary-101620747806297.html
11-05-2021||India||Google adds vaccine info panels to search; Maps show hospital bed availability||Tech giant Google has made discovering vaccine-related information easier by carrying out a scope of updates across its different services.The aim of rolling out these features is to health authorities and affected groups find assistance quicker, as massive second wave of the pandemic sweeps the country.According to Mashable, to help in searching for vaccine information, Google Search will show the latest updates on vaccine safety, efficacy and side effects."You will also find information about prevention, self-care, and treatment under the Prevention and Treatment tab, in easy-to-understand language sourced from authorised medical sources and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare," said the search giant in a blog post.In addition to the testing centres, people can also access the location of 23,000 vaccination centres nationwide in English and 8 other regional languages.Mashable detailed that another element has been added on Google Maps. The application will currently show a user if a hospital has beds and access to medical oxygen, based on crowd-sourced information. This data may not be right on target - yet it very well may be convenient detail for somebody hoping to get a friend or family member hospitalised close by.At the same time, Google Pay too has a COVID aid campaign. where the individuals who wish to donate to organisations that help COVID-influenced residents can do as such. A portion of the associations highlighted as a feature of this campaign include GiveIndia, Charities Aid Foundation, Goonj, Save the Children, Seeds, UNICEF India (National NGOs) and United Way."This campaign has raised over USD 4.6 million [INR 33 crore] to date and continues to generate much-needed support for relief efforts," it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/google-adds-vaccine-info-panels-to-search-maps-show-hospital-bed-availability-101620743664169.html
11-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Jagan Reddy urges PM to transfer Covaxin's technology and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Jagan Mohan Reddy asks PM Modi to transfer Covaxin’s technology to capable firmsAndhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, urging him to direct Bharat Biotech to transfer vaccine manufacturing technology of Covaxin to those capable and willing to produce Covid-19 vaccines. Read MoreCloudburst in Uttarakhand's Tehri damages houses, shops: OfficialSevere damage was caused to buildings in Uttarakhand on Tuesday due to heavy rainfall triggered by a cloudburst which occurred in Tehri-Garhwal district. Read MoreSuspended cop Sachin Vaze dismissed from service, say Mumbai PoliceThe Mumbai Police said on Tuesday that Sachin Vaze, who is being investigated in connection with Mukesh Ambani security threat case, has been dismissed from service, news agency ANI reported. Read MoreMoody’s slashes India’s FY22 GDP forecast to 9.3% due to 2nd Covid-19 waveRating agency Moody’s Investor Service on Tuesday slashed India’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth forecast for the current financial year 2021-22 to 9.3 per cent from the projected 13.7 per cent. Read MoreHe came in place of Ravindra Jadeja and it never felt like Jadeja was out: Parthiv on India's strong squad for WTC finalFormer India cricketer Parthiv Patel is very confident that the Indian cricket team has a strong chance of winning the World Test Championship (WTC) title. Read MorePeople are posting hilarious comments to this tweet on mangoes and math problemsThere are lots of the people who dreaded math as a subject in school and probably still get nightmares about unfinished assignments and exams. Read MoreShweta Tiwari's industry friends express solidarity after watching 'inhuman' events in her latest postActor Shweta Tiwari's friends and colleagues from the industry have voiced their support for her amid her ongoing custody battle with estranged husband Abhinav Kohli. Read More'Role of Rahul Gandhi...': What BJP chief JP Nadda wrote to Sonia on CovidBharatiya Janata Party chief Jagat Prakash Nadda wrote a letter to his Indian National Congress party counterpart Sonia Gandhi on May 11. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-jagan-reddy-urges-pm-to-transfer-covaxin-s-technology-and-all-the-latest-news-101620744074488.html
11-05-2021||India||Farmers returning to protest sites after harvest season: Samyukta Kisan Morcha||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions, on Tuesday said that farmers were returning to Singhu and Tikri border protest sites after finishing harvesting their crops.In a statement, the SKM said that large convoys of farmers arrived at the two border points on Monday and this will now continue."Yesterday, large convoys of farmers arrived on the Singhu border and Tikri border. Farmers were welcomed at many places on their way to these sites from Punjab. These farmers, who have travelled in tractors, cars and other vehicles, have made arrangements to live in tents and trolleys as they were living before harvesting," it said."The farmers' strike is getting stronger and the protest sites are also becoming larger. Farmers' tents, trolleys and other vehicles have been permanently there for the last five months in long queues. The pattern of farmers coming back after the harvesting season will now continue," it added.The farmers' outfit said that the government was "promoting privatisation" even at a time when "thousands of people have lost their lives due to the mismanagement of the public health system"."The government should increase investment in education, health and agriculture sectors. Along with taking guarantee of the purchase and remunerative price for the crops of the farmers, the government should make a law on MSP and repeal the three anti-farmer laws immediately," it said.Delhi reported 319 more Covid-19 fatalities and 12,651 new cases on Monday, with a positivity rate of 19.10 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-returning-to-protest-sites-after-harvest-season-samyukta-kisan-morcha-101620745102269.html
11-05-2021||India||Karnataka warns pharma majors of legal action for not supplying Remdesivir||The Karnataka government on Tuesday served notices to pharmaceutical majors Cipla and Jubilant warning them of legal proceedings for not supplying adequate quantities of Remdesivir injection bottles as directed by the Government of India.In a notice to the pharmaceutical companies, the Principal Secretary in the Revenue department N Manjunatha Prasad said they were ordered to deliver 62,000 vials of Remdesivir injection, but they supplied very less consignment.Cipla and Jubilant were ordered to supply 30,000 and 32,000 vials respectively by May 9. However, they supplied only 10,840 and 17,601 vials on May 8.The two companies failed to supply the requisite quantity as directed by the Government of India, which has severely impacted treatment of patients requiring Remdesivir vials in the state, the notices said.The companies have been asked to immediately fulfill the supply obligation of Remdesivir vials, as allotted by the Government of India to the state as of Tuesday within 24 hours of the receipt of the notice."Non-adherence or non-compliance of these directions by M/s Jubilant Limited and M/s Cipla Limited shall be liable to be proceeded under section 58 and 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 besides legal actions under relevant section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and other legal provisions as applicable," Prasad said in his order.Remdesivir injections are in high demand as it is vital for the Covid patients with severe lung infections.Many people have been arrested for selling the drug in black market at an exorbitant price.Police have also arrested a few who were selling fake Remdesivir injections to the needy at astronomical prices.With Covid infections surging, the demand for Remdesivir has sky-rocketed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-warns-pharma-majors-of-legal-action-for-not-supplying-remdesivir-101620745653157.html
11-05-2021||India||PM Modi calls off planned visit to UK to attend G7 Summit as special invitee||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called off his visit to the UK to attend the G7 Summit as a special invitee because of the Covid-19 situation in the country, the external affairs ministry announced on Tuesday.UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson had invited Modi and the leaders of Australia, South Korea and South Africa as guests to the G7 Summit to be hosted by the UK in Cornwall during June 11-13. This would have been Modi’s second foreign visit this year, after a trip to Bangladesh in March to attend celebrations marking the 50th anniversary of the neighbouring country’s independence.“While appreciating the invitation to the prime minister by UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson to attend the G7 Summit as a special invitee, given the prevailing Covid situation, it has been decided that the prime minister will not attend the G7 Summit in person,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said.The move came days after Modi called off a planned visit to the Portuguese city of Porto to participate in the India-EU Summit on May 8. The meeting was subsequently held in a virtual format.External affairs minister S Jaishankar had visited the UK to attend the G7 foreign ministers meeting in London during May 3-5, but he and his delegation had to go into self-isolation after two members tested positive for Covid-19.The pandemic has also affected the schedule for bilateral visits between India and the UK this year. Johnson called off plans to visit India twice – he cancelled a trip that was to begin on April 25 following a surge in infections, and in January, he cancelled a trip to focus on his government’s response to a new Coronavirus variant that was spreading rapidly.Modi and Johnson held a virtual summit on May 4, during which they launched an Enhanced Trade Partnership and a Mobility and Migration Partnership and unveiled a roadmap to boost bilateral ties over the next decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-calls-off-planned-visit-to-uk-to-attend-g7-summit-as-special-invitee-101620745527408.html
11-05-2021||India||‘Surrender. We will treat’, Dantewada SP tells Maoists on reports of 10 deaths||Chhattisgarh’s Dantewada police chief on Tuesday renewed the state’s appeal to Maoist cadres to surrender, saying 10 Maoists had died in south Bastar over the last fortnight, possibly due to Covid-19. There has been no statement from the Maoists on the 10 deaths claimed by the police but they have not rebutted the state police either.Dantewada superintendent of police Abhishek Pallava said the administration was worried that the infection could spread to villagers living deep inside the dense forests that cover 70% of the district.“Maoists are still in contact with villagers and holding meetings. hence it is worrying , if they are infected, they should surrender and avail treatment. Police will take care of their treatment,” said Pallava. Pallava said villagers had confirmed to the police that many Maoist cadres have cold, cough and fever, symptoms of the coronavirus disease and some senior colleagues are trying to arrange medicines and vaccines against the infection.The district police chief said there were intelligence reports that indicate some senior Maoist leaders in Chhattisgarh had also contracted the infection.“We have confirmed information that around 15 days ago, around 400-500 Maoists gathered in Pidia village close to the Bijapur-Sukma district border,” Pallava said, adding that the cadres who were unwell were reported to have consumed expired medicines. This event is being linked to the spread of the disease and was followed by cremation of 10 Maoists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surrender-we-will-treat-dantewada-sp-tells-maoists-on-reports-of-10-deaths-101620743067055.html
11-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Japan to send 200 oxygen concentrators to India||Japan will send 200 oxygen concentrators to India as a part of the emergency assistance in response to the current surge of Covid-19 infections in the country."On May 12 and 13, 200 oxygen concentrators will be sent to India as a part of the emergency assistance from Japan to India in response to the current surge of Covid-19 infections in India," the Japanese foreign ministry said in a statement.Japan sent 100 oxygen concentrators to India on Saturday.On May 5, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had a virtual meeting with his Japanese counterpart Toshimitsu Motegi.During the meeting, Motegi conveyed that Japan is ready to provide grant assistance of up to 50 million US dollars to India, based on the latter's needs.India is currently dealing with a second Covid-19 wave that has swept through the nation, straining the country's health infrastructure and overburdening frontline medical workers.Several countries around the globe including UK, Russia, and the US have extended support to India as it continues to struggle with the increase in its health infrastructure needs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-japan-to-send-200-oxygen-concentrators-to-india-101620739674942.html
11-05-2021||India||Suspended cop Sachin Vaze dismissed from service, say Mumbai Police||The Mumbai Police said on Tuesday that Sachin Vaze, who is being investigated in connection with Mukesh Ambani security threat case, has been dismissed from service, news agency ANI reported. Vaze is also being investigated in connection with the death of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran, whose car was found with gelatin sticks near billionaire Mukesh Ambani's house Antilia in Mumbai.The order terminating Vaze's service was issued by Mumbai Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale, said a spokesperson of the city police. And official said that the order has been issued under Provision of 311(2)(B) Constitution of India by Commissioner of Police, Greater Mumbai, which deals with dismissal, removal or reduction in rank of persons employed in civil capacities under the Union or a state on certain grounds.A 1990-batch officer of the Maharashtra cadre, Vaze (49) was suspended after his arrest by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on March 13. The NIA is probing both the cases.The Antilia case led to a political storm in Maharashtra, with Param Bir Singh, who was removed as Mumbai Police chief, accused state NCP leader Anil Deshmukh of asking Vaze to collect ₹100 crore from city pubs and hotels. Deshmukh resigned as Maharashtra home minister last month in the wake of the allegations and the Enforcement Directorate has registered money laundering case against him.Deshmukh has accused Singh of making false allegations against him. "When the NIA started investigating the matter (SUV-Hiran murder case), to avoid any hindrance I had transferred Singh from the post of Mumbai police commissioner. As a revenge for his transfer, Singh made false allegations against me," Deshmukh claimed last week.On February 25, a Mahindra Scorpio SUV owned by Hiran was found abandoned near Antilia with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threatening note, and a case was registered with Gamdevi police station on the same day.Vaze was originally investigating the case, but was removed after reports emerged of his links with Hiran, who had reported it stolen on February 17. Hiran was found dead in a creek on March 5. It subsequently emerged that Vaze had borrowed the car in November and returned it on February 5.Apart from Vaze, the NIA has arrested his former colleague at CIU, assistant police inspector Riyazuddin Kazi, former policeman Vinayak Shinde and cricket bookie Naresh Ramniklal Gor in the case. The NIA has named Vaze as the main accused in both the cases.Vaze, now lodged in jail, was reinstated in the Mumbai Police in June 2020 after being suspended for 16 years in a case related to alleged custodial death of Khwaja Yunus, an accused in the Ghatkopar bomb blast of 2002.Post-reinstatement, he was appointed the head of the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU), an elite branch of the Mumbai Crime Branch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspended-mumbai-cop-sachin-vaze-dismissed-from-service-say-mumbai-police-101620740599209.html
11-05-2021||India||Jagan Mohan Reddy asks PM Modi to transfer Covaxin’s technology to capable firms||Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, urging him to direct Bharat Biotech to transfer vaccine manufacturing technology of Covaxin to those capable and willing to produce Covid-19 vaccines, in order to help the country meet its vaccine demand. Reddy added that Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the National Institute of Virology (NIV) should provide the viral strain to all interested vaccine manufacturers.“We would request you to please direct Bharat Biotech to please do the technology transfer of manufacturing the Covaxin and ICMR-NIV to provide the viral strain to whoever interested and capable of producing the vaccine,” the chief minister wrote in the letter.Covaxin, India’s first indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine, is a collaborative effort between Bharat Biotech and ICMR. It was developed using the SARS-CoV-2 strain, isolated in the NIV in Pune, which functions under ICMR. The ICMR and Bharat Biotech jointly carried out the clinical and pre-clinical trials in India.Reddy also requested the Prime Minister to transfer the Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) of Covaxin to vaccine manufacturers so production and inoculation both can be ramped up, as the present manufacturing capacity of Covaxin does not cater to the country's vaccination requirements."It may take several months to get all vaccinated at this pace. Please explore the possibility of involving all such production firms and enable them with the technology, intellectual property rights to deliver the vaccine as quickly and as affordable as possible," he wrote.Reddy’s letter comes on the heels of a similar suggestion made by Delhi chief minister on Tuesday in a letter to PM Modi, asking him to allow more companies to manufacture Covid-19 vaccines, adding that royalties can be paid to the current manufacturers for any use of their formulas. While Kejriwal urged the Centre to make formulas for both Covaxin and Covishield available, Reddy specifically talked about Covaxin in his letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-mohan-reddy-asks-pm-modi-to-transfer-covaxin-s-technology-to-capable-firms-101620739810541.html
11-05-2021||India||Telangana junior doctors threaten strike if not given 15% pay hike as ‘promised’||Junior resident doctors in various government hospitals in Telangana have threatened to go on a strike after May 25 if their salaries are not hiked by 15% among other demands. Their association served a notice to this effect on the state medical and health department on Monday. “We have given two weeks’ time for the government to fulfil our demands which have been pending for over a year. We shall strike work after May 25 and boycott all services, including emergency medical services,” said Telangana Junior Doctors Association (TJUDA) president Vasari Naveen Reddy. The doctors’ decision comes at a time when the Telangana government has decided to impose a 10-day lockdown in the state starting May 12, to prevent further spread of coronavirus. On Tuesday, Telangana’s Covid-19 tally rose by 4,801 while 32 more casualties took the death toll to 2,803. For the past few days, authorities in Telangana have been stating that load in hospitals in Hyderabad was increasing with too many patients coming in from other places.Reddy claimed the junior resident doctors were getting monthly salaries of ₹44,000 in the first year; ₹46,000 in the second year and ₹48,000 in the third year, which was due for a revision since last year. “As per the contract, we have to get a 15% hike in salary every year. We got the hike last in 2019 and it was due for a revision in January 2020. During the last year’s coronavirus pandemic, the government agreed for a pay revision and the file was approved at all levels. It has now been pending clearance from chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao for the last five months,” Reddy said. A similar 15% increase in salary for senior resident doctors was also pending with the chief minister, he said. “We ran from pillar to post to get the file approved, but there has been no response from the government. Hence, as a last resort, we have decided to strike after duly giving two-week’s notice to the government,” Reddy said. The TJUDA also demanded an immediate payment of 10% incentive to all healthcare workers promised by the chief minister during the first wave of Covid-19 pandemic last year. The doctors association have also sought priority Covid-19 treatment for healthcare workers and their families citing their ‘selfless’ service during the crisis period. “In several government hospitals, healthcare workers and their family members are not able get a bed for treatment. The Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) is always occupied and we have urged the government to increase the bed capacity. We want the government to issue a circular for free treatment of healthcare workers and their family members,” the association president said. The association demands that the government also implements an earlier order to insure medical students. “The ex-gratia of ₹50 lakh for doctors and ₹25 lakh for nurses and supporting staff that was announced [earlier] has not been implemented so far,” Reddy claimed. He added that while the association realised that a strike in this hour of crisis was not appropriate, it felt it was left with ‘no option’. “The government has turned a deaf ear to our problems despite repeated reminders. Anyway, we have not resorted to any lightning strike, but have given two-week’s notice,” Reddy added. Director of Medical Education department Dr Ramesh Reddy could not be reached for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-junior-doctors-threaten-strike-if-not-given-15-pay-hike-as-promised-101620739887311.html
11-05-2021||India||Govt to aggressively use rapid antigen tests to detect Covid-19, 24X7 booths to be set up in cities, villages||The chief of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Dr Balram Bhargava on Tuesday talked about the country's testing strategy to combat the severely devastating second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The new strategy involves an increased focus on rapid antigen tests (RATs) for faster testing and isolation, Dr Bhargava said at a press conference emphasising on the need for early detection and isolation which he said are keys to break the chain of transmission.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The ICMR chief added that the need of the hour is to aggressively use RAT at the field and rural levels to increase access and availability and detect Covid-19 infection faster.As part of the revised testing strategy, multiple 24x7 operational RAT booths will be set up in cities, towns and villages, said Dr Bhargava. "RATs will be allowed at all government and private healthcare facilities without the need of any accreditation. The booths for RAT will be set up with the community in schools, colleges, community centers and offices of the RWAs," added Dr Bhargava. He said that public-private partnership models are being encouraged to establish innovative and convenient testing centres, adding that some states are already following it.Detailing the three-step plan to facilitate testing, the ICMR DG said that RT-PCR tests have been rationalised, and RAT to be increased for early detection and tests approved by global agencies have been accorded marketing permission by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). Additionally, home-based testing solutions are being explored, said Dr Bhargava.Talking about optimising RT-PCR tests, he said that the tests must not be repeated in individuals who tested positive once either by RAT or RT-PCR and no testing is required at the time of hospital discharge for individuals who have recovered. "No need for RT-PCR test in healthy individuals undertaking inter-state domestic travel, non-essential travel and interstate travel of symptomatic individuals should be essentially avoided," Bhargava said during the press briefing. "All asymptomatic individuals undertaking essential travel must follow Covid appropriate behaviour," he said, adding that mobile testing laboratories are being deployed for increased access.Also read| 'Centre can do away with Covid-19 vaccine monopoly': Kejriwal writes to PM ModiIndia conducted nearly 2 million (1,945,299) tests to detect Covid-19 on April 30, the highest in the world on a single day, Dr Bhargava said. The national Covid-19 positivity rate of the country stands at 21 per cent and 310 out of 734 districts report more than the national average, he added.The country on Tuesday witnessed a dip in daily cases as it registered over 329,000 new Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours, while 3,876 people succumbed to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-aggressively-use-rapid-antigen-tests-to-detect-covid-19-24x7-booths-to-be-set-up-in-cities-villages-101620734521836.html
11-05-2021||India||26 Covid patients die at Goa hospital; health minister calls for HC probe||Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane has sought a high court probe into what caused the death of 26 Covid-19 patients at the state-run Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in the early hours.He said these fatalities occurred between 2am and 6am, but did not elaborate on the cause even as chief minister Pramod Sawant said the reported oxygen shortage at the hospital was because of logistics of cylinder supply. Sawant, who visited the hospital and interacted with doctors, patients and staff, said these issues will be streamlined by this evening after he fixes responsibility on ensuring supply. Also Read | Goa wants all adults to take Ivermectin. Here’s why FDA warned against its use“There is some mismanagement to help oxygen reach them, the cylinders have to be taken to the wards, the housekeeping. There needs to be a person in-charge (of oxygen cylinders) for each ward. This cannot be left to nurses. Oxygen is there, but it doesn’t reach the wards/patients. We will streamline the process. We will allocate work properly,” Sawant said. “We have oxygen, but if the cylinder is not where it needs to be, then it might as well be said that there is no oxygen,” Sawant added. The hospital, that is dealing with patients up to three times its bed capacity, has two means of supplying oxygen. Those who have beds get oxygen through the central piping system while those who are being treated on stretchers or are made to rest on the floor are given oxygen supply through cylinders that need to be replaced and refilled as soon as one runs out. However, the hospital has not had the manpower to ensure that the cylinder is replaced on time, leading to a drop in oxygen levels especially during the night hours. Reacting to Sawant’s conclusion, health minister Rane said, “I do not understand what the chief minister means when he says there is mismanagement. Maybe he can guide me... The consumption (of oxygen) is unprecedented. We are also facing a shortage. Yesterday, we needed 1,200 cylinders but we got only 400.” “We are seeing that there are a lot of deaths between 2am and 6am. There should be an inquiry, even the high court can inquire the deaths during those hours,” Rane said. “Since 12.30 am, people in GMC Ward 147 were told oxygen would arrive in 10 minutes, only to arrive past 4am that too just four cylinders. I am surprised that even after so many deaths, health authorities are fine with their favourite oxygen suppliers using tractor trolleys [for transportation] and how no arrangements for adequate oxygen is made. Are the lives of people so cheap?” Congress leader Sunil Kawthankar, who has been coordinating relief efforts, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/26-covid-patients-die-at-goa-hospital-health-minister-calls-for-hcprobe-101620738926952.html
11-05-2021||India||Delhi runs out of Covaxin for 18-44 age group, 125 centres to be shut: AAP||Aam Aadmi Party leader Atishi on Tuesday claimed that Delhi's stock of Covaxin for people in the 18-44 age group has been completely used, forcing the Delhi government to shut 125 centres where the coronavirus vaccine was being administered. This comes a day after Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain said that the national capital has only one day's Covaxin stock left and its Covishield doses will last for just three to four days."We have run out of Covaxin stock for 18-44 age group and will have to shut 125 centres where it is being administered after Tuesday evening," Atishi said in an online briefing for Delhi's daily vaccination update.Atishi also urged the Centre to replenish Covaxin and Covishield stocks "otherwise we will have no option but to stop vaccination drive".Also read | 'Centre can do away with Covid-19 vaccine monopoly': Kejriwal writes to PM ModiShe said that more than 1.39 lakh people were given vaccine jabs in the national capital on May 10, the highest daily figure since the inoculation started.In the online briefing, she also said Delhi will get 2.67 lakh more doses of Covishield vaccine from the Centre by Tuesday evening.Earlier in the day, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal urged the Centre to direct manufacturers to increase vaccine supplies to the capital between May and July.Kejriwal on Tuesday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow other companies the right to manufacture the two Covid-19 vaccines administered in the country - Covishield and Covaxin.In his letter, Kejriwal said that the current supply of vaccine doses is not sustainable to meet the whole country's demand, which will in turn be an arsenal in India's fight against the deadly virus.Kejriwal, in his letter wrote, the Indian government can do away with vaccine production monopoly using the patent law. "This way we will be able to provide a safety net to the whole country before the third wave of Covid-19 and save lives of people.”Also read | Delhi’s Covid positivity rate declining, but we can’t be at ease: Health minister Satyendar JainDelhi on Tuesday recorded 12,481 fresh cases of Covid-19, the second day in a row that the number stayed under 13,000 without significant reduction in testing, officials said. The national capital also saw 347 fatalities in the last 24 hours due to the deadly viral contagion, taking the cumulative death toll past 20,000, the health bulletin said. A total of 20,010 people have died since the onset of the pandemic, according to officials.The coronavirus cases in the national capital fell below 13,000-mark after 28 days on Monday, indicating that Delhi may have arrested to some degree the fourth wave of the coronavirus outbreak, which chief minister Arvind Kejriwal termed as very serious and more dangerous than previous three waves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-runs-out-of-covaxin-for-18-44-age-group-125-centres-to-be-shut-aap-101620737487891.html
11-05-2021||India||Maratha reservation: CM Uddhav Thackeray meets Governor, seeks President's intervention||A delegation of Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) leaders, led by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, met Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Tuesday evening and submitted a letter addressed to the President Ram Nath Kovind seeking his intervention for providing reservation to the Maratha community.After the meeting, Thackeray said they will also be meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi to seek reservation for the community.“In view of the Supreme Court decision that the authority for providing reservation is only with the President, we have written a letter to the President asking reservation for the Maratha community," Thackeray told reporters.He was accompanied by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, PWD minister Ashok Chavan, home minister Dilip Walse Patil, revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat and other leaders.Last week, the Supreme Court had quashed a Maharashtra law granting reservation to the Maratha community saying people from the community can’t be declared educationally and socially backward just to bring them in the reserved category. It had termed the reservation as “unconstitutional".The five-judge bench also refused to refer the 1992 Indra Sawhney judgment, setting a 50 per cent cap on reservation to a larger bench for reconsideration.After the verdict, Thackeray had said that he was disappointed. "It is a disappointing verdict on Maratha reservation. We have been fighting for it for the last many years. All the parties unanimously cleared it in the state legislature," the chief minister said.Speaking on the verdict Thackeray said the demand for reservations is not just of a community but of the entire state. Exuding confidence in the Centre he said that the demand will not be disrespected by the Prime Minister or the government.The Maharashtra government on Saturday announced to appoint a committee under two retired high court judges to review the Supreme Court judgement and suggest the way forward in the quota issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maratha-reservation-cm-uddhav-thackeray-meets-governor-seeks-president-s-intervention-101620737242765.html
11-05-2021||India||First cyclone of 2021 likely to form over Arabian Sea on May 16||The first cyclonic storm of the year could be brewing as a low-pressure area is very likely to form over the southeast Arabian Sea around May 14 morning that is likely to intensify gradually into a cyclonic storm over the east-central Arabian Sea around May 16, and continue to move north-northwestwards, the IMD has said.“There is a lot of variation among models. Some models are showing it’s likely to cross the Oman coast, some indicate south Pakistan which would also mean parts of Gujarat will be affected,” said Sunitha Devi, in charge, cyclones at India Meteorological Department.This will be the first cyclone of this year and will be called Tauktae meaning gecko (named by Myanmar) when formed. There is a chance that the cyclone may cross the north Gujarat or Kutch area on May 20.“We can indicate landfall only once the low-pressure area forms. The message now is mainly to ensure fishermen on the west coast come back by May 14 because the sea will be rough. We are expecting severe weather and heavy rainfall around Lakshadweep, Kerala, coastal Karnataka, ghat areas of Tamil Nadu and parts of Maharashtra following the formation of low-pressure areas,” added Devi.Normally one or two cyclones form over the North India Ocean during the pre-monsoon season in April and May. This time no cyclone formed in April but a depression had formed over the south Andaman Sea last month.“The conditions are prime, with warm waters and an active Madden Julian Oscillation (fading though) that could support cyclogenesis. Will the Arabian Sea see its first cyclone of the year (Tauktae)?” tweeted Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), Pune.The Madden Julian Oscillation (MJO) is characterised by a band of rain clouds moving across the tropics, depending on their location they can assist cyclone build up, he explained.The low-pressure area is very likely to move north-northwestwards across the southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining the Lakshadweep area and intensify gradually. It may intensify into a Cyclonic Storm over the east central Arabian Sea around May 16 and continue to move north-northwestwards, the IMD said in a statement on Tuesday.Light to moderate rainfall at most places over Lakshadweep with heavy falls at isolated places on May 13 and heavy to very heavy falls at isolated places very likely on May 14. Light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy falls at isolated places is very likely over Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu on May 14 and 15.Squally weather with wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph is very likely over southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Lakshadweep – Maldives area and the equatorial Indian Ocean from May 14 morning. It is very likely to increase gradually, becoming 50-60 kmph gusting to 70 kmph over the same region from May 15 morning. It’s likely to intensify to gale wind speed reaching 60–70 kmph gusting to 80 kmph over east-central Arabian Sea and adjoining southeast Arabian Sea and Lakshadweep area from May 16 morning.Squally wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph likely along and off Kerala coast on May 14 and 45-55 kmph gusting to 65 kmph along and off Kerala - Karnataka coasts on May 15 and 16. Squally wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph is also likely to prevail over Comorin Maldives area during May 14-15. Squally wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph is very likely to prevail along and off Maharashtra-Goa coasts on May 16.Sea condition over east central Arabian Sea will be very rough to high (6-9 metres wave height/34-47 mts) on May 16. Sea conditions will be rough to very rough over Comorin area and along and off the Kerala coast on May 14 and 15 and over the east-central Arabian Sea along and off Karnataka coast on May 15 and Maharashtra–Goa coasts on May 16.Fishermen are advised not to venture into the southeast Arabian Sea, Lakshadweep – Maldives areas, Kerala – Karnataka coasts from May 14 and into the east central Arabian Sea and along and off Maharashtra – Goa coasts from May 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-cyclone-of-2021-likely-to-form-over-arabian-sea-on-may-16-101620737186887.html
11-05-2021||India||Covid-19: MHA details steps taken to enhance oxygen supply||The Ministry of home affairs (MHA) announced a slew of measures put in place by the Centre to enhance oxygen availability. It said on Tuesday that one lakh oxygen concentrators will be procured under the PM-Cares fund. The ministry added that 374 tankers of 7,049 MT capacity have already been airlifted into the country.The decision to procure oxygen concentrators under PM-Cares was taken after Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave a go-ahead for the same at a high-level meeting held in early April. The Prime Minister had instructed that oxygen concentrators should be procured at the earliest and given to states with high Covid-19 caseload.The ministry also announced that 5,805 metric tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) will be imported into the country from countries like UAE, France, Kuwait, Singapore and Bahrain. The UAE is a major contributor from whom 3440 MT LMO will be imported, it added.The MHA also mentioned the contribution of the Indian Air Force (IAF) in procuring essential medical supplies for the country from abroad, stating that 81 cryogenic oxygen storage containers of a total capacity of 1,407 MT have been imported. The IAF has also airlifted 1,252 empty oxygen cylinders, 705 oxygen concentrators, and Zeolite (respiratory oxygen raw material), from Singapore, Dubai, Thailand, United Kingdom, Germany, Belgium, Australia, Indonesia and Israel, according to a government release.The ministry also talked about the contribution of the Indian Railways in the country’s fight against Covid-19, stating that 157 oxygen express are being run to transport 637 LMO tankers all over the country. The Indian Railways has transported 4700 MT of LMO in more than 295 tankers to states all over the country till May 10.India on Tuesday recorded 329,942 new cases of Covid-19, marking a slight decline in the daily number of cases. 3,876 new fatalities were also recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the country’s Covid-19 death toll to 249,992.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-mha-details-steps-taken-to-enhance-oxygen-supply-101620735175349.html
11-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Over 5 lakh Favipiravir tablets from UAE arrive in India||Amid the unprecedented rise in Covid-19 cases in India, over five lakh Favipiravir Tablets from the UAE reached here on Tuesday."Further deepening our Comprehensive Strategic Partnership. Thank our close partner & friend UAE for gifting over 5 lakh Favipiravir Tablets," tweeted Arindam Bagchi, Spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs.Earlier, the UAE had sent cryogenic oxygen tanks, medical supplies to help India fight the devastating virus.By far the Indian government has received, a total of seven ISO tankers with 20 MT Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) each arrived from United Arab Emirates (UAE) at Mundra Port in Gujarat, a special cargo with medical aid including 157 ventilators, 480 BiPAPs, and other medical supplies, and 18 cryogenic oxygen containers.Read more: Maharashtra, UP, Delhi among 18 states where daily Covid-19 cases falling: GovtIndia deeply values the support from UAE, and Covid-19 assistance from UAE will help augment oxygen availability, the MEA spokesperson Twitted earlier.India reported a slight dip in new Covid-19 cases with 3,29,942 fresh infections were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to Union Health Ministry on Tuesday.However, the country recorded more recoveries during this period as 3,56,082 new discharges were reported. With 3,876 new deaths due to Covid-19, the cumulative toll mounted to 2,49,992 deaths.The total positive cases now stands at 2,29,92,517, including 1,90,27,304 recoveries. At present, there are currently 37,15,221 active coronavirus cases in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-over-5-lakh-favipiravir-tablets-from-uae-arrive-in-india-101620734941850.html
11-05-2021||India||Assam CM allots portfolios to ministers; keeps home, PWD, personnel with self||A day after taking oath as Assam’s 15th chief minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma on Tuesday allotted portfolios to his Cabinet colleagues keeping important portfolios to him. According to details available with HT, Sarma would be in-charge of home, personnel, public works and all other departments not allotted to any another minister in the Cabinet. He had held the health, finance, education and public works departments in the Sarbananda Sonowal Cabinet and it was expected that he would retain most, if not all, of them in the new government headed by him. The health portfolio has been allotted to Keshab Mahanta, working president of BJP’s alliance partner Asom Gana Parishad (AGP), who will also be in-charge of science and technology and information technology departments. Finance ministry has been given to Ajanta Neog, a former Congress minister who switched to BJP just ahead of election. She will be responsible for the social welfare department as well. Also Read | Haryana reports highest Covid-19 vaccine wastage followed by Assam, RajasthanRanoj Pegu had been allotted the education portfolio along with the department for welfare of plain tribes and backward classes (those in non-Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) areas). Parimal Suklabaidya retains forest and environment, fisheries and excise departments. President of BJP’s state unit Ranjeet Kumar Dass will handle panchayat and rural development, public health engineering, food and civil supplies and consumer affairs ministries. AGP president Atul Bora has been given agriculture, horticulture, animal husbandry and veterinary and border area development portfolios. Chandra Mohan Patowary gets transport, industries and commerce, skill development and welfare of minorities departments. Urkhao Gwra Brahma, the lone United Peoples’ Party Liberal (UPPL) representative in the new Cabinet, has been allotted handloom and textile, soil conservation and welfare of plain tribes and backward classes (those in Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) areas. Ashok Singhal has been given charge of Guwahati development, urban development and irrigation departments while Jogen Mohan got the revenue and disaster management, hills area development and mines and minerals portfolios. Sajay Kishan will be in-charge of welfare of tea-tribes and labour and employment departments and Bimal Bora got sports and youth welfare, cultural affairs, power and tourism departments. Pijush Hazarika, a close associate of the CM and the former minister of state for heath, has been allotted water resources, information and public relations and parliamentary affairs departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cm-allots-portfolios-to-ministers-keeps-home-pwd-personnel-with-self-101620735446583.html
11-05-2021||India||Covid-19 : Gauhati HC extends all interim orders in 4 NE states till June 1||The Gauhati High Court has extended all interim orders by various courts of Assam, Nagaland, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh till June 1 in view of the spike in Covid-19 cases. The full court of Gauhati High Court in its meeting on May 8 informally discussed issues arising out of restricted working due to the pandemic and decided to deal with the matter on its judicial side. Accordingly, the full bench of Gauhati High Court, comprising Chief Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia and Justices N Kotiswar Singh and Manash Ranjan Pathak, filed a suo motu PIL on Sunday and issued the orders on Monday. "Considering that there is a daily surge of Covid-19 cases in the State of Assam as well as in Nagaland, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh, the Chief Justice has constituted this Full Bench suo motu to tackle the plight of litigants caught in this extraordinary situation," the order uploaded on the official website said. The HC considered the difficulties faced by the litigants and lawyers in approaching the courts in these difficult times, particularly due to the restrictions, and passed a series of instructions under Article 226, read with Article 227, of the Constitution, the order said. Read more: After Bihar, bodies found abandoned in Ganga in UP"In all matters, where interim orders of this Court and of the Courts and Tribunals subordinate to it were in force till April 19, 2021, but have expired since then or are likely to expire by June 1, 2021, such orders shall unconditionally stand extended and/or deemed to have been extended till June 1, 2021. "This shall include all such orders of the Outlying Benches and the Courts and Tribunals subordinate therein," it said. The High Court also kept in abeyance any decree for eviction, dispossession or demolition passed by any court, tribunal or authority during this period, except for any specific order for a given case. It also directed that in cases where the accused or convict is on interim bail, short term bail or anticipatory bail which expired before April 19, 2021 to June 1, 2021, the person may not surrender and his or her bail orders will be effective till May 31, 2021, the Bench said. The litigants may, however, approach the concerned court or any order on vacation of stay in an individual case in an extremely exceptional situation, the litigants and parties may approach the concerned court. The full bench has fixed May 31 as the next date for hearing on the matter. In order to control the spread of coronavirus in the courts, the HC had earlier taken a few decisions restricting the working with minimal staff across the four states. "Now by our own orders, we have restricted the functioning of all courts, which are now functioning to deal with extremely urgent matters alone. Under these circumstances, there may be cases where great and irreparable harm may be caused due to the obvious hindrance to the access to justice," it said. In the order, the Bench said that the entire world is facing the worst pandemic in its living memory and the second wave of Covid-19 has been many times more severe and devastating than the first. "It has crippled our daily life. Like many other institutions, judiciary is also battling with this crisis and trying new means and methods to keep the courts functional under these strange and difficult times," it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-gauhati-hc-extends-all-interim-orders-in-4-northe-states-till-june-1-101620730024686.html
11-05-2021||India||After Bihar, bodies found abandoned in Ganga in UP||A day after partially decomposed bodies of suspected Covid-19 patients were spotted in the Ganga in Bihar’s Buxar district, over a dozen corpses were found floating in the river at separate places in Ghazipur district on Monday and prompted officials to order a probe.“Our officials are present on the spot and an investigation is underway. We are trying to find out from where these bodies came,” said MP Singh, district magistrate of Ghazipur, which borders Buxar.“I received information that two bodies were floating in the Ganga in the Bara area of Ghazipur. I along with my team reached the spot. We found that two bodies were floating in the river. This is a matter of grave concern,” said Ramesh Kumar Maurya, the sub-divisional magistrate of Sevrai division. Maurya said they do not know where the bodies came from. He refused to comment over the Buxar administration’s claim that the bodies found in the Ganga in Bihar had come from Uttar Pradesh.Also Read | Varanasi ESIC Hosp gets oxygen plant from IsraelA police officer, who did not want to be named, said a vigil would be maintained along the river stretch in Ghazipur’s Gahmar area. Locals have been asked to inform police in case they see anyone dumping a body in the river.Shyamnarayan Singh, a social worker, said relatives of four people dumped their corpses in the Ganga as they could not afford their cremation.“Such incidents are being reported for the last one week from several villages in the area,” he claimed. On Tuesday, Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat called the recovery of bodies from the river “unfortunate” and asked concerned states to take immediate cognisance. “The incident of corpses found floating in Ganga in Buxar region of Bihar is unfortunate. This is definitely a matter of investigation. The Modi government is committed to the cleanliness of... Ganga. This incident is unexpected...,” Shekhawat tweeted.(With agency input)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-bihar-bodies-found-abandoned-in-ganga-in-up-101620734906680.html
11-05-2021||India||'Centre can do away with Covid-19 vaccine monopoly': Kejriwal writes to PM Modi||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow other companies the right to manufacture the two Covid-19 vaccines administered in the country - Covishield and Covaxin.In his letter, Kejriwal said that the current supply of vaccine doses is not sustainable to meet the whole country's demand, which will in turn be an arsenal in India's fight against the deadly virus.Kejriwal, in his letter, wrote the Indian government can do away with vaccine production monopoly using the patent law. "This way we will be able to provide a safety net to the whole country before the third wave of Covid-19 and save lives of people.”“The second wave of Covid is very fatal and the disease has reached the villages with many lives lost… There is need to vaccinate all the citizens as soon as possible... Presently only two companies are manufacturing vaccines in India. Providing vaccine to the whole country through two companies only is not possible. It requires ramping up vaccine manufacturing at war footing,” said Kejriwal in a letter to Modi, a copy of which HT has seen.Also read: Maharashtra, UP, Delhi among 18 states where daily Covid-19 cases falling: GovtIt further said, “I request you to grant permission for mass production of the vaccines. Every company in the country that has capacity of safe production should manufacture the vaccine."Earlier in the day, the CM asked the Central government to share the vaccine formulas and allow more companies to scale up production."Only two companies are producing vaccines so far. They produce only 6-7 crore vaccines a month. This way, it will take over two years to vaccinate everyone. Many waves would have come by then. Important to increase vaccine production on war footing and frame national plan to vaccinate all," Kejriwal said at a press conference."The Centre has the power to make the vaccine formula public and distribute to those who are interested in making it. During the crisis in PPE kits last year, we allowed many companies to make the kits. Likewise, we should do the same in terms of vaccine manufacturing," he said further.Kejriwal's request comes on the day Delhi recorded 12,481 fresh cases of Covid-19, the second day in a row that the number stayed under 13,000 without significant reduction in testing, officials said.Also read: Delhi’s Covid positivity rate declining, but we can’t be at ease: Satyendar JainThe national capital also saw 347 fatalities in the last 24 hours due to the deadly viral contagion, taking the cumulative death toll past 20,000, the health bulletin said. A total of 20,010 people have died since the onset of the pandemic, according to officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-can-do-away-with-covid-19-vaccine-monopoly-kejriwal-writes-to-pm-modi-101620732657271.html
11-05-2021||India||26 Covid-19 patients die at Goa hospital; minister seeks HC probe||Goa Health Minister Vishwajit Rane on Tuesday said 26 Covid-19 patients died at the state- run Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in the early hours and sought an investigation by the High Court to find out the exact cause.He said these fatalities occurred between 2 am and 6 am "which is a fact", but remained evasive about the cause.Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant, who visited GMCH, said the gap between the "availability of medical oxygen and its supply to Covid-19 wards in the GMCH might have caused some issues for the patients" even as he stressed that there is no scarcity of oxygen supply in the state.Speaking to reporters, Rane admitted the shortfall in the supply of medical oxygen at the GMCH as of Monday."The high court should investigate the reasons behind these deaths. The HC should also intervene and prepare a white paper on oxygen supply to the GMCH, which would help to set the things right," the health minister said after CM's visit to the GMCH.Read more: Maharashtra diverts Covid-19 vaccines for 18-44 age group. Minister explains whyRane said the medical oxygen requirement of the facility as of Monday was 1,200 jumbo cylinders of which only 400 were supplied."If there's a shortfall in the supply of medical oxygen, the discussion should be held about how to bridge that gap," he said.Rane said a three-member team of nodal officers set up by the state government to oversee Covid-19 treatment at GMCH should give its inputs about the issues to the CM.Earlier in the day, the CM donning a PPE kit visited Covid-19 wards in the GMCH where he met patients and their relatives."There are issues over the availability of oxygen in these wards which need to be sorted out," the CM said.He announced the setting up of a ward-wise mechanism to ensure a smooth supply of medical oxygen."Doctors, who are busy treating patients, cannot spend their time in arranging logistics like oxygen. I will hold a meeting immediately to set up ward-wise mechanisms to ensure that oxygen is supplied to patients in time," Sawant told reporters.The CM said there was no dearth of medical oxygen and cylinders in the state but the problem arises sometimes as these cylinders do not reach their destinations on time.Read more: Maharashtra, UP, Delhi among 18 states where daily Covid-19 cases falling: GovtSawant said the state government is making efforts on all fronts to tackle the pandemic."We have abundant supplies of (medical) oxygen. There is no scarcity in the state," he said.Goa's Covid-19 tally stood at 1,21,650 as of May 10, while 50 deaths had taken the toll to 1,729, an official had said.Meanwhile, Sawant warned of action against private hospitals that refuse the coverage of Deen Dayal Swastha Seva Yojana (DDSSY) to Covid-19 patients.He said the pending financial dues on part of private hospitals under this scheme will be cleared in the next 15 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/26-covid-19-patients-die-at-goa-hospital-minister-seeks-hc-probe-101620733738700.html
11-05-2021||India||Muslim men perform final rites of Hindu man in Haridwar||A group of Muslim men joined Hindus to perform the last rites of 40-year-old vegetable vendor Raju, who died of a heart attack in Haridwar on Monday. The son of Raju, who was from Bijnore in Uttar Pradesh, is 10 and too young to perform the rites when only 20 people were allowed to attend the funeral.Aabad Qureshi, Israr Mansuri, Aftab , Dilshad, Nadim Qureshi, who was fasting, collected material for rituals with help of Raju’s Hindu relatives and performed the last rites.Also Read | Uttarakhand, Haryana, Bihar now among states with highest Covid-19 deaths“Covid pandemic is also giving the message that religion or sect is nothing but humanity. Every person irrespective of his faith is getting affected and we decided to lend support to the affected family. Allah or Ishwar is one. We just did what the almighty teaches us... help needy whether he seeks help or not,” said Aabad Qureshi.Rajesh Bhatt, a local resident, said the Muslim men have given a positive message that will enhance communal harmony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muslim-men-perform-final-rites-of-hindu-man-in-haridwar-101620733646486.html
11-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: India has administered over 172 million Covid-19 vaccine doses till now and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India has administered over 172mn Covid vaccine doses till nowIndia had administered over 170 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Monday, May 10, a day Delhi’s positivity dipped below the crucial 20% for the first time since April 14. Read moreCovid-19 restrictions: Mapping curbs across states as cases in India riseAs the country reels under the impact of second wave of the pandemic, here is a look at states which have introduced fresh restrictions in order to curb the spread of the virus. Read moreWHO warns against use of Ivermectin for Covid-19 treatmentThe World Health Organisation has recommended against using Ivermectin to treat patients with coronavirus disease but the anti-parasitic medicine is widely prescribed by doctors in India for the same. Read moreOver 2,000 cases, 8 deaths from Mucormycosis in Maharashtra so far, govt creating special wards: Health minister TopeAfter announcing free treatment for patients suffering from the rare fungal infection of Mucormycosis, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said more than 2,000 cases have been reported and eight people have succumbed to the infection in the state so far. Read moreNo Virat Kohli, MS Dhoni, Jasprit Bumrah in Aakash Chopra's IPL 2021 Team XIThe Indian Premier League 2021 season was halted mid-way after several players inside the bio-bubble tested positive for the Covid-19. But the fans still got to witness some of the most memorable performances in the tournament's history in the first half of the tournament. Read moreTesla puts brake on Shanghai land buy as US-China tensions weigh: SourcesTesla Inc. halted a plan to buy land in Shanghai to expand its manufacturing plant and turn it into a worldwide export hub because of trade tensions between China and the US, Reuters reported. Read moreWatch | Covid: ‘Vaccine shortage in Delhi,’ says Kejriwal; offers solution to Centre||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-has-administered-over-172-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-till-now-and-all-the-latest-news-101620729288904.html
11-05-2021||India||Tripura govt forms panel to probe attack on ex-CM Manik Sarkar||A day after former Tripura chief minister Manik Sarkar and some CPI(Marxist) leaders were allegedly attacked, the BJP-led government on Wednesday constituted an inquiry committee to probe the incident and submit its report within 48 hours. “Chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb has taken step regarding what happened with Opposition leader Manik Sarkar in South district. He has ordered to form an inquiry committee led by South District Superintendent of Police and submit the report within 48 hours”, said a statement by the chief minister’s Office ( CMO). Sarkar, and two other legislators and party leaders were attacked, allegedly by ruling party cadres, during their visit to CPM activists who were attacked a day ago at Shantirbazar in south District on Monday. According to police report, no one was injured. Also Read | Maharashtra, UP, Delhi among 18 states where daily Covid-19 are falling: GovtSarkar said though he had informed the director general of police of his visit, neither any senior police official was present nor there were any security measures in place.“There is jungle raj in the state. Law and order has collapsed. It was a planned attack and I don’t think it could have been pulled off without the tacit support of the state leadership,” said Sarkar to the reporters. However, Tripura police said adequate police personnel were deployed on the spot and tweeted, “Hon’ble CM has asked SP (South Tripura) for a report on the incident of attack on CPIM leaders at Santirbazar on 10 May, 2021. Further it is clarified that there was adequate deployment and senior police officers were present at the venue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-govt-forms-panel-to-probe-attack-on-ex-cm-manik-sarkar-101620731186365.html
11-05-2021||India||Maharashtra, UP, Delhi among 18 states where daily Covid-19 cases falling: Govt||The Union health ministry said on Tuesday that early trend of decline in daily new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and related fatalities has been noted in India. Addressing a press conference, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that the number of daily cases of Covid-19 are on decline in at least 18 states and union territories.Also Read: Fresh recoveries outnumber daily new Covid-19 cases after 2 months"More than 1 lakh active cases are there in 13 states, 50,000 to 1 lakh active cases in six states and less than 50,000 active cases in 17 states," he said at the press conference.Also Watch: WHO Chief scientist on India’s Covid situationBhushan also said that the states and UTs where Covid-19 cases are falling are Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Haryana, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Telangana, Chandigarh, Ladakh, Daman and Diu, Lakshadweep and Andaman & Nicobar Islands.The states and UTs which are still a matter of concern are Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Odisha, Punjab, Assam, J&K, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry, Manipur, Meghalaya, Tripura, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh which are showing continued increasing trend in daily new cases of Covid-19, Bhushan said.The health ministry official also said that 26 states still have a positivity rate of more than 15 per cent.New cases of Covid-19 fell to 3.29 lakh after 14 days, taking the infection tally to 2,29,92,517, according to the Union health ministry update on Tuesday morning.A total of 3,29,942 infections were reported in a span of 24 hours, while the death toll climbed to 2,49,992 with 3,876 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.After registering a steady rise for two months, the active cases have dropped to 37,15,221, accounting for 16.16 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 82.75 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/early-trend-of-decline-in-daily-new-covid-19-cases-and-deaths-noted-in-india-says-govt-101620730149107.html
11-05-2021||India||Delhi records 12K Covid-19 cases, 347 deaths, positivity rate reduced to half in 20 days||Delhi on Tuesday recorded 12,481 fresh cases of Covid-19, the second day in a row that the number stayed under 13,000 without significant reduction in testing, officials said. The national capital also saw 347 fatalities in the last 24 hours due to the deadly viral contagion, taking the cumulative death toll past 20,000, the health bulletin said. A total of 20,010 people have died since the onset of the pandemic, according to officials.The coronavirus cases in the national capital fell below 13,000-mark after 28 days on Monday, indicating that Delhi may have arrested to some degree the fourth wave of the coronavirus outbreak, which chief minister Arvind Kejriwal termed as very serious and more dangerous than previous three waves.The increased efforts to bring the disease spread under control has started showing signs of progress as the positivity rate - the proportion of samples turning up a positive result among all tested - has been reduced to half in 20 days. On Tuesday, Delhi's positivity rate stood at 17.76%, down from 19.10% recorded a day earlier.The test positivity rate reached a peak of 36.2% on April 22, and stayed above 30% for eight more days before starting to decline. In Monday’s bulletin, it dipped below the 20% mark for the first time in nearly three weeks.According to the World Health Organization (WHO), the positivity rate needs to come down below 5% for the outbreak to be considered under control.A total of 70,276 tests were carried out in the last 24 hours, out of which 54,619 were RT-PCR and 15,657 were rapid antigen tests. A total of 66,234 tests were carried out a day earlier.Delhi's active cases dipped slightly to 83,809 from 85,258 recorded a day earlier. Among the infected, 51,480 people are recovering from the disease in home isolation.The containment zones in Delhi also rose to 55,661 from 54,256 recorded a day earlier.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday that the positivity rate of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the national capital has declined from 36 per cent to 19.1 per cent in the past few days and the new cases have also dropped from 28,000 cases per day to around 12,500. However, he added that the government cannot be at ease until the positivity rate comes down below 5 per cent and the daily tally drops below 3,000-4,000 cases.“The fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in Delhi is very much there but its peak has been declining since the last week of April,” Jain said while addressing a press conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-12k-covid-19-cases-347-deaths-positivity-rate-reduced-to-half-in-20-days-101620727724277.html
11-05-2021||India||Fresh recoveries outnumber daily new Covid-19 cases after 2 months||For the first time in two months, the total number of people who recovered from Covid-19 in the country exceeded the number of fresh cases, resulting in a net decline of 30,016 active cases.As per the union health ministry, as many as 3,29,942 fresh cases and 3,56,082 recoveries were reported in the last 24 hours.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Over 17.27 crore people have been vaccinated in the country so far. A total of 17,27,10,066 vaccine doses have been administered through 25,15,519 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am today.These include 95,64,242 Health Care Workers who have taken the first dose and 65,05,744 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,40,54,058 front-line workers (1st dose), 78,53,514 FLWs (2nd dose).As many as 25,59,339 beneficiaries under the 18-45 age group have received their first dose. 5,55,10,630 first doses have been administered to beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 years, while 71,95,632 have received the second dose.5,38,06,205 1st dose beneficiaries and 1,56,60,702 second dose beneficiaries of more than 60 years old.Meanwhile, as health infrastructure across the country struggles to cope with the rising Covid-19 caseload, a total of 8,900 oxygen concentrators, 5,043 oxygen cylinders and 18 oxygen generation plants received as part of global aid to India have been dispatched to states and union territories across the country to strengthen their Covid-19 response.Also read| Covid in Rajasthan: Sachin Pilot donates 1 month salary to CM relief fundAlong with this, additional aid of 5,698 ventilators/Bi-PAP and more than 3.4 lakh Remdesivir vials have also been delivered to parts of the country.Ten states account for 72.28 per cent of the new recoveries. These include Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar and Gujarat. The National Mortality Rate currently stands at 1.09 per cent. 3,876 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours.Ten States account for 73.09 per cent, with Karnataka topping the list with 596 deaths, followed by Maharashtra with 549.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-recoveries-outnumber-daily-new-covid-19-cases-after-2-months-101620725398522.html
11-05-2021||India||Haryana reports highest Covid-19 vaccine wastage followed by Assam, Rajasthan||Haryana, Assam and Rajasthan are among the top three states that reported the highest percentage of Covid-19 vaccine wastage, said the Union Health Ministry on Tuesday.As per the Ministry, Haryana reported 6.49 vaccine wastage, followed by Assam with 5.92 per cent, and Rajasthan with 5.68 per cent.5.67 per cent vaccine wastage was recorded in Meghalaya, 5.20 per cent in Bihar, 5.19 per cent in Manipur, 4.94 per cent in Punjab, 4.5 per cent in Dadra and Nagar Haveli, 4.13 per cent in Tamil Nadu and 3.36 per cent in Nagaland.Also read: India has administered over 172mn Covid vaccine doses till nowAs per the ministry, the Government of India has so far provided nearly 18 crore vaccine doses (17,93,57,860) to States/UTs free of cost. Of this, the total consumption including wastages is 16,89,27,797 doses (as per data available at 8 am today).More than 90 lakh Covid Vaccine doses (90,31,691) are still available with the States/UTs to be administered. States with negative balance are showing more consumption (including wastage) than vaccine supplied as they have not reconciled the vaccine they have supplied to Armed Forces, it said.More than 7 lakh (7,29,610) vaccine doses will be received by the States/UTs within the next three days, said the Union Health Ministry on Tuesday.As per government data, Maharashtra received the highest number of vaccine doses (1,82,52,450) followed by Uttar Pradesh with 1,51,31,270; Gujarat with 1,48,70,490; Rajasthan with 1,47,37,360; West Bengal with 1,20,83,340; Karnataka with 1,09,28,270; Madhya Pradesh with 94,79,720; Bihar with 87,65,820; Kerala with 78,97,790 and Tamil Nadu with 76,43,010 doses respectively.Also read: States to get 7 lakh more Covid-19 vaccine doses within next 3 days: CentreOut of the above-mentioned doses, the amount of vaccine doses consumed by these states including wastage is the highest in Maharashtra (1,75,33,889) followed by Uttar Pradesh (1,38,60,390).As per the ministry's data till May 11, 8 am, the balance availability of vaccine doses is highest in Uttar Pradesh at 11,52,091 doses followed by Gujarat at 8,32,398; Tamil Nadu at 7,89,619; Madhya Pradesh at 5,59,271; Bihar at 5,26,396; Maharashtra at 4,98,756; Chhattisgarh at 4,12,768; Jharkhand at 4,04,357; Haryana at 3,72,831 and Delhi at 3,66,731 doses respectively.Meanwhile, India reported a slight dip in new Covid-19 cases with 3,29,942 fresh infections were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to Union Health Ministry on Tuesday.However, the country recorded more recoveries during this period as 3,56,082 new discharges were reported. With 3,876 new deaths due to Covid-19, the cumulative toll mounted to 2,49,992 deaths.The total positive cases now stands at 2,29,92,517, including 1,90,27,304 recoveries. At present, there are currently 37,15,221 active coronavirus cases in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-reports-highest-covid-19-vaccine-wastage-followed-by-assam-rajasthan-101620726879964.html
11-05-2021||India||States to get 7 lakh more Covid-19 vaccine doses within next 3 days: Centre||More than 90 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and UTs which will receive over 7 lakh additional doses in the next three days, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday.The Centre has so far provided more than 18 crore vaccine doses (18,00,03,160) to states and UTs free of cost.Of this, the total consumption including wastages is 17,09,71,429 doses."More than 90 lakh COVID Vaccine doses (90,31,691) are still available with the states and UTs to be administered. States with negative balance are showing more consumption (including wastage) than vaccine supplied as they have not reconciled the vaccine they have supplied to Armed Forces," the ministry said.States and UTs will receive 7,29,610 additional vaccine doses in addition within the next three days.The ministry said the Government of India has been supporting the nationwide vaccination drive by providing COVID vaccines free of cost to states and UTs.Implementation of the Liberalized and Accelerated Phase 3 Strategy of Covid-19 Vaccination has started from 1st May 2021. In the strategy it is made clear that every month only 50 per cent of the total Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) cleared vaccine doses of any manufacturer would be procured by the Centre.The Centre would continue to procure its share of 50 per cent of the monthly CDL cleared vaccines and would continue to make it available to state governments free of cost as was being done earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-to-get-7-lakh-more-covid-19-vaccine-doses-within-next-3-days-centre-101620726410128.html
11-05-2021||India||India has administered over 172mn Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered over 170 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Monday, May 10, a day Delhi’s positivity dipped below the crucial 20% for the first time since April 14. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the Capital is preparing for the third national wave of the pandemic by augmenting the infrastructure such that the city is able to handle 30,000 daily cases.Meanwhile, by Monday 8pm, 172,633,761 vaccine doses had been given in India. This includes 9,563,406 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 6,505,072 who have got their second dose as well. As many as 14,049,681 frontline workers have had their first dose while 7,851,075 have got their second dose too.In the 45-59-year age group, 55,497,658 people have got their first dose and another 7,173,939 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 53,800,706 people have been administered their first dose while 15,639,381 have had their second dose as well.Also Read | India’s Covid-19 cases decline by 30K for first time after 2 months: GovtIn the newly added category of 18-44 year age group, 518,479 beneficiaries received their first dose of Covid vaccine on Monday and cumulatively, 2,552,843 of this age group have been vaccinated across 30 states and Union Territories.As many as 2,430,017 vaccine doses were given by the evening. Of this, 1,047,092 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 1,382,925 beneficiaries received their second dose as well.On Tuesday, the country witnessed a slight decline in the number of daily Covid cases, registering 329,942 cases in the preceding 24 hours. With this, India’s cumulative coronavirus infection tally has reached 22,992,517, as per the Union health ministry dashboard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-172mn-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101620726446071.html
11-05-2021||India||Delhi HC agrees to hear plea seeking interim stay on Central Vista project||The Delhi high court on Wednesday will hear a plea contending that the Central Vista project be put on hold during the pandemic as it is not an essential activity.The petitioners have also filed an application seeking appointment of a local commissioner to verify the Centre’s claims, made through its detailed affidavit, that workers engaged in the construction of the Central Vista project are staying on site and have been provided all necessary health care.The Central Vista project envisages a new Parliament House, Prime Minister’s residence, Vice-President’s residence, as well as several new office buildings and a Central Secretariat to accommodate ministry offices.On Tuesday, the Centre filed an affidavit detailing that the workers are staying on the site and the petitioners -- Anya Malhotra, who works as a translator, and Sohail Hashmi, a historian and documentary filmmaker -- have deliberately suppressed facts in filing the plea to stop the construction work.Since the affidavit was not yet on record, a bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and justice Jasmeet Singh listed the matter for hearing on May 12.It said a Covid compliant facility was installed at the site to accommodate 250 workers who had chosen to stay there and continue the work.It has also said that there is strict adherence to Covid protocol. “It is unequivocally stated that the workers working on the project as of now, are residing at the work site, following social distancing norms as well as other Covid-19 protocols,” it said.Also Read | Opposition discourse against Central Vista bizarre, says minister Hardeep PuriCiting media reports, the petitioners had asked the Centre why permission was sought for movement of as many as 180 vehicles. “Nowhere in the affidavit is there a disclosure, or response to the averments of the 500 subcontracted workers engaged in the construction of the Central Vista before the curfew who were formerly transported in four buses and were then ferried in a reduced number of such vehicles,” the application said.The petitioners sought that a local commissioner be appointed to verify the various factual assertions made by the Centre, including the submission that the labourers are residing on site.“It also needs to be verified whether the on-site facilities as claimed are compliant of Covid protocols and what health and testing facilities have been made for the workers on site,” the application read.The petitioners had moved the apex court against the high court’s May 4 order adjourning their plea to May 17. The high court had adjourned the matter saying it first wants to study the apex court’s January 5 judgment giving a go-ahead to the Central Vista project.In the appeal before the Supreme Court, the petitioners contended that the project was not an essential activity and therefore, it can be put on hold during the pandemic.The apex court had declined to interfere in the matter as the issue was pending before the high court, asking the petitioners to seek an early hearing before the high court. Subsequently, they moved an application to advance the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-to-hear-plea-on-central-vista-project-tomorrow-101620725906100.html
11-05-2021||India||India's Covid-19 cases decline by 30K for first time after 2 months: Govt||A net decline of 30,016 Covid-19 cases recorded from the total active caseload in the last 24 hours for the first time after 61 days, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare informed on Tuesday.Also, after 61 days, the new recoveries outnumber the new cases seen in the last 24 hours.The health ministry said that India's total active caseload has dipped to 37,15,221 today and it now comprises 16.16 per cent of the country's total positive cases.3,29,942 new cases were registered in the last 24 hours out of which Karnataka has reported the highest daily new cases at 39,305 followed by Maharashtra with 37,236 while Tamil Nadu reported 28,978 new cases.As per health ministry data, ten states-- Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi reported 69.88 per cent of the new cases in the last 24 hours."Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar cumulatively account for 82.68 per cent of India's total active cases," it said.Also, with 3,56,082 new recoveries in the last 24 hours, India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,90,27,304 today and the national recovery rate is 82.75 per cent .Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar and Gujarat account for 72.28 per cent of the new recoveries.Moreover, with 3,876 new deaths in the last 24 hours, the national mortality rate currently stands at 1.09 per cent.Ten states account for 73.09 per cent of the new deaths whereas Karnataka saw the maximum casualties (596) followed by Maharashtra with 549 daily deaths.Meanwhile, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 17.27 crore today.A total of 17,27,10,066 vaccine doses have been administered through 25,15,519sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am today and more than 25 lakh vaccination doses were administered in the last 24 hours.As on Day-115 of the vaccination drive (May 10, 2021), 25,03,756 vaccine doses were given. Across 18,542 sessions, 10,75,948 beneficiaries were vaccinated for 1st dose and 14,27,808 beneficiaries received their 2nd dose of vaccine."These include 95,64,242 HCWs who have taken the 1st dose and 65,05,744 HCWs who have taken the 2nddose, 1,40,54,058 FLWs (1stdose), 78,53,514 FLWs (2nddose), 25,59,339 beneficiaries under 18-45 age group (1stdose), 5,55,10,630 (1stdose) and 71,95,632 (2nd dose) beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 years.5,38,06,205 1stdose beneficiaries and 1,56,60,702 2nd dose beneficiaries of more than 60 years old," it added.Ten states-- Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Bihar and Andhra Pradesh account for 66.7 per cent of the cumulative doses given so far in the country."5,24,731 beneficiaries of the age group 18-44 years received their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in the last 24 hours and cumulatively 25,59,339 across 30 States/UTs since the start of phase-3 of vaccination drive," the ministry further said.The ministry said that 8,900 oxygen concentrators, 5,043 oxygen cylinders, 18 oxygen generation plants, 5,698 ventilators/ Bi PAP and more than 3.4 lakh Remdesivir vials received as part of global aid to India have been delivered and dispatched to states and UTs to strengthen and supplement their Covid-19 response, so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-cases-decline-by-30k-for-first-time-after-2-months-govt-101620725063075.html
11-05-2021||India||Nagaland announces total lockdown from May 14 to May 21 to contain Covid-19||Seized with a rapid surge in Covid-19 cases and related deaths in Nagaland, the state’s high powered committee (HPC) on Covid-19 on Tuesday announced total lockdown across Nagaland from May 14 till May 21. The decision to this effect was taken in a meeting at the chief minister’s residence in capital Kohima, said government spokespersons Neiba Kronu and Mmhonlumo Kikon.Essential services including agricultural activities will be exempted from the lockdown and government offices will continue to function with a core team formed by the heads of departments, the spokespersons said. The state government is expected to issue fresh and detailed standard operating procedures (SOP) for the lockdown period by Thursday.Nagaland has seen 28 Covid-19 related deaths in the last six days, while the 133 fresh cases reported on Monday have taken the number of active cases to 2,884. The total caseload has reached 16,283. The recovery rate in the state has decreased to 78.2% from 78.55% recorded on Sunday.Health and family welfare department has been instructed to aggressively test and utilise the full capacity of Covid-19 laboratories in the state.HT has learnt that construction activities may be permitted in the state during the lockdown with the condition that contractors and firms will be responsible for ensuring adherence to all Covid containment measures at the sites and among the workers.Meanwhile, Nagaland on Monday administered 225,361 doses of Covid-19 vaccines. Out of the total doses administered in the state, 51,690 were given to frontline workers, 14,992 to healthcare professionals and 110,431 to people above 45 years and senior citizens, immunization officer Ritu Thurr was quoted as saying by a news agency.A total 48,428 people have received the second dose of the vaccine completing the full course of vaccination. They comprise 26,485 front-line workers, 9,971 healthcare workers and 11,792 persons above 45 years and senior citizens, Thurr added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-announces-total-lockdown-from-may-14-to-may-21-to-contain-covid19-101620725185912.html
11-05-2021||India||Covid-19 restrictions: Mapping curbs across states as cases in India rise||Cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are on the rise in India. On Tuesday, the country registered 329,942 fresh cases of the virus. With this, its cumulative infection tally reached 22,992,517, according to the Union health ministry dashboard at 8am. Meanwhile, as many as 3,876 people died of the virus in the last 24 hours, taking India's Covid-19 death toll to 249,992, the ministry added.As the country reels under the impact of second wave of the pandemic, here is a look at states which have introduced fresh restrictions in order to curb the spread of the virus.PunjabMadhya PradeshMaharashtraKarnatakaGoaKeralaTamil NaduChhattisgarhTelanganaAndhra PradeshDelhiHimachal PradeshUttarakhandBiharUttar PradeshArunachal PradeshAssamNagalandManipurTripuraMizoramJharkhandWest BengalOdishaHaryanaRajasthanJammu and KashmirChandigarhIn the latest addition to these curbs, the Telangana government on Tuesday decided to impose a state-wide lockdown from May 12 to May 22. The restrictions will be imposed under this lockdown from 10am on May 12, however, there will be a relaxation of lockdown from 6am to 10am everyday, the chief minister's office said in a release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-restrictions-mapping-curbs-across-states-as-cases-in-india-rise-101620715698612.html
11-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Telangana imposes 10-day lockdown from May 12||Telangana government, led by chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao, on Tuesday, announced a 10-day statewide lockdown in view of the sudden surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. The lockdown will be implemented from tomorrow (i.e. May 12, Wednesday) till May 22. However, there would be relaxation for all the activities from 6am to 10am daily, following which only essential activities will be allowed for the remainder of the Covid-19 lockdown, the Telangana chief minister's office (CMO) said. The complete guidelines regarding the Telangana lockdown shall be issued shortly, people familiar with the development said.Also Read: Telangana govt extends night curfew; limits attendees at gatheringsThe Telangana government on Tuesday held a high-level meeting to decide on whether a statewide lockdown was necessary, in view of the Covid-19 situation. For this purpose, top state officials, under the chairmanship of the chief minister, held a meeting to discuss arguments for and against a complete lockdown, the Telangana CMO said. Notably, the development comes days after the Telangana government said last week that it will not impose a lockdown -- partial or total -- to contain the spread of coronavirus, as it will lead to the collapse of the financial system in the state."The Telangana state cabinet meeting discussing the pros and cons of a statewide lockdown will be conducted at 2pm at Pragathi Bhavan," the chief minister's office (CMO) had earlier said. Top state officials in Telangana discussed the recent surge of Covid-19 cases and take a decision in favour of or against the imposition of a complete lockdown, according to the Telangana CMO.In view of this, the State Cabinet would discuss the pros and cons of imposing lockdown including the adverse impact, if any, on the ongoing procurement of Paddy. The Cabinet will take a decision after the necessary deliberations.#TelanganaFightsCovid19Highlighting the matter of the Telangana lockdown, the CMO's official Twitter handle posted, "The opinion is divided among people on the question of imposing a lockdown. Some reports suggest that the number of Covid-19 cases has not come down in some of the Indian states despite the clamping of lockdown whereas some sections argue in favour of lockdown."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-to-soon-decide-on-covid-19-lockdown-high-level-meeting-underway-101620722095286.html
11-05-2021||India||WHO warns against use of Ivermectin for Covid-19 treatment||The World Health Organisation has recommended against using Ivermectin to treat patients with coronavirus disease but the anti-parasitic medicine is widely prescribed by doctors in India for the same. Goa government has even asked its adult population to take a five-day course, irrespective of their Covid status, to prevent complications. On Tuesday, a senior WHO scientist took to Twitter to reiterate the organisation’s recommendation. “Safety and efficacy are important when using any drug for a new indication. @WHO recommends against the use of ivermectin for #COVID19 except within clinical trials,” said Dr Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist, World Health Organisation in a tweet. Also Watch | ‘Global disparity in vaccines biggest risk in ending pandemic’: WHO chiefShe also quoted a statement from pharmaceutical company Merck from February this year which states, “Our analysis has identified: *No scientific basis for a potential therapeutic effect against Covid-19 from pre-clinical studies; no meaningful evidence for clinical activity or clinical efficacy in patients with Covid-19 disease, and; a concerning lack of safety data in the majority of studies.” In India, the drug is a part of clinical guidance for management of adult Covid patients that was jointly released by Union health ministry, and Indian Council of Medical Research’s National Covid Task Force last month. As per the guidance, Ivermectin is advised for patients with mild Covid-19 disease under therapies based on low certainty of evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-warns-against-use-of-ivermectin-for-covid-19-treatment-101620722605821.html
11-05-2021||India||Petrol, diesel prices hiked for sixth time in a month. Check where it is costliest||Petrol and diesel prices were hiked for the sixth time this month on Tuesday, forcing the rates to cross the ₹100-mark in several states. While petrol prices rose by 27 paise for every litre the price of a litre of diesel went up by 30 paise, according to a price notification by state-owned fuel retailers, news agency PTI reported.In Delhi, petrol now costs ₹91.8 per litre and diesel ₹82.36 for every litre. This was the sixth revision in the rates of fuel since May 4. In Mumbai, petrol is sold at ₹98.12 a litre while diesel costs ₹89.48 per litre.Meanwhile, in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra the fuel prices touched ₹100 per litre after the revision.Also read: Nadda writes to Sonia Gandhi, asks her to ‘stop misleading’ people over CovidPetrol and diesel are reportedly the most expensive in Sri Ganganagar district of Rajasthan, where petrol costs ₹102.7 per litre and diesel is priced at ₹95.06 a litre. Jaisalmer and Bikaner, also in Rajasthan, have also seen fuel prices rise above ₹100 even as in Barmer the prices stopped short of touching the century-mark, resting at ₹99.82 per litre.Shahdol ( ₹102.06), Rewa ( ₹102.04), Chhindwara ( ₹101.67) and Balaghat ( ₹101.98) in Madhya Pradesh have the costliest petrol. Bhopal and Indore will soon cross the mark in case of a new rise as petrol costs ₹99.9 a litre and ₹99.83 a litre there, respectively.Maharashtra's Prabhani also joined Nanded district in the state with the petrol price soaring above ₹100.The oil companies resumed the rate revision after an unexplained freeze and price reduction in April during a period that coincided with assembly elections in four states and one Union territory.Also read: Oil gains after cyber attack forces shutdown of US fuel pipelinesSoon after the elections were over the votes counted, the oil companies denoted the need for the pending increase in the retail prices in congruence with international oil market trends.Different states have different fuel prices owing to additional local taxes like VAT and freight charges levied on its transportation. Rajasthan has the highest value-added tax (VAT), followed by Madhya Pradesh.The opposition parties have criticised the Centre on numerous occasions for heavy taxation on fuel when the country is battling the coronavirus pandemic. Around 60 per cent of the retail selling price of petrol and 54% of diesel is central and state taxes.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-diesel-prices-hiked-for-sixth-time-in-a-month-check-where-it-is-costliest-101620717884350.html
11-05-2021||India||Labourers at Central Vista project follow Covid protocols: Centre tells Delhi HC||The Centre on Tuesday told the Delhi high court that the labourers engaged with the Central Vista Project reside at the construction site and they follow all the protocols and guidelines in place to check coronavirus infection.“The workers are staying on the site and, therefore, the notification relied upon by the petitioner is fully complied with. The petitioner is fully aware about this fact and he has deliberately suppressed it in the petition. While the arrangements for the stay of the workers were being made at the site, permission was sought for transportation of materials and labourers from Sarai Kale Khan camp to the work site, including permission for the movement of supervisory staff and such permission was valid till April 30,” the Centre told the Delhi HC.The Centre further said that a Covid-compliant facility was installed at the site of the project itself to accommodate the 250-odd workers who had expressed their willingness to stay put and continue their work. “The facility provides for strict implementation of Covid-19 protocol and also adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour, such as sanitisation, thermal screening, physical/social distancing and masking,” the Centre noted.The contractor has provided for health insurance of all the workers against Covid-19 and a separate facility for conducting the RT-PCR test, and has made arrangements for isolation area and medical aid at the site, the government told the court.The Centre stated that as per the Delhi Disaster Management Authority's (DDMA) order dated April 19, construction activities during curfew are permitted where labourers are residing on-site. In view of the same, it is unequivocally stated that the workers working on the project as of now, are residing at the work site, following social distancing norms as well as other Covid-19 protocols. It is false to suggest that any workers are brought from Sarai Kale Khan camp to the working site on a daily basis. The entire substratum of the case of the petitioner is erroneous and based on falsehood, it added.The Centre further told the Delhi high court that the very fact that out of all these construction activities going on simultaneously for different projects by different agencies, the petitioner has chosen to be a “public spirited citizen” only with regard to one project that speaks volumes about his intentions and motive behind filing the present petition that too suppressing all these facts. The very fact that the petitioner is selective about his “public interest” itself disentitles him from being entrusted with the writ of this court and the petition deserves to be dismissed as motivated by some undisclosed interest under the garb of “public interest”, it added.It may not be out of place to mention that the very fact that the petitioner not only suppressed material facts about the project in question but is selective about his ‘public interest’ requires to be viewed from one curious development which generally does not happen in bona fide public interest litigations. The petitioner rushed to the court in the midst of curfew selectively targeting one particular construction site, the Centre asserted.The Centre stated that a bona fide litigant who comes with clean hands would not only suppress the facts but wait for a few more days awaiting hearing before the court particularly when he has already moved the court belatedly and selectively. This again speaks volumes about the potential motive behind such public interest litigations.Talking about the scope of the project, the Centre said it is not what is colloquially referred to as “the Central Vista Project” (which includes Parliament, refurbishment of North Block, South Block, construction of new offices for central government -- common Central Secretariat, central conference facilities, etc.). The scope of work which is a subject matter of the present petition is limited to the redevelopment of Central Vista Avenue (i.e., both sides of the Rajpath) where Republic Day celebrations are held annually. This is a very important public space and most widely visited by the common public and tourists in Delhi. It may be noted that the scope of work is as follows--Providing public amenities like toilet blocks, paths, parking space, vendor zone, making four pedestrian underpasses below Janpath and C-Hexagon Road, improvement of canals, bridges, lawns, lights etc.Earlier in the day, a bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh allowed the early hearing petition filed by petitioners-- Anya Malhotra, who works as a translator and Sohail Hashmi, a historian and documentary filmmaker, seeking to stop the work in the raging coronavirus pandemic.Malhotra and Hashmi had moved the apex court against the high court’s May 4 order adjourning their plea to May 17.The high court had adjourned the matter saying it first wants to study the apex court’s January 5 judgment giving a go ahead to the Central Vista project.In the appeal before the Supreme Court, the petitioners had contended that the project was not an essential activity and therefore, it can be put on hold for now during the pandemic.“Labourers are being transported from Sarai Kale Khan and Karol Bagh area to Rajpath and Central Vista, where construction work is going on. This enhances chances of spread of Covid-19 infection among them,” Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra had told the apex court.Luthra urged the court to issue notice on the plea but the court said it would hear the matter on Wednesday. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta for the Centre told the court that he had filed a reply but the same was not on record. The matter has been adjourned for tomorrow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/labourers-at-central-vista-project-follow-covid-protocols-centre-tells-delhi-hc-101620717678842.html
11-05-2021||India||‘Vaccine is not 100% protective, but it’s highly effective’: Former CDC director||Tom Frieden, a former director of US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), runs Resolve to Save Lives, a global public health organisation. He lived in India from 1996 to 2002 when he worked with the World Health Organization and the World Bank. Frieden spoke to Sunetra Choudhury about the second wave of Covid-19 in India. Edited excerpts:What do you make of the situation?The whole world is watching India and sympathising with the great difficulty it is going through now. What we have learned is that this virus is a very challenging enemy... Right now, it is just humanity against the virus and what we must do is to save lives.Authorities in India have said that they were taken by surprise, that no one could have actually predicted this. What is your take on that?...there is a lot we do not know. So, I think the best thing we can all do is focus on the future as to what we can do to have better control of the situation to save lives and to keep our economy and our educational system going. The first thing to understand--and this is true everywhere in the world right now where you have uncontrolled spread--that you have to reduce the spread. You have to do that by universal indoor masking and by imposing closure on the hotspots that can lead to the exclusive spread and that means indoor closures, locking travel. These are some of the things that are driving the huge spread in countries around the world. But we’ve learned a lot; there are ways to close and be safer, but also keep the economy moving. We understand that the outdoors is generally safe. Though, with people out there being very close for a long time, that’s more of a problem. ...even if there were enough vaccines, it takes a long time to get them out and it takes weeks or months to develop immunity.Also Read | India registers 329,942 new Covid-19 cases, infection tally reaches 22.9 millionThe second thing very important to me is organisation. I’m not making any comment about India, but it is out of the experience of my organisation, which works with more than 40 countries...what’s very important is an organised response which somewhere means an incident management system. This is needed at national, sub-national, and local levels as a crucial component of epidemic response so that there is a clear organisation that is kind of a model centre.The third is to reduce deaths. ...it’s very important to provide clinical care and strategic vaccination. So, clinical care means organising rapid progression of oxygen and all the methods on clinical care. Also, for strategic vaccination, you look at who is dying or the age or the order of about two-thirds of the deaths or people over the age of 60. So, you really want to make sure you’ve got over 60 vaccinated as quickly as possible, understanding that this will still take many weeks or months to get it done. Vaccinating the elderly on priority is very important because the sad fact is that there are not enough vaccines in the world. And my organisation thinks that there should be more sharing of vaccines. We think that there should not be just an opening up of the intellectual property but also hands-on technology transfer to get all the effective vaccines including the mRNA vaccines to everyone.But because there aren’t enough vaccines in the short term, we really must focus on vaccinating two groups, health care workers and older people. Health care workers because...people don’t trust the health care system. You’re going to see many deaths not just because of Covid, but from many other conditions as well, from measles, rotavirus, and other vaccine-preventable diseases.Also Read | A new chapter for the TRIPS waiver proposal...We’ve seen a real setback in tuberculosis control. Fewer patients are coming forward to be diagnosed. ...in addition to my first point of closures, the second being organisation, third the clinical care, fourth the strategic vaccination, the fifth would be communication which means providing fair information on what’s known and when it’s known, establishing fair dashboards, establishing a risk alert system so people know what their risk is and that can be resolved by organisation.We’ve done this in the US by working with the newspaper The New York Times. So, you can see whatever community you’re in and what your risk probably is. It shows the equivalent of how far Covid is in my community.So, would you disagree with the way we opened up vaccines for all age groups above 18?I’m not in India, so I’m not seeing the realities there. And so, I would not like to comment on what’s happening there. What I can say is that in India, health workers are better there. But the Centre has a critically important role to play. I know that really, the efforts are being made to scale up vaccine production. I think in that area, there are a series of things that need to be done to save lives and also reduce the burden of Covid on health and society more generally.The models suggest, the better-targeted vaccines are, the more lives they will save. There is some controversy about that because, for example, in India, a lot of the spread is happening among younger people. And so, in theory, if you were to vaccinate the younger people, you could reduce stress and therefore have more of an impact that’s what I think ultimately of what we’ve learned about it....The virus... is going to be around for a while. I come back to a fundamental point that our most important priority is to reduce the risk of death.There is a lot of panic because of the high number of deaths. ICMR, our medical research body, has recorded that 4.5% of people were infected after being vaccinated. In India, there is anecdotal evidence of doctors who are fully vaccinated and yet dying after being infected. What would you say to people who are afraid because of this?US CDC has reported more than 100 deaths among people who have been vaccinated and appear to have gotten Covid...not all of them may have died of Covid but some of them certainly did. ...there is an old saying in the US, the only things certain in life are death and taxes... a vaccine is not 100% protection. There are breakthrough infections. Most of them are mild, but not all of them are mild. And so, we can’t assume complete protection from vaccinations, even if it’s a complete series, even if it’s the mRNA vaccines, which appear to be even more effective than the others. And that’s why it’s very important that we think of this as a multi-layered approach to increase protection.Also Read | Twitter donates USD 15 million for Covid-19 relief in India...vaccination will be more effective only if other people around you are also vaccinated because you will be safer, and the risk rate is lower. This is why we have emphasised the issue of risk alert levels, usually a four-level system or maybe a five-level system from extremely high, very high, moderate, and too low. To understand that if you’re vaccinated, you have an underlying condition or you’re 80 or 90 years old and you’re in a community that has a very high level of spread, you’re still going to have to be careful as compared to if you’re in a community with a low level of spread. We really have to understand the context and avoid concerns here. But fundamentally, the vaccine is not 100% protective, but it’s highly effective. What we need to understand is that vaccination works best in the context of a comprehensive program. I’ll give you an example. Israel has one of the highest vaccinations in the world. And because children are not vaccinated, there’s a mandate for children in schools to wear masks and they have not had outbreaks in schools since. So, there are many different components of making sure that we save lives. And vaccines are the most powerful, but they’re not yet as widely available as we wish they were.What about the variants emerging all the time? There’s an Indian variant, before this, the concern was the UK variant. Are the vaccines protecting us there?There’s still more information to come on this. Some of the variants appear to be able to evade immunity from some of the vaccines, but we don’t yet know to what extent and which variant and which vaccine. So, we’re going to have to learn more about that. But it does tell us that this is a really difficult virus to fight. And it’s important that we not only vaccinate but also reduce the uncontrolled spread anywhere in the world.We have the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine and Covaxin. The UK is offering an alternative to the under 40 population. Does that apply to the rest of the world as well? Well, I would leave that for national governments to recommend and for patients and their doctors to discuss. ...it does appear that with a J&J vaccine and likely the AstraZeneca, there is a very rare but potentially serious adverse effect on the number of who will be benefited...for the past at least three months, my organisation has been advocating opening up intellectual property and providing hands-on technology transfer to scale up mRNA vaccine production around the world. This is for the global public good. The mRNA vaccines are quicker to produce, they are more certain to produce and easier. It is not that easy, but it is less difficult to produce rapidly. They appear to provide a very robust level of immunity and they have not been associated, as we know so far, with the kind of rare adverse event. ...we have to deal with the world as it is today, not the world as we wish it would be. And certainly, someone living in an area that has the spread of Covid will want to strongly consider getting vaccinated. The mRNA vaccines are our insurance policy against variants, against the production delays with the other vaccines, and against the possible need for booster doses. It will take far longer than we wish to scale up our manufacturing and that’s why we need to start it today.Also Read | The second wave and the Indian StateOne of the ways that you advocate tackling Covid is with the help of statistics. When do you foresee places like India having a majority of its population vaccinated? Well, I can’t predict the future. I don’t know what’s going to happen with the vaccine production, but I know that there are not going to be enough vaccines as soon as we would wish. And that’s why closures and masking are very important in the short and medium term. I do think the world will get through this pandemic. I think we will ultimately get into a situation where we have limited Covid and we will still have outbreaks of clusters, but we will be at a new normal. I think masks will be part of the new normal in certain circumstances. For example, during influenza season, it’s very clear that masks have saved tens of thousands of lives from influenza by crushing the curve of influenza. I think people who are not feeling well as they do in East Asia should wear masks because this is affecting people around them. People with underlying health conditions, who are going into crowded areas, should wear mask because that will protect them from a wide range of infections. So, I think there is a real value to masks and if you look at countries like Singapore, regions like Hong Kong...the widespread use of masks...has been quite important in limiting Covid and other infections.In many countries, the real number of deaths is underreported. How important is it to have the actual numbers?Transparency is extremely important. We’ve seen lots of controversy about reporting deaths. We have worked with the World Health Organization. This is just one way of doing this... Covid disrupts the health care system and therefore people there die from a wide range of causes. That’s why it’s so important to protect the continued health care services such as immunisation. ...in nearly all countries, there are more deaths from Covid than the deaths reported. That is true for the United States and it’s true for most countries in the world. How much more? That’s a question that needs to be looked at in each country individually...fundamentally, an effective disease response system relies on real-time data to address the real-time response.Umar Sofi contributed to the story||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fundamentally-the-vaccine-is-not-100-protective-but-it-s-highly-effective-101620718825551.html
11-05-2021||India||After Buxar human corpses float, pile up at Uttar Pradesh||A day after bodies of suspected Covid patients washed up on banks of Ganga in Bihar's Buxar, some unidentified corpses were found floating in the Ghazipur district of Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday.The local administration has initiated the probe."Our officers are present on the spot to investigate and ascertain where they came from. A probe into the matter is underway," MP Singh, Ghazipur's District Magistrate told ANI.The local people, traumatised by the sight of floating human bodies in the Ganga, fear spreading of diseases in the area, which has not been spared by the ravaging Covid pandemic.They complained of stench coming from the bloated, decomposed corpses and accused the authorities of ineptitude."We informed the administration about the matter, but no action has been taken by them. If the situation continues like this, there is fear of us getting infected by Coronavirus," Akhand, a resident, told ANI.The incident of floating and piling up of corpses in Bihar sparked fears about the scale of the Covid crisis in the country. Authorities believe the relatives of those succumbed to the virus, may not have been able to find space for the last.Union Minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Tuesday termed the incident as "unfortunate" and asked concerned states to take immediate cognizance."The incident of corpses found floating in Ganga in Buxar region of Bihar is unfortunate. This is definitely a matter of investigation. The Modi government is committed to the cleanliness 'mother' Ganga. This incident is unexpected. The concerned states should take immediate cognizance in this regard," Shekhawat tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-buxar-human-corpses-float-pile-up-at-uttar-pradesh-101620717991276.html
11-05-2021||India||Covid-19: The five elements of the Mumbai model||The devastating impact of India’s raging pandemic has largely been seen in Delhi, as the national Capital’s rising caseload was met with a shortage of medical oxygen and hospital beds for weeks at a stretch. Mumbai, with a higher population density, faced a shortage both of beds and oxygen as the second wave surged. However, the city, with a population of at least 12.3 million, was able to cope better earning it praise from both the Supreme Court and the Bombay High Court (HC) lauding the “Mumbai model”.On May 5, the top court recommended that Delhi should draw from Mumbai’s methods and experiences. A few days later, the Bombay HC asked municipal corporations from different states to follow the systems put in place by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to handle the Covid-19 pandemic.“The Mumbai model is a mix of decentralisation, augmenting infrastructure, and keeping a close watch on the loopholes in order to plug them. For example, we realised the importance of oxygen support for Covid-19 patients during its first wave. Back then, instead of relying on a cylinder-based model, we upgraded our facilities with Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) tanks. By the time the second wave hit us, our dependency on the cylinders had considerably reduced,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani.HT spoke to several officials across the city to understand what constitutes the Mumbai model.24/7 operational, decentralised war rooms When Iqbal Chahal took over on May 8, 2020, as the municipal commissioner of the BMC, one of the crucial decisions he made was to decentralise the disaster control room – till then, a solitary unit — into 24 Covid response war rooms, one for each of the city’s administrative wards. They were functional in a month, each with its own dedicated helpline number that is connected to 30 lines. A mixed group of doctors, medical interns, schoolteachers, and social workers operated these lines 24/7 working in eight-hour shifts. The number of lines in each war room has not changed.Also Read | Doctors flag indiscriminate use of steroids, antibiotics in Covid-19 treatment“This system of someone from the BMC being in touch with the patients, helped avert chaos that could have occurred when the cases peaked,” Kakani said. Mumbai also made it mandatory for beds to be allotted only through these war rooms. When serious patients visited hospitals directly, the health care facilities were asked to promptly update the dashboard — a live bed tracker with details on the availability of Covid-19 bed in the public and private hospitals across the city, accessible to each war room.As the cases peaked in April 2021, touching a single day high of 11,206 cases on April 4, the war rooms bustled to accommodate patients on beds that were being occupied within a matter of a few minutes. “The bed status would change so quickly that we had to rush to call the hospital, or the bed would be allotted to someone by then,” said Dr Dhananjay More, a Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery (BAMS) who works as a war room assistant medical officer in A-ward that covers Fort, Marine Drive, and Colaba areas.More, who was posted at a Covid-19 facility in Dharavi last year realised that this situation would only result in further panic. By the second week of April, several patients were being allotted beds that were far from their residence. In one instance, a 13-year-old girl from Fort was rushed to the NESCO facility in Goregaon, 29 km away, as her oxygen saturation dropped to 91% and there was no vacant oxygen bed in south Mumbai.Triage and testing reports As cases began to peak in the first wave, patients were turned away from hospitals for lack of beds, and ambulances equipped with oxygen fell short. Many hospitals also refused to accept patients without a Covid positive test results. This issue was largely addressed as the war rooms began to follow the triage system, and also streamlined the protocols surrounding test results. BMC’s war rooms played a crucial role in triaging, or determining the severity of a patient’s condition, their likelihood of recovery without treatment, and thus determining the priority of who to afford care to.The BMC’s triaging system also hinged on another controversial decision — it had forbidden the testing laboratories to share positive reports with patients in June 2020. Only negative reports were allowed to be shared directly, while the positive reports would be routed through the war rooms. “This method helped in ensuring that hospitals are not unnecessarily crowded,” said Dr Daksha Shah, deputy executive health officer of BMC. “When the war room made the first call to inform the positive report, the patient’s health and living conditions were understood and they would be accordingly guided for home isolation or hospitalisation,” she said.The civic body faced a backlash for forbidding laboratories to disclose the positive reports, but it refrained from giving in to the pressure. “Instead, we pressurised the laboratories to turn around the reports faster, so that there was no delay in updating the patients from our side,” said Shah. The laboratories were asked to enter data of processed samples between midnight to 6am so that patients could be told their positive status through the war rooms starting from 8am every day.Also Watch | ‘They slept on warnings’: Asaduddin Owaisi attacks Modi govt over Covid crisisTo tackle the second wave better, each war room formed a team of doctors to visit patients and ascertain if they need immediate hospitalisation. “In some cases, panicked relatives and friends exaggerated the severity even as the patient’s parameters were normal,” said Dr More. “When in doubt, we started dispatching doctors to visit such patients and assess their condition,” he said. The primary healthcare workers were also directed for this task if doctors were unavailable. Those living in slums were strictly directed to isolation centres if they did not have access to isolate; those with separate rooms and toilets were allowed home isolation, based on their health condition.Augmenting beds, retaining jumbo facilitiesThe number of hospital beds, including Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and oxygenated beds was increased to 1.5 times more than what the city had during the first wave. The jumbo field hospitals that were created during the first wave were retained even when the cases fell drastically, and the admissions dropped. For instance, in January 2021, the NESCO jumbo facility in Goregaon had only three patients admitted in its 200 bed ICU and only 29 patients in its wards with 1,900 beds. “We had to reduce our staff at that point in time, but the entire facility was retained as it is,” said Dr Neelam Andrade, dean of the NESCO facility.A crucial decision in BMC’s war against Covid-19 was to take over 80% of beds in private hospitals in May 2020, and which was reactivated as the second wave struck. The private hospital beds were incorporated in the dashboard accessed by the war room, empowering BMC to allot beds in the public as well as the private sector. Of the 23,209 hospital beds in Mumbai for Covid-19, 7,890 are in the private sector. Of the 2,961 ICUs, 1571 are in the private sector.Last June, the civic body also deployed 800 Sumo vehicles with aluminium partition sheets between the driver and passengers, to ferry people to the hospital. These vehicles were made available on Uber, an application for hiring cabs. However, patients requiring oxygen equipped ambulances struggled.Oxygen supply managementIn 2020, when Mumbai’s Covid-19 facilities were expanded, the civic body also began building storage tanks for Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO). Between May and June last year, it had installed 15 LMO tanks with a capacity of 13 kilolitres each and 11 smaller tanks with a capacity of up to six kilolitres each in the city’s six civic-run hospitals and six jumbo Covid-19 centres. “Nearly half of these tanks were redundant infrastructure at that point in time,” says additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu, who was tasked to oversee Mumbai’s oxygen supply and distribution. “We were not sure if they would be used. But we took the bold decision of building them, and that saved us during the second wave,” he said.Mumbai’s oxygen management model had a multipronged approach — in addition to building storage infrastructure, teams were appointed to ensure smooth movement of oxygen tanks reaching the city, staff was placed at a cylinder refilling station in Navi Mumbai to ensure that city’s quota of cylinders are not directed elsewhere and usage of oxygen in hospitals was closely monitored, sensitising doctors and paramedics to use it rationally.On the midnight of April 17, 168 patients from six civic-run hospitals were shifted to its jumbo facilities after they ran out of oxygen. Of these, 30 were ICU patients. “We realised that hospitals were admitting more patients with oxygen requirements even as they did not have optimal oxygen capacity,” said Velrasu, adding that many such hospitals were pulled up by the civic body. “For example, the Parsee General Hospital in south Mumbai had only 30 oxygen beds but had admitted 80 patients on oxygen support. Many hospitals like PGH would fast deplete their oxygen and would then start the panic calls. This was all happening at the same time when many jumbo facilities had empty oxygen beds. Patients had their hospital preferences, but we strictly advised hospitals to direct patients to other facilities instead of over-admitting,” said Velrasu.Also Read | Goa wants all adults to take Ivermectin. Here’s why FDA warned against its useCivic chief Iqbal Chahal formed six zonal teams in Mumbai to take over oxygen management at four wards each. These teams consisted of senior medical officers, administration staff, and oxygen suppliers. When any hospital in a particular zone sent out an SOS for oxygen, the zonal team would take charge to either direct surplus oxygen from other facilities or shift patients, if needed. In one instance, when a small hospital in the F North ward with half a dozen patients on oxygen was fast depleting its stock, the zonal team sprang into action and directed cylinders from the civic-run Sion Hospital. From 210 metric tonnes in the first wave, Mumbai’s oxygen demand shot up to 270 MT during the peak of the second wave. “But multiple, well-coordinated efforts, sustained us,” said Velrasu.Data led the way The civic body’s thrust on numbers helped in focusing on areas where more cases were being reported from. Data played a crucial role in forming micro-containment zones, limiting the movement of people from such areas. “We closely monitored the rise and fall of cases in wards and intensified our activities accordingly,” said Shah. “For example, when R Central (Borivali) and G South (Worli, Lower Parel) wards were reporting more cases, we directed the medical officer to intensify contact tracing, testing, and micro containment zones,” she said. The civic body also resorted to stringent steps like filing First Information Reports against people who broke the containment rules. As of May 8, the city has 581 active micro containment zones. Quick, accessible data on the dashboard that was made available to all war rooms also played an important role in making the process of bed allotment more efficacious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-the-five-elements-of-the-mumbai-model-101620718405712.html
11-05-2021||India||Goa wants all adults to take Ivermectin. Here's why FDA warned against its use||Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane on Monday said that all adults -- everyone above the age of 18 in the state -- will be given the Ivermectin antiparasitic drug irrespective of their coronavirus disease (Covid-19) status. Although the minister claimed that the medicine has been found to bring down the Covid-19 mortality rate in several countries, the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) had warned against its use in treating coronavirus patients back in April last year.Also Read: Every adult in Goa, irrespective of Covid-19 status, to be given Ivermectin drugNot just the FDA, the Union ministry of health and family welfare had also opted out from including Ivermectin in its official Clinical Management Protocol for Covid-19 last year. Experts of the central government's joint monitoring group and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)'s Covid-19 task force held a meeting to deliberate upon the issue and decided not to include Ivermectin in the clinical management protocol "because of lack of sufficient evidence on its efficacy based on randomised trials held in India and abroad," news agency PTI reported, citing ministry sources.What is Ivermectin?Ivermectin is a medication mainly used to treat various types of parasite infections. According to the FDA, Ivermectin is a veterinary drug, often used in the US to treat or prevent parasites in animals. Ivermectin tablets are approved at very specific doses for some parasitic worms, and there are topical (on the skin) formulations for head lice and skin conditions like rosacea. Still, Ivermectin preparations for animals are very different from those approved for humans.Ivermectin is not an anti-viral (a drug for treating viruses), as such, but its use in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) treatment is an unconventional application, according to experts.What have studies found?A report, published in Antiviral Research in June last year, clearly mentioned that Ivermectin "warrants further investigation for possible benefits in humans". The drug generated widespread excitement in medical and veterinary journals, which incorrectly described it as a treatment or cure for Covid-19, the report said.Studies showed that doses much higher than the maximum approved or safely achievable limit for use in humans would be required to achieve an antiviral effect. Such high doses have not been approved for human use, since it would actually prove toxic considering the drug is said to operate via the suppression of a host cellular process.Also Read: Ivermectin not to be included in Centre’s coronavirus management protocolAlthough a research group in India summarised the results of four small studies on Ivermectin as a treatment for Covid-19 and showed that there was a statistically significant improvement in survival rate among patients, the authors clearly stated that the quality of the evidence was low and further trials are needed to determine its effectiveness.A systemic review in November last year concluded that there's "weak evidence" of Ivermectin's benefit when used as add-on therapy in non-severe Covid-19 cases. No difference was found in patients who received a placebo and others who received Ivermectin in a randomised controlled trial (RCT) that year.FDA's warning against IvermectinThe FDA found it necessary last year to issue a warning against Ivermectin's use in Covid-19 treatment, as the evidence is not solid enough to come to a conclusion based on multiple small-scale studies.Ivermectin is recommended against in Covid-19 treatment by the FDA, the European Medicines Agency, and the United States National Institutes of Health -- all of which have stated that better studies and larger trials are needed to determine if the drug has any actual benefits.The World Health Organization (WHO) has also warned against the use of Ivermectin for Covid-19, except within clinical trials. Saumya Swaminathan, the chief scientist at WHO, tweeted out earlier this day, saying "Safety and efficacy are important when using any drug for a new indication."Safety and efficacy are important when using any drug for a new indication. @WHO recommends against the use of ivermectin for #COVID19 except within clinical trials https://t.co/dSbDiW5tCWDr Swaminathan attached a statement from Merck, the German healthcare corporation, on Ivermectin use during the Covid-19 pandemic.Directives issued in GoaThe state of Goa, however, is proceeding on the path of providing every adult with Ivermectin, despite the lack of strong evidence advocating its benefits.Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane said that patients will be given Ivermectin 12mg for a period of five days as expert panels from the UK, Italy, Spain, and Japan have found a statistically significant reduction in mortality, time to recovery, and viral clearance in Covid-19 patients treated with this medicine.The minister said this treatment would not prevent Covid-19 infection but it can help reduce the severity of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-wants-all-adults-to-take-ivermectin-here-s-why-fda-warned-against-its-use-101620711053627.html
11-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Kejriwal urges Centre to let more firms produce vaccines and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Enable more firms to produce Covid-19 vaccines, Kejriwal urges CentreDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said the Centre should divide the responsibility of producing vaccine for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) between more firms in order to meet the high demand. Read MoreCovid-19: All adults in Goa to be given Ivermectin drug; WHO warns against itAll adults in Goa will be given Ivermectin, irrespective of their vaccination status, to prevent complications arising out of Covid-19 infection. Read MorePM Modi salutes hardwork of scientists on National Technology DayPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday saluted the hard work of the scientists on the occasion of National Technology Day and remembered the 1998 Pokhran nuclear tests. Read MoreSecond wave may slams brakes on car sales, bookings and production under threatAt a time when buying cylinders and medicines has become top priorities in the midst of a raging second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, it is quite obvious that a large investment into something like a car is likely to take a backseat. Read More'This is no disrespect to the players': Ambrose makes startling declaration about West Indies cricketFast bowling great Curtly Ambrose has remarked that West Indies will not witness the same success as the 80s and 90s again as the current lot of players have not understood how much the game means to the people of the region. Read MoreVideo of elderly couple dancing their hearts out proves that age is just a numberSeveral videos on the Internet featuring elderly people shaking a leg to some peppy tunes are the perfect proof of the notion- age is just a number. Read MoreFarhan Akhtar denies getting unfair access to drive-in vaccine centre due to celeb status, shares screenshot of bookingFarhan Akhtar put to rest speculation that he got access to a drive-in vaccination facility in Mumbai because of his privilege. Read More‘People not just dying of Covid’: WHO Chief scientist on India’s Covid situationWorld Health Organisation (WHO) Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan termed the rate of infections and deaths in India as ‘worrying’ and called on governments to boost exercises on reporting actual numbers. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-kejriwal-urges-centre-to-let-more-firms-produce-vaccines-and-all-the-latest-news-101620716316052.html
11-05-2021||India||Uttarakhand, Haryana, Bihar now among states with highest Covid-19 deaths, active cases||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in India recorded an exponential rise in the past one month. From reporting around 72,000 cases at the beginning of April to reporting over 400,000 infections for four consecutive days in May, there has been more than five times a surge in the daily count of cases.While states like Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu continue to be the major contributors of the active caseload of the country, smaller states like Uttarakhand, Haryana, West Bengal and Bihar are now also among the top contributors.States like Rajasthan, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh registered a huge rise in Covid-19 related deaths in the last 40 days. The national capital, which used to report nearly 20 daily deaths till last month, recorded its highest single-day toll of more than 400 deaths. Karnataka, too, is reporting over 400 daily fatalities regularly. More than 200 to 300 people succumb to the viral disease routinely in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh.Also read| Covid-19: All adults in Goa to be given Ivermectin drug; WHO warns against itMore than 10 states account for over 73% of fatalities in the country. States like Uttarakhand, Haryana and Bihar are also among the top 10. Uttarakhand, which was reporting double-digit deaths until April, logged 180 fatalities from Covid-19 on May 10. Haryana also witnessed an upsurge in infections. A major Covid-19 hotspot in the country, Gurugram in Haryana reported more than 150 deaths in a single day on May 10.West Bengal, Haryana, and Bihar are among the 13 states with more than 100,000 active Covid-19 cases currently. While Maharashtra has the highest active caseload of the country as of May 10 with more than 600,000 cases, West Bengal has 126,027, Haryana has over 116,000 and Bihar with nearly 111,000 cases, the Union health ministry data showed.As per a previous report by Hindustan Times, Gurugram, Dehradun and Kolkata are emerging as the new Covid-19 hotspots in India. While as per the government data Jharkhand is not among the top states with the highest deaths, but the state has reported the highest rise in fatalities. As of the first week of May, Jharkhand reported 4.3 times to rise in the fatalities reported in the state.Most of the states and Union territories are now under self-imposed Covid-19 curbs to break the chain of transmission and contain the spread. The viral multiplication of the contagion has increased the country's tally to nearly 23 million. India on Tuesday reported 329,942 new Covid-19 cases and 3,876 deaths in the last 24 hours, the Covid-19 dashboard of the ministry showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-haryana-bihar-now-among-states-with-highest-covid-19-deaths-active-cases-101620711927428.html
11-05-2021||India||Writer-screenwriter Madampu Kunjukuttan passes away at 81 in Thrissur||Writer and screenwriter Madampu Kunjukuttan, passed away at a private hospital in Thrissur after being diagnosed with Covid-19 on Tuesday.Born on June 23, 1941, Kunjukuttan was 81 years old.He won the National Film Award for Best Screenplay in the year 2000 for the Malayalam film Karunam, directed by Jayaraj.He has also written the screenplay for many Malayalam films.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/writerscreenwriter-madampu-kunjukuttan-passes-away-at-81-in-thrissur-101620715839680.html
11-05-2021||India||Jal Shakti minister asks concerned states to take immediate cognisance of floating corpses in Ganga||Union Minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Tuesday termed the incident of corpses found floating in Ganga river in Bihar as "unfortunate" and asked concerned states to take immediate cognizance."The incident of corpses found floating in Ganga in Buxar region of Bihar is unfortunate. This is definitely a matter of investigation. The Modi government is committed to the cleanliness 'mother' Ganga. This incident is unexpected. The concerned states should take immediate cognizance in this regard," Shekhawat tweeted.Around a dozen of corpses were spotted in the Ganga river in Bihar's Buxar on Monday."10 to 12 corpses that were seen in Ganga came floating from a distance. It seems these corpses were floating for the last five to seven days. We do not have a tradition of immersing bodies in rivers. We are making arrangements to cremate these corpses," said KK Upadhyay, Buxar Sub Divisional Officer (SDO).Upadhyay said it is a matter of investigation to ascertain if these corpses come from Varanasi, Allahabad, or any other place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jal-shakti-minister-asks-concerned-states-to-take-immediate-cognisance-of-floating-corpses-in-ganga-101620714875128.html
11-05-2021||India||PM Modi salutes hardwork of scientists on National Technology Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday saluted the hard work of the scientists on the occasion of National Technology Day and remembered the 1998 Pokhran nuclear tests. "On National Technology Day, we salute the hard work and tenacity of our scientists and those passionate about technology. We remember with pride the 1998 Pokhran Tests, which demonstrated India’s scientific and technological prowess," PM Modi tweeted.PM Modi said that in any challenging situation, the scientists and innovators have always risen to the occasion and worked to mitigate the challenge. "Over the last year, they have worked industriously to fight Covid-19. I appreciate their spirit and remarkable zeal," he added.National Technology Day is celebrated every year in India on May 11 to commemorate the achievements of engineers and scientists in the field of science and technology.This year, the theme of the National Technology Day is 'Science and Technology for a Sustainable Future'.On May 11, 1998, India conducted three successful nuclear tests at the Indian Army's Pokhran Test Range in Rajasthan under Operation Shakti, which was led by late president Dr APJ Abdul Kalam. Two more nuclear tests were conducted on May 13.On this day, India also tested its first indigenous aircraft ‘Hansa-3’ designed by National Aerospace Laboratory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-salutes-hardwork-of-scientists-on-national-technology-day-101620712133612.html
11-05-2021||India||J&K L-G talks to political leaders for inputs on handling Covid in UT||Jammu & Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha spoke to senior leaders of various political parties over the phone, seeking their suggestion in handling the Covid-19 pandemic better.Sinha said that the representatives of public and political leaders have an important role to play in these trying times. “Let us all come together to protect and save precious lives by discharging our duty towards the society,” he said.Also Read | 18+ vaccination drive moves at snail’s pace as J&K awaits stocksAmong the leaders Sinha spoke to were Dr. Farooq Abdullah, Member of Parliament & National Conference president; Ghulam Nabi Azad, Former MP Rajya Sabha, and Congress leader; Dr. Nirmal Singh & Muzaffar Baig, former deputy chief ministers; GA Mir, president, JKPCC; Altaf Bukhari, founding president, J&K Apni Party; Saifudin Soz, Congress; Bhim Singh, president, National Panthers Party; Sajad Lone, president, J&K Peoples’ Conference; Ravinder Raina, BJP J&K president; Devender Singh Rana, National Conference leader, and Ravinder Sharma, JKPCC.Sinha also invited their suggestions for strengthening the measures being taken by the government to curtail the spread of the virus.The leaders assured the Lt Governor of their cooperation to the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jklg-talks-to-political-leaders-for-inputs-on-handling-covid-in-ut-101620713305166.html
11-05-2021||India||ED files money laundering case against ex-Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday registered a case of money laundering against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. The case, under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), was registered on the basis of an FIR filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), said people familiar with the development.The CBI case claims that ex-Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and “unknown others” had used their official position to obtain an undue advantage, as well as influenced the transfers and postings in the Mumbai Police, as alleged by former city police commissioner Param Bir Singh. ED was probing the financial aspects of the CBI case, as the central anti-money laundering agency is mandated to do so in any scheduled offense.Also Read: CBI submits interim report in Anil Deshmukh caseFormer Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh had alleged that Anil Deshmukh, when he was the Maharashtra home minister, had asked the then assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze to collect ₹100 crore every month from hotels, bars, and restaurants in Mumbai. Vaze, later suspended, is currently behind bars in the February 25 Antilia explosives scare case as well as the alleged murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran on March 5.CBI found "prima facie" truth in these allegations after the Bombay high court asked the premier anti-corruption agency to look into the allegations against Anil Deshmukh as part of a preliminary inquiry. Later, the case was converted into a regular First Information Report (FIR) and the agency teams raided the former Maharashtra home minister's residences in Mumbai and Nagpur last Saturday. The ED has said that it was "looking into" the CBI FIR, considering that the allegations involving a ₹100 crore sum each month are "huge" and warrants a case of public importance.Also Read: Trouble looms for former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh after FIRThe “unknown others” named by CBI in its FIR are suspected to be other government officials in Maharashtra who will now be probed formally. Unlike the CBI, the ED can record a statement from any person in a case under section 50 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and it is admissible as evidence in court.Meanwhile, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) -- an ally in the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government in the state -- has called the actions against former state home minister Anil Deshmukh in the alleged extortion racket case as "politically motivated".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-registers-money-laundering-case-against-ex-maharashtra-minister-anil-deshmukh-101620712096718.html
11-05-2021||India||Newly-elected Tamil Nadu MLAs take oath||Newly-elected MLAs of the 16th legislative assembly in Tamil Nadu took oath on Tuesday, a day after former chief minister and All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) leader Edappadi K. Palaniswami was unanimously elected leader of the legislative party to become the leader of opposition in the state assembly. The ceremony took place at Chennai's Kalaivanar Arangam hall at 10am. Election to the post of speaker and deputy speaker will be held on May 12 at 10am. Senior MLA M Appavu is expected to be sworn in as the speaker and K Pitchandi as the deputy speaker after the ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) on Monday declared them as its candidates to the two top posts in the House, news agency PTI reported.Also Read: Edappadi Palaniswami is AIADMK’s leader in Tamil Nadu assemblyDMK chief MK Stalin was sworn in as the state's eighth chief minister by governor Banwarilal Purohit on May 7.In the recently concluded state election, the DMK won 133 seats out of the total 234 segments and along with its allies, including Congress, emerged victorious in 159 constituencies. The AIADMK won 66 seats and its allies, the PMK and BJP, bagged five and four constituencies respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/newlyelected-tamil-nadu-mlas-take-oath-101620694591486.html
11-05-2021||India||Covid-19: All adults in Goa to be given Ivermectin drug; WHO warns against it||All adults in Goa will be given Ivermectin, irrespective of their vaccination status, to prevent complications arising out of Covid-19 infection. Ivermectin is a drug used to treat many types of parasite infestations, and it does not prevent Covid-19, but can help reduce the severity, said state health minister Vishwajit Rane.“I have given instructions for immediate implementation of prophylaxis (action taken to prevent disease) treatment,” Rane said.“People will be given Ivermectin 12mg for a period of five days. Expert panels from the UK, Italy, Spain and Japan, found a large, statistically significant reduction in mortality, recovery time, and viral clearance in Covid-19 patients treated with Ivermectin,” Rane said on Monday.Also Read | Remove age limits in Covid-19 vaccination: Goa health minister“The tablet will be made available at all the district, sub-district, PHCs (primary health centres), CHCs (Community Health Centres), Sub Health Centers, RMDs (Rural Medical Dispensaries) as well as GMC (Goa Medical College and Hospital). People can collect the medicine and start taking it immediately, irrespective of symptoms,” he said.Also Watch | ‘People not just dying of Covid…’: WHO Chief scientist on India’s Covid situation“However, this should not give one a false sense of security and complacency and they should continue to take all the precautionary measures and follow laid down SOPs,” Rane said.Goa on Monday recorded 2,804 new cases of coronavirus, taking its tally to 121,650, while 50 more fatalities pushed the toll to 1,729, a health official said.Meanwhile, the World Health Organization on Tuesday recommended against the general use of ‘ivermectin’ for treatment of Covid-19 patients.“Safety and efficacy are important when using any drug for a new indication. WHO recommends against use of ‘ivermectin’ for COVID-19 except within clinical trials,” Dr Soumya Swaminathan, WHO chief scientist, tweeted.Safety and efficacy are important when using any drug for a new indication. @WHO recommends against the use of ivermectin for #COVID19 except within clinical trials https://t.co/dSbDiW5tCWA similar warning has also been issued by German healthcare and life sciences giant Merck, whose statement Dr Swaminathan attached to her tweet. Merck said its scientists continue to “carefully examine findings of all available and emerging studies of ‘ivermectin’ for treatment of COVID-19”.“We do not believe the data available support the safety and efficacy of ‘ivermectin’ beyond the doses and populations indicated in the regulatory agency-approved prescribing information,” Merck said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-adults-in-goa-to-be-given-ivermectin-to-prevent-covid-complications-101620711504877.html
11-05-2021||India||India registers 329,942 new Covid-19 cases, infection tally reaches 22.9 million||India on Tuesday witnessed a slight decline in the number of daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) spike, registering 329,942 such cases in the preceding 24 hours. With this, the country's cumulative coronavirus infection tally has now reached 22,992,517. Official data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare's dashboard at 10am also showed that 3,876 new fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours, taking India's Covid-19 death toll to 249,992.Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayIndia currently battles the second wave of the coronavirus disease pandemic, although experts have warned that preparations need to be made at the earliest for an "inevitable" third wave. Yesterday, the country had marked 366,161 fresh Covid-19 cases and 3,754 new deaths from the disease. This was still a marginal dip from the over four lakh new cases that were added on Monday, but the daily spike continues hovering at alarming levels, nonetheless.There are currently 3,715,221 active Covid-19 cases in India, data from the health ministry shows; this accounts for 16.53% of the total cases. As many as 19,027,304 patients have been discharged till now, after being treated for Covid-19. The national recovery rate resides at 82.39%, while the mortality rate is at 1.09%, according to official data.#CoronaVirusUpdates: 📍Total #COVID19 Cases in India (as on May 11, 2021)▶️82.75% Cured/Discharged/Migrated (1,90,27,304)▶️16.16% Active cases (37,15,221)▶️1.09% Deaths (2,49,992)Total COVID-19 confirmed cases = Cured/Discharged/Migrated+Active cases+Deaths#StaySafe pic.twitter.com/f5SuvflzEHMeanwhile, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has said that 305,600,187 samples have been tested for Covid-19 till now, of which 1,850,110 samples were tested yesterday. The central government said 172,710,066 vaccine doses have been administered so far, of which 2,503,756 were administered in the last 24 hours.Of all the new Covid-19 cases across the world, India contributed 53.1% of the new infections on May 2 and 52.7% on May 3, data analysed by Hindustan Times shows. Hospitals around the country have been overwhelmed by the fresh wave of Covid-19 infections with oxygen supplies running short in medical facilities due to the sudden surge in demand. People are running from pillar to post to secure even basic medicines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-registers-329-942-new-covid-19-cases-infection-tally-reaches-22-9-million-101620703068381.html
11-05-2021||India||3 arrested for allegedly raping health worker in Assam’s Cachar||Three men allegedly raped a health care worker in Assam’s Cachar district on Sunday while she was returning home after work. One of the three allegedly took her to a hostel and raped her there along with two other men after offering her a lift. The woman was found to be Covid-19 positive and prompted police to get the three arrested accused tested and put them under isolation at a local police station.The police team, which arrested the three on Monday, also will undergo Covid tests.Also Read | Two tribal girls allege rape in AssamThe woman, who is a single mother of two, has undergone medical tests and has been asked to remain in home isolation. Police have informed her family that she is depressed. “Once she tried to lock herself in a room, she was talking about committing suicide also. She has stopped eating and is not talking to anyone. Her kids are very young, and we all are very worried that she might take the wrong step any moment,” said a family member of the woman, who belongs to the Manipuri community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-arrested-for-allegedly-raping-health-worker-in-assam-s-cachar-101620706764618.html
11-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra may extend lockdown till May-end||Maharashtra is likely to extend the Covid-19 lockdown till May-end even as it reported the lowest single-day spike in infections in 41 days. With 37,236 infections (27,918 cases were reported on March 30), the state’s tally went up to 5,138,973, while the toll rose to 76,398 with 549 more deaths.The dip in cases on Monday came amid a drop in the number of tests to 192,330 in 24 hours, below the daily average of over 2,50,000 tests over the past few weeks. The test positivity rate on Monday stood at 19.36%, against the weekly rate of 20.82%. Mumbai, too, reported its lowest one-day spike in 56 days (1,782 cases), after reporting 1,713 infections on March 15.The state government is all set to extend its current lockdown by another two weeks after it ends at 7am on May 15. The lockdown will be as strict as it is currently, while in some districts where the cases are on the rise, the local administrations are expected to impose stricter curbs. The decision is expected to be taken in the state cabinet on Wednesday. Cases are on the rise in 21 districts and dropping in 15, including Mumbai and Thane.Also Read | Maharashtra sees rise in vaccinations with 288,581 beneficiaries on MondayThe slowed-down vaccination drive is another reason for the extension of the lockdown.“Though the daily caseload has stabilised over the past few weeks, it is still at the average of over 55,000, which is much higher than the peak of the first wave, when the highest daily peak was 24,886 cases on September 11 last year. We will still have to follow stricter curbs to bring the cases down. The strain on the health infrastructure has been reduced significantly with more than 25% of beds in the state vacant. In some districts, the percentage is 40. But some districts like Kolhapur, Sangli are witnessing a rise in the number of cases. More than half the districts are still logging a rise in daily cases. In such a scenario, the lockdown will continue in its current form at least for two more weeks,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-maharashtra-may-extend-lockdown-till-mayend-101620706284742.html
11-05-2021||India||MP quacks face crackdown for ‘treating’ Covid patients amid surge in cases||Police in Madhya Pradesh’s Dewas were looking for a quack after a video purportedly showing him administering intravenous fluids to four people in the truck they arrived in for treatment for cold and diarrhoea went viral on Sunday. The video was the latest in a series of videos that have surfaced and highlighted the problem of quackery in the state and prompted authorities to form teams of officials to crack down on the practice amid a surge in Covid-19 infections.The health department has issued directions for identifying quacks as scores of them have been identified and arrested in recent weeks. The state home department on Monday ordered the formation of groups at the village and block levels to create awareness against quackery.“The district collectors have been asked to make a list of quacks to track their activities in the villages. Crises management groups will identify the suspects and hold awareness among people,” said health minister Prabhuram Choudhary.Also Read | ‘MP’s Covid-19 positivity rate declining, but can’t be relaxed’: CM ChouhanAgar Malwa district collector Avdhesh Sharma said they have identified about 350 quacks and acted against them in the last fortnight. “The villagers are more relying on quacks due to misinformation being spread on social media about Covid-19.”Bhind police superintendent Manoj Kumar Singh said they have identified around 400 quacks. “We sent their samples for Covid-19 testing and found eight of them positive. We have registered cases under Sections 120 B (criminal conspiracy) and 420 (fraud) of the Indian Penal Code.”Quacks have been caught in places such as Bhopal, Dewas, Agar Malwa, Vidisha, Raisen, and Bhind treating patients in a tin shed, garage, orchard, and a truck.In the first week of May, a quack, Devidas, was booked for treating a patient in an orchard in Agar Malwa. Surjan Narwaria and Hakim Singh were booked for claiming to be treating a suspected Covid-19 patient in the same district and were found to have been infected. In Vidisha district, Abdul Kareem was arrested while treating Covid 19 suspects.Prahlad Singh, a resident of village Rajpura, said people were reluctant to go for testing and treatment of Covid 19 as they fear getting quarantined. “They are also being misguided by quacks that they would not survive if they went for treatment of Covid-19. Here in my village, almost every second house has suspected patients, but they are not going for testing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-quacks-face-crackdown-for-treating-covid-patients-amid-surge-in-cases-101620703584363.html
11-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Partly cloudy sky with a chance of thunder in Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am on Tuesday (May 11, 2021). Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Partly cloudy sky with a chance of thunder, lightning in Delhi todayDelhi is likely to see a partly cloudy sky on Tuesday with the possibility of thunder and lightning, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. Read More‘Migration pact will help return illegal settlers, offenders’: UK home secretary Priti PatelThe new India-UK migration and mobility partnership and a proposed British law on migration will facilitate the movement of Indian professionals and simultaneously streamline the process of returning illegal migrants and offenders, British home secretary Priti Patel said on Monday. Read MoreChina's population grew only 5% over past decade to pass 1.4 billion, shows census dataChina's population has grown more than five percent over the past decade to pass 1.4 billion people, Beijing said Tuesday, as it unveiled its census results. China's birthrate has been in steady decline since 2017, despite Beijing's relaxation of the decades-old "one-child policy" in order to try and avert a looming demographic crisis. Read MoreWATCH: Huge crowd in UP's Badaun for religious leader's funeral amid CovidA massive crowd was seen in Uttar Pradesh's Badaun amid the Covid wave and curfew. A huge crowd descended on the streets for a funeral procession of a local religious leader. Watch here‘Fairness of selection; only the best gets picked’: Sourav Ganguly on India’s recent success in international cricketVirat Kohli-led Indian Cricket Team has emerged as the cricketing powerhouse in recent times. Ever since international cricket resumed after the Covid-19 halt, Team India has been showcasing its excellence in both home and overseas conditions. Read MoreNikki Tamboli deletes emotional note on brother’s death, shares new post: ‘A million words would not bring you back’Bigg Boss 14 finalist and actor Nikki Tamboli deleted an Instagram post in which she talked about how she is unable to cope with her brother’s death. On Monday, she had shared an emotional note, admitting that she cries herself to sleep almost every night. Read MorePriyanka Chopra is magic in white off-shoulder top, jeans and red lipstickPriyanka Chopra is a global icon. From being an acclaimed actor, a singer, a fashionista, and the owner of a haircare line, the stunner has a lot of feathers on her cap. She recently added another one. The fashionista became the face of a makeup brand. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-partly-cloudy-sky-with-a-chance-of-thunder-in-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news-101620701954678.html
11-05-2021||India||Apps like Unqualified Setu, NoWin won't save, but 2 jabs of vaccine will: Rahul Gandhi||Referring to the apps, Aarogya Setu and CoWin, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi attacked the Centre's policies for Covid-19 control and said that "Unqualified Setu and NoWin" will not save, but two jabs of Covid vaccine will do so."Message to the app-dependent PM Modi government: Unfortunately, Covid-19 is spreading to those who do not have internet facility-that is, more than half the population of the country! Apps like 'Unqualified Setu and NoWin' will not save, but rather two jabs of vaccine will", tweeted Gandhi in Hindi.The Congress Working Committee met today amidst an unprecedented public health crisis."The second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is nothing short of a grave calamity and a direct consequence of the PM Modi government's indifference, insensitivity and incompetence. It is the direct result of the central government's wilful disregard for scientific advice, its premature declaration of victory over the pandemic (that turned out to be just the first wave), and its unwillingness and inability to plan in spite of warnings sounded not only by public health experts but also by the Standing Committee of Parliament," stated a press release by the Congress party.The Congress Working Committee is concerned about the Modi government's vaccination strategy. Vaccine supplies are insufficient, yet the government denies the hard facts. The pricing policy is opaque and discriminatory. And contrary to economic and all other logic, the government has passed on the financial responsibility for vaccinating the 18-44 year population to the state governments, which are already facing severe financial stress. Worse, the mandatory online registration without a walk-in option will exclude -- and may have already excluded --millions of our citizens, particularly those in rural areas and those belonging to the weaker sections of society.Dr Manmohan Singh wrote to the Prime Minister after the last meeting of the CWC on April 17, 2021 giving five specific suggestions to increase vaccine supplies and coverage. However, instead of taking his suggestions in the constructive spirit in which they were offered, the Prime Minister instructed the Union Health Minister to reply to Dr Manmohan Singh in a most undignified manner.Since the last meeting of the Congress Working Committee, it is noticed that the infection has travelled massively into rural areas with zero access to RT PCR testing, medicines, oxygen or hospitalisation resulting in a large number of deaths. Even across the country, the inhumane crisis of non-availability of oxygen, hospital beds, Remdesivir, Ivermectin, Tocilizumab injections and vaccines reflects the failure of the central government. This has happened despite India producing sufficient quantity of Oxygen and Remdesivir injections as also the vaccines."The CWC noted with concern that the data on Covid deaths is wrong and afflicted by massive non-reporting of deaths. The solution lies in facing the challenge and stopping casualties from Covid-19 and not in concealing the truth by burying the data on deaths and infections," stated the release.The Congress Working Committee expressed its revulsion at the shocking expenditure priorities of the Modi government. At a time when the nation's resources should be devoted to ensuring expansion of vaccination coverage and supply of essential medicines and oxygen, the Modi government is indulging in criminal waste of money by continuing with the personal vanity project of the Prime Minister in the national capital. This is the height of callousness as also an insult to the people.The Congress Working Committee appreciates the assistance that has been given by the international community at this time of national crisis. However, it needs to be said that there is total non-transparency in the distribution and utilisation of these supplies. Our need for assistance is also a sad reflection of the governance and policy failures of the Modi government.The Congress Working Committee is of the belief that this a time for showing a sense of national unity, purpose and resolve. In order that it may become a reality, the Prime Minister must atone for his mistakes and commit to serving the people instead of carrying on with personal agenda, oblivious to the suffering around. The Congress Party commits to fighting the Covid-19 pandemic with its entire might and will support every people-friendly initiative of the government in fighting the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apps-like-unqualified-setu-nowin-won-t-save-but-2-jabs-of-vaccine-will-rahul-101620702863627.html
11-05-2021||India||Cow dung cakes found in baggage of Indian passenger at US airport, destroyed||The US Customs and Border Protection agents discovered cow dung cakes in a leftover baggage of a passenger from India at an international airport in the suburb of Washington DC, according to officials.Cow dung cakes are prohibited in the US as they are considered to be potential carriers of the highly contagious foot and mouth disease.They were destroyed, the US Customs and Border Protection (CBP) said on Monday.Also Read: Doctors warn against cow dung as cure for Covid-19“That is not a typo. CBP agriculture specialists found two cow dung cakes in a suitcase that was left behind after passengers from an Air India flight cleared CBP’s inspection station on April 4,” a media release said on Monday.“Foot and Mouth Disease is one of the animal diseases that livestock owners dread most, has grave economic consequences, and it is a critical threat focus of Customs and Border Protection’s agriculture protection mission,” said Keith Fleming, Acting Director of Field Operations for CBP’s Baltimore Field Office.Cow dung is reported to be a vital energy and cooking source in some parts of the world. Cow dung has also been reportedly used as a skin detoxifier, an antimicrobial and as fertilizer. Despite these alleged benefits, cow dung from India is prohibited due to the potential introduction of Foot and Mouth disease, the CBP said.According to the US Department of Agriculture, Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) is a worldwide concern as it can spread widely and rapidly and causes significant economic losses to livestock populations.A single detection of FMD will likely stop international livestock trade completely until authorities can eradicate the disease threat. The US has been FMD free since 1929, according to a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cow-dung-cakes-found-in-baggage-of-indian-passenger-at-us-airport-destroyed-101620699803469.html
11-05-2021||India||Rain, thunderstorm likely over NW India till May 15: IMD||Widespread rain and thunderstorms are likely over the western Himalayan region and northwest India till May 15, according to India Meteorological Department.Under the influence of a western disturbance and its interaction with easterly winds at lower levels, scattered to widespread rainfall or thundershower is very likely over western Himalayan region and scattered to fairly widespread rainfall or thunderstorms is likely over plains of northwest India during May 10 to 15 with maximum intensity during May 11 to 13. Isolated heavy rainfall is also likely over Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand on May 12 and 13.Also Read | Heatwave conditions won’t set in till May 18: IMDIsolated hailstorm is also likely over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi on May 12 and 13 and Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan & Muzaffarabad and Rajasthan on May 12. Isolated dust storm is also likely over Rajasthan during May 10 to 13.Under the influence of an east-west trough (area of low pressure) from Punjab to sub-Himalayan West Bengal and a trough in westerlies, widespread rainfall or thunderstorm activity is very likely over east and northeast India during the next 4-5 days. Isolated heavy rainfall is also likely over Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura.Under the influence of north-south trough or wind discontinuity from Vidarbha to Kerala coast in lower levels, light or moderate scattered to fairly widespread rain or thunder is very likely over Kerala, Mahe, Lakshadweep and coastal and south Interior Karnataka and isolated to scattered rain or thundershower over rest parts of south peninsular India during the next 4-5 days. Heat wave conditions are unlikely over any part of the country during the next 4-5 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-thunderstorm-likely-over-nw-india-till-may-15imd-101620701544083.html
11-05-2021||India||3 terrorists killed in encounter in Jammu and Kashmir's Anantnag district||Three Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists were killed in an encounter that broke out between security personnel and terrorists at Vailoo in Kokernag area of Jammu and Kashmir's Anantnag district on Tuesday.“Encounter has started at Vailoo, Kokernag area of Anantnag. Police and security forces are on the job. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPolice," Kashmir police had earlier tweeted. Vijay Kumar, IGP Kashmir, had informed news agency ANI that the three terrorists were of the LeT outfit.#AnantnagEncounterUpdate: 02 more #terrorists killed (total 03). Search going on. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPolice https://t.co/v1fcHJp3GXOn May 6, three Al-Badr terrorists were killed and one surrendered before the security forces after an encounter in Shopian district. The presence of terrorists in the area was ascertained during the search operation and all of them were given an opportunity to surrender, according to police.Watch: Three terrorists killed in encounter in Jammu and Kashmir's Anantnag district﻿﻿"Family members of the trapped terrorists were also called to the encounter site to motivate and persuade them to surrender," police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-underway-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-anantnag-district-101620699261621.html
11-05-2021||India||Every adult in Goa, irrespective of Covid-19 status, to be given Ivermectin drug||All people above 18 years in Goa will be given Ivermectin drug irrespective of their coronavirus disease (Covid-19) status to bring down mortality, state health minister Vishwajit Rane said on Monday.He said patients will be given Ivermectin 12mg for a period of five days as expert panels from the UK, Italy, Spain, and Japan have found a statistically significant reduction in mortality, time to recovery, and viral clearance in Covid-19 patients treated with this medicine."I have given instructions for immediate implementation of prophylaxis (action taken to prevent disease) treatment," Rane said.The minister said this treatment would not prevent Covid-19 infection but it can help reduce the severity."The Ivermectin 12 mg tablet will be made available in all the district, sub-district, PHCs, CHCs, sub-health centers, rural dispensaries for people to collect and start treatment immediately, irrespective of any symptoms or anything," Rane said.Goa on Monday recorded 2,804 new cases of coronavirus, taking its tally to 1,21,650, while 50 more fatalities pushed the toll to 1,729, a health official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/every-adult-in-goa-irrespective-of-covid-19-status-to-be-given-ivermectin-drug-101620699480690.html
11-05-2021||India||Doctors warn against cow dung as cure for Covid-19||Doctors in India are warning against the practice of using cow dung in the belief it will ward off Covid-19, saying there is no scientific evidence for its effectiveness and that it risks spreading other diseases.The coronavirus pandemic has wrought devastation on India, with 22.66 million cases and 246,116 deaths reported so far. Experts say actual numbers could be five to 10 times higher, and citizens across the country are struggling to find hospital beds, oxygen, or medicines, leaving many to die for lack of treatment.In the state of Gujarat in western India, some believers have been going to cow shelters once a week to cover their bodies in cow dung and urine in the hope it will boost their immunity against, or help them recover from, the coronavirus.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn Hinduism, the cow is a sacred symbol of life and the earth, and for centuries Hindus have used cow dung to clean their homes and for prayer rituals, believing it has therapeutic and antiseptic properties."We see ... even doctors come here. Their belief is that this therapy improves their immunity and they can go and tend to patients with no fear," said Gautam Manilal Borisa, an associate manager at a pharmaceuticals company, who said the practice helped him recover from Covid-19 last year.He has since been a regular at the Shree Swaminarayan Gurukul Vishwavidya Pratishthanam, a school run by Hindu monks that lies just across the road from the Indian headquarters of Zydus Cadila, which is developing its own Covid-19 vaccine.As participants wait for the dung and urine mixture on their bodies to dry, they hug or honour the cows at the shelter, and practice yoga to boost energy levels. The packs are then washed off with milk or buttermilk.Doctors and scientists in India and across the world have repeatedly warned against practising alternative treatments for Covid-19, saying they can lead to a false sense of security and complicate health problems."There is no concrete scientific evidence that cow dung or urine work to boost immunity against Covid-19, it is based entirely on belief," said Dr JA Jayalal, national president at the Indian Medical Association."There are also health risks involved in smearing or consuming these products - other diseases can spread from the animal to humans."There are also concerns the practice could contribute to the spread of the virus as it involved people gathering in groups. Madhucharan Das, in charge of another cow shelter in Ahmedabad, said they were limiting the number of participants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctors-warn-against-cow-dung-as-cure-for-covid19-101620697872548.html
11-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Train services in Kashmir suspended for 6 days, says Railways||Railway authorities on Monday decided to suspend train services in the Kashmir Valley for six days, starting Tuesday, in view of the worsening Covid-19 situation."The train services between Banihal-Baramulla section and vice-versa will remain suspended with effect from 11.05.2021 to 16.05.2021 in view of worsening Covid situation in Kashmir," an official of the Northern Railways said. The step to shut down services comes three days ahead of Eid-ul-Fitr amid reports that migrant labourers were using it to enter the Valley to escape mandatory Covid-19 testing at Qazigund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-train-services-in-kashmir-suspended-for-6-days-says-railways-101620698779864.html
11-05-2021||India||Panel raises concerns over Andaman water aerodrome project||The Union environment ministry’s expert appraisal committee (EAC) has raised several concerns about the environmental impact of constructing a water aerodrome at Swaraj Island, formerly Havelock Island, in Andaman and Nicobar.The aim of the project, part of the Centre’s Udan scheme (for regional airport development), is to connect remote areas of the island to Port Blair to promote tourism “resulting in growth in economic condition,” the minutes of the EAC meeting held on April 12 and published earlier this month stated.But the aerodrome will involve the loss of 3,500 sq m of forest land which has been transferred to Andaman and Nicobar Islands Integrated Development Corporation Ltd (ANIIDCO).As per the environmental impact assessment (EIA) report, the project site for the construction of the terminal building (1568.9 sq m) and associate infrastructure (453.3 sq m) falls partly in a large patch of mangroves. The speedboat pathway is dominated by mangroves on both sides.However, the management plan submitted by Andaman and Nicobar Administration does not address the impact on the mangroves due to the project.The EAC found the EIA report inadequate. “Since the EIA consists of mostly secondary data on biodiversity without actual site-specific biodiversity studies with respect to aquatic and natural environment in effect of tourism, the project proponent needs to resubmit the revised EIA covering biodiversity conservation/ management plan, including water and air quality data,” minutes of the EAC meeting, seen by HT, said.The study on biodiversity should be conducted by any national lab, it added.The EAC also asked for a comprehensive risk analysis for sea-plane crashing/catching fire at the sea-aerodrome, status of coastal regulation zone (CRZ) clearance at the state and central level and reassessment of the impact of the noise level during landing and take-off on the fauna in the area.T Haque, EAC chairman who presided over the meeting, died of Covid-19 complications last week. A senior environment ministry official, on condition of anonymity, said: “Mr Haque is no more. We will have to look into details of this project to be able to respond.”“Considering the high level of endemism in the species found in Andaman and Nicobar and their uniqueness, no EIA should be accepted without primary data. First, the biodiversity of Havelock region needs to be studied by a competent organisation. In the case of Galathea in Great Nicobar, as we know it is among the most important and largest nesting sites for leatherback turtles in India. The nesting and distribution of leatherback turtles is restricted to the Andaman and Nicobar Islands,” Bivash Pandav, director of Bombay Natural History Society, said.“The central government's UDAN scheme to set up airports for regional connectivity makes all the right noises about extending transport infrastructure to "underserved" places. But there have been numerous problems in how this scheme has been used to repackage old, unviable projects by cash starved states/UTs and to grab land. One of the main issues, as usual we might say, has been acquiring land and obtaining environmental approvals for projects in ecologically sensitive locations. State governments have pushed these locations for airport development even though they are well aware of the problems. In this case, the corporate wing of the Andaman administration is pushing this unassessed project that sounds more like an adventure ride. The project proposal states that the site is not critically polluted. That is actually the problem. This biodiversity rich island ecosystem may become that thanks to such a project,” said Manju Menon, a senior fellow at the Centre for Policy Research think tank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panel-raises-concerns-over-andaman-water-aerodrome-project-101620691501484.html
11-05-2021||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Delhi announced a lockdown on April 17. It saw 24,375 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on the day for a weekly average of 16,225 cases. Its positivity rate on the day was 24.6% for a weekly average of 16.5%.The corresponding numbers for May 9 were 13,336, 18,374, 21.7%, and 25.3%.The seven-day average of cases peaked at 25,294 on April 23; the weekly average positivity rate at 32.9%, on April 26, 27, and 28.The city-state’s fourth wave is ebbing with the same intensity with which it climbed — and one of the main reasons for this is clearly the lockdown.It isn’t just Delhi. Maharashtra announced stringent restrictions on movement and activities (although it wasn’t a full lockdown) on April 13 (it effectively started the following day), on a day Mumbai saw 7,873 new cases (weekly average: 8,952) and a positivity rate of 19.01% (weekly average: 18.73%).The state was likely late in announcing the lockdown. The seven-day average of cases in Mumbai peaked at 9,862 on April 10; the weekly average positivity rate at 20.55% the same day.The corresponding figures three weeks later, on May 9, were 2,395 new cases, 2,884 weekly average, 7.34% positivity rate, and 9.24% weekly average positivity.Mumbai had another advantage: it never witnessed the scramble for hospital beds and oxygen that Delhi saw, with anecdotal evidence suggesting that this rush for resources that were either not available or not accessible caused more infections.The evidence is pretty much irrefutable: in the short term, faced with a surge in infections that could overwhelm the health care system (or which already has), a lockdown helps; and it takes around three weeks to show results.With Karnataka and Tamil Nadu announcing a complete lockdown for two weeks starting May 10, and Kerala one starting May 8 (the government has said it will last till May 17, but will likely extend it), three states that, in the past seven days, accounted for a little over a fourth (28%) of all Covid cases in the country, should also start seeing a turnaround by early June.As the map shows, about 80% of India’s population is now locked down.Unlike last year — and perhaps because of the criticism it faced over the economic fallout of the 68-day lockdown between March 25 and May 31 2020 — the Union government has steered well clear of announcing a lockdown, leaving it to the states to do so (and therefore, cop all criticism for it). Lockdowns, despite their efficacy in the short term, are hugely harmful to the economy. That’s the reason many states and Union territories (Maharashtra and Delhi included) tried to put off announcing a lockdown for as long as possible. Even today, some states do not like to refer to a lockdown by that name.Which is why vaccinations matter.When a state or UT manages to vaccinate (if even partially) 40% of its population, it can pretty much allow most activities to resume, albeit with adequate non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs; the wearing of masks, social distancing, a ban on large events) and restrictions (allowing restaurants to operate at 50-70% capacity, for instance). Some experts believe that the results will start making themselves felt when even 25% of the population is vaccinated.Delhi has thus far managed to vaccinate (with at least one dose) around 4 million people — around 27% of the eligible population. It isn’t that much of a stretch to argue that at least some of the decline in cases and positivity rates the Capital has seen in recent days is on account of this. Mumbai has vaccinated (with at least one dose) 2.6 million people — around 23.6% of the eligible population.But because India will be short of vaccines for at least a few more months (and, most likely, even longer), local governments will find themselves having to resort to the occasional lockdown even as they work towards optimising vaccine doses to reach that 40% mark. They can then allow most activities to resume, with so-called NPIs, as they strive to vaccinate at least everyone who wants to be vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-what-you-need-to-know-today-101620683592854.html
11-05-2021||India||Covid hits AMU; 50 serving, ex-staff die||At least 50 current and retired staff at Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) have succumbed to Covid-19 in the past three weeks, officials said on Monday, rejecting allegations that the administration of the prestigious Uttar Pradesh institution were lax or negligent in dealing with the pandemic.At least 15 serving faculty members, 25 retired teaching faculty, 15 staff members and two schoolteachers from AMU have died in the past three weeks of Covid-19, said people aware of developments.“In all, 18 serving faculty members have died, out of whom 15 died because of Covid-related reasons. The cause of three other deaths was non-Covid. There are more deaths, which include retired faculty members and staff at Aligarh Muslim University,” said Dr Rahat Abrar, the public relations officer of AMU.“These deaths have taken place in the last 20 to 25 days. Concerned by this, the vice chancellor of AMU has written to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for genome sequencing of the virus active on the campus,” Dr Abrar said.There are about 5,000 non teaching staff and around 1,700 teaching staff at AMU.On Sunday, AMU vice chancellor Tariq Mansoor wrote to ICMR director general Balram Bhargava, requesting a study to find out if a particular virus variant was circulating around the Civil Lines area of Aligarh, in which AMU and many adjoining localities are situated.“Two serving faculty members who died because of Covid-19 — professor Qazi Mohammad Jamshed and associate professor Iqbal Qasim— were residing in the medical colony within the AMU campus,” the university spokesperson said. The other resided in areas adjoining the sprawling campus.The Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC) is affiliated to AMU and situated on the university campus. The head of the medicine department at JNMC, Prof Shadab Ahmad Khan, is among 18 serving faculty members of AMU who died.The deaths have triggered allegations of negligence. Faizul Hasan, former president AMU Students’ Union, demanded a high-level inquiry. He claimed that at least 45 serving professors, 15 to 16 retired faculty members and more than 50 employees linked with AMU died in 20 to 25 days. Other students and teachers said there was widespread panic in the campus and a shortage of doctors at the medical college.But JNMC principal Prof Shahid Ali Siddiqi rejected the allegations and said Covid was playing havoc all over the nation and the medical college was no exception. “There are various factors for deteriorating cases of Covid-19 and (they) include diabetes, hypertension and obesity. We appeal that Covid-19 patients should be brought in time as often the patients reach hospital when much is lost,” he said.The Aligarh administration and health officials said they had no information about the deaths. “We were not informed about the deaths of faculty members at AMU,” said Aligarh district magistrate Chandra Bhushan Singh.Aligarh chief medical officer Bhanu Pratap Kalyani said he came to know of the deaths through newspaper reports and samples being sent by JNMC to ICMR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-hits-amu-50-serving-ex-staff-die-101620683350493.html
11-05-2021||India||3 BJP leaders nominated to Puducherry assembly, will help tighten control on govt||The Centre on Monday nominated three Bharatiya Janata Party leaders as legislators to the Puducherry assembly. This is the second time that the Centre has appointed three BJP members as nominated legislators of the House.The central government’s notification on the nomination of three legislators, K Venkatesan, VP Ramalingam and RN Ashok Babu, effectively raises the strength of the Puducherry assembly to 33; 30 members were elected on May 2 in the assembly elections.A 2018 Supreme Court verdict had made it clear that the nominated members in the Puducherry assembly could vote on the Budget or a trust vote, ruling that the Union Territories Act 1963, which empowers the Centre to nominate three MLAs, did not differentiate between nominated and elected members.The three MLAs nominated by the Centre in the last assembly were instrumental in the fall of the previous Congress government led by V Narayanasamy in February this year and the imposition of central rule. Some Congress heavyweights had also defected to the BJP ahead of the assembly elections in April and helped the saffron party open its account in the 6 April elections. The last time the BJP had an elected member in the assembly was in 2001.In the latest round of elections, the BJP, which fought the elections in alliance with the All India NR Congress and the AIADMK, ended up with 6 seats.The alliance leader, All India NR Congress founder N Rangasamy, was sworn in as chief minister on Friday to form the NDA government. He is yet to name his council of ministers which is expected to include several BJP legislators. The BJP also wants one of its legislators to be designated as a deputy chief minister post.Rangaswamy has had to go slow on the induction of his council of ministers since he tested Covid-19 positive a day earlier and is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Chennai. The first medical bulletin from the hospital on Monday stated that he was stable and was maintaining normal oxygen saturation. The nomination of the three legislators raises the BJP’s effective strength in the assembly to 9, much closer to the 10 seats won by the AINRC. The majority mark in the 33-member assembly is 17; it was 16 when Rangaswamy took oath.This will give a cushion to the ruling alliance but experts believe it could end up complicating the relationship between the BJP and its alliance partner.“This is surely a challenge to Rangasamy,” says political analyst Raveendran Duraisamy. “There can no longer be one-upmanship. It will be more like a 50-50 partnership between AINRC and BJP.”Their third ally, AIADMK drew a blank in the April elections. The Congress just has two MLAs while its ally the DMK has six. A record number of six independent MLAs were elected this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-bjp-leaders-nominated-to-puducherry-assembly-will-help-tighten-control-on-govt-101620681861739.html
11-05-2021||India||Himanta Biswa Sarma sworn in as Assam CM, pledges NRC re-verification||Himanta Biswa Sarma took oath as the 15th chief minister of Assam in a ceremony in Guwahati on Monday, pledging to control surging coronavirus infections and partially verify the contentious National Register of Citizens.“My aim will be to make Assam one of the top five Indian states in the next five years. We want to take development to newer heights and bring peace among all castes, creeds and communities,” the 52-year-old said in his first press conference as chief minister.Sarma, who served as the finance minister in the previous Bharatiya Janata Party government, urged outlawed outfits to join the peace process and said he will focus on fulfilling promises such as 100,000 jobs, loan waiver, and flood control.Sarma said that, as promised by the BJP in its poll manifesto, the government will seek reverification of the National Register of Citizens, which documents all legal Indian citizens in Assam and excluded 1.9 million people when it was released in 2019.“Our view on NRC is very clear. We want 20% re-verification of the list in districts bordering Bangladesh and 10% re-verification in other districts. If after that, NRC is found to be correct, the state government would accept it and take the process forward. But if NRC is found faulty even after re-verification, we would want the Supreme Court to view this issue critically,” Sarma said.Also read | Himanta Biswa Sarma: From BJP’s key strategist in northeast to Assam CMHe added that his government will enact laws on “love jihad”, a term used by right-wing groups to describe unions between Muslim men and Hindu women, and “land jihad”, a term used to describe “outsiders” encroaching upon land owned by indigenous tribes.Thirteen ministers were also sworn in by governor Jagdish Mukhi in the ceremony attended by BJP president JP Nadda and others. “Congratulations to @himantabiswa ji and the other ministers who took oath today. I am confident this team will add momentum to the development journey of Assam and fulfil aspirations of the people,” tweeted Prime Minister Narenda Modi.Sarma assured the people of a proactive government that will work for them round the clock. “You will see a proactive government which will be there for you at all times. We will try and resolve all pending issues,” he told journalists .He said the first cabinet meeting on Tuesday would focus on the Covid-19 situation in the state. “Daily cases in Assam have crossed 5,000. The situation in Assam will affect other northeastern states as well,” he said.On granting scheduled tribe (ST) status to Ahoms, Koch-Rajbongshis, Moran, Motok, Sutias and tea-tribe, Sarma said the government will try and resolve the issue through talks and without affecting the rights of tribes already under the ST ambit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himanta-biswa-sarma-sworn-in-as-assam-cm-pledges-nrc-reverification-101620679180706.html
11-05-2021||India||Police file FIR after thousands attend UP cleric’s funeral||Uttar Pradesh police have filed a first information report after thousands of people attended the funeral of a Muslim cleric in the old city area of Badaun district on Sunday in violation of Covid norms.Prominent Badaun cleric Abdul Hamid Mohammad Salimul Qadri died on Sunday morning after prolonged illness. Before the funeral, his body was kept at a mosque for public viewing. Local authorities said Qadri’s followers from different parts of Badaun and nearby districts reached Badaun city to pay their last respects.The funeral possession was planned later in the day, which passed through the city and was joined by thousands of Qadri’s followers. Visuals showed a thousands-strong crowd passing through the streets of Badaun; many people were without masks and in close proximity with each other.“We have lodged an FIR against unidentified people under sections of the Epidemic Act and started investigations. A team is watching the video of the funeral to identify people who attended it. Further action will be taken against them following identification,” said Sankalp Sharma, superintendent of police, Badaun.The state is under a partial lockdown and the government has restricted the number of people attending funerals to 20 and announced fine of ₹1,000 for not wearing mask.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-file-fir-after-thousands-attend-up-cleric-s-funeral-101620675500181.html
11-05-2021||India||B.1.617 variant of concern at global level: WHO||The coronavirus B.1.617 is a global variant of concern, the World Health Organization said on Monday as scientists reported new clues that suggest the mutations first seen in India may be making the pathogen more transmissible.In recent days, new assessments disclosed by scientists has shown that the B.1.617 and its particular lineage B.1.617.2 have rapidly expanded their footprint in some regions, and in lab tests show that they can lead to a high viral load – although it isn’t clear yet if they are more resistant to vaccines or immunity from a past infection.“There is some available information to suggest increased transmissibility of the B.1.617,” Maria Van Kerkove, the WHO’s lead on Covid-19, told reporters on Monday, also pointing to early studies. “As such we are classifying this as a variant of concern at the global level,” she said, adding that more details would be provided in the WHO’s weekly epidemiological update on Tuesday.The variant is being considered as one of the reasons why India has been overwhelmed by a surge in cases. Now, it will be added to the list containing three other variants of Covid-19 -- those first detected in UK (B.1.1.7), Brazil (P.1) and South Africa (B.1.351) -- which the WHO has classified as being “of concern”.They are seen as more dangerous than the original version of the virus by being more transmissible, deadly or able to get past vaccine protections.Also read | No funds granted for vaccine research, development: GovtWhen it comes to the B.1.617 variant, Van Kerkove stressed that for the time being “we don’t have anything to suggest that our diagnostics or therapeutics and our vaccines don’t work”.In a study published late on Sunday, researchers led by teams from Cambridge reported that the B.1.617 variant. Among the assessments they carried out was the case analysis of 33 staff members of a Delhi health facility who were infected by the coronavirus after having been vaccinated, and how these mutations behaved when recreated in the lab.“The loss of neutralisation of B.1.617 (by vaccinated serum) has likely contributed to an epidemic wave in India where background infection to the Wuhan-1 D614G in 2020 was between 20-50%,” said the authors in the study, which is yet to be peer reviewed.The scientists also flagged a particular mutation, which has also been seen in the UK variant, as having some implication on how the disease develops. “We find that P681R is associated with enhanced capacity to induce cell-cell fusion and syncitia formation, and that P681R alone confers this ability on the B.1.617.1 spike with RBD mutations L452R and E484Q,” they say.Public Health England on Friday announced it has found B.1.617.2 to have spread in Britain in a way similar to the early days of B.1.1.7, which triggered runaway outbreaks in several regions that had to enter a lockdown in order to contain it.New data seen in India too suggested this may be true. As per the latest genome sequencing data shared by Indian labs with the global repository GISAID - B.1.617.1 and B.1.617.2 accounted for 58% of all samples submitted in the last 30 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/b1617-variant-of-concern-at-global-level-who-101620675440094.html
11-05-2021||India||No funds granted for vaccine research, development: Govt||The central government has told the Supreme Court that “no governmental aid, assistance or grant” was given for the research or development of Covid-19 vaccines Covishield or Covaxin even though the former is manufactured in the country by the Serum Institute of India (SII) and the latter was indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in the collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Interestingly, the Centre also argued against compulsory licensing of key drugs used to treat Covid-19, and also vaccines , suggesting that this could be counter-productive and that the real issue is scarcity of raw materials, not manufacturing capacity. The position is at odds against India’s move, along with South Africa, in the WTO, seeking removal of patent protection for Covid-19 vaccines.Submitting its affidavit in the top court, the Centre further disclosed that sale of Covaxin will yield 5% royalty payments for ICMR since the intellectual property governing the use of the vaccine was shared.Both Covishied, developed by Oxford University and British-Swedish firm AstraZeneca, and Covaxin have been so far bought by the Centre for ₹150 a dose. Covishield was first offered to states at ₹400 a dose and ₹600 to private hospitals. Covaxin was offered at ₹600 for state governments and at ₹1,200 for private hospitals. Later Covishield’s price for states was reduced to ₹300 a dose and Covaxin’s to ₹400.The Centre’s affidavit came up for a hearing before a bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat on Monday, but the proceedings, held virtually due to Covid restriction, were deferred to Thursday because of technical glitches.In its detailed affidavit, the Centre defended its policies regarding pricing and distribution of the vaccines, besides imploring the top court to refrain from interfering with the policy decisions.Also read | Govt prepping for 3rd wave, city will be able to tackle 30k daily cases: CM Arvind KejriwalHere are the key points the Union government has made in its affidavit:No Funding or aid to vaccine manufacturersThe court, in its May 2 order, sought to know from the government whether any fund or grant was provided for research, development and manufacture of the vaccines.Responding to this, the Centre maintained that the only financial support to Bharat Biotech and SII was in the form of advance payment for vaccines. ₹1,732.5 crore was released to SII for 110 million doses of Covishield, and an advance payment of ₹787.5 Crores was released to Bharat Biotech for 50 million Covaxin doses for the months of May, June and July.“It is submitted that no governmental aid, assistance or grant is made for research or development of either Covaxin or Covishield. However, they were given some financial assistance for conducting clinical trials,” said the Centre, furnishing details of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between ICMR and Bharat Biotech that included a 5% royalty clause for ICMR on net sales and other clauses like prioritisation of in-country supplies.While ICMR did not fund either Bharat Biotech or Serum Institute of India (SII), it spent ₹35 crore and ₹11 crore respectively at their clinical trial sites, stated the affidavit submitted by the Centre in the Supreme Court late on Sunday night.It has added that three of the 11 vaccine candidates progressed from proof-of-concept to the clinical development stage and were currently undergoing clinical trials.Differential pricing between Centre and states justified Questioning the differential pricing of vaccines between the Centre and the states, the Supreme Court asked the Centre to revisit its vaccine policy, underscoring that the current policy would prima facie result in a detriment to the right to public health. It suggested that the Centre should buy vaccines at ₹150 per dose and then give it to the states, which could take care of the transportation of vials etc.But, in its affidavit, the Union government justified the differential pricing, contending it was “based on the concept of creating an incentivised demand for the private vaccine manufacturers so as to instil a competitive market resulting in higher production of vaccines and market-driven affordable prices”. It will also attract offshore vaccine manufacturers to enter the country, the affidavit said.Additionally, the Centre validated higher vaccine prices for the states on the ground that the Union government placed large purchase orders for vaccines as opposed to the states, and therefore, “this reality has some reflection in the prices negotiated”.According to the Centre, the differential pricing will eventually not have any impact on the citizens since all states have declared that they will be administering vaccine free of cost.“Thus, while it is ensured that the two vaccine manufacturers, are not unduly enriched from out of public money, the citizens are not supposed to make any payment for getting both dose of the vaccine,” said the Centre.It maintained that the priority groups for the Centre will remain those above 45 years of age and persons with comorbidities under 45 years of age, and the vaccination for 18-44 age group was allowed “to respect the wishes of various state governments”.Vaccine production In order to speed-up the regulatory process of use of offshore vaccines within the country, and to accelerate the access to vaccines, the government said in the affidavit that the regulatory and testing processes have been simplified that may shorten the time by four months.Such foreign vaccines which were administered globally in large numbers after approvals by the US, the UK, the EU and the World Health Organization will go straight for market deployment while bridging trials will be carried out simultaneously. “This would enable earlier introduction of foreign vaccines in the programme and would cut-short the time required for in-country bridging trials by nearly 4 months,” the affidavit said.Compulsory licensing and suspension of IPR In its May 2 order, the bench referred to the emergency provisions under the Patents Act to ask if the Centre will invoke the law to suspend the intellectual property rights in respect of essential drugs such as remdesivir, and grant compulsory licenses to some other manufacturers for ramping up their production.The government, however, said that resorting to such statutory powers either for essential drugs or for vaccines with patent issues would have “serious, severe and unintended adverse consequences” in the country’s efforts being made on global platform.It added the chief constraint in scaling up production was availability of certain inputs, rather than addition of the manufacturing capacity.“In view of the current constraints on availability of raw materials and other essential inputs, mere addition of more production capacity may not lead to the desired outcomes of enhanced supplies. stated the affidavit.The government said that all efforts are being made to enhance the production capacity, apart from procuring remdesivir through imports and donations from other countries through active engagement with global organisations.“When there is a surge in cases and in demand of patented medicines/drugs/vaccines from all over the world the solution needs to be found out essentially at an executive level engaging at diplomatic levels. Any exercise of statutory powers either under the Patents Act read with TRIPS agreement and Doha declaration or in any other way can only prove to be counterproductive at this stage,” said the government.Cap on prices of essential drugsNoting that the maximum retail price of remdesivir had been fixed at ₹3,500, the top court asked the government to consider invoking the statutory powers of Drugs (Prices Control) Order to cap the prices of several other essential drugs such as favipiravir, tociluzumab, enoxaparin, ivermectin, methylprednisolone, paracetamol and hydroxychloroquine.The government has responded to this by saying that such a step was under their consideration and that exercise of statutory power shall have to be a calibrated executive response keeping several factor national and global factors in mind.However, for the time being, the affidavit said that the priority was to augment production, ensure effective and equitable distribution and ensure availability of essential drugs under any circumstances.It referred to the current global scenario, sudden surge of demand for the drugs worldwide, and the availability of raw material for manufacturing important drugs from other countries.Not a case for judicial interferenceThe Centre urged the apex court to trust the wisdom of the executive, and let it exercise discretion to formulate policy in larger interest, for there were several factors in managing the pandemic that did not have any judicially manageable standards.Asserting that its vaccination policy was “just, equitable, non-discriminatory and based upon an intelligible differentia”, it said the policy required no interference by the court because all decisions had been taken on expert medical and scientific advice and following detailed deliberations at the highest level of the Executive.“In the context of a global pandemic, where the response and strategy of the nation is completely driven by expert medical and scientific opinion, there is even little room for judicial interference. Any overzealous, though well-meaning judicial intervention may lead to unforeseen and unintended consequences, in absence of any expert advice or administrative experience, leaving the doctors, scientists, experts and executive very little room to find innovative solutions on the go,” said the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-funds-granted-for-vaccine-research-development-govt-101620675320843.html
11-05-2021||India||Andhra prioritises 2nd dose amid vaccine shortage||The Covid-19 vaccination drive came to a grinding halt in several districts of Andhra Pradesh on Monday with the state government deciding to restrict the vaccination process only to the second dose. “For now, only those who require the second dose will be vaccinated for a few days. Changes are being made in the registration for vaccination on CoWin application. Once they are covered, the first dose of vaccination will resume,” an official in the state health department familiar with the development said on Monday. Reports of people being turned away at the vaccination centres poured in from Chittoor, Vizianagaram, Krishna, Nellore, East Godavari, Kurnool, Guntur, Prakasam and Kadapa districts. “This is only to prevent mad rush at the vaccination centres, as there is not enough stock for meeting the needs of the people,” the official said. Andhra Pradesh on Monday reported 14,986 fresh Covid cases, taking the cumulative number of positive cases in the state to 13,02,589. The state also reported 82 deaths, taking the total toll to 8,791. On the other hand, Telangana reported 4,826 new cases and 32 deaths on Monday evening. The total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state so far is 5,02,187 and the total death toll stands at 2,771.Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, who held an official review of the Covid-19 situation in the state, instructed that the officials first complete vaccinating people above 45 years of age who had taken first dose. “Later, focus could be laid on administering first dose of vaccine to people above 45 years as they are more vulnerable to Covid,” he said. Jagan directed that there should be no rush at vaccination centres and health workers should be engaged in informing the vaccination timings to those who registered online, so that long queues can be avoided. He said the vaccination is a long-drawn process and the state government has no control over it. “The vaccination programme is being determined by the Centre and even if the state wants to buy vaccines directly from the manufacturing companies, the Centre is instructing them on the number of doses to be sold to the states. We need to explain this to people,” Jagan told the officials. He said it would take six months to complete the vaccination process in the state, provided the Centre supplied at least 10 million vaccines per month. At present, only 1.9 million doses of vaccine are being supplied to the state per month, he said and instructed officials to go for global tenders to purchase vaccines. The officials told the chief minister that the state had so far administered 60,87,117 doses of Covishield, including 43,99,802 under the first dose and 16,87,315 under the second dose. Similarly, 9,23,296 doses of Covaxin were administered under the first dose and 2,90,047 doses under the second dose. In all, 1,33,07,889 people over the age of 45 were registered, of whom 41,08,917 were given the first dose and 13,35,744 were given both the doses. The officials pointed out that the Centre had assured supply of 9,17,850 doses of vaccine for the first 15 days of May, of which only 7,65,360 doses were supplied till now. The state government was allocated 16,85,630 doses for purchase by central government of which only 4,93,930 have been given and 11,91,700 vaccines are yet to come, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-prioritises-2nd-dose-amid-vaccine-shortage-101620673820479.html
11-05-2021||Today's||Stop posturing; start vaccinating||A big powerful man had the best view of the lions at a crowded zoo. Another man kept nudging him for a better view. Exasperated, the big man picked him up and dropped him into the lion enclosure. There, he said, you now have the closest view. The policy to increase demand for vaccines by opening vaccination up to adults below 45 years, allowing states to compete, and firms to price, in a situation of vaccine supply shortage, seems born out of such pique.States are irresponsible in demanding vaccination for all, when the total supply is not even three million doses a day. The Centre is reckless in agreeing to the demand and callous in designing a new “liberalised” scheme to replace a more reasonable previous policy.Any vaccine policy must increase supply as quickly as possible; procure at the least expensive cost, while enabling medium-term planning; and distribute to most effectively save lives now and in the future. The current version does none of these.First, we are buying vaccines like monthly groceries. The finance minister said that Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech will get an advance of ₹3,000 crore and ₹1,567 crore respectively. Instead, they are being paid about half that to supply 160 million doses at ₹157 a jab, a month’s supply if the target is five million a day, and for less than two months even at April’s lower usage. The implicit rationale is that the Centre will only help vaccinate the 45-plus population, with the rest of the supply presumably met from other firms.Vaccinating the rest is the task of the states.Will manufacturers invest in increasing supply, without clear future orders? Sputnik V has been approved and a few million initial doses will be imported, but, apparently, though six manufacturers reportedly stand ready to deliver, orders are awaited. Janssen and Novavax are not yet approved. Both have identified Indian manufacturing partners and one hopes they will not be deterred by the current need to negotiate with multiple states, rather than one national government. Covaxin supply too can be increased by outsourcing to other firms, especially since intellectual property rights are shared with the Indian Council of Medical Research.We must stop shadowboxing. In no other federal country are sub-national governments competing to buy vaccines. The Centre should negotiate a single price for each vaccine, with a delivery schedule, contingent on regulatory approval. Large national orders will provide the reassurance needed for investment to the various manufacturers and reliability of supply for our vaccination demand of one-and-a-half billion doses. This will allow firms to plan to meet our other international commitments, especially to COVAX, where our default in supply has left most developing nations hanging on to nothing, precipitating a Chinese turn.Second, on pricing. The new policy appears designed to punish the states. In the relatively sensible “pre-liberalisation” policy, the vaccine cost was borne by the Centre, for which it has budgeted ₹35,000 crore, and the vaccination cost was largely borne by the state, with an important private supplement. Daily press releases of “free vaccines” to states, like a kind of dole, are offensive to this spirit of federal cost-sharing.Under the new policy, the Centre procures only half the supply. A quarter is for states, shared as per central quota, and a quarter for the private sector, which is paying twice, or thrice (in Covaxin’s case) the price. If SII and Bharat Biotech behave like normal private firms, they will first meet the entire demand of the private sector at the higher price and then offer the remaining supply, if any, to the states. For the right to vaccinate younger people, states will now get less vaccine and pay more for it.This is chillingly stated in the health minister’s blog. The “private… route will empower a large number of people to get themselves quickly vaccinated… those who can afford to get them at the private… rates shall go ahead.” Shared idealism indeed. Michael Sandel’s market society writ large. Or is it Deng Xiaoping — some people get rich first? All this so the states can vaccinate the 18-44 age group, which accounted for 12% of the vaccinations in the first week of May. Why is this tail wagging the dog?Third, if the Centre negotiates price and quantities with vaccine-makers, supply can be transparently allocated using current metrics, ie a state’s population of 45-plus; possibly adding urbanisation, since the virus favours dense urban areas, though the second surge is not sparing villages; and current caseload — leveraging the first dose’s protection to save as many lives as possible. There can be a little extra incentive supply for states that vaccinate more, while a small share can be flexible for state-specific demands. Similar flexibility already exists in the National Health Mission. If states can agree on tax-sharing, they can agree on vaccine-sharing too. A predictable supply will allow states to plan better and take vaccines closer and faster to the people – rather than passively wait for them. Some version of such a substantially and radically modified policy — a more transparent and flexible version of what was being pursued “pre-liberalisation” — can even lead to a fully vaccinated population by year-end, and even exports if manufacturers invest in starting production early.So, will the Centre and states continue to keep posturing or will they sit down to make a sensible policy? In the past, such bickering usually affected only livelihoods. This time, it affects lives – of Indians, and of people around the world.Partha Mukhopadhyay is a senior fellow, Centre for Policy ResearchThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/stop-posturing-start-vaccinating-101620745347806.html
11-05-2021||Today's||India’s real foreign policy crisis is domestic||From January to March, “Vaccine Maitri”. In late-April, an appeal to the world for help as India struggles to manage its most serious crisis since Independence. New Delhi’s international position may have never turned more dramatically. But here is the key question — what is the larger impact of the unfolding disaster on foreign policy?The assistance offered by nations across the globe, including neighbours such as Bhutan and Bangladesh, is heartening. A non-interventionist posture coupled with constant diplomatic outreach to countries across the world is paying off. As is the policy of cultivating diaspora relations.India has accepted aid after 16 years. External affairs minister S Jaishankar would like it to be described as friendship. This semantic quibble is understandable as the establishment seeks to recast reality for domestic consumption. But there is absolutely no shame in seeking aid in distress. India has helped other nations in need and now they are reciprocating. Some assistance is motivated by expected future gains, but no community is altruistic. The international community is no exception.Also Read | World’s largest cargo plane, carrying Covid aid from UK, lands at IGI airportThe initial American hesitation in lending assistance led critics at home to warn New Delhi of over-reliance on Washington. While the United States (US) has come through substantially, the hesitation, coming against the backdrop of other points of friction, reveals some real limits to the relationship. Agreements outside of a broadly common China strategy will take work. Further, “the spirit of the Quad” was celebrated in March. It didn’t prevent Australia from banning the return travel from India of about 9,000 of its own citizens, mostly of Indian origin.Meanwhile, New Delhi has kept up its global game. Relations with the United Kingdom and Russia have been upgraded. A landmark summit meeting with the European Union saw a decision to resume negotiations for a free-trade agreement stalled since 2013.China’s control over the pandemic means that it is not tied down at home. Its top leader has offered cooperation and support. But Beijing’s efforts to move South Asia within its geopolitical orbit continue. It recently convened a virtual conference of the region’s foreign ministers on vaccine cooperation. It also remains advantageously placed in eastern Ladakh. Overall, China enjoys a favourable balance in the bilateral set-up. Its gestures of solidarity notwithstanding, New Delhi must remain watchful.There is also the issue of international reputation. As trustee of India’s international image and standing, New Delhi continues to fare poorly. There is now a set international narrative about the decline of India’s democracy, its majoritarian public culture and increasing bad governance. New Delhi feels agitated, but its actions often only strengthen a siege mentality. The deepening reputational damage is also depleting national resources needed for effective external relations, but the real issue here is a question for India’s polarised citizenry — will it buy into the siege mentality or will it reflect and ask tough questions of the executive.India’s core challenges to effective foreign policy have always come from within, and here we see damage.Also Read | Armed forces spearhead India’s Covid response as crisis deepensFirst, there is the flawed governance of the pandemic. The executive prematurely declared success in tackling the challenge and abandoned its role on pandemic-appropriate public behaviour. As the scale of infections grows, lives of people within the country are lost while of those outside endangered. Because of the size of its population, currently at about 18% of humanity, the pandemic tsunami has turned us into a source of global anxiety.The executive’s approach hasn’t helped. It has sought to weave an acceptable narrative rather than accept responsibility. You can’t fix what you don’t accept is broken. Our governance is marked by centralisation of authority and federalisation of responsibility. This approach has many vices; delay and chaos are the smallest of them. The larger the number of infected bodies, the higher the probability of mutation. This makes the world anxious because new strains may impact vaccine effectiveness. True, ours is not the only national population body among whom the virus may mutate for the worse. But as Dr Ashish Jha of Brown University has conjectured, in the Kumbh Mela, we may have organised “the biggest super spreader event in the history of this pandemic”. All this is bad governance. It has rendered the body politic incohesive and weak.Second, under-reporting of Covid-19 deaths and under-testing mean that even approximately accurate figures of the scale of the crisis may never be known. This feeds into the larger problem of data credibility and transparency that has marred public policy in recent years. External stakeholders have expressed concern over unreliable fiscal, unemployment and internal migration figures because they weaken policy. Dodgy pandemic numbers mar national and global public health action, which needs credible data to determine disease dynamics. Both the Centre and the states owe this to their people as well as the world.Finally, the catastrophe has unfolded on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s watch. His domestic standing may remain unscathed, but as controversies going back the past couple of years pile up, his position among foreign leaders of consequence diminishes. Nations compete for relative gains in international politics, and a weakened leader is more attractive than one who is weak from the start.A combination of restrictions in the flow of information and censorship means that we may never know how this factor would impact Indian interests, but impact it very likely will.Atul Mishra teaches international relations at Shiv Nadar University The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/indias-real-foreign-policy-crisis-is-domestic-101620734606472.html
11-05-2021||Editorials||Don’t dilute green safeguards||Last week, the environment ministry allowed companies in several industries to expand capacity, based on a self-certification that their operations will not increase the pollution load. This is in line with the amendments in the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) notification, 2006, in 2016 and 2020, which introduced the principles of “no increase in pollution load”, and exemption from seeking environment clearance if the resultant increase of production capacity was less than 50%.This was expanded in a March 2021 notification, which allowed any amount of expansion — applicable to industries such as coal-washing, mineral processing, pesticides, fertilisers, and synthetic chemicals such as paint, cement, petrochemicals, and sugar, which already have a gigantic environmental footprint. This fast-track clearance can harm the environment as well as lives and livelihoods. Prior to these exemptions, an EIA could systematically examine both beneficial and adverse consequences of the project and plan for mitigation in the project-planning cycle. Importantly, the local communities had a chance to voice their opinions. An example is the Andaman water aerodrome project. The green assessment of this new project has established that the site for the construction of the terminal building and associate infrastructure will impact mangroves, which are natural green barriers, and that the local administration has no mitigation plan. A ministry panel has now raised questions, based on this EIA.Economic growth is a key national imperative. But it will not be possible to sustain high growth by using short-cuts. The economy and the environment are interlinked in more ways than one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/dont-dilute-green-safeguards-101620745349910.html
11-05-2021||Editorials||In Kathmandu, a political twist||Nepal’s Prime Minister (PM) KP Sharma Oli has lost the confidence of Nepal’s Parliament. With the Sher Bahadur Deuba-led Nepali Congress (NC), Prachanda-led Maoist Centre, a faction of Mr Oli’s party led by Madhav Nepal, and the Janata Samajwadi Party (JSP) — a largely Madhesi formation — either opposing the PM or abstaining from Monday’s vote, Mr Oli is now a caretaker PM. But this does not mean that the political turmoil in Nepal is over; in fact, it may just mark the beginning of another round of volatility. To form an alternative government, the NC, Maoists, Mr Nepal’s faction, and the JSP now have to come together — but the JSP is torn. One faction led by veteran Madhesi leader Mahant Thakur is keen to maintain a policy of equidistance from both Mr Oli and Mr Deuba (who would be PM if the NC formed the next government), claiming that neither serve Madhesi interests. This is widely attributed to India’s advice to Mr Thakur to stay neutral, since Mr Oli still has New Delhi’s support. Another faction, led by another Madhesi leader Upendra Yadav and former PM Baburam Bhattarai, is keen to oust Mr Oli from power — on the grounds that democracy is at stake. If a new government isn’t formed, Nepal’s president will eventually invite Mr Oli again — as the leader of the single largest party — to continue as PM.All of this is happening when Nepal is going through a devastating wave of Covid-19, with its health care infrastructure under tremendous strain. Mr Oli wrote a piece in The Guardian desperately seeking international assistance. Nepal’s vaccination plans have also slowed down because of India’s own internal vaccine shortage, resulting in restrictions on outside supplies. For Nepal to focus on the emergency at hand, the first step is having a legitimate and fully functional government immediately. India’s support, the resultant division in the JSP, and the indifference of Mr Deuba himself (he isn’t fully sure if assuming leadership at this time is politically beneficial) may still help Mr Oli stay in power. But he has been irresponsible when it comes to Covid management, undemocratic when it comes to internal politics, and discriminatory when it comes to minorities. Delhi should step back, let the political process play out organically, be open to democratic alternatives (irrespective of who leads it), support the new government, and help its closest neighbour, to whatever extent is possible, without compromising domestic needs, in dealing with the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/in-kathmandu-a-political-twist-101620745348785.html
