12-05-2021||Gurugram||Home delivery of oxygen cylinders to cost ₹180 to ₹350||The district administration on Wednesday fixed the charges for different types of oxygen cylinders that will be delivered to Covid-19 patients in home isolation. Officials said that only nominal charges will be taken for these cylinders to ensure that there is no financial burden on patients in isolation. As per the directions of the district administration, the rate of a small B-type cylinder has been fixed at ₹80, while the rate of the bigger D-type cylinder has been fixed at ₹250, with a standard delivery charge of ₹100 per cylinder. Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said that with the fixing of rates, the home delivery system has been fine-tuned to ensure people don’t have to stand in long queues at filling plants to get a refill. “Our teams will ensure that patients in home isolation get cylinders timely and at a nominal cost,” said Garg. A spokesperson for the district administration said that the charges were fixed by a three-member committee headed by Rajnarayan Kaushik, an IAS officer. “If a person wants a small cylinder, they will have to pay ₹180, while for the large cylinder, payment would be ₹350,” the spokesperson said. The district administration and the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) are working in tandem to ensure that patients in home isolation are given oxygen cylinders at their residence. For this purpose, the residents have to register on a dedicated portal (oxygenhry.in) and apply with documents, after which oxygen is made available.Meanwhile, to curb the spread of infection in rural areas, the Haryana government on Wednesday also decided to set up 50 isolation centres with adequate healthcare equipment. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said that the village isolation centres should have well-equipped beds and beddings, triple-layered masks, hand sanitisers with bottle dispensers, steamers, catering for the patients from the community or on a hire basis, and regular cleanliness and sanitation drives of premises and toilets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/home-delivery-of-oxygen-cylinders-to-cost-180-to-350-101620842746432.html
12-05-2021||Gurugram||Odd, even numbered shops to open on alternative days in Khandsa market||To ensure that social distancing norms are strictly enforced in Khandsa wholesale vegetable market, the authorities have decided to allow odd and even-numbered shops to open on alternative days, starting Thursday. The move comes in the wake of large crowds being witnessed in the market over the past few days.Officials of the Agriculture Marketing Board, which manages the Khandsa market, said that entry of private vehicles is banned, while the retail sale of vegetables and fruits to individual buyers was already disallowed.Vinay Yadav, executive officer cum secretary of the market, said that the move will ensure adequate space for social distancing. “We will ensure that despite the closure of shops, there is no shortage of fruits and vegetables in the city,” said Yadav.Only wholesale buyers, who supply stocks to city markets, residential colonies and villages will be allowed to enter the market. As per the decision, shops with odd numbers will remain open on the odd days of the month and those with even numbers will be allowed to remain open on even-numbered days. Khandsa vegetable market is the largest wholesale market of vegetables and fruits in the city, with around 120 large shops and over 50 small shops.Yadav said that they have decided to restrict the number of carts in the market so that there is no overcrowding. “We have a large vacant area in the market and it will be used now. Some of the shops would be shifted there. We have also issued directions to all commission agents and shopkeepers regarding the odd-even formula,” he said.On Wednesday, the board officials penalised 13 persons for violating Covid-19 safety rules and collected ₹26,000 in penalties. The marketing board also plans to install barriers and take police help to enforce safeguards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/odd-even-numbered-shops-to-open-on-alternative-days-in-khandsa-market-101620842745795.html
12-05-2021||Gurugram||Residents raise concerns over increasing deaths in rural areas||Rural areas of the district have started to bear the brunt of the second wave of Covid-19, with several villages reporting deaths either due to suspected influenza-like illnesses or confirmed Covid-19 cases. Locals said that almost every third household in villages of Sultanpur, Darbaripur, Badshahpur, Sikanderpur Barha and Baspadmaka in Pataudi are exhibiting symptoms of Covid-19.The situation has been compounded because a majority of villagers are thronging to chemist shops and relying on local medical practitioners or indulging in self-treatment, which has delayed hospitalisations and led to several deaths, according to locals.Naveen Kumar, a resident of Baspadmaka village in Pataudi on Tuesday, took to Twitter on Tuesday seeking the intervention of authorities over rising Covid-19 infections and deaths in his village. “Around 10 people have died in the last 10 days in my village and all these are Covid-19 cases. Almost half of the families in the village have people suffering from cold, fever and other symptoms. I want the authorities to increase testing, create local medical facilities and also enforce lockdown strictly,” said Kumar.Most of the village heads as well as residents said that people were scared of getting tested as they did not want to get quarantined. Besides, people do not have access to testing facilities in the vicinity, they said.Pravesh Chouhan, a resident of Sultanpur village said that his brother’s business partner contracted Covid-19 and relied on medication from an acquainted chemist for a couple of days, and did not go for a Covid-19 test. “His condition deteriorated suddenly and he was admitted to a hospital in Farrukhnagar, where the test confirmed Covid-19. He could survive only a single day in the hospital,” said Chouhan, whose younger brother is also under treatment for Covid-19.In Sultanpur, locals said that around seven to eight people have died due to Covid-19, with three of the deceased in their thirties.Despite the frequent deaths and rising Covid-19 cases, villagers allege that there have been little efforts from the administration to increase testing, sanitise the rural areas or enforce Covid-19 safeguards. “We have multiple people within same families who have serious Covid-19 symptoms. The administration needs to extend the outreach to villages and help them,” said Ram Bir Sarpanch, a resident of Darbaripur.In Bajghera village, locals said that around seven to eight senior citizens have died in the last 10 days due to influenza-like symptoms. “I have myself spent half a month in a hospital due to infection. Although the situation is not bad in our village, things need to be brought under control,” said Virender Singh, who is popularly known as Biru Sarpanch.Sunder Yadav, sarpanch of Sikanderpur Barha village, said that he has started taking rounds of the streets and prevents any gathering over hukka or card games. “The cases are increasing every day. We need to enforce masks and also isolate contaminated zones,” said Yadav, whose entire family tested positive for Covid-19 positive over the past week.In response to the pleas for intervention and help from locals in rural areas, the Gururgam district administration on Wednesday said that it has decided to introduce thikri pehra (village patrols) to check the movement of people in the rural areas.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said that directions have been issued in this regard and patrols will be done with the help of respective panchayats.Officials of the health department, meanwhile, said that testing has been increased to identify new cases.Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer for Covid-19, said, “In seven high-risk rural areas, at least 17 deaths have been reported till now. Until April, the positivity rate was almost 21%, which we trying to control through aggressive testing.”Although many patients are under home isolation, critically ill patients are referred to Civil Hospital in Sector 10.Dr Manmeet Nehra, medical officer, Bhora Kalan primary health centre, said, “Critical cases are referred to Civil Hospital in sector 10 or subdivisional hospital in Pataudi, where 25 beds with oxygen concentrators have been reserved for Covid-19 patients. Only a few critical cases have been reported till now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/residents-raise-concerns-over-increasing-deaths-in-rural-areas-101620842745133.html
12-05-2021||Gurugram||Five minibuses converted into ambulances||Amid increasing demand for ambulances, the transport department has converted five minibuses at the Gurugram bus depot into ambulances, with each having a capacity to ferry four patients.According to a release issued by the district administration on Wednesday, the buses have provisions for beds, oxygen cylinders and fans, and will be handed over to the health department this week.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram district, said, “Implementing the guidelines issued by the state government, it has been decided to convert the five minibuses into ambulances. There are four beds installed in each ambulance. Apart from this, they have been designed in such a way that the patient can be given necessary facilities like oxygen. Along with this, arrangements have been made to keep the medical box, oxygen cylinder stand, PPE kit and a sanitiser, among other necessities.”A senior official from the Gurugram bus depot, requesting anonymity, said, “Along with converting minibuses into ambulances, we are also converting 10 old buses into makeshift hospital beds, which will be used as additional facilities to treat patients at the district government hospital. Each bus will have six beds and we will hand over these also to the health department this week.”The deputy commissioner appealed to the residents to stringently follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour by wearing masks, maintaining social distance and getting vaccinated. He said that all departments are collaborating round-the-clock to break the chain of Covid-19 infection in the district.“Every effort is being made to provide better health facilities to Covid-19 infected patients and to prevent further spread of the infection, with volunteers from Red Cross society, defence services and various social organisations working in solidarity, supporting the district administration in this crisis hour,” said Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/five-minibuses-converted-into-ambulances-101620842688384.html
12-05-2021||Gurugram||Vaccinations for 18+ may stop due to shortage of doses||Left with only 800 doses of Covid-19 vaccine for the 18-44 age group that will be administered on Thursday, the district health department said it is on the verge of stopping inoculation for the general population. Health officials said they are likely to suspend vaccinations for the 18-44 age group from Friday if the district does not get additional doses. “Vaccination for 18 plus could have stopped from Thursday onwards. But we managed to collect a few unused vials of Covishield from different health centres. After collating it, we distributed 100 doses each to eight centres. Vaccination for 18 plus might stop as the department has already run out of stock. Second dose inoculation for those above 45 will continue at 37 vaccination centres,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. On Wednesday, nearly 77% of the 4,500 Covaxin doses allocated for the 18-44 age group was used. According to the data, at least 3,456 people took their jabs at government vaccination centres. Only 590 people took their first dose in two private hospitals. “At least 20% of vaccines are reserved as per the state government protocol. The district administration will suggest its usage. The state health department has also been apprised about the current situation as we have asked for doses to continue with vaccination drives,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer. According to Singh, there are roughly about 15,000 doses for people above 45 years who are to take their second dose. More than 4,500 people took their second dose at 37 health centres on Wednesday. Long queues were seen at urban primary health centres catering to newer areas of Gurugram. At some locations, only those who took their first shot in March were getting inoculated with the second dose. “Co-WIN portal is accepting details of people who took their first jab after March 30. It is confirming only those registrations which have completed six to eight weeks of their first dose. Until Tuesday, there was no such problem in the portal. Therefore, many people who took the shot in the first week of April were asked to leave,” said a medical officer, requesting anonymity. Many people above 45 years who had walked in without registration to receive their first dose were also asked to leave due to vaccine shortage, which has been persisting over the last 12 days. Until now, 569,461 doses have been administered in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/vaccinations-for-18-may-stop-due-to-shortage-of-doses-101620842687736.html
12-05-2021||Gurugram||Mucormycosis cases on the rise in the city||Private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients are reporting a surge in mucormycosis (black fungus infections) cases, with five hospitals reporting at least six cases each over the past week. The health department does not have a record of these cases at present.Mucormycosis arises due to indiscriminate consumption of steroids during treatment. Excessive use of steroids during the Covid-19 treatment escalates blood sugar in the body and weakens the immune system, according to doctors.“The trend of black fungus cases is on an upward trajectory. It is a serious concern because those who have recovered from Covid-19 and have co-morbidities, diabetes, in particular, are at risk. They already have a weakened immunity as they have been treated with steroids,” said Dr Atul Mittal, director, otorhinolaryngology, Fortis Memorial Research Institute, who has come across at least six cases in the last three days, including one in an active Covid-19 patient. The hospital has opened a dedicated mucormycosis clinic to handle cases.Due to many Covid-19 patients, who are mild to moderately ill, consuming steroids for treatment without any consultation with the doctors, doctors at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences –Rohtak (PGIMS) on May 6 revised their treatment protocol by limiting steroid consumption during the early phase of infection.Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, state nodal officer for Covid-19 cases, who is a respiratory and lung disease specialist at PGIMS-Rohtak, said, “Excessive use of steroids use without consultation can be harmful. People, however, take steroids based on the recommendation from family members or a recovered patient. It not only leads to diabetes but other infections, too, like mucormycosis. Therefore, in the treatment protocol, we have introduced steroid administration only after the fifth or seventh day, based on symptoms.”If left untreated, mucormycosis can spread to the bloodstream, reach the brain and heart, eat the tissue, and spread to the blood vessels. “As a result, the blood supply is cut off and the tissue is deprived of oxygen. It also invades the nerves and arteries causing progressive necrosis of tissue which turns it dead and black. It makes the disease life-threatening,” said Mittal.Common symptoms associated with the black fungus disease are headache, facial pain, nasal congestion, loss of vision or eye pain, swelling of the cheeks and eyes, and black crust in the nose. The disease has to be treated surgically, for the removal of dead and infected tissues, following which anti-fungal therapy has to be undertaken.Dr Amitabh Malik, chief, ENT department, Paras Hospital, Gurugram, said at least nine cases were reported to him in the last three days. He operated on two non-diabetic patients in their 30s who developed the black fungus infection.Dr Manjeeta Nath Das, consultant- internal medicine, Columbia Asia Hospital, Palam Vihar, said that over six cases have been reported at their facility.Dr Sameer Kaushal, head of ophthalmology, Artemis Hospital, who is currently treating at least four cases, said, “Last year, only a few cases were reported. During the peak, not more than four cases were reported. But this time, the magnitude of Covid-19 surge has increased as a result of which black fungus infection is also on the rise. Even the medicine which is used to treat the illness is in short supply,” said Kaushal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mucormycosis-cases-on-the-rise-in-the-city-101620842687081.html
12-05-2021||Gurugram||Over 100 beds available for first time in three weeks||After a gap of nearly three weeks, the availability of oxygen beds for Covid-19 patients crossed the three-digit mark, with around 127 oxygen beds available across 14 Covid-19 hospitals in the district on Wednesday afternoon, as per the Gurugram Covid Combat Companion (GC3) real-time portal managed by the district administrationOfficials attributed the improvement in bed availability to the recent reduction in cases, increase in recovery and the simultaneous increase in infrastructure. As per a release by the administration, the number of people recovering from Covid-19 was more than the new cases for the sixth consecutive day. There were 3,960 recoveries in Gurugram on Wednesday, while 2,747 new cases were registered, the release stated.“The recent trend has been encouraging. We have had a lower number of Covid-19 cases, higher rates of recovery that have reduced the burden on existing infrastructure. Over the last three weeks, we have also ramped up the infrastructure and added more than 1,000 Covid-19 beds across the city. While the signs are positive, until the Covid-19 situation is fully under control, we will continue to take both preventive and preparatory measures,” said Dr Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram.He said that the administration will further augment the strength of Covid-19 beds, by adding at least 400 more within the next seven days.As per the daily health bulletin, the number of new Covid-19 cases per week decreased for the first time in a month, with the district recording 25,860 new cases between May 3 and 9, lower than the 27,358 new cases recorded over the previous week between April 26 and May 2.There has also been a rise in the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients recently. Between April 26 and May 2, the total number of recoveries was 13,120, which nearly doubled between May 3 and 9 to 27,603, indicating that recoveries were higher than new cases by a margin of 1,743.Increased recoveries and discharge of Covid-19 patients from hospitals has also increased the availability, said administration officials. As recently as last Tuesday, May 4, all of the city’s Covid-19 beds were occupied, but since Saturday, the availability of oxygen beds has been consistently improving.According to the coronaharya.in portal, the district currently has 3,083 Covid-19 beds, of which 1,795 are oxygen beds, 552 are general beds, 736 are ICU beds, and 244 are ventilator beds, a significant increase from the 1,948 Covid-19 beds reported on April 20, of which 466 were ICU beds and 226 were ventilator beds.On April 20, the last time more than 100 oxygen beds were available, the district had 129 non-occupied Covid-19 oxygen beds, four ICU beds, and a solitary ventilator bed. The portal, at the time, did not display the total number of oxygen beds or general beds in the city.“The situation of oxygen beds has improved, especially over the last three days. Earlier, we were having around 30-40 extra Covid-19 patients looking for beds on a daily basis. Now, there are only five to 10 such patients. The pattern of patients has also changed. The five to 10 people are patients, coming from districts near Gurugram, usually looking for ICU or ventilator beds, as their respective districts have limited availability. Now. we frequently have oxygen beds available,” said Dr PN Kakar, the chief executive officer of Park Hospital.Kakar said that until early this month, a sense of panic prevailed that also added to the demand for oxygen beds. “Now, such patients prefer to isolate at home and realise that they don’t necessarily need treatment inside a hospital. Virtual consultations for such patients have also increased, which, along with the recent decline in Covid-19 cases and higher recovery rates, have mitigated the beds situation,” said Kakar.While the situation of Covid-19 oxygen beds has improved, the same cannot be said for the ICU and ventilator beds situation. As per the GC3 app, throughout Wednesday, the city had less than a dozen ventilator or ICU beds, each, and by night, only a solitary ICU bed was available and all ventilator beds were occupied.Although there has been a recent decline in Covid-19 cases, studies and experts have pegged the second wave of Covid-19 to peak around mid-May or next month.According to the three-member national Covid-19 supermodel committee, formed by the central government to make projections regarding the spread of the pandemic and follow its trajectory, the second wave is expected to peak around mid-May, as does a State Bank of India (SBI) research report. A report by CLSA, a foreign capital market firm, pegs the spike to peak in June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/over-100-beds-available-for-first-time-in-three-weeks-101620842686454.html
12-05-2021||Gurugram||Labs overcharging for Covid-19 test despite price caps, allege residents||Residents alleged that private laboratories and hospitals are overcharging them for Covid-19 tests, despite the government on Tuesday capping the price for a Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test at ₹450 and an additional ₹200 for home collection.According to residents, private labs are citing a shortage of staff and a need to pay additional incentives for sample testing for charging them more than the specified prices.Tanisha Kumar, a resident of DLF Phase 1, said that she contacted two private labs to get samples collected for all her family members after they started exhibiting symptoms on Monday. “The lab technician charged ₹1,250 per sample and said the prices are fixed as they do not go on home visits for lower than that. On Wednesday, I called another private lab as I was doubtful of my result and they charged me ₹750 for the same test,” she said. Sohna Road resident Arun Sarwan, who got three of his family members tested, said he paid ₹1,000 per sample on Wednesday. “When I asked the lab why they are charging extra, they said all the technicians are overworked and they are paying them an extra incentive for home collection. They said they are working more than 14 hours a day and have to travel to different parts of the city, risking their lives,” he said. Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said that they will take action against labs that are violating the orders and issue notices. “We haven’t received a complaint against any lab. We will take prompt action if anyone comes forward (with a complaint),” he said.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “Action will be taken against labs if the department will receive any complaint against them.” Even as officials warned of action, representatives of private labs said the price cap for RT-PCR test is not viable and it will eventually, lead to a dip in testing.“The situation is challenging for us as the prices fixed are too less and our staff has to travel across the city. With the fixed price, it will be difficult to run the operations. A delegation of lab representatives is planning to meet the deputy commissioner this week to request an increase in the price,” an executive of a private lab said, requesting anonymity. Representatives of private labs said that residents are ready to pay additional charges for home testing as they want to avoid exposure by visiting hospitals. Dr Santosh Kumar, the managing director of Times PathLabs Private Limited in Sector 14, said, “Many people are ready to pay more for the test because they want samples to be collected from home. Since labs have been overburdened with samples and their staff was tested positive, home collection has got affected.” Many labs also reported a shortage of RT-PCR kits and stopped home collection of samples on Wednesday. It is for the seventh time that the state health department on Tuesday revised the test cost and fixed separate rates for samples given directly at the lab and those collected from residences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/labs-overcharging-for-covid-19-test-despite-price-caps-allege-residents-101620842685856.html
12-05-2021||Gurugram||Drive-through vaccination to be held on Friday||Despite the limited availability of Covid-19 vaccines in the district, the health department has planned to hold a drive-through vaccination at DLF City Centre, MG Road, on May 14 for people above the age of 45 who are waiting for their second shot. Only 200 doses will be administered during the drive, said officials. “People will be vaccinated in their cars. After the vaccination, they will have to wait in the parking lot for 30 minutes under the observation period. If they face any difficulty, they can flash their car lights. Our team will address those who will report any side effect. The drive through is only for those above 45 years, who are scheduled for their second dose,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. According to Yadav, the lift lobby in the building will be used as an Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) room for people who require medical assistance. It is for the first time since March 31 that the health department will be holding vaccination drive in a private building. The district on Wednesday reported 2,747 new cases, taking the total count of active cases to 32,895. The death toll stood at 621, with nine deaths confirmed on Wednesday. Out of the total active case, 30, 452 are in home isolation, while 2,347 are admitted to private hospitals. Only 96 patients were isolated at Covid care centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/drivethrough-vaccination-to-be-held-on-friday-101620842685099.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Four ministers seek Navjot Sidhu’s suspension for anti-party activities||The chorus for disciplinary action against former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu in the ruling Congress in Punjab gained momentum on Wednesday as four more cabinet ministers demanded his immediate suspension for anti-party activities. The ministers—Balbir Sidhu, Vijay Inder Singla, Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Gurpreet Singh Kangar—lashed out at the Amritsar East MLA for his unwarranted belligerence against chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. “Sidhu’s provocative and targeted attacks on the chief minister over the past several days are an invitation for disaster for the Congress,” they said in a hard-hitting statement, insinuating collusion between the MLA and state opposition parties, such as Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) or Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). They said it was quite possible that Sidhu’s targeted attacks on the chief minister were instigated by the AAP or BJP leaders to create problems in the Punjab Congress to further their electoral agenda in the state. “The manner in which Sidhu had launched the offensive against the state government, particularly Captain Amarinder, suggested a conspiracy against the chief minister,” they added. Kangar’s name is significant as he was among the five ministers and MPs who met at cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa’s official residence on Monday and expressed their disenchantment with the state government’s handling of the police firing case. The number of ministers seeking strict action against Sidhu has now gone up to seven. On Monday, Brahm Mohindra, Sunder Sham Arora and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot had made a similar demand from the party high command. Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar has also thrown in his lot with the chief minister. Sidhu, whose relations with Amarinder have been strained for more than two-and-a-half years, has been taking swipes at the chief minister almost daily ever since the Punjab and Haryana high court on April 9 quashed the chargesheets filed by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) in the Kotkapura police firing case. He directly blamed the CM for the legal setback, accusing him of “collusion” with the culprits of the 2015 sacrilege incidents. Amarinder last month held a series of meetings with MLAs who conveyed their apprehensions about the political fallout if justice is not delivered in sacrilege and police firing cases. When some other ministers, MPs and MLAs started regrouping, the chief minister’s camp launched the counter offensive with three ministers demanding action against the cricketer-turned-politician. Though the silence of several ministers had raised eyebrows, the statement of more ministers, which came a day before the cabinet is scheduled to meet here, is likely to put pressure on detractors. The four ministers, in their hard-hitting joint statement, termed Sidhu’s blatant defiance as an act of total indiscipline. “Such anti-party activities cannot be tolerated by any political establishment, and, more so, in a state headed for elections. He should be immediately suspended, if not expelled, as his continued presence in Punjab Congress is creating a mess in the party’s state unit,” they said. Pointing to Sidhu’s track record of controversial statements, the ministers said that his habit of ‘biting the hand that feeds him’ had made him a persona non grata earlier in his former party. “He is nothing but a troublemaker whose contribution to the Congress and the state government in Punjab in all these years has been virtually nil,” they said, questioning the rationale behind allowing him to continue in the Congress at a time when the party was preparing for the next assembly elections in Punjab and the state government was battling an unprecedented Covid crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-ministers-seek-navjot-sidhu-s-suspension-for-anti-party-activities-101620842505652.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||SGPC open 25-bed Covid care centre in Bholath||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Wednesday opened its third Covid care facility in Punjab at Bholath town of Kapurthala district. The centre with 25 beds has been attached with Guru Ramdas Medical College and Hospital in Amritsar. Eight doctors and 14 nurses of the hospital have been deputed for providing 24x7 services there. The centre was inaugurated by SGPC president Jagir Kaur and it will provide free basic treatment to Covid-19 patients, besides having the arrangements to shift critical patients to various hospitals in case of emergency. Similar facilities are already operational at Gurdwara Manji Sahib, Alamgir in Ludhiana and Sri Damdama Sahib. Another ward is being set up at Gurdwara Sri Moti Bagh, Patiala, said Kaur. Jagir Kaur said, “The SGPC is also making efforts to procure Pfizer vaccine from the United States and a letter seeking permission for its use in India was sent to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan.” She said an oxygen plant has been set up by the SGPC at Sri Guru Ramdas Medical College, Amritsar, but liquid oxygen is not avaialble. “An appeal has been made to the government of India to find an immediate solution so that the SGPC can keep serving the humanity,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sgpc-open-25-bed-covid-care-centre-in-bholath-101620842209856.html
12-05-2021||Lucknow||Ambedkar Nagar hooch tragedy: Death toll rises to six; 5 arrested, 4 cops suspended||The toll in Ambedkar Nagar hooch tragedy rose to six with one more death reported on Wednesday even as five persons were arrested and four cops suspended in this connection, said a senior police official.The four police personnel¬-- in-charge of Jaitpur police station Pandit Tripathi, sub-inspector Kailash Singh Yadav, head constable Gulab Chand and constable Rahul Gupta-- have been placed under suspension and a departmental inquiry initiated against them for dereliction of duty, said Ambedkar Nagar superintendent of police (SP) Alok Priyadarsh.To note, five people, including two brothers-- Mahesh Chauhan and Jaisraj Chauhan-- died after consuming spurious liquor in Singhora Makhdumpur village under Jaitpur police station limits. While four deaths were reported on Monday one each succumbed during treatment on Tuesday and Wednesday.The SP said 12 persons in a marriage party had taken ill after consuming the spurious liquor purchased from Mittupur village in adjoining Azamgarh district. They were admitted to a local hospital, where five of them died. Three were still undergoing treatment and four others have been discharged.He said some other deaths in the area were being incorrectly attributed to the hooch tragedy.The SP added the police searched every house in the village for country made liquor in presence of district magistrate Samuel Paul.The SP said a country made liquor shop owner was among the five people arrested in the case from Azamgarh. He was found to be selling liquor illegally despite the corona curfew in the state since April 30. “Those arrested have been booked for violating the state government order, epidemic act, excise act as well as causing death due to negligence,” the SP said.The Azamgarh district administration, however, said no deaths have been reported in the district due to spurious liquor and they were cooperating with the Ambedkar Nagar police in the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ambedkar-nagar-hooch-tragedy-death-toll-rises-to-six-5-arrested-4-cops-suspended-101620840944701.html
12-05-2021||Pune||Two men arrested for online scam involving nude videos||Two men have been arrested in Rajasthan in a case involving at least 100 males, in the age group of 25 to 55 years, being duped in an online scam involving nude videos of the victims. The accused posed as women, befriended the victims and then solicited the nude videos, based on which the victims were then blackmailed. The duo have been arrested by the Rajasthan police following an investigation by a special squad under Pune DCP (Crime) Bhagyashree Navtake. Senior Inspector D S Hake, part of the probe, said police have found bank accounts, IP address and are in touch with the Rajasthan Police regarding the case. “We visited Rajasthan and our investigations revealed that they extorted and blackmailed their victims and took sums ranging between ₹3,000 and ₹25,000. Currently, the duo is in the custody of Bharatpur police in Rajasthan and after their investigation is complete, their custody will be given to the Pune cyber police. We have received 100 such complaints from different areas of Pune.” According tricksters used photos of women as their profile shots and chatted with victims. They then used a voice modulation software due to chat. “We are taking strong action in this case,” inspector Hake added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-men-arrested-for-online-scam-involving-nude-videos-101620840164515.html
12-05-2021||Other||‘UP has purchased 22L MT wheat from farmers so far, paid ₹2933.34 crore’||Lucknow: The Uttar Pradesh government has purchased around 22 lakh MT wheat from farmers so far amid spread of Covid-19 to rural areas. This is nearly double the wheat procured during the corresponding period last year. “We have purchased 21.45 lakh MT wheat from 4,20,948 farmers and have already paid ₹2933.34 crore to them while ₹4237.50 crore will be credited to their accounts very soon,” said commissioner, food and civil supplies, Manish Chauhan. “The government procured 12.11 lakh MT wheat during the corresponding period previous year,” he pointed out. The Centre has fixed the minimum support price (MSP) for wheat at ₹1975 per quintal for the current procurement season. For the first time, the state government fixed no wheat purchase target this year, deciding to purchase all the wheat brought to the purchase centeres during the procurement season. “The target was not fixed but we expect to purchase around 50-55 lakh MT wheat by the end of the procurement season in mid-June and funds are being arranged for the same,” another official revealed. He said the wheat purchase progress was quite satisfactory despite the challenges posed by the deadly second Covid wave in the state. “We are taking all the precautions for farmers as well as the staff at the procurement centres,” the official claimed. The state government has installed electronic point of sale (EPoS) machines at all the 6,000 procurement centres that have been set up across the state to buy wheat from farmers, to do away with complaints related to weighing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-has-purchased-22l-mt-wheat-from-farmers-so-far-paid-rs-2933-34-crore-101620839684431.html
12-05-2021||Other||‘UP govt to promote entrepreneurship culture at school level’||Lucknow: The government was planning to inculcate the culture of entrepreneurship in students at school level to make them learn its virtues during early years of their education, said minister of state for IT and electronics, Ajit Pal Singh said here on Wednesday. Speaking at a virtual conclave on Start up, ‘AARAMBH’, organised by the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry in collaboration with Nabard and SIDBI, Singh said: “Tinkering labs in schools, e-cells in colleges and incubators in institutes of higher learning and centres of excellence will be set up to promote research and development in areas of emerging technologies.” Singh also informed that the government was planning to set up 100 incubators across the state and at least one in every district. This ecosystem would help to promote at least 10,000 startups, he added. Also speaking on the occasion, Sanjay Agarwal, president, PHDCCI, said startups and entrepreneurship were important for economic development. The Uttar Pradesh government came up with ‘Startup Policy 2020’ to promote startups in the state. Nikhil Agarwal, CEO, Incubation, IIT Kanpur; Rajiv Kumar, general manager, SIDBI, DS Chauhan, chief general manager, Nabard and Mukesh Bahadur Singh among others also expressed their views.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-govt-to-promote-entrepreneurship-culture-at-school-level-101620839504417.html
12-05-2021||Bangalore||After Maharashtra, Karnataka suspends Covid vaccines for 18-44 from Friday||Bengaluru: The Karnataka government has decided to suspend vaccination for people in the 18-44 age group from Friday because it does not have enough vaccines, the state health department said in a statement on Wednesday evening. The move comes a day after Maharashtra announced that it would divert 310,000 Covaxin doses meant for those aged between 18 and 44 to the 45+ age group.“Today the state government has decided that the vaccine procured directly by the state for vaccination of persons between 18 to 44 years will be utilised for vaccination of beneficiaries who are due for second dose,” the Karnataka health department said in a statement.“In this regard vaccination for the 18 to 44 age group (including those who have already booked appointments) will be temporarily suspended from 14.05.2021 (Friday) till further orders,” the health department said.The decision to slow down jabs for the 18-44 population comes at a time when the Covid- 19 surge continues in Karnataka, with the number of active cases inching towards the 600,000 mark. The state has reported 39,998 new infections during the 24-hour period on Tuesday. The positivity rate remains around 30%, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department. It said 517 people died in the state during the 24-hour-period. Bengaluru accounted for 275 out of the 517 fatalities.But the state has already had to go slow on the vaccination drive due to depleting stocks.Gaurav Gupta, the chief commissioner of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Wednesday said there were just 40,000 doses of vaccines left in Bengaluru. There have been multiple reports of vaccine shortage over the last few days, prompting some people to travel to vaccination centres 100 km from the city where local residents were slow to book slots on the CoWin app.The state government, till it formally announced suspension of the vaccination programme for the 18-44 age group, had been insisting that there was no shortage of vaccines.“We don’t have a shortage as such. As and when the vaccine arrives, we will give vaccination to all. We want to give it to everybody,” K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education said on Wednesday.Karnataka has administered 10,882,080 doses of vaccines of which only 2,293,210 have received both doses, as per the data. This is just around 3.5% of the state’s estimated population of 60.5 million. Karnataka has, in all, placed orders for 10 million Covishield vaccines from Serum Institute of India. In addition, it has said it will float tenders for another 20 million doses including 10 million doses of Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-running-out-of-vaccines-suspends-jabs-for-18-44-from-friday-101620839264973.html
12-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka records nearly 40,000 new Covid-19 cases, 517 more deaths||Karnataka's death toll due to Covid-19 touched 20,368 with 517 fatalities on Wednesday, while 39,998 fresh cases took the infection count to 20,53,191, the health department said.The state has 5,92,182 active cases whereas the total discharges stood at 14,40,621 with the recovery of 34,752 people today.Bengaluru Urban district reported 16,286 infections and 275 fatalities, which is highest in the state.The city has so far reported 9,99,805 infections and 8,964 deaths.There were 3,60,619 active cases.Tumakuru district registered 2,360 infections, which is second to Bengaluru, and 14 deaths.According to the health bulletin, there were 1,823 infections in Ballari, 1,773 in Mysuru, 1,572 in Hassan, 1,223 in Mandya, 1,138 in Bengaluru Rural, 1,125 in Shivamogga, 1,077 in Dakshina Kannada.Bagalkote, Belagavi, Chamarajanagar, Chikkaballapura, Chikkamagaluru, Dharwad, Kalaburagi, Kodagu, Kolar, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Vijayapura and Yadgir were among the districts with over 500 cases.The department said 26 deaths took place in Shivamogga, 23 in Kalaburagi, 19 in Hassan, 17 in Ballari, 14 in Tumakuru, 12 each in Koppal and Bengaluru Rural, and 10 each in Haveri, Kodagu and Mandya.Deaths were reported in 19 other districts as well.There were 1,34,792 tests conducted on Wednesday including 1,24,232 using RT-PCR and other methods.So far 2.74 crore tests have been done cumulatively, the department added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-records-nearly-40-000-new-covid-19-cases-517-more-deaths-101620838517041.html
12-05-2021||Other||DRDO’s Covid hospital in Panipat to admit patients from May 16||The first phase of 500-bed dedicated Covid hospital near Panipat refinery will be made operational to admit patients from May 16.The first phase of the hospital will have capacity to admit 300 patients and the second phase for 200 patients will be completed by the end of this month, officials said.Panipat deputy commissioner Dharmender Singh said nearly 80% work for the first phase of 300-beds has completed and doctors and paramedical staff from different hospitals and other medical colleges across state have started arriving to join duty.He said that the hospital will admit patients from May 16 after a trail of two days.This temporary hospital, around 500m from the oxygen plant of IOC’s Panipat refinery is being set up by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) in collaboration with the Haryana government.The hospital will be funded by the Centre and the state government will make arrangements for doctors, nurses and other staff of EASI hospitals and students from medical and nursing colleges.The hospital will have direct piped supply of oxygen from the oxygen plant and opening of the hospital will come as a major relief to people in Covid-hit NCR districts of Haryana, who are facing acute shortage of hospital beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drdos-covid-hospital-in-panipat-to-admit-patients-from-may-16-101620838664784.html
12-05-2021||Other||98 inmates of Karnal district jail test positive for Covid||Spread of Covid-19 in jails has raised concerns of authorities as 98 inmates, including nine women, of Karnal district jail have tested positive for Covid.Jail authorities said the infected inmates have been shifted to a special ward created for infected prisoners and they will be provided basic medical care.Amit Kumar, superintendent of Karnal district jail, said that of total 1,772 inmates in their jail, 98 inmates have been found infected in the last few days.He said that a special ward has been set up for them and they are being provided proper medical care under the guidance of the Karnal civil surgeon.However, containing spread of the virus in jails has become a challenge for authorities as around 550 inmates from 12 jails in state have tested positive in the past couple of days.According to figures prepared by the Haryana prisons department in April last year, there are around 18,897 prisoners, including 630 women who are lodged in 19 prisons in state which have a total capacity of 19,306 prisoners.Eleven prisons in state, including Sirsa, Sonepat, Kaithal, Jind, Gurugram, Panipat, Kurukshetra, Bhiwani and central jail II Hisar, Narnaul and Rewari are accommodating more prisoners than their capacity.Officials said government had issued instructions for the infected inmates, especially in Covid centres.“Our jail has 300 more prisoners than its capacity and recently 30 of them tested positive. They were sent to Covid ward created by the government but it is challenging to protect inmates and staff members if the jail is overcrowded,” said a superintendent of a district jail, pleading anonymity.Director general prisons Shatrujeet Singh Kapoor refused to comment on the efforts being made to contain spread of Covid in jails of Haryana.As per the jail authorities, the instructions have been issued to create a separate ward for the infection pensioners if a jail has enough space otherwise the inmates from overcrowded jails will be sent to a special section of Rewari jail dedicated to Covid inmates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/98-inmates-of-karnal-district-jail-test-positive-for-covid-101620838604700.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||67 arrests in Haryana in 18 days for black marketing of oxygen, remdesivir||The Haryana Police have seized 409 oxygen cylinders and 130 vials of remdesivir injection in the last 18 days and arrested 67 persons across state.As many as 33 FIRs have been registered since April 23 in this connection, director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava said on Wednesday, adding that raids were conducted in different districts after receiving inputs of black marketing of medical oxygen and remdesivir on helpline numbers.“As the demand of oxygen and life-saving drug has gone up after surge in Covid-19 cases, people with an intention to make a quick buck have started selling oxygen cylinders and medicines at inflated prices,” he said.“Total 13 FIRs have been registered in connection with black-marketing of oxygen in seven different districts of Haryana and 19 accused were arrested in these cases leading to recovery of 409 oxygen cylinders. Similarly, 48 accused were arrested for involvement in black-marketing of remdesivir vials by lodging 20 FIRs against them in 11 different districts after recovery of 130 vials from their possession,” he added.The DGP urged people to inform police about black-marketing of oxygen and remdesivir on mobile number 7087089947 and toll-free number 1800-180-1314.HOME DELIVERY OF OXYGEN CYLINDERSV Umashankar, principal secretary to CM Manohar Lal Khattar, directed the deputy commissioners (DCs) that home delivery of oxygen cylinder refill to Covid patients in home isolation and patients suffering from other diseases should not remain pending for more than 12 hours.During a review meeting, he directed the DCs to continuously update the data regarding treatment of Covid patients in hospitals on the specified portal.Arrangements should be such that patients, who have been given cylinder once, must be delivered next cylinder on time, he said.“In case of difficulty in refilling oxygen cylinder, inform the headquarters immediately so that arrangements can be made,” he said, asking the DCs to depute doctors to enquire about health of people in home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/67-arrests-in-haryana-in-18-days-for-black-marketing-of-oxygen-remdesivir-101620838545879.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana records more Covid recoveries than new cases three days in a row||Active Covid-19 cases in Haryana have decreased for the third consecutive day on Wednesday with the state witnessing more recoveries from the contagion than fresh cases since Monday, show the health department bulletins.The active case tally which was 1,16, 867 on Sunday came down to 1,07,058 on Wednesday, while the recovery rate on Wednesday improved and stood at 82.67% from 82.05% of the day earlier.The positivity rate on Wednesday was 18.84% while it was 21.46% on Tuesday and 25.30% on Monday.On Wednesday, Haryana recorded 14,264 recoveries against 12,490 new cases. There was a similar trend on Tuesday and Monday as the recoveries were about 4,000 more than the new cases.On Wednesday, at least eight districts recorded more recoveries than fresh cases and the recovery rate of 14 districts was hovering between 80% and 90%.In the past 12 days (till Wednesday), 1,51,176 new cases were detected and 1,44,900 patients recovered.Barring Karnal and Rewari, 165 people succumbed to the contagion in 20 districts of Haryana with the highest of 23 deaths in Rohtak. In Hisar and Bhiwani 16 people each died of Covid, 11 in Jind, 10 in Faridabad and nine in Gurugram.In the last 24 hours, 68,122 samples were taken in state and 12,490 new cases were reported.Gurugram recorded the highest of 2,747 new cases, Faridabad 1,237, Sonepat 710, Hisar 977, Ambala 368, Karnal 660, Panipat 482, Rohtak 450, Rewari 155, Panchkula 593, Kurukshetra 295, Yamunanagar 321, Sirsa 784, Mahendergarh 449, Bhiwani 802, Jhajjar 181, Palwal 189, Fatehabad 301, Kaithal 154, Jind 419, Nuh 63, and Charkhi Dadri 153.Meanwhile, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday reviewed the current situation of Covid in state in a meeting attended by cabinet ministers, the Vidhan Sabha speaker, deputy speaker and administrative secretaries of different departments.REPORTS OF VIRUS SPREAD IN RURAL AREAS IS FALSE: VIJTerming the reports that Covid-19 is spreading in the rural areas of Haryana false, state health minister Anil Vij on Wednesday said that at present 62% patients from urban areas and 38% from rural are undergoing treatment at hospitals in state.“So, the information with regard to increase in spread of Covid in villages is wrong,” Vij said during a Covid review meeting with Union health and family welfare minister Dr Harsh Vardhan.He said that Haryana needed more doses of the vaccine so that the second dose can be administered on time. Vij said the first dose has been given to around 37 lakh people in Haryana and the second dose to eight lakh people.He said that there is a steady decline in Covid cases due to the lockdown imposed in state as the number of new cases has come down from 15,786 on May 4 to 11,637 on May 12.5 MINI-BUS AMBULANCES IN EVERY DISTRICTKhattar on Wednesday flagged-off 10 mini roadways buses converted into ambulances to rush serious patients of Covid-19 to hospitals in Panchkula and Ambala.The state government has converted 110 mini buses of Haryana Roadways into ambulances by replacing passenger seats with beds to take serious patients to hospital.Each district will get five mini-bus ambulances and each ambulance will have four beds, two oxygen cylinders, masks, sanitisers, PPE kits, first aid kits, etc.Also, every district will have one large AC bus that can be utilised as an isolation centre, the spokesperson said.PGIMS RECEIVES 10 OXYGEN CONCENTRATORS IN DONATIONHaryana-origin people residing in Australia have donated 10 oxygen concentrators each having 10 litre capacity to Rohtak’s Post-graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS).In a letter to PGIMS vice-chancellor Dr OP Kalra, Sewa Singh Redhu, founding president of the Association of Haryanvis in Australia, appreciated the work done by PGIMS doctors amid pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-records-more-covid-recoveries-than-new-cases-three-days-in-a-row-101620838427071.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 12,490 fresh Covid-19 cases; caseload nearing 653,000||Chandigarh, May 12 (PTI) Haryana on Wednesday reported 165 fatalities due to Covid-19, taking the death toll to 6,075, while 12,490 fresh cases pushed the tally to 652,742.According to the health department's daily bulletin, the latest deaths include 23 from Rohtak, 16 each from Hisar and Bhiwani, 11 from Jind, 10 from Faridabad and 9 each from Gurgaon, Sirsa and Charkhi Dadri districts.Among the districts which continued to report a big spike in cases include Gurgaon (2,747), Faridabad (1,237), Hisar (977), Bhiwani (802) and Sirsa (784).The number of total active cases in the state was 1,07,058.The total recoveries so far were 539,609, with over 14,000 patients recuperating during the past 24 hours.   The cumulative positivity rate was 8.16 per cent.The recovery rate was 82.67 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-reports-12-490-fresh-covid-19-cases-caseload-nearing-653000-101620836757587.html
12-05-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand extends lockdown till May 27, tightens curbs||The state government on Wednesday extended the lockdown, named as Swasthya Surakasha Saptah (Health Protection Week), till 6 am on May 27 with a few more restrictions in a bid to contain the spread of coronavirus in the state, officials said.Inter and intrastate bus services have been prohibited, while an e-pass will now on be issued for movement of private vehicles, officials said. Besides, marriage functions will be permitted to be held only at homes or courts with a participation of maximum 11 people. Earlier, the upper limit for the same was 50 persons.The new restrictions will come into effect from 6am on May 16, along with all the existing restrictions, officials said.The decisions were taken at the state disaster management authority (SDMA) meeting on Wednesday, chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren.It has also been mandatory for people coming from outside the state to stay in seven-day home or institutional quarantine. However, the norm will not be applicable for people exiting the state within 72 hours, as per the government press communiqué.It further states that social distancing norms will be strictly followed in markets including rural markets.The chief minister had already hinted for tougher restrictions in a bid to check the spread of the virus in the state, as the disease is now spreading in rural Jharkhand.Even though the Covid-19 cases have been declining for past couple of days in the state, death rate has emerged a major concern for the government. The state has lost 2,370 lives due to the coronavirus disease since the lockdown has come into effect since April 22, while as many as 1,54,601 Covid-19 cases were registered during the period.The government had first imposed the Swasthya Saptah Week from 6 am of April 22 to 6am of April 29. The lockdown got second extension from 6am of April 29 to 6am of May 6 and third extension from 6am on May 6 to 6am of May 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-extends-lockdown-till-may-27-tightens-curbs-101620836923836.html
12-05-2021||Pune||Govt officially issues order about cancellation of exam, questions on FYJC remain||Days after it made an announcement, the Maharashtra government officially issued a General Resolution (GR) on Wednesday stating that the Class 10 exam has been cancelled. However, the fresh announcement wasn’t clear about how and on what basis students will be admitted to FYJC course. In a recent survey by the Maharashtra State Council for Educational Research and Training (SCERT), 65 per cent students have said that they want a common entrance test for first year junior college (FYJC). The GR stated that the decision was taken to cancel the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) examination due to the ongoing pandemic. This GR also states that an independent decision will be taken regarding the evaluation of Class 10 students and the admission process for Class 11. Board officials noted that a common entrance test will be beneficial for students. “If internal mark assessment is used for admission for Class 11, the overall marking can be inflated by schools. To avoid this, the common entrance test would be fair and unbiased towards the students of state board as well as other boards,” said board officials. The survey conducted by Maharashtra SCERT saw the participation of over 3 lakh students from across Maharashtra. Around 65 percent students said that a common entrance test for class 11 would be beneficial to the students. SCERT deputy director Vikas Garad said that along with a survey to find out if students want a common admission test for class 11, principals from various schools were also asked to participate in a survey to understand how prepared they were for the internal assessment of students. “Around 17,487 schools have said that they are ready for internal assessment to evaluate students of Class 10. A total of 21,110 schools are there across Maharashtra,” said Garad. Prathmesh Kulkarni, a student of Class 10 said that the decision to cancel the examination is welcomed. “I think a common entrance test for class 11 will be a fair platform to evaluate all students ahead of their admissions. It will also help students who have studied hard and also students from other boards,” said Kulkarni. Education experts noted that though some students have given a positive response to the entrance test for Class 11, interest of students from rural parts of the state should also be kept in mind before the board takes the final decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/govt-officially-issues-order-about-cancellation-of-exam-questions-on-fyjc-remain-101620836503757.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||No Covaxin doses available for 18-44 age group in Delhi from Thursday; Sisodia alleges 'mismanagement' by Centre||People in the 18-44 age group won't be able to get Covaxin shots in Delhi from Thursday as deputy chief Minister Manish Sisodia said that its manufacturer Bharat Biotech has refused to provide "additional" vaccine doses to the city government, a development that is likely to hamper the inoculation drive severely in the national capital.Stocks of the other coronavirus vaccine --- Covishield, will last only nine days, AAP MLA Atishi said while releasing vaccination bulletin of the city.As Covaxin's stock finished, the Delhi government temporarily closed down around 100 centres administering the vaccine on Wednesday.The AAP MLA said that there are four days of Covaxin left for frontline workers and those above 45, while Covishield stock will last three days for such category.Addressing an online press briefing on Wednesday, Sisodia said, "The Covaxin manufacturer has in a letter said that it cannot provide the Delhi government vaccines due to unavailability, under instruction of government officials concerned. It means that the central government is controlling supply of the vaccine."However, Joint Secretary in the Union health ministry Lav Agarwal on Tuesday denied that the Centre had any role to play in the purchase of vaccines by the states.Sisodia accused the Centre of vaccine mismanagement and reiterated that exporting 6.5 crore doses to foreign countries was the "biggest mistake".The Delhi government had ordered 67 lakh doses each of Covishield and Covaxin on April 26, the deputy chief minister said.According to the Delhi government figures, it has received 1.5 lakh Covaxin and 4 lakh Covishield doses so far to vaccinate people in the 18-44 age group.Till now, a total of 48.7 lakh doses of both the vaccines have been received for various categories of beneficiaries, it showed."I had already said exporting 6.5 crore doses to foreign countries was the biggest mistake. It would have been sufficient to vaccinate everyone in Delhi and Mumbai with two doses each," Sisodia added.During the online briefing, he read the letter received from Bharat Biotech, which said, "...we are making dispatches as per the directions of the government officials concerned. We therefore sincerely regret that we cannot make any additional supplies as required by you."The letter written by Bharat Biotech Chairman and Managing Director Dr Krishna Ella, on May 11, to the Delhi government's principal secretary (health and family welfare) also mentioned "unprecedented demand" of Covaxin.Bharat Biotech's letter referred to another note written to it by the Delhi government on May 7 regarding supply of Covaxin.Meanwhile, during a press briefing, AAP leader Atishi, an MLA from the Kalkaji constituency, said that Delhi received 2.67 lakh more doses of Covishield vaccine on May 11."Around 16,000 Covaxin doses, which were available in the morning, were administered at 44 centres. These centres will also be shut after Wednesday evening," the AAP MLA said.Atishi hoped that the central government would intervene and make Covaxin doses available for the 18-44 age category."Soon it will be time to give the second dose of Covaxin to beneficiaries in this category," she added.There are 4.18 lakh Covishield doses left for people in the 18-44 age group. These can last up to nine days, she added."However, there will be no Covaxin doses left for the 18-44 age group after Wednesday evening and all such centres will be temporarily shut," she said.Delhi BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana said Bharat Biotech's letter cited by Sisodia has "exposed" his claim that the city government ordered 67 lakh Covaxin doses on April 26."The reality is they wrote letter of intent to Bharat Biotech on April 26. Sisodia should disclose what the Delhi government wrote to Bharat Biotech in its May 7 letter," he said.The deputy chief minister also said that the Centre should stop export of vaccines and share the vaccine formulae of the two manufacturers in the country with other companies for mass scale production.He also urged the Union government to approve vaccines available in the international market for use in India, and direct states to vaccinate everyone within three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-covaxin-doses-available-for-18-44-age-group-in-delhi-from-thursday-101620835691245.html
12-05-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh reports 18,125 new Covid-19 cases, 329 more deaths||Uttar Pradesh recorded 18,125 fresh Covid-19 cases that raised the infection count to 15,63,238, while 329 new fatalities pushed the death toll 16,372, officials said on Wednesday.On the bright side, the number of active cases in the state has come down by over 1.04 lakh in the past 11 days, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said. The Covid-19 recovery rate now stands at 85.7 per cent in Uttar Pradesh, he said.On April 30, there were about 3.10 lakh active cases, while the number currently stands at 2,06,615, the official said.With this, the total number of patients in the state who have recovered from the infection has risen to 13,40,251, Prasad added.So far, over 4.36 crore samples have been tested in the state, including more than 2.45 lakh samples that were tested on Tuesday, he said.Among the fresh cases, 1,52,725 are in home isolation, Prasad said.In past 24 hours, maximum 26 deaths were reported from Kanpur, 23 from Lucknow, 17 from Jhansi, 14 from Meerut, 11 each from Gautam Buddh Nagar, Hardoi and Meerut, besides other cities, a health bulletin issued here said.In this period, maximum 1,232 fresh cases were reported from Meerut, 992 from Gautam Buddh Nagar, 916 from Lucknow, 755 from Muzaffar Nagar, 748 from Varanasi, 720 from Gorakhpur, it saidHe said that following the 'track, test and treat' policy, surveillance teams of the state government have reached 3.47 crore households, covering a total of 16.73 crore people.Prasad said while 1.11 crore people have been administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, 29.35 lakh have received the second shot.The programme of vaccinating people in the 18-44 age group is also going on in the state and so far 2.16 lakh in this category have been administered vaccines, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-reports-18-125-new-covid-19-cases-329-more-deaths-101620835118737.html
12-05-2021||Pune||SCERT’s new venture to provide students with app for reading practice||Under the ‘Right to Read’ program, the Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT), Pune has developed an app for students which will enable them with the necessary tools required for English reading practice on their smartphones. This venture is an extension of the ‘Right to Read’ initiative which was started in 2018 when the Government of Maharashtra, Schoolnet and EnglishHelper signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU). Under this MoU, the Right to Read program was implemented in 65,000 government schools in the state. This technology-driven method enables students to enhance their reading skills in English. Vikas Garad, SCERT deputy director said that this ‘Right to Read’ initiative has reached over 20,000 schools in Maharashtra. “Of the 65,000 government schools, we were successful in reaching over 20,000 schools in the state. Some schools had technical challenges and sometimes needed to sort them and reach the children. However, since 2020, schools have been shut and online education has begun,” said Garad. As a result, students could not reach out to schools for technical needs like computers and required software to take assistance from this initiative during the pandemic. “In order to address this issue, the NGO has come up with an app or application that every student can access. These will help the students access all the required things on their phone,” said Garad. SCERT is yet to sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to start this. “We have all the required documents in place and soon we shall sign a MoU so that students across Maharashtra can access this application and learn to read English better. After signing the MoU, students can access this application free of cost,” said Garad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/scerts-new-venture-to-provide-students-with-app-for-reading-practice-101620835663634.html
12-05-2021||Pune||Man opens fire outside NCP MLA Anna Bansode’s office||A man was detained by Pimpri-Chinchwad police for firing a gunshot outside the office of Anna Bansode, legislator from Pimpri and a member of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Wednesday. A suspect named Tanaji Pawar has been detained by the police. The shot was fired outside Bansode’s office in the vicinity of Chinchwad railway station around 1pm. “The shell was found outside the office. We have seized his weapon and are investigating further,” said Ratan Kavade, assistant commissioner of police, Pimpri division of Pimpri-Chinchwad police. The MLA was in his office when the shot was fired, according to the police. Further, the police procedure is ongoing as the police are investigating the man’s past history and possible reason for firing. A case will be registered at the Pimpri police station. “There’s a (garbage) contractor named Anthony and Tanaji Pawar is his supervisor. For the past 10 days my PA has been calling to employ two boys. While speaking with me and my PA, there was a verbal scuffle between them. Today he was in my office for 5-7 minutes after which he came out and directly started firing. I was close to the door of my office when he shot in my direction, but a boy named Sadik pushed his hand and it missed. He fired two shots before my men stopped him,” said Bansode. Two other men had accompanied Pawar, one of whom was also carrying a weapon, according to Bansode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-opens-fire-outside-ncp-mla-anna-bansode-s-office-101620835543542.html
12-05-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh logs 8,970 new Covid-19 cases, 84 related deaths||Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday reported 8,970 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 84 fatalities, taking its infection tally to 7,00,202 and death toll to 6,679, the state health department said.A total of 10,324 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, which pushed the state's recovery count to 5,83,595, it said.With 1,597 new cases, Indore's caseload went up to 1,31,707, while that of Bhopal rose to 1,08,546 with 1,304 new cases.Indore reported seven deaths, taking the toll to 1,227, while the number of fatalities in Bhopal rose to 817 after five people succumbed to the virus, the officials said.Indore is now left with 17,514 active cases while Bhopal has 15,664 such cases.The number of active Covid-19 cases in state stands at 1,09,928.With 64,677 new tests, the total number of samples tested for coronavirus in MP has crossed 85.16 lakh.So far in May, the state has recorded 1,36,875 cases, including 1,063 fatalities.The coronavirus figures in Madhya Pradesh are as follows: Total cases 7,00,202, new cases 8,970, death toll 6,679, recovered 5,83,595, active cases 1,09,928, number of tests so far 85,16,213.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-logs-8-970-new-covid-19-cases-84-related-deaths-101620835377823.html
12-05-2021||Pune||Mobile shop owner booked for molesting minor||A mobile shop owner was booked for molesting a seven-year-old under the guise of getting her thumb print for Aadhaar card registration. The man was identified as Pavan Suresh Kolapkar, a resident of Muktewadi area of Chakan. The incident happened at a shop where the man worked called ‘Raj Mobile’ in Vedant Sankul area of Khed, Pune. The woman was trying to get an Aadhaar card made for her daughter. The shop provided the service of registering. “The parents dropped the girl to the mobile shop to get her thumb print and (retinal scan done) and went to a nearby shop to get photo copies of some documents made. They returned in less than 10 minutes and found the man in the position,” said senior police inspector Ashok Rajput of Chakan police station. The man has, however, not yet been arrested. When asked about the validity of the private mobile store as an Aadhaar center, senior PI Rajput said, “That will be a part of the investigation whether they have the permit to make Aadhaar cards. There is a list of valid Aadhaar centres.” A case under Section 354 (assault or use of criminal force to any woman) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 1 and 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCOS) Act was registered at Chakan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mobile-shop-owner-booked-for-molesting-minor-101620835423590.html
12-05-2021||Pune||Inoperative streetlights irk commuters on Bavdhan-Pashan rd||The deserted roads due to Covid restrictions in addition to total darkness due to the non-functioning of streetlights on Bavdhan-Pashan road has made travelling harder for essential service commuters. The streets lights are non-functional on the patch until it connects to NDA Pashan road where all the streetlights are working. “Those who travel every day, they are getting use to this road but yesterday one of the food delivery services’ people hurt himself as he could not see the divider on the road. It’s been more than 10 days that the streetlights are not functional,” said Nishant Tupe, a daily commuter on the road. A blocked portion of the road for metro work is adding to the commuters’ problems. “The worst I feel is that only one patch is facing such problem; the lights at NDA Pashan road are completely functional. The common people are facing a lot of problem,” said Deepak Jadhav, a resident on Bavdhan-Pashan road. With restrictions in place, the road has become more prone to accidents. “At 9pm, when I return home there are no passing of vehicles and darkness brings uneasy feeling while commuting,” said Nisha Dutt, a nurse and a resident of Bavdhan. A pizza delivery boy said, “We don’t visit this location every day, our many delivery boys are facing problems to commute whenever we have orders from residents of this road.” An official from PMC electronic department said, “Due to ongoing metro work at Chandani chowk, street lights are not functional. Work is under progress and all street lights will be functional in a few days. On both the sides, street lights will be functional and repair work is also going on the complete stretch.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/inoperative-streetlights-irk-commuters-on-bavdhan-pashan-rd-101620835243503.html
12-05-2021||Pune||10-year-old apprehended for killing eight-year-old brother||A 10-year-old boy was sent to observation home for juveniles in Satara on Tuesday for killing his eight-year-old brother in Naygaon village of Khandala area of Satara on Monday. The parents, both in their 30s of the children are natives of Bidar, Karnataka and had moved to Satara to work in the fruit gardens of a Pune-based farmer. While the elder child is in Class 5, the younger one was in Class 3, according to the police. The animosity between the two brothers was caused by preferential treatment meted out to them by their parents, according to the police. “The parents in general trusted the younger one more than the elder one. They would trust the younger one with household responsibilities like maintaining keys. This made the elder one mad, according to his statement to us. Some days before the incident, there was a fire in their house. While we do not know how the fire started, the younger one was threatening to tell their parents that the elder one had started it. That had led to a fight between them,” said police inspector UR Hajare of Shirval police station in Satara. The younger boy picked up an axe from the nearby papaya garden and was walking towards their house when the elder boy assumed that he was coming to hit him, according to the police. The 10-year-old rushed towards the younger one and in the resultant struggle, the elder one hit the 8-year-old’s head with the flat end of the axe, according to the police. “There were fractures on his skull. After the first blow, he hit him few more times during the struggle. The axe fell on the ground and the 8-year-old fell near it. The elder one then pulled at the axe, and it left a deep gash on the 8-year-old’s throat, which must have killed him,” said PI Hajaze. The series of events happened around 25-30 meter away from the house where they lived. When their parents returned in the evening, they looked for the younger one and found his body and the axe at a distance from his body. The body was at the edge of a fruit garden and the trees had not grown more than 3-4 feet long, according to the police. A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 201 (destruction of evidence) of Indian Penal Code was registered against the child at Shirval police station of Satara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/10yearold-apprehended-for-killing-eight-year-old-brother-101620835123463.html
12-05-2021||Pune||Noble cause: Pune contractor builds rly ramp||Pune: The ramp built to offload four liquid oxygen tankers from a track of Loni railway station early Wednesday morning was built in record four days by a private railway contractor. The “Oxygen Express” arrived from Odisha as the state government sought aid from other states for oxygen supply. Mallikarjun Bankapure from Loni, private contractor for railways, erected the ramp for free. “It is a noble cause. Generally, the cost of setting up such a ramp is ₹5 lakh. As we are in grip of Covid-19, we all should do our bit to ease difficulties faced by citizens,” Bankapure said. “As we got to know about the tankers arriving at the Loni railway station, as per the instruction from railway officials we started our work four days ago. We had to level the surface to the height of tracks, 1.3 meter, by putting six layers of solid mix of mud and rocks,” he said. The private contractor said that the work included fabrication for stopper that was carried out within the given time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/noble-cause-pune-contractor-builds-rly-ramp-101620835063474.html
12-05-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra govt approves scheme to boost oxygen production||The Maharashtra cabinet on Wednesday approved a proposal to make the state self- sufficient in oxygen production under which special incentives will be offered to manufacturers.The `Maharashtra Mission Oxygen' aims to ensure a production of 3,000 metric tons of life-saving gas per day in the state, said a statement from the chief minister's office.At present the production capacity in the state is 1,300 metric tons per day while the demand is 1,800 metric tons on account of coronavirus pandemic.During the possible third wave, the demand for medical oxygen could rise to 2,300 metric tons, the statement said.Under the scheme, incentives will be given to industrial units for producing oxygen including 150 per cent waiver in GST inMarathwada and Vidarbha and 100 percent in rest of the state. There will be similar waiver in stamp duty and electricity duty too.Health minister Rajesh Tope announced during the meeting that Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) and Air Separation Units (ASU) plants will be set up to boost oxygen production.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-maharashtra-govt-approves-scheme-to-boost-oxygen-production-101620834342033.html
12-05-2021||Pune||Man duped relative of ₹50,000 for procuring Tocilizumab||A man was arrested by Pimpri-Chinchwad police for cheating his relative of ₹50,000 under the pretext of providing them with Tocilizumab injection used for treatment of Covid-19 infection. The arrested man was identified as Anuj Sopan Naikare (31), a resident of Yamuna nagar in Nigdi. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Anil Govind Thombre (47), a tax consultant living in Thomas Colony area of Dehuroad, according to the police. Thombre’s nephew Rohit Bhosale (22) was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 infection at Shubhashri hospital when the hospital asked the family to arrange for the drug. The arrested man offered to source the drug which he told the complainant was priced at ₹50,000, according to the complainant. Thombre handed him ₹50,000 on April 29 after which Naikare failed to bring the drug as well as return the money. The police have arrested him on Tuesday. A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Dehuroad police station. Assistant police inspector Prasad Gajjewar of Dehuroad police station is investigating the case. “We have arrested him. He is in police custody till tomorrow (Thursday),” said senior police inspector Vilas Sonde of Dehuroad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-duped-relative-of-rs-50-000-for-procuring-tocilizumab-101620834943474.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||'Can't turn blind eye': HC rebukes Delhi govt as Covid-19 patients 'overcharged' by hospitals||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday said the Delhi government cannot "turn a blind eye" to overcharging of COVID-19 patients by private hospitals in the city and directed it to hold a meeting of all stakeholders to arrive at a "realistic" amount so that people are not fleeced."We want this taken up on top priority," a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said and also asked the Delhi government why it had not done anything till now to address this "serious" issue."Merely because there were no complaints, the situation on the ground cannot be ignored. We agree (with the petitioner) that you cannot turn a blind eye to it."We had asked you to again speak to all stakeholders. That exercise should have been done. You could have seen the condition on the ground, spoken to all the stakeholders and then arrived at a reasonable figure so that people are not fleeced," the bench said.The court also said that once they arrive at a figure, then it has to be enforced by all means.It asked the Delhi government why it has not done anything till now despite the court "repeatedly" telling them to do something on this issue.It referred to a hospital bill, placed on record by petitioner and lawyer Abhay Gupta, in which the ICU package price was ₹30,000, but the charges for Bilevel Positive Airway Pressure (BiPAP) machine, oxygen, monitors, etc were additional and to the tune of thousands of rupees per day.The bench said that prima facie the BiPAP machine, monitors, oxygen, etc all ought to have been part of the ICU package and therefore, the issue raised by Gupta of overcharging was "serious".It said that the Delhi government was right to say that the private hospitals have to be taken along, during the pandemic, "but that does not mean they can be so exorbitant".Senior advocate and amicus curiae Rajshekhar Rao told the court that according to his research, a whole bunch of private hospitals were refusing to admit patients, even if they had cashless insurance cover, unless they deposit ₹50,000."Some of these practices have to stop," he said.The court said that the government can have different slabs based on services offered so that there is transparency and each hospital does not charge whatever they feel like.It said it does not want to pass an order saying that all private hospitals and nursing homes have to adhere to the rates fixed by the Delhi government last year as then they would be "up in arms" and may not provide services."But then you should come up with a realistic figure," the bench said to the government.The court directed the Health Secretary to convene a meeting of a cross section of all hospitals and their associations as well as the amicus curiae to discuss the aspect of uniformity and rationalisation of charges levied by private hospitals and nursing homes.The bench said based on what transpired in the meeting, the Delhi government shall issue an order on the amounts to be charged by private healthcare institutions for treatment of COVID-19 patients.The Delhi government told the court that it will try to arrive at a formula which would satisfy all the stakeholders and would also benefit the citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cant-turn-blind-eye-hc-rebukes-delhi-govt-as-covid-19-patients-overcharged-by-hospitals-101620834225881.html
12-05-2021||Other||Now, FIR for refusing Covid test in Dhanbad||While launching door-to-door Covid-19 testing campaign on Wednesday in three vulnerable areas of the city, deputy commissioner (DC) cum District Disaster Management (DDM) chairman Umashankar Singh FIR will be lodged against those who refused to undergo the test.“On the basis of number of active cases, patients under home isolation and death ratio, three areas in township were identified in district. Following this, door-to-door intensive testing through TruNat, Rapid Antigen Test ( RAT), and RT-PCR has been launched from Wednesday to break the chain of infection. Magistrates and observers have been directed to lodge FIR if any person in any house refuses to undergo testing,” said the DC.Last week, a survey was conducted in the district under which the most deaths, active cases and patients in isolation were found in Masterpara, Telepara and JC Mallick Road areas, officials said. At present, there were 1,561 active cases under treatment in different dedicated Covid hospitals of the district.“ We can break infection chain and combat a possible third wave only by conducting test of every family in the vulnerable areas,” said Singh.DDM holds up salary of officials absent from Covid dutyThe Dhanbad DDM has held up salary of two magistrates and issued a show-cause notice to them for allegedly being absent from duty at a Covid-19 hospital in the district.“Their salary payment has been held up and have been asked to reply to the show cause within 24 hours,” said the DC. Two other magistrates were deployed at SNMMCH in their place with immediate effect, Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-fir-for-refusing-covid-test-in-dhanbad-101620834223203.html
12-05-2021||Ranchi||State allocates vaccines to districts for inoculating 18-44 age group||In the run up to roll out free mass vaccination drive to inoculate citizens aged between 18-44 years from May 14, the state government allocated doses of two vaccines, Covishield and Covaxi, in different shares to the districts.Among the 24 districts across the state, the ten districts of Bokaro, Deoghar, Dhanbad, East Singhbhum, Garhwa, Giridih, Hazaribagh, Palamu, Ranchi and West Singhbhum were the top gainers after being allocated 10,000 doses each.The distribution of vaccine was made on the basis of population of the 18-44 age group residing in a particular district. The state government has identified 1.57 crore people under this group for inoculation.The state capital Ranchi, which is the hardest hit by the pandemic, has the maximum 13.9 lakh population of people between 18-44 years of age. Dhanbad, Giridih and East Singhbhum also have more than 10 lakh people under this group.Apart from the above 10 districts, the rest of them were allocated a total of 5,000 doses--2,000 doses of Covaxin and 3,000 doses Covishield.The state received 2.34 lakh doses of Covishield and Covaxin against its purchase orders for carrying out the third phase. After making the above allotment to the districts, the state is now left with a total of 64,000 doses--56,000 doses of Covaxin and 8,000 doses of Covishield.Meanwhile, health mandarins were sceptical about a hassle-free third phase, citing the meagre stock of vaccine doses. If proper supply chain of the vaccine is not maintained, the third phase may come to a halt, they said.Chief minister Hemant Soren, however, expressed dissatisfaction over the initial response of citizens desiring to take the jab. He said, “Only 30,000 people from across the state have registered themselves on CO-WIN app or other approved platforms to take the shot. Majority of them are from Ranchi, East Singhbhum and some other big districts.”The CM appealed to people to come forward and take the vaccine. Pre-registration is mandatory for vaccination for the 18-44 age group, and there walk-ins are not allowed for this category as of now.Though the third phase of the inoculation drive, under which citizens in the age group of 18 to 44 years are eligible to take the jab, began across the country on May 1, the state could not start it due as the Centre banned the states from using its existing vaccine stock for inoculating this group.The central government asked the states to purchase the vaccine on their own directly from manufacturers for this phase. Following this, the state health department issued purchase orders (PO) to the two vaccine manufactures, demanding 25 lakh doses from each of them.Against the said orders, the state has so far received 1.34 lakh doses of Covaxin and 1 lakh doses of Covishield.Jharkhand till May 11 inoculated 2,762,184 beneficiaries, including health care workers (HCW), frontline workers (FLW) and citizens above the age of 45 with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine. As many as 622,691 have also taken the second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/state-allocates-vaccines-to-districts-for-inoculating-18-44-age-group-101620834163999.html
12-05-2021||Other||76-year old Covid victim opens eyes minutes before cremation in Baramati||PUNE A 76-year-old Covid-positive woman in Mudhale village of Baramati taluka, became conscious and opened her eyes moments before she was to be cremated.The woman, whose name is being withheld, tested positive for Covid-19 a few days ago. She was home quarantined and then fell unconscious in the ambulance on the way to the hospital.The ambulance staff concluded that she had died and informed her family.She was immediately rushed to the crematorium. The incident took place on May 10Village health officer Somnath Lande said, “ The incident is confirmed and we sent to the spot after receiving the information. The family has requested us not to share any more information on the grounds of privacy “The family members began preparations for her last rites, however, minutes before she was consigned to the flames, they heard her crying after which opened her eyes. The Wadgaon Nimbalkar police station confirmed that the incident took place in Mudhale village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/76year-old-covid-victim-opens-eyes-minutes-before-cremation-in-baramati-101620834163228.html
12-05-2021||Other||Mandis closed for two days to protest Pappu Yadav’s arrest||PATNAWholesale markets of fruits and vegetables at Bahadurpur will remain closed for two days to protest the arrest of former Madhepura MP and Jan Adhikar party chief Pappu Yadav alias Rajiv Ranjan. Shashikant Prasad, who heads the association fruits and vegetables wholesalers in Patna, said, “We have decided to close wholesale mandis from May 13 to May 14 against the arrest of Pappu Yadav, who stood with the helpless relatives of Covid patients at hospitals round the clock.” “Pappu Yadav was also supplying medicines, oxygen cylinders, ambulances, ventilators, Remdesivir injections to the poor and would reach out to patients without any discrimination. Away from his wife and children during the pandemic, he was providing food to the families of Covid patents at important hospitals,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mandis-closed-for-two-days-to-protest-pappu-yadav-s-arrest-101620834104406.html
12-05-2021||Patna||Hospitals face heat after Covid patient’s wife alleges molestation||A day after a woman alleged molestation and misbehaviour by staff of private hospitals in Bhagalpur and in Patna during the course of treatment of her Covid-infected husband who eventually died on May 9, the police in the two cities began a crackdown, arresting a ward boy and lodging an FIR against a doctor and other employees. Speaking to the media in Patna on Tuesday, the woman had narrated the ordeal she faced at Bhagalpur’s Glocal hospital and later at Rajeshwar hospital in Patna where her husband was later taken after his condition worsened.In Bhagalpur, the police arrested Jyoti Kumar, a ward boy at Glocal Hospital in Bhagalpur suspended on Tuesday. On Wednesday, a team of police and drug authorities swooped on the hospital and seized evidence of alleged malpractices, including black-marketing of life saving drugs.Bhagalpur’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nitasha Gudiya confirmed the arrest and said that following a complaint by the woman, a joint team of Bhagalpur administration and the state’s drug department had started a probe. A three-member team headed by additional district magistrate Triloki Nath Singh and comprising drug inspector Dayanand Prasad and assistant drug inspector Pradip Kumar found many irregularities and seized records of treatment of the woman’s husband. “We also found that the hospital’s drug store was illegally selling medicines given as samples to physicians, apart from selling drugs past their expiry date,” said Dayanand Prasad.“A scrutiny of he husband’s treatment records also revealed that the hospital procured three vials of Remdesivir injection for his treatment but administered only two vials, on April 18 and 20,” he said.ADM Singh said the committee would recommend cancellation of the licence given to the hospital’s drug store.The hospital refused to respond to calls.In Patna, police lodged an FIR against one Dr Akhilesh Kumar and others working at Rajeshwar hospital, where her husband died on May 8 after he was shifted from the Bhagalpur hospital on April 26. The woman had accused Dr Kumar of touching her inappropriately several times during his visits to the ICU. Patna’s senior superintendent of police Upendra Sharma said the a case was registered with the Patrakar Nagar police station after the woman sent him a complaint on WhatsApp. “Charges relate to misbehaviour, medical negligence and extortion,” he said.When contacted, Satyendra Singh, manager of the hospital, said, “Such allegations only demoralise doctors and health workers who are risking their lives to treat Covid-19 patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/hospitals-face-heat-after-covid-patient-s-wife-alleges-molestation-101620833864550.html
12-05-2021||Patna||Bodies floating in Ganga ‘disturbing’, says Patna HC||The Patna High Court on Wednesday said the news of over 80 corpses found floating in the Ganga river in Bihar’s Buxar district was “disturbing” and sought to know what had been done in that regard.The bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) on Covid management.Advocate General Lalit Kishore said the Bihar government had taken a serious note of it and the district magistrates of Buxar and Kaimur had talked to their counterparts in Balia and Ghajipur district of UP to prevent recurrence of any such situation.“The positivity rate in Buxar and Kaimur is around 2-3%. During the interaction with UP authorities, the DMs of Buxar and Kaimur, who also visited Balia and Ghajipur, were informed by the ‘Dom Raza’ (in-charge of cremation ghats) that 40 bodies were thrown in the river, as many people don’t perform formal cremation. The officers also have videos of that,” the AG said.Also Read| Over 80 bodies found in Ganga in UP, BiharAdditional solicitor general KN Singh said the Central government too had taken cognizance of the matter and union Jal Shakti minister had cautioned the state governments of UP and Bihar against polluting the river.The bench, however, wanted to know as to what happened to the bodies and whether their last rites were performed as per their religious beliefs.KN Singh said the bodies were buried as it was difficult to identify the religion of the dead as also if they were Covid victims or not.Govt submits affidavit Earlier, the Bihar government submitted an affidavit saying it was making all possible attempts to increase testing across the state through rapid antigen tests at the primary health centres (PHC) to cover rural population, deployment of mobile testing teams at the panchayat level for rapid antigen tests and collection of samples for RT-PCR tests, house to house testing in containment zones across districts as per the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).The government said regular monitoring was being done to minimize delay in RT-PCR tests. “Samples collected are being sent to tagged labs the next day which undergo testing process and after result, it is updated on the state government portal. Due to spread of infection, sometimes lab staff and microbiologists also become infected, resulting in closure of labs for sanitization and fumigation. This leads to delay. Manpower has been increased at all labs for continuous work and instructions have been issued by the health department to update reports within 38 hours,” it said.Also Read| After Bihar, bodies found abandoned in Ganga in UPExperts’ committee The health department, the court was told, has constituted an experts’ committee of renowned medical professionals to revise treatment protocols from time to time, determine guidelines to be issued to reduce the infection spread and identify areas where more manpower needs to be deployed. It will also do analysis of various health facilities for their improvement. The affidavit included the constitution of the experts’ committee on May 11.Bio-waste disposal The government affidavit says there are four common bio-medical waste treatment facilities in the state to cover 38 districts. All waste generated from testing, treatment, diagnosis, quarantine centres and vaccination centres are collected from all healthcare facilities by the vehicles provided by the plants and taken to treatment facilities. Testing done in fields and waste collected are also routed to treatment plans through PHCs.Ramping up infra The government has submitted it is ramping up infrastructure and boosting a three-tier state health infrastructure to cope with the rapidly rising infections to fight the double mutant strain of Covid-19. It said the health department has pressed into service 1137 ambulance vans and 59 mortuary vans and more are in the pipeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bodies-floating-in-ganga-disturbing-says-hc-101620833863276.html
12-05-2021||Other||Bihar reports first Covid death with suspected black fungus||PATNABihar reported its first death due to suspected mucormycosis or black fungus when a 58-year-old male from Kaimur died at Patna’s AIIMS on Wednesday. The patient was suffering from coronavirus and was admitted to the AIIMS Covid ward on Tuesday. “The patient suffered multi-system organ failure. Clinically, he was a suspected case of mucormycosis as his eyes were involved and nose had Mucor-like findings. However, given the patient’s serious condition, though we sent samples for fungal culture, we could not complete radiological investigations like MRI of brain to establish mucormycosis,” said Dr Kranti Bhawna, additional professor and head of ENT department at AIIMS-Patna, who evaluated the patient on Tuesday. Bihar has reported eight cases of mucormycosis in the last one week, seven of them at AIIMS-Patna and one at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS). Among them, two are from Patna and one each from Nalanda, Saran, Gopalganj, Samastipur and Muzaffarpur. Two patients — one at AIIMS and another at IGIMS — are still battling Covid-19, while five have suffered post-Covid mucormycosis. “Most of these patients have severe diabetes and are immuno-compromised. In coronavirus, cases of mucormycosis get aggravated either because of indiscriminate use of steroids or thrombosis (clotting) of blood vessels, leading to decreased immunity. When such patients inhale the fungus present in the environment or through unclean oxygen pipeline and oxygen humidifiers, which use piped water supply, their problem gets accentuated because their capacity to fight the fungus is already reduced. The fungus enters through the nose, goes to the eye and then brain. The fatality in mucormycosis is 30%-80%,” said Dr Bhawna, currently treating five cases of mucormycosis. “I am planning to operate upon two such patients from Patna tomorrow,” she said. Dr Saurabh Karmakar, associate professor of the pulmonary medicine department at the AIIMS-Patna, is treating one such case. “We sampled the black fungus Mucor in a patient from Samastipur using fibreoptic bronchoscopy, a diagnostic modality. The patient was earlier admitted at AIIMS-Patna for 5-6 weeks and treated for coronavirus. The patient had poor diabetic control, persistent cough and was spitting blood with cough. He is now on oral medication. We have called him for follow-up in our outdoor patient department (OPD) after three weeks,” said Dr Karmakar. A 52-year-old woman from Muzaffarpur, having Covid-19 with diabetes, blood pressure and cellulitis with eye infection, admitted at IGIMS on May 6, was also diagnosed with mucormycosis. “She is being treated with anti-fungal drugs and has improved over the last three days. If required, our doctors will perform endoscopic nasal surgery, a facility we have at the institute,” said Dr Manish Mandal, medical superintendent of the IGIMS.Manoj Kumar, executive director of State health Society, Bihar, did not respond to phone calls and text messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-reports-first-covid-death-with-suspected-black-fungus-101620833803145.html
12-05-2021||Other||PMC seeks written explanation from ward offices on interference with vax procedures||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has sought a written explanation from concerned ward offices where officials have not followed procedures. The move comes two days after HT reported how public representatives were interfering with the vaccination process. A report in the May 11 edition highlighted how corporators are distributing tokens to citizens to get vaccinations. Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal commissioner, said, “I have held a meeting of all zonal medical officers and assistant medical officers on Wednesday and gave them instructions to give vaccines to those with Cowin registration first. It is not acceptable to give a token to particular person or deny it to others. I have ordered them to submit a written explanation.” Agarwal accepted that the PMC has received complaints from various citizens about not being able to get a vaccine slot, despite in queue. “I have appealed to political parties to stop such practices in case they are doing it,” she said. Prashant Jagtap, NCP city president said, “Administration should have to curb such kind of interference at vaccination centres. They should release information online so that people can know the exact details of the immunisation programme.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-seeks-written-explanation-from-ward-offices-on-interference-with-vax-procedures-101620833683164.html
12-05-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra halts vaccination for 18-44 age group, cites ‘shortage of doses’||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope announced on Wednesday that the state’s vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for those in the age group of 18-44 was being put on hold due to a “shortage of doses.”Also Read | Maharashtra cabinet recommends extending lockdown-like restrictions for 2 weeks“We’re suspending the vaccination drive for the age group of 18-44 for the time being owing to the shortage of the vaccines,” Tope told the media after a meeting of the state cabinet. “Serum Institute of India (SII) chief Adar Poonawalla has promised chief minister Uddhav Thackeray delivery of 1.5 crore doses of Covishield to Maharashtra after May 20. We will start the vaccination for the 18-44 age group after we receive the vaccine,” Tope further said.Also Read | Maharashtra records 46,781 new Covid-19 cases; Mumbai’s daily tally goes over 2,000 againHe added that Covishield doses meant for the 18-44 age group will be diverted for the second dose for those above 45 years of age. On Tuesday, the Maharashtra government decided to divert 310,000 doses of the Covaxin anti-Covid-19 vaccine to those aged above 45 for the same purpose.Also Read | Maharashtra diverts jabs for 18+ to keep 2nd shots for 45+ movingCovishield and Covaxin are the two vaccines which are being administered in India currently. While the former is actually a shot developed by AstraZeneca-Oxford University and is being manufactured as “Covishield” in India by the Pune-based SII, the latter has been developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited.Maharashtra, which has the highest Covid-19 caseload among all states and Union territories, has frequently complained of vaccine shortage, a charge that has been repeatedly rebutted by the Central government. However, several other states, too, have complained of a shortage of doses.Also Read | 'Health minister didn't suggest': Centre on Maharashtra's plan to halt vaccination for 18-44 age groupStarting May 1, everyone above the age of 18 became eligible for a Covid-19 vaccine jab. The decision to this effect was taken in a review meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 19 amid an alarming rise in the country’s daily Covid-19 cases. According to the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) data on Wednesday morning, 175,235,991 vaccine doses have been administered since the nationwide inoculation drive commenced on January 16. Till May 11, the number of doses administered in Maharashtra stood at 18,821,485, as per a state health department bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-maharashtra-halts-vaccination-for-18-44-age-group-cites-shortage-of-doses-101620831616860.html
12-05-2021||Other||Clerics appeal to faithful to stay indoors for Eid||PUNE Muslim community leaders and clerics have appealed to the community to stay indoors on the occasion of Eid Ul Fitr, on May 13.Announcements from mosque loudspeakers, and via social media have been made for Muslims to stay at home. This is the second year that communitarian prayers will not happen in the festival day, given the state’s Covid restrictions in place. Cleric Qari Idrees, president, Jamiat Ulema E Hind, Pune, said, “We have appealed to Pune Muslims this time to offer Eid namaaz at home, following the statewide Coronavirus lockdown. During the entire holy month of Ramzan we asked community members to break their roza (fast) at home and refrain from coming to the masjids. We fully support the state and city health department in ensuring that the Covid-19 chain is broken,” he said.All the 1,000-plus seminaries-cum-mosques in the city have appealed to mMuslims to offer Eid namaz at home. Maulana Abbas Amir Hamza of the Jama Masjid im Kondhwa Budruk said, “We have been advising muslims of Pune to offer Eid prayers in their homes as a safety shield against Covid-19, as large congregations are unsafe. It is easy task in today’s world of digital media to listen to Eid prayers on a ‘live’ stream. We have received a positive response from the masses.” Altaf Shaikh, MIM youth wing leader, said, “The community members have adhered to the calls to offer prayer indoors. I will be offering prayers inside my house and listen to the khutba (sermon) ‘live’ along with my children.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/clerics-appeal-to-faithful-to-stay-indoors-for-eid-101620832423044.html
12-05-2021||Other||Covid fatalities spur Muslim, Christian demand for completion of sanctioned Vishrantwadi cemetery||PUNE Given the spike in fatalities due to Covid-19 in Pune, members of the Muslim and Christian community believe the Pune municipal corporation should complete its work on a cemetery plot in Vishrantwadi.The 400,000 sq ft plot was sanctioned by the PMC land department in 2003, to be divided equally as a graveyard for both, the Muslims and the Christians in the city.The plot on survey 115, opposite Madhuban Housing Society, has been marked as a public amenity space by the land department. While the Muslims and Christians have cemeteries in the city community leaders claim that the current graveyard space is likely to run out.Social worker Sarfarz Shaikh said: “Survey 119 has been earmarked for twin graveyards. There are some technical issues which need to sorted out. Currently, due to Covid, there are space issues in all the graveyards.”Samuel Fernandez, a Christian social worker, said, “The plot has been allocated, then why the delay?”Rekha Tingare, corporator from Vishrantwadi, said, “The graveyard land has been sanctioned and a possession receipt has been given. Fifty per cent of the work is done and the remaining will be done soon. An agreement has to be signed. The plot has been equally divided.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-fatalities-spur-muslim-christian-demand-for-completion-of-sanctioned-vishrantwadi-cemetery-101620831582854.html
12-05-2021||Jaipur||Raj to float global tender for Covid vaccine, says Centre should have done this||A day before Rajasthan is expected to float a global tender to import Covid-19 vaccines, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday said it would have been much better if the Centre had procured the vaccines on behalf of the states.Rajasthan is among the 10-odd states to have announced a decision to float a global tender to procure the vaccines in view of the inability of the two vaccine manufacturers - Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India - to meet the growing demand for the vaccines.It is still unclear when vaccine manufacturers abroad would be able to supply the jabs since they are believed to be in the process of servicing orders placed by other countries much in advance.It was only last month that the Centre decided that it would only supply vaccines to states for older people and frontline workers and that states must directly procure its supplies to vaccinate people in the 18-44 age group.In two tweets on Wednesday, Gehlot renewed calls from non-NDA ruled states to review this new central policy.“Due to the lack of Covid-19 vaccine in the country, many states are taking out global tenders to get vaccines from other countries. It would have been better if the central government had taken out the global tender and bought the vaccine and distributed it in the states and later would have taken payment from the state governments,” he tweeted.Ashok Gehlot, however, underlined that people did want that the Covid vaccine, like other vaccines, should be provided free of cost by the central government. “This will lead to a system of one-stop procurement that would be better for all states”, he said.For now, the states can only try to import the three vaccines approved by the drug controller: Covaxin, Covishield and Sputnik.A senior health department official said the Rajasthan government was aiming to issue the expression of interest on Thursday. The firms will be asked when at what rate, and how many vaccines they can provide. “Only those vaccines will be procured which are approved by the Drug Controller General of India, he said.He said the state has also procured oxygen concentrators through global tender. Around 62 companies in 13 countries were contacted before the government decided to source them from Russia, China, and Dubai.Recently, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had stated that there is a need to speed up vaccination to curb the spread of the virus and reduce fatality. All options should be considered for the availability of vaccines in the state. “The state will consider importing Covid-19 vaccine to ensure that the residents of Rajasthan are vaccinated at the earliest,” he said.Rajasthan officials said the shortage of vaccine has already slowed down the inoculation drive for the people in the 60-plus category. Over 52.20 lakh people in the 60-plus age group have received their first dose, of whichOnly 29% (15.07 lakh) of the 53.2 lakh people in the 60-plus age group who received their first dose have received the second dose. The remaining are running pillar to post to get vaccinated.In the 45-59 age group also, over 47.78 lakh people have been given the first dose. Of them, only 12% (5.66 lakh) have received the second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/raj-to-float-global-tender-for-covid-vaccine-says-centre-should-have-done-this-101620831120593.html
12-05-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports 103 more Covid-19 deaths, 4,365 fresh cases||Jharkhand on Wednesday reported 103 more Covid-19 deaths, raising the toll to 4,085, while the tally climbed to 2,96,895 with 4,365 fresh cases, the health department said in a bulletin.The mineral-rich state now has 54,533 active cases, and 2,38,277 people have recovered from the disease so far, it said.Ranchi district recorded the maximum number of fresh fatalities at 36, followed by East Singhbhum (14) and Dhanbad (10).Four deaths each were reported from Lohardaga, Palamu and Ramgarh, while three fatalities each were registered in Garhwa, Giridih, Sarikela and West Singhbhum, the bulletin said.Altogether, 74,77,648 samples have been tested in Jharkhand thus far, including 46,635 since Tuesday, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-reports-103-more-covid-19-deaths-4-365-fresh-cases-101620830432936.html
12-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 46,781 new Covid-19 cases; Mumbai’s daily tally goes over 2,000 again||Maharashtra’s daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continued to rise on Wednesday with 46,781 new cases and 816 more deaths recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload and death toll to 5,226,710 and 78,007 respectively, according to the state health department’s bulletin. As many as 58,805 recoveries were recorded on Wednesday taking the total recoveries past 4.6 million. The recovery rate is currently at 88.01 per cent.Wednesday’s case count in Maharashtra is 5,825 more than that of Tuesday’s when 40,956 cases were seen. On Monday, 37,236 new cases were recorded in the state, the lowest since March 30 this year.The capital city Mumbai also witnessed a sharp spike in its daily Covid-19 caseload on Wednesday with 2,104 new cases in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 681,233. The city’s death toll has climbed to 13,972 as 66 more people succumbed to the disease on Wednesday. From the past 2 days, Mumbai was seeing just a little over 1,700 new infections.Also Read| Maharashtra cabinet recommends extending lockdown-like restrictions for 2 weeksState health minister Rajesh Tope said that the cabinet has recommended extending lockdown-like restrictions in Maharashtra for two weeks, adding that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will take a decision in this regard soon.As Maharashtra is preparing for another wave of the pandemic, the Bombay high court on Wednesday asked the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government about the measures it is taking to monitor the spread of the Covid-19 disease among children, according to news agency PTI. The bench, comprising chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice G S Kulkarni, has asked the state to file its reply by May 19.Also Read| How to download Covid-19 vaccine certificate from Co-WIN, Aarogya Setu appQuoting experts who said that children might be the most vulnerable in the third wave, the Bombay HC bench said authorities must take pre-emptive steps and also strengthen Maharashtra’s health infrastructure, PTI reported.More than 18.8 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered in Maharashtra so far.As the state struggles to inoculate eligible beneficiaries amid an acute shortage of doses, health minister Tope said on Wednesday that vaccination of beneficiaries between 18-44 years has been suspended and all doses meant for this age group will now be diverted to for those above 45 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-logs-46-781-new-covid-19-cases-and-816-deaths-101620827059443.html
12-05-2021||Indore||6 arrested for black marketing of Remdesivir in Madhya Pradesh||Amid rising cases of Covid-19, several cases of black marketing of Remdesivir were reported from Madhya Pradesh's Indore, Chhindwara amd Shahdol on Tuesday.Three persons, including a nurse, were arrested on Tuesday for black marketing of Remdesivir in Chhindwara and five injections were seized from them, said the police."We have arrested three including a nurse. We have seized five Remdesivir injections from their possession. Investigation on," said Police inspector Manish Bhadoria.In another case, three people were arrested the same day in Shahdol including a nurse and two lab technicians of a medical college for black marketing of Remdesivir.Shahdol Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) Mukesh Vaishya informed, "We also arrested a pharmacy store owner. Six injections, mobile phones and over ₹6 lakhs cash recovered from their possession."The third case was reported from Indore on Tuesday where 21 people were booked for selling fake Remdesivir injections under National Security Act on charges of culpable homicide, informed Hari Narayan Chari Mishra, IG Indore Range.He also stated that a special investigation team (SIT) has been formed to investigate matters related to the black marketing of the anti-viral drug.He said, "21 people booked under National Security Act for blackmarketing of Remdesivir injection. Those found selling fake Remdesivir drug booked under charges of culpable homicide. SIT constituted to investigate such matters."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/6-arrested-for-black-marketing-of-remdesivir-in-madhya-pradesh-101620825986840.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Property tax rebate deadline extended till June 30 in Chandigarh||In view of the lockdown till May 18, the municipal corporation has extended the deadline for paying property tax with rebate from May 31 to June 30. The decision was taken during a meeting between mayor Ravi Kant Sharma and MC commissioner KK Yadav on Wednesday. Sharma said for 2021-22, residential taxpayers will get a rebate of 20% and commercial property taxpayers 10% till June 30.Thereafter, a penalty of 25% and 12% interest on dues will be levied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/property-tax-rebate-deadline-extended-till-june-30-inchandigarh-101620825702694.html
12-05-2021||Mumbai||Clerics in Maharashtra's Jalna urge people to celebrate Eid-ul-Fitr at home due to Covid-19||For the second consecutive year, there will be no congregrational prayers and get- togethers in Jalna on the occasion of Eid-ul-Fitr due to the COVID-19 pandemic, with Muslim clerics here urging the community members to celebrate the festival at home in a simple manner.Eid-ul-Fitr, which marks the culmination of the fasting month, will be celebrated either on May 13 or May 14 depending on the sighting of the moon.The Maharashtra government has already guidelines, urging people to celebrate the festival in a simple manner and advised against taking out processions and congregating in view the curbs enforced in the state."Amid distress, fear and worry,we have to celebrate the Eid at home this year," said Maulana Sohel, president of Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind (Arshad Mandi Faction) Marathwada unit.Coordinator of Jalna's 'Holy Quran Centre', Abdul Hafiz, said that one-to-one meetings and gatherings during this year's Eid are a distant dream considering the prevailing coronavirus situation.He, however, said that people can make use of technology to connect with each other virtually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/clerics-in-maharashtra-s-jalna-urge-people-to-celebrate-eid-at-home-due-to-covid19-101620822048951.html
12-05-2021||Pune||Odisha’s “Oxygen express” rolls into Pune; then headed to Nagpur and Nashik||A train from Angul, Odisha, carrying oxygen, arrived in Pune at the Loni railway station on Tuesday night. Oxygen supply for critical Covid patients has been in short supply in the city. The state government sought aid from other states and this oxygen supply is also destined for Nagpur and Nashik. The Pune railway division has geared up preparations at three of railway stations - Loni, Khadaki and Gur Market railway station in Kolhapur., where oxygen containers will be unloaded. The “oxygen express” first stop is Pune. “We have made all the arrangements at Loni railway station. A special ramp has been made, from where the tankers will be unloaded. We are in continuous touch with the train and it left Bhusawal at 2.40 pm. This is the first train carrying oxygen coming to Pune,” said Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/odishas-oxygen-express-rolls-into-pune-then-headed-to-nagpur-and-nashik-101620821203021.html
12-05-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan mulling to float global tenders to procure vaccines: Health minister||The Rajasthan government is exploring the possibility of purchasing Covid-19 vaccines from other countries through global tenders, Health minister Raghu Sharma said on Wednesday.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot, however, said it would have been better if the central government had procured the vaccines by floating global tenders and distributing them to states.“On directions from the chief minister, the officers are exploring the possibilities of global tenders to purchase Covid vaccines,” Sharma said.He said there are 2.09 crore beneficiaries above the age of 45 years in the state and 4.5 crore doses were required to vaccinate them but the state has only 1.5 crore doses. For people in the 18-44 age group, 7 crore doses are needed, he said.“We placed orders for 3.75 crore doses but the supply is just in lakhs. There is a situation of uncertainty about the vaccines, therefore our officers are now exploring the possibility of global tenders for the vaccine purchase,” Sharma said.Meanwhile, Gehlot said several states were floating global tenders to procure vaccines due to lack of doses in the country.He said that the system of "one-stop procurement" would be in the interest of all the states.“It would have been better if the central government had procured the vaccines through global tenders, distributed them in the states and asked the state governments to pay,” Gehlot said in a tweet in Hindi.“However, the demand of the people is that the vaccine should be provided absolutely free by the central government. The system of one-stop procurement would be better for all states,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-mulling-to-float-global-tenders-to-procure-vaccines-health-minister-101620820367142.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi court grants bail to 4 employees of Matrix Cellular in oxygen concentrator hoarding case||A Delhi Court on Wednesday granted bail to four employees of Matrix Cellular, including its CEO and vice president, in connection with allegedly hoarding and selling the equipment at exorbitant prices.Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Arun Kumar Garg directed the accused not to tamper with evidence or influence the witnesses and join the investigation as and when called by the police.The company's CEO Gaurav Khanna, vice-president Gaurav Suri and two other employees Vikrant and Satish Sethi were granted bail and asked to furnish personal bond of ₹50,000 each. They were arrested last week in connection with black marketing of oxygen concentrators recovered from three top restaurants in Delhi by the police.According to Delhi Police, Matrix Cellular received a consignment of 650 oxygen concentrators from China, of which 524 have been recovered. The concentrators were being sold for as much as ₹70,000. On Tuesday, the court had come down heavily on the prosecution in the case, saying that it cannot penalise people before making the law. “You came out with an order on May 7 that it [oxygen concentrators] cannot be sold above MRP but the present FIR was on May 5.” the judge had said. The judge had further remarked orally, “Job of the government is not like a terrorist. You have to go by law. If there is no law and you feel there is a vacuum, then you need to fill it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-court-grants-bail-to-4-employees-of-matrix-cellular-in-oxygen-concentrator-hoarding-case-101620820527914.html
12-05-2021||Pune||Applying for travel e-pass? Do not make these five mistakes||The number of applications for travel e-passes rejected by the Pune police is more than double the number of passes granted so far, since the system was reinstated - 1,11,243 e-pass applications received until May 11 - 28,698 e-passes granted through covid19.mhpolice.in portal What to watch for1) Applicants do not provide identification for all people travelling. 2) Medical fitness certificate or a negative Covid-19 test report within 72 hours of testing not provided. 3) Documents supporting reason for travel not attached: medical certificate, wedding invitation, death certificate or graveyard registration, hospital note or appointment letter or hospital admission-related documents 4) Clear copy of required documents to be attached in PDF format; copies cannot be blurred or not in PDF format. 5) People who need to undertake air travel will be granted e-passes if they attach their air tickets along with their applications E-pass team 1 inspector, 2 assistant inspectors, 2 sub-inspectors, and 20 staff members “Henceforth, citizens who have applied for e-pass and application has been rejected, can tweet doubts in @CPPUNECITY. In case of any doubts, mention in the tweet token number issued upon application and application will be reviewed.” - Pune police statement||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/applying-for-travel-e-pass-do-not-make-these-five-mistakes-101620821082725.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||After Amritsar SOS, officials of 3 districts deliver oxygen overnight||Responding swiftly to the oxygen SOS call by two Amritsar-based hospitals, the district authorities of Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur worked through Tuesday night and managed to ensure the timely delivery of five metric tonnes of liquid oxygen to health institutions in Amritsar early on Wednesday. Also read: Centre approves procurement of 1.5 lakh units of DRDO’s ‘Oxycare’ systemOn being informed about the shortage of oxygen at two hospitals, Amritsar additional deputy commissioner Dr Himanshu Aggarwal called up the Hoshiarpur district administration for the supply on the instructions of the oxygen control room in Chandigarh on Tuesday night. The absence of a technical expert who could perform decanting from tank to tanker (reverse operation) posed a challenge in oxygen supply to Amritsar, so senior officials in Chandigarh asked Jalandhar ADC (development) Vishesh Sarangal to find a technical expert. Sarangal along with sub divisional magistrate Dr Jai Inder Singh and District Industries Centre general manager Deep Singh located Rashpal, a technical expert at Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences, Jalandhar, and a team contacted him at his house at 2.45am on Wednesday. He left to perform the crucial exercise at the Hoshiarpur oxygen plant, where he started decanting oxygen from tank to tanker and within an hour the liquid oxygen supply of five metric tonnes was despatched to Amritsar at 4am on Wednesday. Sarangal acknowledged the help from the Jalandhar police commissionerate in locating the address of technical experts and added that Hoshiarpur DC Apneet Raiyait and Showkat Ahmad Parray, the Patiala-based IAS officer in-charge of oxygen monitoring and supply in Punjab, monitored the events and ensured smooth coordination until oxygen was despatched to Amritsar. Six critical patients, four of them suffering from Covid-19, had died after the medical oxygen supply dried up at a private hospital in Amritsar on April 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-amritsar-sos-officials-of-3-districts-deliver-oxygen-overnight-101620820182117.html
12-05-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 70% new Covid-19 cases in Barmer being reported from villages||As many as 70 per cent of the new Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan's Barmer district are being recorded from the villages, an official informed on Wednesday.Chief medical health officer (CMHO) of Rajasthan's Barmer district BL Vishnoi said that 70 per cent of the Covid-19 cases are being recorded from the villages here and around 2,000 villagers have been tested positive for Covid-19 across the district."The Medical team is conducting a survey in the nearby villages. They are identifying Covid positive cases and such patients are being home isolated," Vishnoi said.The CMHO further said that samples of the contacts of the Covid positive patients are also being collected in the villages."We have declared several villages as containment zones and micro-containment zones. Around 2,000 villagers have tested positive in a total of 27 villages of the Barmer district," he added.A villager said that the Central and the state government are working hard to curb the Covid-19 infection but people here still think of Covid as a joke."The plight of Covid-19 can be understood only by the people who lost their family members due to the infection. The administration is working hard but still, there are loopholes," the villager said.According to official data, there are over 2 lakhs of Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan.The cumulative cases of Covid-19 in Rajasthan stands at 5,77,550 while the active cases in the state have mounted to 2,05,730, the Union Health Ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/nearly-70-of-covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan-coming-from-rural-areasofficial-101620816908940.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi sees 13,287 new Covid-19 cases, daily toll falls to 300||Delhi's daily count of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) witnessed a marginal rise as a health department bulletin showed on Wednesday that 13,287 more people tested positive for the viral disease in the national capital in the last 24 hours. The related death toll, however, witnessed a fall, as 300 more people succumbed to the infection in the city, the bulletin showed.Also Read | Tackling Covid-19: Swift clearing of foreign aid strengthens tertiary medical care, says CentreWith this, Delhi's infection tally has risen to 1,361,986 while total deaths stand at 20,310. In the last two days, i.e. May 10 and 11, the city's caseload rose by 12,651 and 12,481 fresh infections respectively. The death toll rose by 319 and 347 fatalities on the respective days.As per the latest bulletin, 14,071 more patients recovered from the coronavirus disease in a single-day, taking the cumulative recoveries to 1,258,951 or 92.43% of the overall caseload. Active cases have fallen to 82,725, down from 83,809 a day ago and contribute 6.07% of the total cases. Deaths, meanwhile, comprise 1.49% of total cases.Also Read | Centre approves procurement of 1.5 lakh units of DRDO's 'Oxycare' systemThe positivity rate, i.e., the number of samples that gave positive results of the total samples tested for the disease, is at 17.03%, down from 17.76% from the previous bulletin. In the preceding 24 hours, 78,035 samples were tested, while 66,234 and 70,276 tests were conducted on May 10 and 11. Total 18,027,606 samples have been tested in the city-state thus far, the bulletin showed.Click here for full Covid-19 updatesOn the vaccination front, 129,291 more beneficiaries were vaccinated, with 84,139 receiving their first dose and 45,152 receiving their second. Total 4,147,654 beneficiaries have been inoculated thus far, of which 3,194,042 have been injected with their first dose while 953,612 have been injected with both the doses. Earlier in the day, the Delhi government alleged that Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, which has developed the anti Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, "refused" to supply vaccine doses for Delhi.The national capital is currently in the middle of a lockdown, which is scheduled to end in the early morning hours of May 17. The lockdown, which came into effect on the night of April 19 after being announced earlier in the day, was originally scheduled to end on the morning of April 26, but has since been extended twice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sees-13-287-new-covid-19-cases-daily-tall-falls-to-300-101620816249775.html
12-05-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand elephant killed 9 people in five districts, faces threat to life||An elephant separated from its herd in Jharkhand’s Dhanbad forest division has allegedly killed nine people while moving across five districts since early April, said forest officials, before adding that most of the deaths were triggered by human misadventures such as chasing or pelting the animal with stones or while taking selfies with the elephant.The tusker is currently at Dumka district’s Kathikund forest where its life is in grave danger from fearful villagers, who attacked it on Tuesday with stones in an attempt to drive it away from the forest.Concerned over the situation, a wildlife lover Alok Sharma tagged a tweet to Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, requesting him to save the elephant from the villagers. Soren then directed the Dumka deputy commissioner to ensure that the elephant was released into a safe forest area.Jharkhand’s principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife) Rajiv Ranjan said, the elephant was currently in a good habitat in Dumka. “There is sufficient food and water in the forest. We hope that the elephant would cause no more damage,” Ranjan said.The forest department said it had been tracking the jumbo since the beginning of its journey from Dhanbad.“The animal has been on its migratory route. Most of the casualties that took place on its journey were due to human error. People are gathering in large numbers on its way, chasing it, taking selfies and pelting stones, which made the animal aggressive,” said a forest official, who didn’t wish to be named.He said forest department officials have been continuously appealing to people not to disturb the tusker’s movement.As per a forest department report, the elephant first killed one Ajmerun Bibi, 25, on April 8 in Dhanbad district, followed by Furkan Ansari on April 13 in Jamtara district. On May 21, it killed one Mela Soren followed by Nachon Murmu on May 23 in Dumka district. Then, it moved to Pakur district where it killed Kalu Pahariya on April 24 and Baburam Malto on May 2. Thereafter, it moved to Sahibganj district where it killed three people- Kabil Seikh on May 3, Som Murmu and Ishmatur Rahman on May 6. The elephant was again spotted in Pakur district on May 8 but caused no deaths before moving back to Dumka district.Divisional forest officer (DFO), Dumka, Sourav Chandra said villagers have been requested through loudspeakers not to go near the elephant or harass it. “Old people, women and children have been asked to remain at home, while young people have been asked to be alert,” Chandra said. “We are also asking people not to pelt stones on the animal,” he added.He said the elephant was currently happy in Kathikund forest due to availability of adequate food and water inside the forest.In 2017, a rogue elephant from Bihar killed 15 people including four in Bihar and 11 in Jharkhand. After the forest department failed to capture it, an order was issued to eliminate it, which was carried out by hunter Nawab Shafath Ali Khan on August 8 that year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-elephant-killed-9-people-in-five-districts-faces-threat-to-life-101620816451839.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana revives Thikhri Pehra to fight Covid in villages||With the Covid-19 pandemic reaching the hinterland, the Haryana government has decided to adopt the traditional practice of community policing, known as Thikhri Pehra in local parlance, to check the spread of the disease. Last year, when coronavirus was spreading fast in towns and cities and started surfacing in villages, the state government put in place the practice of Thikhri Pehra, which proved to be effective in controlling the spread. Also read: Centre approves procurement of 1.5 lakh units of DRDO’s ‘Oxycare’ systemThikhri Pehra is a concept to keep a close vigil on the movement of people in and out of villages and ensuring containment of the virus. An official spokesperson said the government has issued an order to all deputy commissioners that they may issue or enforce necessary orders to start Thikhri Pehra by able-bodied adult male inhabitants of the village. The spokesperson said that the deputy commissioners can issue necessary orders within the next 24 hours and send a report to the principal secretary, general administration department, Vijayendra Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-revives-thikhri-pehra-to-fight-covid-in-villages-101620815971404.html
12-05-2021||Other||Sutradhara’s tales: Aniconic form assumes pride of place on Pune’s altar of faith||Did you know, the “numero uno” house in Pune belongs to a deity and not a person?The deity is the village guardian deity (now city guardian) of Pune, the Kasba Ganpati in Kasba peth. The inhabitants of most Indian villages and towns which have origins in a historical past practised establishing a guardian spirit or “sthan devata”. These tutelary deities act as patron, protector and guardian of the settlement and its inhabitants, and are revered by locals.The story of Kasba Ganpati starts with an allegory, in which Thakaar (one of the principal families of Pune in the 16th century) dreamed that the Lord is under the Shami tree alongside the Ambil Odha stream which originally flowed roughly along the present Bajirao road. Being a staunch devotee of Ganesha, this Brahmin searched the stream and rescued the anionic slab of stone which represented lord Ganesha.This aniconic form (tandala) of Ganesha was then established in a stone sanctum and worshipped started around the 15th-16th century CE.Traditionally, the management of the temple and priestly functions are looked after by the Thakaar family itself, even today. The earliest documentary reference to this temple is from 1613-14, and 1618. It was a part of the Ahmednangar Nizamshah territory. Haibatkhan and Malik Amber, the Nizamshahi ministers had granted Inam to Vinayak Bhat Thakaar for protection and “varshasan”, annual expenses, of the deity and temple. Pune was destroyed and abandoned after Rayarao’s attack under Murar Jagdeo’s orders in 1631 and the temple seems to have suffered a great loss. The idol, till 1637 CE, barely managed to survive in a modest temple of unbaked bricks. Revival and re-settlement of the settlement of Pune was undertaken by renovating and restoring the gram devata - Kasba Ganesha - before laying the foundations of the Lal Mahal - the residence of Rajmata Jijabai and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. They made a donation in the form of a Sanad (decree) on March 19, 1647, for this purpose to Vinayak Bhat Thakaar. The Sanad mentions the Kasba Ganpati as “Jayati Gajaanan”. There exists an older idol of Ganesha on the same premise which was in the private worship of the Thakaar family. It was buried in the niche of foundation of a house around the present temple at distance of 50ft from the sanctum.The present main idol is around 3.5-feet tall and has two diamonds decorating the eyes and a ruby in the navel of the aniconic form. The temple today is enclosed in a high-walled prakara with a wood-carved nagarkhana (drum house) acting as the entrance facade. The plan of temple has an octagonal sanctum or garbhagriha with a small rectangular pillared sabhamandapa in stone masonry. This is the oldest part of the temple. The smaller mandapa have peculiar pillars which retain the later yadava characteristic mouldings and inverted serpent capitals. The sanctum is the oldest part of the temple along with stone mandapa and houses minor modern sculptures of other deities, including nagas.It is followed by an open wooden two-storeyed mandapa with a balcony on the first floor which was typically reserved for women. Gajananrao Sadashiv Dikshit, a Dakkhani Sardar, added this typical Peshwa style sabhamandapa adorned with cusped arches, cypruss columns and banana flower motifs. The Lakde family added a pavement all around the temple and dharmshala which serves as a rest-house and place for dining and gatherings. The shikhara of the temple is done in typical Peshwa style (brick stucco) though the original painted motifs are lost. However, the changes over time, have made it difficult to distinguish other older structures.In 1877, a public cistern was built in the temple yard which was later covered. The brick prakara was built in later times along with the ornate wooden façade gateway at the entrance. During the Peshwa period, the temple enjoyed a monthly allowance of Rs10 from the Parvati temple revenues, and the expenses of the yearly celebration of the Ganpati festival on Ganesh Chaturthi were also paid from the Parvati grant.The public form of the Ganeshotsav celebration of Kasba Ganpati was started in 1896. Even today, it is the first to receive an invitation of marriage or any important function in the family life of Punekars. Various political party representatives flock to the temple during elections to kick-start their campaigns. The temple is abuzz with students seeking blessings during exam season. Throughout the day, it has a steady flow of devotees.From the Yadava period herostones depicting Ganesha as the tutelary deity, to the strong Ganpatya tradition in Chinchwad founded by Moraya Gosavi and his disciples, the history of Ganesha worship goes way back in time for Pune. No wonder, the Bhat Peshwa family too extended their patronage and became devout Ganesha followers when they made Pune their residence. Archives published by Dadasaheb Onkar inform us of a long tradition of Ganpatya (followers of Ganesha sect), which include Nanasahib Peshwa and Madhavrao Peshwa, the then prime ministers of the Maratha Empire. Kasba Ganpati is the most venerated deity for Punekars. It is called “Manacha Pahila Ganpati” (one which deserves the first respect). It, thus, has the honour of leading the Ganpati procession during the Pune Ganeshutsav every year.The Kasba Ganpati temple campus is of a modest stature, but has played significant role in the lives of Punekars. Pune suffered great crises over the centuries - droughts, political upheavals, attacks, epidemics and floods. Kasba Ganpati has stood with Punekars and boosted their morale through the high and lows of history.In an ever-expanding Pune city, things have not changed. The core of the city has been providing positivity in the face of adversity through the cultural identity of a collective space; symbolised by Kasba Ganpati. It is a perfect representation of a stable divine force existing on ancient grounds, for believers, yet an unassuming form in today’s changing, glittery world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sutradharas-tales-aniconic-form-assumes-pride-of-place-on-pune-s-altar-of-faith-101620815556212.html
12-05-2021||Mumbai||Doctor couple in Mumbai collects unused Covid-19 meds to help needy patients||A doctor couple in Mumbai is collecting medicines from those who have recovered from Covid and providing them to the needy patients.On May 1, Dr Marcus Ranney and his wife Dr Raina started Meds For More - a citizen initiative to collect unused medicines from Covid-19 recovered patients."We started this initiative 10 days ago. We collect medicines from housing societies and provide them to those who can not afford them," Dr Marcus Ranney told ANI."The idea came when one of the family members of our staff got infected from Covid and they needed medication. As you know the medicines can be expensive. At that time there were a few people who had recovered from Covid, so we decided to take their medicines and donate them," said Dr Raina."After that, we took the help from 7-8 people of neighbouring buildings and set up a team and started this mission with the objective of helping those who can not go out to buy medicines or anyone who can't afford the Covid medicines," she added.The couple has collected 20 kilograms of unused Covid-19 medicines from recovered patients in just 10 days. These medicines will be donated to the primary health care centres in rural districts across India for the timely treatment of the underprivileged, who are infected Covid-19."We have now 100 buildings that are sending medicines to us. We are a team of eight people and of course, the volunteers in different buildings. Last week, we collected 20 kilograms of medicines, which have been packaged and given to our NGO partners," said Dr Marcus Ranney.Meds for More collects all kinds of unused medicines such as antibiotics, Fabiflu, pain relief, steroids, inhalers, vitamins, antacids, among others, that are being used to treat Covid-19 patients. Additionally, they are also collecting basic medicinal equipment like pulse oximeters and thermometers.With growing awareness about the initiative, residents from neighbouring buildings have started volunteering to collect medicines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/doctor-couple-in-mumbai-collects-unused-covid-19-meds-to-help-needy-patients-101620812311955.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||No black fungus case in HP, steroid use protocol issued||Steroids play a key role in preventing and mitigating the harmful effects of Covid-19 but may cause fungal infections, particularly mucormycosis that is also called black fungus, state health authorities have warned. No case of mucormycosis has been reported in Himachal Pradesh so far. Also read: Foreign aid for Covid-19 swiftly cleared for states, says Centre“Such infections have been seen where steroids are used without indication or are being used in self-medication by home-isolated patients or due to the use of a higher dose for a long period,” state director, National Health Mission, Dr Nipun Jindal said on Wednesday. In this backdrop, the state clinical committee has issued a treatment protocol for the judicious use of steroids in Covid patients. The protocol includes defined doses for Covid-19 patients with moderate symptoms and severe symptoms and for home-isolation patients. The committee has recommended that in home-isolated patients, inhaled steroids such as Budesonide may be taken via metered doses inhaler/dry powder inhalers at a dose of 800 mcg twice a day for five days. However, it should be taken only if fever or cough persists after five days of disease. 30 dedicated Covid health centres set up Dr Jindal said a total of 1,40,759 cases of Covid-19 infection have been reported in the state to date. To manage the upsurge of cases in the second wave, efforts have been made to increase treatment facilities in the state. As on May 11, Himachal Pradesh has 30 dedicated Covid health centres. Of them, makeshift hospitals have been set up in Nalagarh (Solan); Palakwah (Una), IGMC (Shimla) and RPGMC (Tanda). Four makeshift hospitals are coming up in Una, Mandi and Kangra districts. He said information regarding bed availability in hospitals has been put in public domain at http://covidcapacity.hp.gov.in. The information provides segregation into standard, oxygen and ICU beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-black-fungus-case-in-hp-steroid-use-protocol-issued-101620814531561.html
12-05-2021||Lucknow||Migrant worker dies at Covid counter in UP hospital battling ‘systemic failure’||A 35-year old migrant worker from Gorakhpur district, Rambadan Sahani died at the Covid patient registration counter at Lucknow’s BRD Medical College on Monday, triggering outrage at alleged apathy of the hospital staff.Narrating his unending ordeal leading to Rambadan’s death, his brother Vishnu Sahani said since no ambulance was available, he brought Rambadan to the medical college on a motorcycle. Once there, the medical college could not provide even a stretcher to carry him to the ward, he alleged.The video of Vishnu carrying Rambadan on his shoulder in the medical college went viral on social media.“I carried my ailing brother on shoulder from the gate of the medical college to the Covid patient registration counter. When I told the medical officers about the critical condition of my brother, they asked me to wait in the holding area of the hospital for admission. I told them to arrange oxygen as my brother was facing difficulty in breathing, but again, I was told to wait. My brother collapsed near the registration counter and breathed his last,” Vishnu said, summing up struggles of commoners, seeking access to the state healthcare system during the present Covid crisis.He said even his brother’s death didn’t change the hospital’s “insensitive” attitude. They took two hours to wrap the body according to Covid protocols after Vishnu and other attendants at the hospital protested against the administration. “We had to give ₹2,000 to the ambulance owners to transport the body home,” Vishnu said.BRD Medical College’s principal in charge Dr Pawan Pradhan said an inquiry has been ordered into alleged negligence apart from a notice served to the hospital staff for not providing a stretcher to the patient. “The employees have been told to be sensitive toward the patients brought to the hospital for admission,” he said.Rambadan Sahni worked as a daily wage labourer in Hyderabad. He returned home on May 6 and was suffering from fever as well as breathing problems.Under pressure from rising numbers of Covid-19 cases in the second wave of the pandemic since late March, hospitals in Uttar Pradesh have struggled with oxygen and medicine supplies and ICU beds among other logistical issues. The state government however claims that the situation was improving with several Covid level facilities being fitted with oxygenated beds and launch of a door to door survey in rural areas to identify Covid cases early. However, opposition parties have accused the state government of refusing to acknowledge the magnitude of the crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/migrant-worker-dies-at-covid-patient-registration-counter-battling-systemic-failure-101620813631446.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||DU colleges conduct practical exams amid Covid’s second wave, students distraught||The Delhi University recently issued a notice announcing cancellation of online classes and postponement of examinations for all students. But, some students of the varsity have now claimed that their colleges have gone ahead and conducted practical exams, overlooking the mental and physical health of the youngsters and their families. So far, three colleges have conducted practicals, after the university issued the notice, and students from all three colleges have verified so with deep angst in their voices. Many students feel distraught since they claim that their teachers didn’t consult them before conducting the practical exams. “We weren’t even asked if we are in a situation to sit for virtual exams right now! When we told our teachers that we are not a position to give exams, she informed us that they don’t have a choice in the matter. The second wave of Covid has left many students scouring for basic health care; I was tending to my parents who were both Covid positive and that’s when I got to know that I had to appear for exams as well... I wasn’t in the right frame of mind, but what could have I done,” says a student of Daulat Ram College, on condition of anonymity. A student of Shri Ram College of Commerce rues: “When the teachers are turning a deaf ear to us, who do we go to? My whole family is Covid positive, and I have to take care of everyone. Shall I save lives of my family members or give practical exams?” At Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College, students have been asked to submit proofs to the college, if they have tested Covid positive. This, students say isn’t possible since test results are delayed at labs across Delhi-NCR due to the sudden increase in number of new cases during the second wave of Covid. “Despite every student asking the teacher to cancel or postpone the practical exams, our college conducted them. Many students were affected by Covid in our batch, but our teachers asked them for reports to show that they were Covid positive. The students have themselves not received the reports, so how would they have showed them to the college authorities? There’s lack of trust from the authorities, and this lead to the stress of us having to appear for our practical exams even amid such gruelling time,” says a student from the college, on condition of anonymity. Many who have practical exam dates approaching, have tried to convince their teachers to postpone them, but to no avail. “I hope that everyone is safe in these times but the situation is very difficult in the whole country, and in Delhi everyone know what’s the scenario. It’s really difficult for us students to prepare for any test at this time. The practicals should therefore be postponed for at least a few days,” opines a student of Hansraj College. When contacted, the individual college authorities didn’t respond to our query. On the other hand, professor DS Rawat, Dean (Examinations) at DU, told us that the university has given the right to every college to postpone practical exams, taking into account their students and faculty’s situation. “Online exams have been postponed and not the practical exams. So colleges have been given the liberty to conduct and upload marks of practical examination and internal assessment, according to their convenience. We understand that these are challenging times for everyone. Therefore, if 70% of students in a college say that they are unable to give practical exams, then the principal of that college has the right to postpone the practical exams. We might extend the date for submission of these marks from colleges, as we have compassion for everyone’s situation. Students are welcome to reach out to the authorities and raise their concerns; we are here to help.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-colleges-conduct-practical-exams-amid-covid-s-second-wave-students-distraught-101620812915660.html
12-05-2021||Jaipur||UK strain of Covid-19 found in Rajasthan: State govt||The UK strain of Covid-19 has been found in the samples sent from Rajasthan for genome sequencing, the state government said on WednesdayAccording to the state’s Health Minister Raghu Sharma, the reports were received a couple of days back.“We had sent samples for genome sequencing. In the samples, UK strain was found,” Sharma said.On the directions of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, officials have started the process of setting up genome sequencing facility at the Swai Man Singh (SMS) Medical College in Jaipur, he said.“Once we know about the strain and other details, the line of treatment may be updated accordingly,” he said.Active Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan have reached 2.05 lakh while a total of 5,994 people have died due to the viral disease so far. The state has reported a total of 7,89,274 Covid cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/uk-strain-of-covid-19-found-in-rajasthan-state-govt-101620809295933.html
12-05-2021||Patna||Pappu Yadav on hunger strike in Bihar’s Supaul jail seeking hygienic conditions||PATNA: Former Bihar parliamentarian and politician Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav started a hunger strike on Wednesday alleging lack of hygiene and drinking water in Supaul jail, where he was sent late Tuesday night in a 32-year old kidnapping case following his arrest in Patna for alleged violation of Covid-19 lockdown norms.On late Tuesday night, Yadav was sent to 14-days in judicial custody by a local Madhepura court, which also cancelled his bail-bond in a case of kidnapping of one Rajkumar Yadav in 1989. Within 12 hours of his arrival in the jail, Pappu Yadav sat on hunger strike demanding clean drinking water and hygienic conditions in the jail’s toilet and washroom. He also tweeted on Wednesday morning that jail authorities were not providing him with proper medical treatment for an old wound in one of his legs.Last night Yadav pleaded before the Madhepura court to send him to medical college and sadar hospital on medical grounds. He also cited his petition pending before the Patna high court challenging the non-bailable warrant issued against him in the kidnapping case. However, the court decided to send him to judicial custody.While he was pleading his case before the court through video conference, several of his supporters staged a protest outside the court in defiance of the lockdown norms. Earlier in the day, hundreds of his supporters had blocked the national highway in Vaishali when the police was escorting him through the district on the way to Madhepura. And a few hours before that, Patna police had to lathicharge workers of his JAP party at Gandhi Maidan, where they were protesting his arrest. Yadav is the president of a local political outfit named Jan Adhikar Party (Loktantrik).Patna police had arrested Yadav on Tuesday morning for violation of Covid-19 containment protocols during the state-wide lockdown. Hours later, he was given bail at Pirbahore police station on the condition that he will make himself available whenever required during the investigation of the case.Patna police then handed over his custody to Madhepura police, which had declared him absconding in the 1989 abduction case. Udakishunganj sub divisional police officer (SDPO) Satish Kumar said the Madhepura court had cancelled Yadav’s bail-bond and issued non-bailable warrant against him in September 2020 and on March 22, a property attachment warrant was issued against him by the court.Yadav’s wife Ranjit Ranjan, a former Congress MP from Supaul, said she “feared” for her husband’s life and alleged a “big conspiracy” behind his arrest. She said she will hold the state’s national democratic government led by chief minister Nitish Kumar responsible if anything untoward happened to Yadav in custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/pappu-yadav-starts-hunger-strike-in-bihar-s-supaul-jail-seeking-hygienic-conditions-101620809671155.html
12-05-2021||Patna||Bihar hospitals in trouble over sexual assault on woman, drug mismanagement||A ward boy of a private hospital in Bihar’s Bhagalpur district was arrested late Tuesday night over allegations of sexually harassing a Covid-19 patient’s wife. The said hospital has also been found guilty of mismanagement in a probe by district authorities, said police.Bhagalpur senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nitasha Gudiya confirmed the arrest of hospital’s ward boy Jyoti Kumar after taking cognisance of a video narrating the woman’s ordeal, which went viral on social media. The woman had also alleged medical negligence by the Bhagalpur hospital. That’s not all, she had also accused a doctor of a private hospital in Patna of sexually abusing her when her husband was shifted to the state capital for treatment.The SSP said following her complaint, a joint team of Bhagalpur administration and the state drug department started a probe into the conduct of the Bhagalpur hospital. The three-member team comprising senior ADM (additional district magistrate) Triloki Nath Singh, drug inspector Dayanand Prasad and assistant drug inspector Pradip Kumar found many irregularities and seized internal records of treatment of the woman’s husband. During their probe, they also found that the hospital’s drug store was illegally selling medicines given as samples to physicians apart from expired drugs.A scrutiny of the woman’s husband’s treatment record also revealed that the hospital procured three vials of Remdesivir injection for his treatment but administered only two vials on April 18 and 20.They also found another case of a missing vial of Remdesivir injection, procured for treatment of one Mamata Devi, who was admitted to the hospital on April 28 and died on May 3. The hospital’s claim that the remaining vials had been handed over to the patients’ kin were denied by the two families. The findings assume significance in the backdrop of rampant black marketing of Remdesivir injections, used for treating severe Covid cases.Senior ADM Triloki Nath Singh said the committee will recommend cancellation of the licence given to the hospital’s drug store.Meanwhile, the woman has said she will also lodge a formal complaint against a Patna hospital, where her husband died on May 8 after he was shifted from the Bhagalpur hospital following deterioration in his condition on April 26. She said a doctor at the hospital touched her inappropriately several times during his visits to the ICU. She said she didn’t raise her voice then fearing for her husband’s life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-hospitals-in-trouble-over-sexual-assault-on-woman-drug-mismanagement-101620805771000.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||International Nurses Day: Going strong to take care of those in need||The second wave of Covid-19 has left those in the health care services reeling under its brutal impact. And the steep rise in cases of home isolation in the Capital, have made nurses face challenges like never before! Amid heightened stress and exhaustion, those on home nursing duty are burning the midnight oil as there are no fixed work hours; since most are booked for 24-hour care for patients. On International Nurses Day (May 12), some of the Delhi-NCR based home nurses share their tales of struggle. Often spending days with one patient, taking care of all their needs, can leave many worried about getting infected themselves. “But the day I joined this profession, I forgot the idea of fear,” says Imran Khan, a home nurse on duty in Faridabad. He adds, “Some patients recover in a few days; some take 15 days, or even more. It does get tiring; taking care of another person is a tough job, and it gets hard when someone’s health takes a turn for the worst. I have to manage everything - keeping their vitals stable, getting them hospitalised. But the time is such, I don’t want to say no to helping people,” says Khan, from Tejas Care24, as he tends to Covid positive patients while staying away from his family for days together. Their dedication and individualised care is making home nurses a preferred choice among many Delhiites, especially for the elderly in the house. “On an average, we get 20-25 calls every day, from people looking for nurses to take care of their family members,” says Fahimuddin, a resident of Uttam Nagar, who is helping provide nursing staff services to Delhiites. “We administer IV drips and medication as per the prescription, assist in pain management and keep an eye on the vitals of the patients. Nurses on home duty have to take care of it all! And people are preferring to isolate at home, especially during this time, since the hospitals are not only charging a lot but also have limited staff, whereas the services provided by home care nursing staff are available at comparatively subsidised prices and personalised attention.”Staying in close proximity to coronavirus patients is risky, but that hasn’t deterred many of the nurses for their emotion to serve the humanity has been their guarding angel. Ashley, a home nurse in Delhi, who is currently caring for a Covid patient, says, “During my first duty as a home nurse, I got fever, and remained scared for a few days until my health improved. The constant fear of getting infected is both emotionally and physically draining. While we do our best to take care of the patients, the risk of going home and infecting our families is ever present!” Many a times, the risk becomes reality, posing gruelling challenges to these nurses. A home nurse shares that she tested positive soon after visiting a Covid positive patient in Gurugram. “I was with the patient for an hour, and caught the virus in spite of following all the safety measures. I tested positive and soon after my husband too got Covid, and we immediately isolated ourselves at home. We’ve made full recovery, but this hasn’t been the case for quite a few in the health care industry. I’m, even today, constantly afraid of infecting my family, now that I know that people can get reinfected. But, I continue to be on duty because that comes first,” says the nurse on condition of anonymity. The magnitude of the risk factor increases manifold when people lie about their Covid status to book a home nurse. Dr Mukesh Kumar, who runs nursing bureau, Om Nursing Home, in the Capital, says, “We follow all safety measures — PPE Kits, masks, gloves, and sanitisers are provided to all the nurses who are on duty. We’re extremely professional when providing services, with no exploitation of those in need. But, we’ve had instances where people didn’t inform us that the request was for a Covid patient! They make excuses that the patient only had fever and hence they don’t have a report either. This puts our staff and us at peril, even when we are doing all that we can, and at great personal cost... People should spare a thought about nurses as well.” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/international-nurses-day-going-strong-to-take-care-of-those-in-need-101620804758473.html
12-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka to get 2 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses through global tender||The Karnataka government on Tuesday decided to procure two crore Covid-19 vaccine doses through global tender.Deputy Chief Minister and state Covid task force head Dr CN Ashwath Narayan said that to meet the increased demand and to facilitate vaccination of the age group of 18-44 years, 2 crore Covid vaccines will be procured through a global tender."In addition to this an order has been placed for three crore vaccines which include one crore Covaxin and two crores Covishield," he informed."Till now we had depended only on vaccines supplied by the central government and it was not procured from the open market by floating tender. Now, it has been instructed to float the tender and to complete the process within seven days," said Narayan.Apart from this, the authorities have also been instructed to procure one lakh pulse oximeters and distribute them to all the districts and taluks."It will be the responsibility of the district health officers and taluk health officers to collect back the pulse oximeters back after the infected user gets cured. Later they will be used for creating a pulse oximeter bank," said Deputy CM.Narayan also said that 10 lakhs tablets of Ivermectin have been procured for Covid-19 patients and its supply will begin on May 14."It has been also asked to further procure 25 lakh tablets and should be made available in all hospitals across the state. 35 lakh zinc tablets and one crore calcigen tablets will be procured and will be made available in all district hospitals, taluk hospitals, PHCs, and community health centers," he added.The Deputy Chief Minister further said that the state currently has a stock of 10.50 lakh Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) kits and this will be enough for seven days. "50,000 RAT kits is being supplied every day. In addition to this, it has directed to procure 37 lakh RTPCR kits," he added.He further said that triaging would be made mandatory to avoid unnecessary occupancy of beds and requested the urban people not to go to villages to get vaccinated.This decision was taken at a high-level meeting in which Javed Akhtar, ASC, Department of Health, Anjum Parvez, In-Charge, Drugs Procurement, Lata Kumari, MD, State Medical Supplies Corporation, Om Prakash Patil, Director, Department of Health were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-to-get-2-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-through-global-tender-101620803104261.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||Bharat Biotech refused to send Covaxin for Delhi, cited govt directive: AAP||Deputy chief minister of Delhi Manish Sisodia on Wednesday tweeted a letter written by Bharat Biotech in response to his demand that additional vaccines for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) be provided to the national capital, and said that the pharmaceutical company refused to comply citing directives of the central government and limited supply. "We are forced to shut down 100 Covaxin vaccination sites in 17 schools due to no supply," the minister said, adding that exporting 6.6 crore doses was the "biggest mistake". Till March, India had supplied more than 6.6 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines, mostly Covishield, to 76 countries. Also Read: Harsh Vardhan to meet health ministers of states lagging in Covid-19 vaccinationBharat Biotech's letter said the unprecedented demand for Covaxin was difficult to meet even as the firm had increased production. "...in spite of increasing production every month, we are unable to keep up with the demand. Further, we are making dispatches as per the directions of the government officials concerned. We therefore sincerely regret that we cannot make any additional supplies as required by you," the letter read. Vaccine mismanagement by Centre Gov- Covaxin refuses to supply vaccine citing directives of Gov. & limited availability.Once again I would say exporting 6.6cr doses was biggest mistake. We are forced to shutdown 100 covaxin-vaccination sites in 17 schools due to no supply pic.twitter.com/uFZSG0y4HMPune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bengaluru's Bharat Biotech are the only two manufacturers of Covid-19 vaccine in India.In March-end, as it was becoming difficult for the two firms to meet the vaccine demand even within India, it was decided that the focus will be shifted on domestic vaccination programme instead of exports, officials familiar with the development had told Hindustan Times.The Delhi government, meanwhile, has been complaining of vaccine shortage for the past week. A day after saying the city's Covaxin stock was about to get over in one day Covishield's in another four days, the Delhi government said it had to shut down 125 vaccination centres catering to citizens in the 18-44 age group on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bharat-biotech-says-no-extra-covaxin-for-delhi-cites-govt-directive-sisodia-101620802873318.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Former Punjab minister Inderjit Singh Zira passes away||Former Punjab minister Inderjit Singh Zira, 63, died after a prolonged illness in Chandigarh on Wednesday.His son, Kulbir Singh Zira, who is the Congress MLA from Zira constituency in Ferozepur district, shared the news of Inderjit Singh’s death on social media. Also read: ‘Minister didn’t suggest’: Centre on Maharashtra selectively halting vaccinationHe said the last rites would be held at their native village of Basti Butewali in Ferozepur district at 3pm on Wednesday.An aide of late Akali stalwart Gurcharan Singh Tohra, Inderjit Singh Zira was elected from the Zira assembly constituency in 1992 and 1997. He served as health and jails minister in the Shiromani Akali Dal government. Later, he joined the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-punjab-minister-inderjit-singh-zira-passes-away-101620800430501.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Blood donation dips amid Covid lockdown in Himachal||Amid the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, hospitals in Himachal Pradesh are facing a shortage of blood. Blood donation camps that were slated for the coming weeks have been deferred due to the lockdown and the suspension of public transport to contain the spread of coronavirus. Nine such camps were to be held in Shimla by non-governmental organisations (NGOs), students and welfare groups to meet the requirement of the three main hospitals, namely the Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC), Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital and Kamla Nehru Hospital. Also read: 348,421 fresh Covid-19 cases, 4,205 deaths reported in India in 24 hours“As of now, there are 300 units of the blood available with us. It’s enough for a week as the demand has also dropped to 50 units a day with elective surgeries on hold. But we fear that in the coming days, there may be a shortage,” says Sandeep Malhotra, the head of transfusion medicine at IGMC. Camps to be held in rural areas With blood donation camps being cancelled in towns, the NGOs are trying to motivate youngsters from the rural areas to volunteer for the cause. “We are organising a camp at Sairi near Jutogh,” says Ajay Srivastva, the founder of Umang Foundation that collected 800 blood units despite the lockdown last year. Sarabjeet Singh Bobby, the founder of Almighty Blessing, that runs free langars and ambulance services in Shimla, says: “We offer free pick-up and drop facility to people keen on donating blood.” Gap post-vaccination down to 14 days Besides the lockdown, the misconception related to abstaining from blood donation for 28 days post-vaccination is also being seen as a reason for reluctance among donors. Governor Bandaru Dattatreya had earlier notified that a person can’t donate blood till 28 days after vaccination but now he has reduced the period to 14 days. Red Cross appeals to people to donate blood Himachal Pradesh State Red Cross Hospital welfare section chairperson Dr Sadhna Thakur has appealed to people, particularly youngsters, going for the Covid vaccination to come forward for blood donation. “Blood donation before vaccination will help save many precious lives. During the pandemic, vaccination is proving to be effective. The vaccination of youngsters aged between 18 and 44 years will be rolled out soon and stocking blood before it would help in saving lives in future,” she said. Interested blood donors can contact the state Red Cross on phone numbers 0177-2621868 and 2629969.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/blood-donation-dips-amid-covid-lockdown-in-himachal-101620799650555.html
12-05-2021||Lucknow||5 arrested in Ambedkar Nagar hooch deaths case, 5 cops suspended||Five persons were arrested on Wednesday in connection with the hooch tragedy that took at least five lives in Uttar Pradesh’s Ambedkar Nagar district. In-charge of Jaitpur police station and four constables were also suspended and subjected to departmental inquiry for dereliction of duty in the case, police said.Five people including two brothers, Mahesh Chauhan and Jaisraj Chauhan, died after consuming spurious liquor in Singhora Makhdumpur village under Jaitpur police station limits. Ambedkar Nagar superintendent of police (SP) Alok Priyadarsh said four of these died on Monday and one on Tuesday.The SP said 12 persons in a marriage party fell ill after consuming the spurious liquor purchased from Mittupur village in adjoining Azamgarh district. They were admitted to a local hospital, where five died. Three were still undergoing treatment and four others have been discharged.The SP said some other deaths in the area were being incorrectly attributed to the hooch tragedy.He added the police searched every house in the village for country made liquor in presence of Ambedkar Nagar district magistrate (DM) Samuel Paul.A country made liquor shop owner was among the five people arrested in the case from Azamgarh district. He was found to be selling liquor illegally despite the corona curfew in the state since April 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/5-arrested-in-ambedkar-nagar-hooch-deaths-case-5-cops-suspended-101620798750550.html
12-05-2021||Noida||Fire breaks out at cartons manufacturing factory in Ghaziabad||A massive fire broke out at a cartons manufacturing factory and spread to nearby factories in Ghaziabad's Kavi Nagar Industrial Area on Wednesday morning.According to fire officials, over 10 fire tenders present at the spot and fire-fighting operations are underway.Further details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/fire-breaks-out-at-cartons-manufacturing-factory-in-ghaziabad-101620798240982.html
12-05-2021||Lucknow||To tackle third wave, we are doing whatever is possible, says UP minister Sidharth Nath Singh||As Uttar Pradesh (UP) battles the devastating second wave of Covid-19 infection, cabinet minister and state government spokesperson Sidharth Nath Singh, speaks to Hindustan Times on a variety of issues, including party lawmakers writing letters on inept handling of crisis, challenge of testing in villages, vaccinating rural population and state’s preparation to handle imminent third wave.Excerpts: There is a feeling that had we been alert, death and scale of disease could have been minimised. Experts had been predicting that the Covid first wave would be followed by a second wave and yet the warning appeared to have been drowned in a false sense of victory over the virus? The second wave was known but its impact or severity wasn’t. So, drawing from the first wave, we augmented the health infrastructure, scaled it up three times. We thought it would be enough. But as it turned out, the severity was many times more than what we had anticipated. This caused problems but as I said, there weren’t any predictive patterns to the severity of the wave. So, is the view that UP could have minimised death and spread of disease misplaced? How do you answer this? I can only say that the government has been doing its best. The chief minister tested positive and continued to work despite being in isolation. Yet, your own party lawmakers have been posting letters, videos and posts that showcase how they have been helpless against the system. Some didn’t get bed, some flagged faulty Covid testing? They are showing the mirror to their government, isn’t it? In a democracy, constructive criticism is always welcome. No harm in writing letters or making suggestions. But let us remember that the ruling lawmakers are part of the government. They should contribute to resolving the problem rather than creating one. There is a view that the panchayat polls contributed in a big way in the spread of infection in villages. The government claims that it was the court’s decision. However, when the court ordered lockdown, the government moved Supreme Court arguing a complete lockdown would affect livelihoods. It’s a fact that the matter went to the court twice. But I wouldn’t confuse between the two. One, is a constitutional aspect, the other is an administrative matter. Our role was to follow two Constitutional authorities – the court and the election commission. We alone didn’t contest those polls. All the parties did. As far as lockdown matter was concerned, that was the administrative part, and we were clear that we wanted to save both lives and livelihood. But now, that the virus has arrived in villages and is turning aggressive, don’t you think this is the government’s biggest challenge yet, that of saving villages? We have 97,000 revenue villages and over 70,000 nigrani samitis and through them we are aggressively testing, tracing and treating patients in rural UP. We have provided the test teams 10 lakh medical kits; 10 lakh antigen test kits and all 822 community health centres are being given 20 oxygen concentrators. To maintain proper oxygen supply chain, 60 tankers have been added to the 30 existing tankers and keeping Covid’s third wave prediction in mind we have also floated a global tender for tankers. How do you inoculate the villages even as vaccine shortage has hit urban centres? To maintain steady flow of inoculation we have floated global tender for four crore vials and also placed orders of 1 crore vials with Indian manufacturers. But why did the government stop private hospitals and centres from vaccinating people? Surely government centres alone won’t be able to inoculate the whole of UP. We didn’t stop anyone. The government of India has come up with a guideline as it has given nearly 50% quota to the state. The state now has to cater to the people through government centres while private centres would be free to purchase vaccines either through open market or directly through manufacturers. We are seeing air force planes taking off with oxygen tankers to fast-track oxygen supply to the state. There are trains that are regularly coming to the state with liquid oxygen. But where is this oxygen going as the crisis still continues? All these oxygen tankers have to be off loaded at the right place. Not in Hazratganj, right? In the last 10 to 15 days things have improved. About two weeks back, the oxygen intake was about 300 metric tonnes. Since then, 900 to 1000 metric tonnes of oxygen have been supplied. There is an oxygen audit happening which is assessing oxygen requirement of hospitals because oxygen requirement continues to vary on a patient. If someone wants audit details, we will share that also, once the exercise is over. Are we better prepared for the speculative third Covid wave? Well, between Covid I to Covid II, our health infrastructure, including beds, were scaled up by three times across all three hospitals – from Covid level 1 to level 2 and level 3 facilities. In that period also, we also set up an oxygen manufacturing plant by Inox in western UP. There is no mathematical calculation about the challenge that speculative Covid third wave would bring. We are doing whatever is possible. The chief minister has appointed a committee of medical experts to advise the government. The CM has spoken of need to scale up paediatric ICUs ahead of the speculative third wave. Certainly, we are doing everything. From paediatric beds to nursing staff, attendants and ward boys. Even as we speak, 25,000 level 1 beds are being converted into oxygen beds. We are creating stronger cold storage facility. So, you think your government would be able to save our kids from Covid 3? Well, if you remember how the situation was with the JE and AES. For nearly 40 years, you well know the number of children who were dying in 38 districts of the state. So, we protected our children, didn’t we? We are adding more oxygen plants. Soon we will reveal our oxygen manufacturing policy. What is this policy going to be like? Details would come later but there would be incentives for the investors wanting to help set up oxygen plants in the state. Already 54 investors have announced intent, more are coming. The chief minister has now tasked the lawmakers with keeping track of Covid positive people in their constituencies No, the lawmakers won’t track Covid patients. They will stay connected with them as after all the patients are people of their constituencies too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/to-tackle-third-wave-we-are-doing-whatever-is-possible-says-up-minister-sidharth-nath-singh-101620796590190.html
12-05-2021||Patna||Bihar farmers crush their produce to protest against low tomato prices||A group of farmers in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur district destroyed their harvest of tomatoes and other green vegetables for the second consecutive day on Tuesday to register their protest against low prices, not covering even their costs. They claimed to have destroyed crops worth lakhs of rupees grown over an area of 50 ‘bighas’ of land. One ‘bigha’ is equal to around 35,000 square feet of land in the district.The farmers of Ganj Bazaar and its adjoining areas in the district claimed their tomato crops were not even fetching the wholesale rate of ₹1 per kilogram and some other green vegetables were selling for less than ₹2/kg. They claimed the cost of bringing tomatoes to the market alone is ₹4 to 5/kg.“I spent ₹15,000 per bigha to produce tomatoes and now I am not even getting ₹5000 for my produce per bigha. We have been forced to sell our produce for less than ₹1 per kg. Hence, we don’t have any other option left but to destroy our produce,” said Shambhu Prasad, a farmer, who claimed to have destroyed tomatoes worth ₹2 lakh.The drop in demand of tomatoes and vegetables in Muzaffarpur is primarily due to poor off take of stocks by traders from different states due to movement restrictions and lockdowns clamped to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. Rajendra Prasad, another farmer from the Minapur block said Ganj Bazar was one of the biggest vegetable-producers and marketing venues in north Bihar. “We used to send 20 to 25 trucks of tomatoes to other places every day from here. But the numbers have now been limited to two to three trucks a day.”He added that the estimated cost of growing tomatoes on 10 bigha land is around ₹2 lakh. Another farmer Sanjay Sah said he was also thinking of destroying his produce of tomatoes grown on around 10 bighas of land. “I had never imagined in my dreams that I would ever destroy my produce with my own hands,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-farmers-crush-their-produce-to-protest-against-low-tomato-prices-101620794490817.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||Cloudy sky today, Delhi may experience light rain||The national Capital is likely to see a cloudy sky on Wednesday with the possibility of light rain as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Wednesday is likely to be 24 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 38°C. The minimum temperature on Tuesday was 24.2°C, a notch below the season’s average, and the maximum temperature was 40.5°C, one notch above the normal for this time of the season. Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality improved to satisfactory category on Wednesday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 96. Also Read | Heatwave conditions won’t set in till May 18: IMDAn AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. On Tuesday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring center, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) said, “Isolated thunderstorms with gusty winds are likely on May 12 (Wednesday) and May 13 (Thursday). It may lead to an Isolated dust spike at a few locations for one or two hours. Better ventilation is forecasted for the next three days. Hence, AQI is forecasted to stay improved in the moderate to satisfactory category for the next three days. Rabi crop burning induced fire counts in north India are high in Punjab but its influence is low in Delhi air as usual due to unfavourable summer meteorological factors and unfavourable transport winds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cloudy-sky-today-delhi-may-experience-light-rain-101620789810667.html
12-05-2021||Indore||'Perform yagna, Covid third wave won't touch India': MP Minister Usha Thakur||Madhya Pradesh Culture Minister Usha Thakur, who has been giving controversial comments especially related to the Covid-19 pandemic, on Tuesday came up with another suggestion by asking people to perform 'yagna chikitsa' (ceremonial fire ritual) for four days to ward off the third wave of Covid-19.India is currently dealing with a devastating second Covid-19 wave that has swept through the nation, crushing the country's health infrastructure and overburdening frontline medical workers.Speaking to reporters after inaugurating a Covid Care Centre in Indore, she said: "For the purification of the environment, perform Yagna for four days. This is Yagna Chikitsa. In earlier times, our ancestors used to perform yagna chikitsa to get rid of pandemics. Let us all purify the environment, the third wave of Covid will not even touch India.""According to experts, this wave will attack the children first. For this, complete preparations are being made by the Madhya Pradesh Government. We will overcome the pandemic successfully," she added.Earlier, Thakur recently had performed rituals in front of a statue at Indore airport to eradicate Covid-19.She was criticised for not wearing a mask while she visited a Covid care centre in the recent past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/perform-yagna-covid-third-wave-won-t-touch-india-mp-minister-usha-thakur-101620789255283.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||Water supply in parts of Delhi to be affected on Wednesday||Water supply in many areas of East Delhi, North East Delhi, parts of South Delhi, parts of NDMC area will be affected on Wednesday."Water supply in many areas in East Delhi, North East Delhi, parts of South Delhi, parts of NDMC area will be affected in the morning and evening tomorrow," Delhi Jal Board has informed yesterday."Due to very high turbidity in raw water from upper Ganga canal, the pumping from Sonia Vihar WTP and Bhagirathi WTP has been affected," read an official statement by the Board.Saket, Pushp Vihar, Katwaria Sarai, Lado Sarai, Khirki are among the areas where the water supply will be hit.The Delhi Jal Board further advised people to make judicious use of water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/water-supply-in-parts-of-delhi-to-be-affected-on-wednesday-101620779860629.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The lockdown Ramzan||The forever-optimistic Nashir Ahmed Khan in gloom? Impossible, you would think. But the second surge in the coronavirus pandemic has changed everything.“I’m badhal (in bad shape),” he says, “everyone here is badhal, everything is down.” A biscuit seller outside the imposing Jama Masjid in Gurugram’s Sadar Bazaar, Mr Khan, 71, is talking on phone. This late morning he is standing by his two carts, he says, waiting for the few customers who might drop by. During the ongoing lockdown in the Millennium City, shops in this part of Sadar Bazaar are allowed to function from 6am to 11am, he informs.In the final week of the fasting month of Ramzan, the area around the mosque traditionally teems with shoppers. But this ain’t a normal year, and Mr Khan agrees to give a sense of the place.His on-the-ground survey starts with the stairs of the Jama Masjid, that in previous Ramzans (not last year’s though, because of the first lockdown) would be taken over by fasting people sitting there in lethargy, waiting for the iftari hour to break the fast. (The pic above dates from early last year.)“Nobody’s on the Masjid’s stairs, not even a cat,” Mr Khan reports curtly. Even Raja bhai isn’t there—the elderly man would usually be heard before he was seen, always sitting on the same side of the stairs, regularly breaking into most heartfelt devotional songs.Khurshid Ahmad’s kebab stall, though, is open. “But it’s only stocked with feni,” says Mr Khan, referring to a milk-based dish often consumed in this sacred month.All the mosque-facing stalls that would sell trinkets, dates, caps and scarves throughout the year are closed. “Except for one man who, as I see, is selling kurta pyjamas.”The area’s public park—the Masjid Udayan—that would be dotted with resting labourers is empty, reports Mr Khan.“After one hour, at 11, I’ll also go back to my room (in nearby Yaseen Plaza),” he says. “Nobody is earning much... I’m able to afford only dal and chawal.”Even so, one thing hasn’t changed. No matter how hot or freezing it might get, Mr Khan always dresses up in a safari suit. “Yes, I’m wearing my safari,” he confirms, breaking into his trademark laughter, infectious even on mobile.And is he holding a cup of that milky sweet bazaar chai, as he always does?“What are you saying,” exclaims the biscuit seller. “All the chai shops are closed.”He concludes the eye-witness account with his customary farewell salutation—“God bless you too much.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-lockdown-ramzan-101620773488092.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||Nehru Planetarium director Dr Nandivada Rathnasree dies of Covid-19||Notable astronomy communicator and director of the Nehru Planetarium, Nandivada Rathnasree, 57, died on Sunday after being infected with Covid. Rathnasree, who joined the planetarium in 1996 as a senior educator and became its director in 1999, has been credited with several new initiatives and projects during her long stint.Anuj Sinha, former director of the National Council for Science and Technology Communication said that she was devoted to her role. “She ensured that the number of outreach events multiplied by several times. She would work on weekends, day and night to ensure astronomy reached people. She brought a lot of life to the subject. I was also in science outreach so she was a great ally to work with. She tried to make sure that the wonders of the sky are seen, appreciated and understood,” he said.Her husband Patrick Dasgupta is a faculty member at the Department of Physics and Astrophysics at Delhi University.Rathnasree was also a member of the Astronomical Society of India, which expressed its condolences Tuesday.“An avid astronomy communicator and accomplished pulsar astronomer, she was pivotal in most astronomy outreach projects of ASI in the last two decades. When ASI formally set up its Public Outreach and Education Committee (POEC) in 2014, Rathnasree was the unanimous choice to be its first chair and she has been a part of the POEC ever since,” the body said in its statement.The society also remembered Ratnasree’s notable contributions during her career. “Till just a fortnight ago, she was involved in organising ‘Astro Adda’ a fortnightly online discussion session with the students. In early May, she caught the infection, which quickly overwhelmed her,” the statement said.During her years in Delhi, she was a focal point for the amateur astronomy community in and around the Capital.Union minister of culture sent condolences to her family. “Extremely saddened to learn about the unfortunate demise of Dr N. Rathnasree, Director of Nehru Planetarium under @_NMML_ passed away on sunday. Heartfelt condolences to the family & prayers for the departed soul & God to provide strength to the bereaved family,” the ministry tweeted.Ramdas Iyer, curator, National Science Centre, said her death was a huge loss for students and the scientific community. “Rathnashree was one of the best in positional astronomy. That was her specialisation. One of her major contributions to astronomy was popularising the Jantar Mantar, as she organised several astronomy walks for school and college students there. She was among few planetarium directors who could design her own shows,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/nehru-planetarium-director-dr-nandivada-rathnasree-dies-of-covid19-101620773018985.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||2 behind murder of realtor held after scuffle with cops||After a brief scuffle, Delhi Police on Tuesday said they arrested two men who were allegedly involved in the murder of a property dealer from Najafgarh.A cop received minor injury during the scuffle with the accused, Neeraj Tehlan (27) and Naveen alias Ashish (23). According to police, one of the accused took out a gun and threatened to fire at the police once they were surrounded.Police said the two were the only people yet to be arrested out of the five who allegeldy shot the property dealer 18 times in southwest Delhi’s Chhawla in February.Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said the others -- Priyawart alias Kala, a key hitman of jailed gangster Lawrence Bishnoi; and Rohit and Rahul -- were arrested from Rajasthan and Delhi since March, after tip-offs received through human intelligence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/2-behind-murder-of-realtor-held-after-scuffle-with-cops-101620772875148.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||Black marketing: Court rap for no price cap, shoddy probe||A Delhi court on Tuesday questioned the authorities for arresting people importing and selling oxygen concentrators at a rate higher than the MRP, saying that the government had itself not capped the prices of these products.Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (CMM) Arun Kumar Garg, while hearing the bail pleas of Matrix Cellular’s CEO Gaurav Khanna and its vice president Gaurav Suri, also came down heavily on the police for arresting the accused without any evidence.“Why should the forces of demand-supply not apply where the government has left it... government has not regulated. Is doing business an offence?” the court remarked. The magistrate said the maximum charge that can be levelled was of unfair trade practices.Also read | HC: Take steps to stop hoarding, black marketingThe judge said that arrests should not be made to appease the high court, which ordered action. He noted that the “state has yet not regulated” the price despite a direction by the high court to cap the prices.The court pulled up police for “a pathetic” investigation. “First you (police) arrest and then start investigation. It’s a pathetic situation…We will not be instrumental in harassing somebody,” it remarked.Public Prosecutor Atul Shrivastava, appearing for the state, told the court that the accused “hatched a conspiracy” to illegally make money. The accused’s counsels, meanwhile , argued that the prices were fixed after considering costs incurred. They said that all duties were paid in the import of the concentrators. The court reserved its order for Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/black-marketing-court-rap-for-no-price-cap-shoddy-probe-101620772156236.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||No court relief for Khan market restaurateur caught in black marketing case||A Delhi court on Tuesday refused to grant interim relief from arrest — the second time in as many days — to businessman and restaurateur Navneet Kalra, who is accused of hoarding and black marketing oxygen concentrators.The matter, which was to be taken up on Monday, was pushed back by a day because the police said they did not get a copy of the bail application.Kalra’s counsel Vineet Malhotra urged that coercive action not be taken against his client, a relief that the court refused to grant. Additional sessions judge Sumit Dass said that Kalra’s anticipatory bail will be placed before the district and sessions judge who will decide which court will hear the plea.“Bail application placed before the district judge south east at 10am tomorrow; they will send it to the concerned court. There is no interim relief or any sort of protection to the accused yet,” the judge said.Also read | Ensure controlled opening of city: HC to Delhi govtKalra has been on the run since the recovery of 524 oxygen concentrators from three of his restaurants — Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju between Wednesday and Friday, according to investigators. He could not be tracked despite raids being conducted in Delhi and in adjoining states such as Uttarakhand, the police said.Investigators said that they have evidence which shows the oxygen concentrators were bought for ₹14,000-15,000 and sold at ₹70,000-75,000During the course of proceedings, public prosecutor Atul Shrivastava said since the matter was transferred to the crime branch after registration of FIR, the court has no jurisdiction.“On May 7, the court had the power but now since the case has been transferred, it has no jurisdiction over the matter,” Shrivastava argued.However, advocate Vineet Malhotra, representing Kalra, told the court that the court’s jurisdiction applied because the case was registered at Lodhi Colony police station on May 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-court-relief-for-khan-market-restaurateur-caught-in-black-marketing-case-101620771860485.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||Of 91 held for cyber frauds, most from outside Delhi||A grocer from Rajasthan’s Bharatpur, an unemployed man from Jharkhand’s capital Ranchi, and a cellphone dealer from West Bengal’s North 24 Parganas were among 91 people arrested by Delhi Police for allegedly duping Delhi-NCR residents by promising to supply Covid-19 medicines or medical essentials such as oxygen cylinders and concentrators.The Delhi Police on Tuesday said several cyber fraudsters from outside Delhi were involved in duping city residents online, taking advantage of the panic triggered by the rise in cases and the shortage of medical essentials.At a press conference on Tuesday, police said that they found that some of the SIM cards used by the alleged fraudsters to receive payments were registered in states other than Delhi.In most cases, such fraudsters contacted their intended victims after seeing SOS messages on social media for medicines and other supplies. Promising to deliver these essentials, the fraudsters would demand an online payment, and once the money was transferred, would switch off their phones, police said.Police have so far blocked 810 SIM cards used in such crimes.Also read | Covid-19 in Delhi: Dip in cases continues, deaths cross 20,000Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said most of the SIM cards were registered in Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Rajasthan, and Bihar.Separately, police have also frozen 214 bank accounts, a majority of them in the states mentioned above, which collectively had ₹53.6 lakh in them. Through a tie-up with caller identification app, True Caller, police also identified 168 cellphones numbers and tagged them as “Covid spam numbers”.“Till date, we received 910 such complaints on our helpline, email and the national cyber crime portal. A total of 372 FIRs have been registered and 91 people arrested. The analysis of the cases indicated that the frauds were being committed by people from different states. The police chiefs of those states were contacted and the cyber teams have started work. Our investigation has revealed that while a SIM card is registered in one state, the fraud is being perpetrated in another state. The bank accounts of these fraudsters are also spread across the country,” said Biswal.Police officers,who were part of cases in which the arrests were made, said that while cyber criminals are seeking out people who seek help on social media, some of the fraudsters are out-of-job con men who have found a lucrative way to exploit people.One officer said most of the people in whose names the bank accounts were opened had no idea about the frauds.“The complaints on our helpline have reduced of late. There are 20 teams on the ground in several states, and a substantial number of arrests are likely in the coming days,” Biswal said.Records seen by HT show that in the last few days, police have received fewer than 20 calls reporting such frauds.On Monday, the control room received six calls, while on Sunday, there were 17. Distress calls peaked in the first four days of May -- 59 on May 1, 104 on May 2, 85 on May 3, and 69 on May 4.“We have also released an advisory on our social media handles, urging people not to fall victim to such fraudsters... We urge people to call on 112, 011-23469900 or 155260 in case any such person approaches them with promises of help,” Biswal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/of-91-held-for-cyber-frauds-most-from-outside-delhi-101620771550852.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||Out of Covaxin, 125 Delhi government jab centres for 18-44 age group to be shut||Around 125 centres of the Delhi government that administer the Covaxin vaccine to beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group have run out of stock and will resume the inoculation drive only after stocks are replenished, the government said on Tuesday.“So far, we received around 550,000 vaccine doses – 150,000 Covaxin and 400,000 Covishield – for the 18-44 age group. Of the total doses received, 330,000 doses have been used. Currently, we have around 219,000 doses in stock and all of them are Covishield. Going by the current rate of beneficiary turnout, the Covishield stock should last three more days. Also, 266,690 doses of Covishield are likely to arrive in Delhi today (Tuesday). That should last for another six days,” said AAP MLA Atishi, in the government’s live-streamed bulletin on vaccination, adding: “However, more than 125 centres that offer Covaxin will be closed now. They are out of stock.”Also read | Allow more pharma firms to make vaccines: Delhi CM Kejriwal to CentreIt was not clear if the vaccine deliveries she mentioned included those to private hospitals or also overlapped with the quota for 45-plus -- Centre typically ships doses only for the older age groups with remaining being procured directly.By Tuesday evening, 18 government-run centres in the city that offered Covaxin were already fully booked for Wednesday, as per the government’s CoWin system. Delhi government officials on Tuesday could not specifically say when the next batch of Covaxin would arrive for the 18-44 age group.Atishi further said for the health-care workers, frontline workers and people aged 45 years and above, the Covaxin stock should last for another five days and Covishield’s for 4 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/out-of-covaxin-125-delhi-government-jab-centres-for-18-44-age-group-to-be-shut-101620771147525.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||Ensure controlled opening of city: HC to Delhi govt||Observing that the government encouraged people to lower their guard by holding “elections and melas”, the Delhi high court on Tuesday said there should be a “controlled opening” of the lockdown in the national capital whenever it happens so that the state is in a position to deal with the rising number of Covid cases.“We can’t open up only to let people die due to lack of facilities,” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli suggested.“The state has also encouraged it (letting down of guard by citizens). We have had elections..We have had melas,” the bench remarked after advocate Gautam Narayan, additional public prosecutor for the Delhi government, said that state (in general) is equally responsible for the current situation as they let their guard down.The court was hearing a plea by lawyer-petitioner Rakesh Malhotra, who along with many hospitals, had sought directions to the Centre and Delhi government for better facilities and continuous supply of oxygen in hospitals and nursing homes.The observation ensued from the submission of senior advocate Rahul Mehra, for the Delhi government, who said that he cannot imagine a situation when lockdown restrictions are lifted and the city returns to normal.The number of infections and positivity rate has been declining for 10 days now, with Delhi reporting 12,481 cases on Tuesday. This is the lowest daily tally the city has recorded in almost a month since April 12, Delhi government data shows.Also read | Govt strengthens 1031 helpline with more staffDuring the hearing, the court expressed its displeasure over the Delhi government’s incorrect statement on May 10 that 250 beds in the new dedicated Covid facility in Dwarka -- Indira Gandhi Hospital -- were already operational. “It was not fair...to give incorrect facts,” the bench said, adding that “the newspapers of Saturday said 250 beds in the hospital were operationalised, “but not a single bed has been occupied till date”.The remarks were made after the Delhi government apologised for making an incorrect statement on May 10 about the Covid facility in the hospital.The bench was informed by senior advocate Mehra that for want of oxygen cylinders and concentrators the beds have not yet been operationalised. He submitted that 150 beds will be operationalised during the day and another 100 will be ready by Wednesday.During the hearing, the court also suggested augmenting the plasma bank and said that the Delhi government should encourage people to donate.Mehra said that time and again requests have been made by the highest level but people have been apprehensive.Amicus curiae senior advocate Rajshekhar Rao informed the court that the response from the plasma registration sometimes takes hours.He also alleged that sometimes phone numbers get leaked and the person gets fake messages.The matter will be heard on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ensure-controlled-opening-of-city-hc-to-delhi-govt-101620770776010.html
12-05-2021||City||Govt strengthens 1031 helpline with more staff||The Delhi government has carried out a revamp of its Covid-19 grievance redressal system, and released a centralised helpline number - 1031 - for those in need of hospital beds, oxygen cylinders and medicines, among other things.Though this number was already in use, the services associated with it have been increased, officials said.“Over the last one year of the pandemic, there were more than 20 government helpline numbers issued from time to time. Instead of releasing a new number, it was decided to strengthen the number 1031, publicise it, and ensure no call goes unattended,” said a senior government official who asked not to be named.On Monday, the Delhi government doubled the number of lines on the helpline from 100 to 200, and increased the call centre executives running these lines from 30 to 60.To ensure all calls are answered and the correct information is disseminated, the Delhi government has also deployed senior officers at the call centre located in Noida.The officers have been stationed in three shifts to ensure round-the-clock monitoring.Also read | Will float global tenders for vaccines soon: Manish SisodiaWhile officials did not detail the average number of calls the helpline received earlier, they said the revamp paid off almost instantly as the helpline received 2,004 calls on Monday.“Some people had stopped calling at this number because it was hard to get through. So, this is the highest number of calls 1031 has received in recent times,” a second official said.Of the 2,004 calls, 721 were related to Covid-19 vaccination, 225 were for hospital bed availability, 195 callers enquired about oxygen cylinder refilling or procurement, 135 sought tele-consultation with doctors, 93 were for last rites of deceased patients, and about 635 fell in the “others” category.Apart from 1031, people can also directly call the control rooms of the 11 districts of Delhi. Delhi government’s ambulance services can availed by dialling 102 or 1099, and the authorities have also set up a dedicated helpline -- 011-22304568 -- for pregnant and lactating women suffering from Covid-19.“The entire staff has been trained and shifts of eight hours each have been scheduled for 24x7 operation. A number of calls also come from people seeking doctors for medical advice. For that, we have sourced the time table of government doctors for tele-consultation from each district and we direct the caller directly to these doctors. Our new team is fully geared up and we hope that no caller is dissatisfied with the call experience,” said the first officer quote above.Inside the privately owned call centre in Noida, each executive has been given a common set of frequently asked questions (FAQ) to answer callers.“The FAQ list is constantly evolving, we are adding new things and making it more relevant as more calls come in. If some information is sought which is not in the FAQ, then our officers stationed there directly have been given the right to call the nodal officer concerned and address the grievance,” the official said, explaining the evolving process to improve grievance redressal.Over the past few weeks, especially between April 18 and May 5, when Covid-19 cases had peaked in the city and people were running from pillar to post for oxygen beds and cylinders, HT had repeatedly pointed out the need for a helpline number and how the government had several numbers which were either not publicised or were unresponsive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-strengthens-1031-helpline-with-more-staff-101620770326095.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||IGI airport’s terminal 2 to shut from May 17||The Delhi airport’s Terminal 2, or T2, will be shut for flight operations from May 18 in the wake of falling passenger footfall and fewer flights due to the ongoing second national wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, officials aware of the development said on Tuesday.All flight operations will now shift to Terminal 3 (T3), which will remain the only operational terminal at Delhi’s airport, the officials said.The recent suspension of international flights between India and some countries has also led to a fall in the number of passengers at the airport, forcing the authorities to take the decision, the officials added.After last year’s lockdown, when the Indira Gandhi International airport resumed operations after two months of complete closure between March 25 and May 25, passenger footfall at the airport gradually began rising, and went up to more than 100,000 per day by the end of March 2021. Before the pandemic broke out, the average footfall was 150,000, officials said.“However, as cases of coronavirus rapidly rose in the country, a drastic fall in passenger footfall was noticed. Some countries have also suspended international flights to India, leading to an overall drop in the number of passengers by 65% to 70%. In the past one week, the passenger footfall has been as low as 32,000 to 35,000 per day,” said a senior airport official who asked not to be named.The officer said T2 will be closed starting midnight on May 17.“All the flights scheduled from T2 beyond May 18 will be shifted to T3. The airlines have been informed to alert flyers,” the officer said.An official from the Delhi air traffic control (ATC) said the air traffic movements (ATM) in the country recovered to almost 1,000 per day since last year from being as low as 300.“Recently, there has been a fall in the number of flights. The daily ATM has once again slipped to approximately 250-300 flights a day. Before Covid-19 struck, the daily ATM was around 1,300. With such low ATMs, T3 should be sufficient to handle the operations,” the officer said.After the two months of a complete ban on air traffic in India last year, while Terminal 3 started functioning May 25 onwards, Terminal 2 resumed operations on October 1.Terminal 1 has remained shut since March 25 due to expansion work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/igi-airport-s-terminal-2-to-shut-from-may-17-101620766895830.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||Young docs in Covid fight stay afloat in the deep end||When the national capital was reeling from the fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, 22-year-old Dr Shefali Manchanda had just started her internship, immediately after completing her MBBS, at the Covid designated Smt Sucheta Kriplani Hospital near Connaught Place.On May 1, her first day at the hospital, she witnessed three people succumbing to the deadly virus within a few hours.“I remember that I called my mother and cried a lot that night. Not just deaths, but over the days, I also had to turn away people who were begging and crying for help because there was a shortage of beds and oxygen. The initial few days were really tough, but now things are getting better,” said Manchanda, who hails from Sonepat, and completed her MBBS from Delhi’s Lady Hardinge College.Hundreds of young doctors such as Manchanda, who are pursuing their last year of MBBS or mandatory internship year have been roped in at Covid hospitals across the city in the last two weeks to help in the fight against the pandemic. Their careers have begun with rounds of Covid wards and ICUs -- from monitoring oxygen levels to checking pulse rates, and doing all the paperwork, including issuing death certificates.Dr Noor Dhaliwal (23), who recently completed her MBBS from Maulana Azad Medical College recently, is currently interning at the Lok Nayak Hospital -- the biggest Covid center of the Capital. She had joined the hospital on April 20, and within a few days of starting work, she said she was witness to several “heathreaking events”.“It’s so heartbreaking to see some really young patients who were just a few years older than me struggling and succumbing to the virus. We had to do a lot of paperwork and also prepared some death certificates. I can never forget an instance when, within five minutes of someone passing away, the bed was occupied by another patient,” she said. “It makes me really respect my seniors who continue their work despite being enveloped by sadness,” said Dhaliwal, who is from Chandigarh.For Dr Diksha Malhotra (22), an intern doctor with Kalawati Saran Children’s Hospital since May 1, work has been even more challenging because she is in charge of looking after Covid-19 positive babies, many of whom are on ventilator.“It gets difficult at times but that is why we chose this,” she said. Malhotra, from Uttar Pradesh’s Saharanpur, who did her MBBS at Lady Hardinge College.Several young doctors said witnessing deaths is always difficult. “A few days ago, a colleague of mine went to check the oxygen saturation of a patient early in the morning. She found that the saturation was zero and the pulse was not palpable. She uncovered the patient’s face and he was found to be dead. It’s a shock for her. Most of us are in our early 20s and we are yet to become used to it,” said Dr Reyan Najmi (25), who joined as an intern doctor at Hamdard Institute of Medical Sciences & Research after completing MBBS from a college in the same institute.Najmi, who is from Ranchi, said that there was fear and apprehension among family members of most of the young doctors.“The fear of parents sending their children for Covid duty in hospitals is akin to how movies portray the pain of parents of soldiers in the front lines of war. But my parents understand now and they are proud of me,” he added.Dr Kartik Yadav (23) said he was assigned internship at Lok Nayak hospital even before his final exam results were officially declared. “Many interns are now being assigned straightway into the ‘red zone’, where they get intense training. It is difficult but we are managing it. You have to be prepared for the worst in this profession,” he said.Meanwhile, several young doctors expressed apprehensions over the possible long-term impact of the pandemic on their careers.Dr Chetna Dengri (24), who completed her MBBS from UCMS and joined as intern at GTB hospital, said, “When we start our internship after MBBS, we work for one month in every department to learn the basics... It’s the only time when we actually get hands-on experience. But there have been no such opportunities for us and our junior batch since we all are engaged in Covid-related work.”Medical college professors said it was hard for these young doctors. “Unlike previous years, these students are not getting a chance to get the experience of working in different departments, which is required during internship and before deciding what they want to do in masters… Once things get better, we will have to work closely with these students,” said Manish Narang, professor of pediatrics at UCMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/young-docs-in-covid-fight-stay-afloat-in-the-deep-end-101620766349809.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid crisis: HC asks BFUHS to declare results withheld due to litigation||The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, to declare result of two MBBS students and facilitate their internship in view of Covid-19 pandemic. The court acted on the plea from these two students, who had told the court that they have completed the entire MBBS course. However, their final-year result has not been declared and therefore, they are unable to do their internship, which is a part of curriculum, as mandated by the Medical Council of India. The students were enrolled into MBBS course in 2015 under physically handicapped category, but subsequently declared ineligible by the varsity. The duo approached the high court against the decision, but lost their appeals before a single judge bench in 2016. Against that order, they had approached division bench and that appeal is still pending while both the students have completed their MBBS course. “Considering the pandemic crises, wherein even the final-year students of MBBS have been attending to the patients in general and particularly infected with Covid-19, we direct the university to declare the result and facilitate the admission of the applicants /appellants in the internship. The same shall be subject to final outcome of the appeals,” the court said, further ordering that matter be listed again within three months of physical resumption of hearings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-crisis-hc-asks-bfuhs-to-declare-results-withheld-due-to-litigation-101620765148775.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Relief eludes Covid-infected labourers, Punjab govt extends date to avail benefit||Despite the availability of unspent funds exceeding ₹1,000 crore with the Punjab Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Board, the labour department has failed to provide compensation to unprivileged labourers who tested positive for Covid. Not even a single labourer has got such benefit in the state so far.The state government had announced compensation of ₹1,500 to registered labourers and up to ₹3,000 to a family. Ironically, no beneficiary has approached the department to get compensation as they are not aware of the scheme. According to the labour department, there are around 3.76 lakh registered workers in Punjab. In January this year, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had announced this financial aid for unprivileged labourers registered with the board. However, no efforts have been made by the labour department to make beneficiaries aware of the compensation. Initially, the last date of availing compensation was March 31 and later, the department has extended the date up to September 30. The purpose of the scheme is to provide financial assistance to labourers to run their household when they have to be isolated due to Covid-19.A senior official of the department said, “Unfortunately, the beneficiaries, who were supposed to get benefit of the compensation, didn’t know about it. Consequently, they were not applying for it. The department needs to create awareness among labourers to extend the benefits.”The latest report of comptroller and auditor general of India released in March this year revealed that against the available cess collection of ₹1,715.03 crore, the board could utilise only ₹696.2 crore and unspent amount of ₹1.018.7 crore was lying with the board.JP Singh, deputy labour commissioner, said, “We did not receive any application from beneficiaries to avail compensation after testing Covid positive.”Principal secretary of labour department, Vijay Kumar Janjua, said, “No amount of money has been released to labourers as compensation after getting infected with Covid-19. We have extended the date for six more months for beneficiaries so they can avail this benefit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/relief-eludes-covid-infected-labourers-punjab-govt-extends-date-to-avail-benefit-101620764488454.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Set up field hospital in Anandpur Sahib constituency: Tewari to Centre||Lok Sabha member from Anandpur Sahib and former Union minister Manish Tewari has written a letter to the central government and requested for a field hospital to be set up by Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) in his constituency besides oxygen plants for civil hospitals in Rupnagar and Nawanshahr. Tewari, in his letters to defence minister Rajnath Singh and Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan Singh, said with 1,800 villages, his constituency comprises a large section that comes under the rural belt. He said as DRDO had been setting up field hospitals in different parts of the country under the PM Cares fund, hospitals with capacity of 250 to 1,000 beds be built here too.He said the Punjab government and the district administration would provide the required space for such hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/set-up-field-hospital-in-anandpur-sahib-constituency-tewari-to-centre-101620764428443.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||AAP accuses state govt of snatching farmers’ land for Katra expressway||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state president and MP Bhagwant Mann on Tuesday accused the Captain Amarinder Singh-led Congress government of “forcibly snatching” the land of the farmers of Punjab for the construction of Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Expressway under the Bharatmala Project. In a statement, Mann said the state government’s decree to occupy the farmers’ land should be cancelled immediately. “The Amarinder government had issued a notice to forcibly put the amount of the land being acquired for the expressway project in farmers’ accounts. At the same time, the farmers have been warned that if they do not take the government price of the land within 60 days and do not give possession of the land, then the land will be occupied with the help of Punjab Police,” he alleged. The AAP leader said the party was against the decree and would not allow the land to be taken away forcibly as the farmers were opposed to the collector rates. The chief minister was doing this to appease the Modi government, he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-accuses-state-govt-of-snatching-farmers-land-for-katra-expressway-101620764008447.html
12-05-2021||Other||Bird flu at Kila Raipur: 50% of culling target completed in 3 days||On the third day of culling operations at Kila Raipur poultry farm where bird flu has been confirmed, as many as 8,760 birds were culled on Tuesday by the rapid response teams of the animal husbandry department. Besides, 4,110 eggs were also destroyed. The approximate number of birds to be culled is 75,000. On Sunday, 19,200 birds were culled and another 12,400 birds were culled on Monday, making it a total of 40,360 birds culled in three days.The National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, had confirmed avian influenza in the samples of birds sent from a poultry farm at Kila Raipur on May 7, prompting the administration to order culling of birds. The samples were collected after the owner of Suba Singh Poultry Farm informed the administration about the mysterious death of 1,500 birds. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma has already declared one-kilometre radius area around the farm as infected zone and up to 10km as surveillance zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bird-flu-at-kila-raipur-rapid-response-teams-complete-50-of-culling-target-in-3-days-101620763648558.html
12-05-2021||Other||In frenzy to stock up, distancing goes for a toss at Ludhiana mandi||The curfew and seven-hour relaxation window seem to be doing more harm than good if one goes by the scenes witnessed at the New Sabzi Mandi near Jalandhar bypass. Since Monday, the mandi has been seeing a mad rush of people – comprising vegetables vendors and buyers—during relaxation hours. The situation goes completely out of control around 10am when the crowd density peaks. Residents can be seen pushing and shoving each other while they make a dash to stock up on reinforcements, with scant regard for social distancing or mask norms. Though the authorities had put in place stringent measures to ensure crowd control last year during the lockdown, no such measures have been introduced this time. Odd hours to be blamed Darshan Lal Baweja (Laddo), president of the New Sabzi Mandi market committee, said the relaxation window is to be blamed. “The odd hours at which the relaxation is being offered is the reason behind the crowding at mandi. Due to the limited window, vendors and residents gather here in large numbers, which leads to chaos. Authorities should rework the relaxation timings.” Curbs have triggered bulk-buying frenzy Rachin Arora, vice-president of Sabzi Mandi vegetable arthiya association, said the curfew announcement seems to have triggered a bulk-buying frenzy among the residents. “People live in constant fear that the government may bring in more restrictions or announce a complete lockdown. So they rush to the market to stock up at every chance they get,” he said, adding that the existent weekend lockdown is also to be blamed. “Most vegetable and fruit vendors run of stock by the end of the week. So they rush to the mandi to replenish their stocks on the first and second days of the week,” he said. He added that this problem can be eased if the administration allows the vendors to make sales even during curfew hours. He added that a change in relaxation timings may also help ease the rush. Perishable items Sanjay Kumar, a vegetable vendor, said, “We have to buy and sell the produce within a limited time frame of seven hours. We start our day at 4am, but it is difficult to sell the product by noon.” Rajinder Singh, a local fruit vendor, said, “As vegetables and fruits are perishable items, we can’t store these for long. We try to sell as much as possible, but we hardly have any buyers in the early morning hours. The crowds swell up after 9am and by noon everyone is in a hurry to get back home. We also don’t want to be caught by the police, so we pack up and leave quickly,” said Singh. No lessons learnt The vegetable mandi had remained the epicenter of the virus spread in Ludhiana last year. At least four out of the 93 cops deployed here for crowd control had tested positive in the initial months following which the infection spread further. In April, the city lost an ACP, Anil Kumar Kohli, who was deployed at Sabzi Mandi, to the deadly disease. The ACP’s wife and gunman had also tested positive. Further, the district mandi officer, who had come in contact with the ACP, also tested positive, and subsequently, her family members had also caught the infection. Following this, the sabzi mandi had remained closed for over a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-mad-dash-to-stock-up-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-at-ludhiana-vegetable-mandi-101620763349285.html
12-05-2021||Other||Deadliest day in HP as virus claims 64 lives||Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday witnessed the deadliest day since the outbreak of the coronavirus after 64 patients succumbed to the contagion, the highest single-day fatality. The death toll has now reached 1,989. The highest 21 deaths were reported in Kangra, the most populous district and worst-hit by the second wave of Covid. Twelve people died in Solan, 10 in Mandi, seven in Shimla, four each in Sirmaur and Una, three in Chamba, two in Hamirpur and one in Kullu. Kangra alone accounts for 27% of the fatalities, followed by Shimla (20%) and Mandi 11%. The state has a case fatality ratio of 1.41%. Meanwhile, the state recorded 4,977 fresh infections, taking the state’s tally to 1,40,759. Of the new cases, 1,526 were recorded in Kangra, 881 in Mandi, 583 in Shimla, 443 in Hamirpur, 335 in Bilaspur, 313 in Una, 274 in Solan, 266 in Chamba, 213 in Sirmaur, 117 in Kullu, 29 in Lahaul-Spiti and 19 in Kinnaur. RECOVERIES BREACH 1L MARK Recoveries in the state breached the 1 lakh mark as on Tuesday. A total of 1,02,499 people have recovered in the state. The highest number of people have recovered in Kangra, followed by 15,222 in Mandi and 15,011 in Shimla. There are 36,232 active cases in the state, of which Kangra (10,745) has the highest, followed by Mandi (3,936), Solan (3,841) and Shimla (3,537). In terms of total case count, Kangra, is the worst-hit district with 29,310 infections and is followed by Mandi with 19,390 cases and Shimla 18,966. These three district share about 60% of the disease burden of the state. Solan’s case tally has reached 17,058, Sirmaur 10,718, Hamirpur 7,826, Una 9,222, Bilaspur 8,553, Kullu 6,870, Chamba 6,450, Lahaul-Spiti 2,224 and Kinnaur 2,172.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/deadliest-day-in-hp-as-virus-claims-64-lives-101620763168517.html
12-05-2021||Other||Govt-aided school in Ludhiana opens for teachers in violation of curfew orders||Throwing all norms to the wind, RS Model Senior Secondary School, a government-aided private school in Shastri Nagar, has been calling its entire staff of over 50 teachers to the campus, in violation of the curfew orders. Interestingly, the district education officer (DEO) is a member of the school’s managing committee.As per information, the school authorities have made it mandatory for teachers of all classes – LKG to Class 12 –to come to the school to conduct online classes for students. Each class has six sections. The teachers are expected to stay in school till 3.30pm, three-and-a-half hours into the curfew. The fresh curfew orders by the district administration permits only government school teachers to come to school and that too from 8am to 11.15am. All other schools are forbidden from opening. However, in addition to circumventing the rules, RS Model School continues to be open despite the fact that a number of its teachers have isolated themselves as their close relatives tested positive for Covid-19.While the school’s staff is understandably apprehensive to come to campus amid the rapid spread of infections, they face the additional problem of returning home during curfew hours. “In school, we are scared of sitting in the staff room as pens, books and furniture could be infected. While we maintain social distancing, the staff eats lunch together. All this has created a lot of panic as we have children and elderly parents at home. Moreover, on our way back home, we are constantly worried that the police may catch us for curfew violations,” said a teacher of the school while requesting anonymity.When contacted, school principal Suneeta Devgan abruptly disconnected the phone saying the school’s director Mohan Lal Kalra should be contacted as he was responsible for calling the staff. “Don’t contact me,” she said and immediately disconnected. When contacted for his comment, Kalra offered his justification by asking why the administration had allowed government schools to call their staff during relaxation hours in morning. “Why have they closed all other educational institutions?” he asked while claiming that his too was “a government school”.When pointed out that RS Model School was not a government entity but only a recipient of government aid and therefore was not allowed to open, Kalra then remarked that the curfew orders imposed by the administration were irrational and there should not be any difference between government and private schools. “Only some family members of the teachers have tested positive, but not the teachers,” he said.“We will be taking strict action against the school and ensure such violations do not occur,” said Lakhvir Singh, district education officer.“All educational institutions are ordered to be closed during curfew hours. There is no question of any private or government-aided private school opening. Only govt schools can open at 50% strength from 8am to 11.15am. If any violation comes to light, the erring school will be ordered to immediately shut down,” said Varinder Kumar Sharma, deputy commissioner.“We will be asking education department to look into the matter,” said police commisioner Rakesh Kumar Agrawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govtaided-school-in-ludhiana-opens-for-teachers-in-violation-of-curfew-orders-101620763108536.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||With 65 fatalities, J&K grimmest day so far||Jammu and Kashmir clocked a record 65 fatalities on Tuesday, pushing the UT’s toll to 2,847, making it the grimmest day so far. J&K also witnessed 4,352 fresh infections, taking the total cases to 2,24,898.The number of active cases has crossed 50,000 to reach 50,701, officials said. Most of these cases have been detected after February 9 when the UT had the lowest active case tally of 593.So far, 565 people have succumbed to the disease this month, making it the highest monthly death toll since the pandemic began in March 2020. In September,when the first wave had peaked, as many as 478 persons had lost their lives to the virus.Of the 65 deaths reported in the UT, 41 were reported in Jammu division and 24 in Kashmir. Of the new cases, 2,644 are from Kashmir while 1,708 are from Jammu, besides 84 were travellers. “Covid-appropriate behaviour, exercise, healthy and hygienic diet are multiple lines of defence against the infection, said medical superintendent, Mother and Childcare Hospital Gandhi Nagar, Dr Arun Sharma.“It is not limited to wearing a face mask in public and frequent hand-washing, it also includes sanitisation of objects one comes in contact with and social distancing while in publics space,” he said. Officials said with 846 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 602 in Jammu district, 361 in Baramulla, 322 in Budgam, 282 in Pulwama and 251 in Kathua.Dr Sharma further said that the first line of defence against Covid-19 is intake of nutritious diet which must include all essential nutrients, namely carbohydrates, proteins, vitamins and minerals. He suggested that people should take fiber rich food, brown bread, oats, cereals and sprouts as part of a healthy diet. “One must also drink one litre water per 20 kg body weight, that is to say 3 litres of water for a healthy 60kg person’, he advised. Physical exercise for half an hour daily or walking 15,000 steps must be done to maintain a healthy body with good immune system,” advised Dr Arun Sharma. Around 3,537 patients have recovered of the disease, including 2,262 from Kashmir and 1275 from Jammu.As many as 1,71,350 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 76.19 % against 98% in the first fortnight of February. The officials said that 41,353 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours taking overall tests to 7.73 million. Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 95,000 cases and 1,344 deaths. Jammu district has taken over as the one with highest number of 714 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 630 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-65-fatalities-j-k-grimmest-day-so-far-101620763048908.html
12-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to divert 310,000 Covid-19 jabs to 45+ group amid crunch||Amid the shortage of vaccine doses against the rising number of beneficiaries above the age of 45 waiting for their second shots, the Maharashtra government on Tuesday decided to divert 310,000 Covaxin doses meant for the 18-44 age group to the 45+ group. Even though state health minister Rajesh Tope stopped short of suspending the inoculation drive for the 18-44 age group, officials feel it is likely to be halted owing to limited sessions.Maharashtra has more than 2.1 million people above 45 years whose second dose is due, of which more than 500,000 are awaiting the second Covaxin dose. Tope on Tuesday said the decision to divert the stock was taken after the central government asked states to use the stock procured by them for the third phase of the drive — the 18-44 age group. He said all vaccination centres in the state have been directed to divert the stock meant for the 18-44 age group.The state has 600,000 doses of Covishield and 36,000 of Covaxin, received this week. Of them, 350,000 doses of Covishield were for the 18-44 age group, while the remaining stock was for 45+.Also read | Maharashtra adds 40,956 new Covid cases; Mumbai’s daily caseload down to 1,717“I spoke to union heath minister Dr Harsh Vardhanji, requesting him for additional stock for the second doses of people above 45 years. He, however, informed us about the unavailability of doses and asked us to utilise the stock procured for the 18-44 age group. After talking with chief minister Uddhav Thackerayji, we have decided to divert the stock of 310,000 doses of Covaxin, which will now be made available for the second dose [for 45+]. This includes 275,000 doses of Covaxin procured by the state for 18-44 years and 35,000 supplied by the Centre,” said Tope.“More than 500,000 people are waiting for second dose of Covaxin, while 1.6 million people are due for their second dose of Covishield. The diversion of the stock is expected to slow down the vaccination drive for the age group of 18-44 years. We will take a call how to go about the drive for this age group by talking to the task force,” he said.Maharashtra has vaccinated 15,140,471 people with 18,787,531 doses, with 375,713 administered on Tuesday.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, however, said state governments should reserve at least 70% of stock supplied to them for the second dose. He said the states should prioritise the administration of second doses to address the issue of the large number of people waiting for their second doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-divert-310-000-covid-19-jabs-to-45-group-amid-crunch-101620762723750.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Virus cases in Srinagar on the decline for 4 days||The last four days have given people and officials in Srinagar, the district worst-affected by the Covid pandemic, a glimmer of hope as the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir has consistently recorded less than 1,000 cases after a record spike in daily infections from May 1 to 7.On the first week of May, Srinagar had seen 7,930 cases (an average 1,130 cases per day) while the district saw a total 3,320 cases between May 8 and 11 (an average 830 cases per day). On May 4, the capital had witnessed the highest 1,311 infections which had plunged to 853 on Saturday, 920 on Sunday and 701 on Monday, the lowest in the past two weeks.Srinagar deputy commissioner Aijaz Asad had tweeted, “701 positive cases in Srinagar (on Monday) is the lowest figure in the last 2 weeks at the same/ higher testing rate. Still not a good data for a good conclusion. The virus is preying on all atoms of the human body. Please adhere to SOPs.”The slight relative decline in Covid cases in Srinagar came after 10 days of a lockdown which was imposed in the worst affected districts of the UT on April 29 and has now been extended to all the 20 districts till May 17.Dr M Salim Khan, head of community medicine and nodal officer Covid at Government Medical College, Srinagar, said that he did not believe that the actual cases were reducing. “The low cases in these three days is due to low testing. Also, there were three official holidays prompting people to stay at home. When few patients approach hospitals only then can we say that cases have reduced,” he said. HT could not get the data on the number of tests conducted in the district during this period. However the number of tests across the UT remained more or less same in the past week, except on Monday, which saw an around 15 % reduction in the number of tests against the average 44,000-45000 tests being conducted per day over the week. Srinagar is J&K’s worst-affected district with 53,800 cases, of which 11,150 are active and 622 fatalities. Jammu comes at a close second with 40,600 cases, of which 7,600 are active and 686 fatalities. The UT will be celebrating Eid-ul-Fitr on Friday, subject to the appearance of the moon, amid the Covid curfew. This will be for the third year in a row that the people of Kashmir will be celebrating Eid under restrictions. The district administration in Srinagar has allowed bakery, vegetable, meat and chicken outlets to operate from 8am to 12pm from Tuesday ahead of the festival. But it has vowed to enforce the restrictions strictly to avoid crowding.“Coronavirus is illiterate, unlettered, visually impaired, hard of hearing (and) unimpassioned. It doesn’t differentiate between festive and non-festive days,” Asad said.The government officials in the district have also been asked to acquire curfew passes. “Movement of government officials shall be facilitated through a pass system from tomorrow. All heads of departments are requested to kindly place requisition for passes immediately,” a spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/virus-cases-in-srinagar-on-the-decline-for-4-days-101620762868314.html
12-05-2021||Other||J&K govt extends help to senior citizens, orphans, daily-wage workers hit by pandemic||Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Tuesday announced several measures to help those of lost their loved ones to the pandemic and also daily-wage workers hit by the pandemic in the Union territory on Tuesday.“The J&K government has taken several measures to help those who unfortunately lost their loved ones to Covid. Senior citizens who have lost only earning member of the family will be provided special pension for life. Children who have lost their parents to the pandemic will be provided with special scholarship by the government,” Sinha’s office announced on Twitter.The government said it has decided to reach out to each and every such family and they will be provided with financial assistance for self-employment.“At a time when this global pandemic has rendered daily workers jobless, the government has decided to provide ₹1,000 per month to all registered construction workers, ponywalas, palkiwalas, pithuwalas for the next two months,” it added.The government has directed all officers concerned to ensure the supply of ration to all ration card holders on priority.Instalments of social welfare schemes such as old-age pension, Laadli Beti and PMAY, MGNREGA and other welfare schemes will be released immediately, it added.In these challenging times, the old-age homes and orphanages will be extended all the support from the government including rations, the government said.“Our biggest priority is to defeat this pandemic. I urge all of you to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and get vaccinated. We will soon prevail together over this pandemic,” it added. Sinha said all deputy commissioners will be asked to issue death certificates to the people who died due to Covid on priority and ₹55 crore will be released, of which ₹2 crore will be released to all 20 DCs , ₹5 crore to both divisional commissioners and ₹5 crore to the Jammu and Kashmir Police for emergency use under the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-govt-extends-help-to-senior-citizens-orphans-daily-wage-workers-hit-by-pandemic-101620762689333.html
12-05-2021||Mumbai||Hailed as heroes, but plaints of doctors, nurses ignored||Since the outbreak of the pandemic in March last year, around 11,000 doctors and nurses in Maharashtra have contracted Covid-19 infection. Of them, 62 have succumbed to the deadly infection in the line of duty, as per data provided by the state health department. The tributes on various platforms notwithstanding, on ground, these pillars of the public health system feel “discouraged”, claiming the authorities largely ignore their well-being. Numberspeak As doctors and nurses work in close proximity to Covid-19 patients, they are the most vulnerable to contracting Sars-Cov-2—the virus that causes novel coronavirus. Till May 10, a total of 3,473 and 2,914 government and private doctors have been infected. Of the total 6,387 infected doctors, 62 succumbed —16 of whom were government doctors. Data shows, in the same period, as many as 4,497 nurses got infected—2,909 serving patients in government medical setups, while the remaining at private hospitals. A total of 12 deaths have been recorded – nine from government facilities, while three from private facilities. “Most infections were recorded in the first wave when the hospitals didn’t have adequate number of personal protective equipment (PPE) and standard operating procedures (SOP) were not in place. In the second wave, we have seen fewer infections and lower fatality rate,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer. Doctors’ plaintsAfter 14 months of Covid-19 duty, healthcare workers are feeling mentally and physically exhausted. Resident doctors, however, allege that instead of appreciation, they often face discrimination and dejection from the authorities. For instance, a 28-year-old resident doctor, who is pursuing his post-graduation at a government medical college in a rural district of Maharashtra, contracted the virus last year while serving Covid-19 patients. After his recovery, the doctor developed post-Covid complications that obstructed his movements. His doctor advised him to take complete bed rest. After recovery, he joined Covid duty at the hospital in January. To his surprise, in March, the doctor was served a notice informing him that his post-graduation term has been extended by two terms, which means 12 months, as he was on leave during recovery. “This is injustice and unethical. I contracted the infection on duty. I wasn’t even called to provide an explanation and submit documents,” said the doctor. HT is in possession of the complaint letter filed by the doctor, who is not named to protect his identity. At Sion Hospital, 262 resident doctors have contracted Covid-19 so far. Although they are being provided with nutritious food, their hostel walls have moss and fungus, which can cause infection among recovered patients as they have low immunity. “Many recovered patients are now developing mucormycosis in which a person can lose eyesight, palate, tongue and can even die. In such a situation, it is risky for those with low immunity to live in such unhygienic conditions,” said a member of Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) from the hospital. HT has photos and videos of the hotels. Last year, students of BYL Nair, King Edward Memorial and Lokmanya Tilak General hospitals were receiving a daily stipend of ₹300 as an incentive for their Covid-19 duty. In January, when the number of Covid-19 cases dipped, the incentive was stopped. “In the second wave, where one doctor has to handle over 30 patients at a time, we deserve the incentive. Other than civic-run medical colleges, it should also be given to doctors from government-run medical colleges,” said a member of the central MARD. Due to the ongoing pandemic, students who had sought admission to post-graduation for specialised courses are facing academic loss, as they couldn’t study properly due to their Covid-19 duty. Despite this, the students alleged the medical colleges are charging ₹1 lakh as tuition fees. “We have not learned anything on the specialities we opted for, which has created a sense of insecurity about our future. Deploying resident doctors for Covid duties is understandable, but what about their medical education? Instead of giving relief and uplifting the morale, they’ve been forced to pay academic fees for classes which were never conducted,” said Dr Deepak Munde, a post-graduation resident at KEM hospital, who was the former president of MARD. He didn’t have the money to pay the fees so, had to sign a bond declaring that he will pay the money later. Doctors also often have to face assaults by the hands of patients’ relatives over unavailability of beds or oxygen. In the latest incident, last week, a first-year post-graduate student from the department of medicine, who was on Covid-19 duty at the Grant Medical College, Latur, was assaulted by a relative of a coronavirus patient over unavailability of an intensive care unit (ICU) bed. “The patient was serious with oxygen level below 85% and required an ICU bed, but we didn’t have one. It is not our fault that beds aren’t available in hospitals. The patients’ relatives thrashed us. For years, we have been asking the department to increase security. With the rise in cases, such incidents have also increased,” said a doctor from the hospital. Later, an first investigation report (FIR) was filed against the family members, but they weren’t arrested on humanitarian grounds. Nurses’ issues Nurses also complain of lack of basic facilities. Most nurses are working under tremendous stress due to the manpower shortage. Jibin TC, president, United Nurses Association (UNA), Maharashtra, said that since 2019, the health department hasn’t filled up 59,000 posts of nurses. “In February 2019, the public health department advertised for 59,000 posts. But the examination was held only in February of this year. So far, the recruitment process hasn’t been completed,” he said. At rural hospitals like Kuwar Tilak Singh Hospital, Gondia, staffers allege contractors, who are given the responsibility to hire nurses, recruit only inexperienced nurses over qualified ones to save money. “At present, seven nurses in the hospital have Covid-19 infection, which brings down the staff strength. In addition, we have to train these inexperienced nurses who fail to provide proper care to patients,” said a nurse from the hospital over the phone. Dr TP Lahane, director of DMER refuted the claims, stating, “These are just allegations. Everything has been taken care of.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hailed-as-heroes-but-plaints-of-doctors-nurses-ignored-101620762687936.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 in Delhi: Dip in cases continues, deaths cross 20,000||Delhi on Tuesday continued to witness a dip in new Covid-19 cases, with 12,481 fresh infections recorded in the last 24 hours, which was the lowest since April 12. The positivity rate also came down to 17.76%, the lowest since April 14 this year when it was 15.92%. On April 22, a positivity rate of 36.2%, the highest so far, was recorded.The Capital reported 12,651 cases of the infection on Monday, 13,336 on Sunday and 17,364 cases on Saturday, according to the government’s daily bulletin.“The positivity rate has been reducing from the highest 36%... this is a positive sign but we cannot get comfortable. We can’t rest till the positivity rate drops below 5% and the number of new cases below three or four thousand. The reversal of the trend began in April last week, but now it is confirm that Delhi has crossed the peak,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain in a press briefing on Tuesday.Also read | Will float global tenders for vaccines soon: Manish Sisodia“At the moment, there is no problem relating to oxygen and the demand for oxygen is also slowly going down. However, the demand for hospital beds is still quite high; nearly 20,000 people are admitted in the hospitals. At the peak, it was about 22 thousand hospitalisation. In comparison, the highest number of hospitalisation during November was 9,500,” said Jain.With 347 deaths due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reported on Tuesday, Delhi’s total toll crossed 20,000 mark. With the sharp spike in the number of cases in the city in April, the number of deaths has also shot up with the last 5,000 fatalities being recorded within 14 days. The previous 5,000 deaths in the city were reported over 135 days, according to the daily health bulletin shared by the Delhi government.Dr Rajinder K Dhamija, professor of medicine and neurology at Lady Hardinge Medical College, said the hospitals have been running full as people need oxygen or ventilator support for longer duration. “The variants in circulation in Delhi – the UK B1.117 and Indian B1.617 – have not only resulted in more infections but also severe symptoms. During this wave, we have seen that people have fever for about 10 to 14 days and requiring respiratory support for about two to three weeks,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-in-delhi-dip-in-cases-continues-deaths-cross-20000-101620762084676.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Tarn Taran police rope in sarpanches to boost testing, vaccination||As Covid continues to spread its tentacles in villages of Punjab, Tarn Taran police have decided to rope in sarpanches and councillors of nagar panchayats to boost testing and vaccination in the rural areas where people have been showing reluctance to adhere to the health department’s guidelines.The police of the district, 87% population of which lives in rural areas, have also identified 80 villages with 300+ population to start special drives with the help of local administration and health department for vaccinating all those aged above 45 years.According to the Punjab health department, the current case fatality rate in Punjab’s rural areas is 2.7% against less than 1% in urban areas. Out of the total 6,416 positive cases in the district, 4,992 were reported from the rural areas. The district has reported 246 deaths in total.The initiative of the Punjab Police comes after it was brought to the fore that most of the people living in the rural areas of Tarn Taran showed reluctance in complying with the mandatory restrictions of the health department. The health officials in Tarn Taran were also “astonished” to find that “deaths in some villages were being underreported” due to the “Covid conspiracy” agenda on social media and an alleged campaign of the farm leaders refusing to accept the severity of the virus. The farmer leaders in Tarn Taran have been mobilising support for organising a huge procession from Harike Pattan town to the national capital against the three farm laws.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale himself has been holding meetings with 20-25 sarpanches on a daily basis. He has also directed all SPs and DSPs to continue such meetings with all village heads, representatives of panchayati raj and councillors of the nagar panchayats to ensure building of trust for the health department and the government’s efforts to contain the virus.“We are making the sarpanches aware so that they can further ensure proper testing and vaccination in their respective villages. There has been a spread of misinformation about the vaccine on social media. The sarpanches are being told not to believe any misinformation,” said the SSP.A senior medical officer (SMO) said, “Our recently conducted survey showed that people living in rural areas had been preferring quacks instead of approaching hospitals. There have also been reports that many deaths in the district’s villages are being underreported. Police’s action is appreciable, but large scale campaigns are needed to spread the awareness about the severity of Covid.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tarn-taran-police-rope-in-sarpanches-to-boost-testing-vaccination-101620762388444.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||J&K to weave a brand for Kashmir silk||To capitalise on its centuries-old association with silk and sericulture, the Jammu and Kashmir administration is planning to promote Kashmir silk under the Union Territory’s overall brand. The plan is part of J&K industries’ initiative to promote a few selected products that are part of the cultural legacy. “Many people don’t know that Kashmir is famous for silk as well. That is why, we are striving to brand silk under the overall brand of Jammu and Kashmir,” said Sajid Nazir, deputy general manager, J&K industries. “Kashmir has been historically into silk production and trade. Since 1890s, silk was produced in an organised manner and exported to the UK. In the second world war, silk fabric for parachutes was exported from Kashmir,” he said, adding, “Given the history and legacy of Kashmir silk, there is imminent spoken potential for this industry to develop.” Tracing the past Kashmir’s association with silk and sericulture has been an old story to the extent that Rajtarangini – the oldest written chronicle of Kashmir – mentions it, besides the accounts in 7th century AD in Xuang Zang’s travelogue. Kashmir’s first silk reeling factory was started at Solina in Srinagar in 1897 under the patronage of British. In 1937, a silk-weaving factory was established at Rajbagh. By 1961-62, the production of silk in the state went to around 98,000 kg. The decline in silk production started in the late 1980s and with the eruption of militancy in 1990s, the silk reeling and weaving factories became obsolete and defunct. “Whatever was left of the factories, the flood of 2014 destroyed everything,” said Nazir. However, the reeling at Solina filatures and weaving at Rajbagh factory was restarted after the floods when new machines were procured owing to a World Bank-funded Jhelum Tawi Flood Recovery Project (JTFRP). “The World Bank is primarily supporting this initiative to help the cocoon rearers. As per the sericulture department, 30,000 families in J&K are producing cocoons,” said Nazir, who coordinates the industries-commerce component of the World Bank project. Not long ago, Jammu and Kashmir had been producing one of the finest silk qualities in the world with high-end varieties like ‘lotus’, ‘iris’, ‘tulip’, and ‘neel’. Nazir said that the approximate annual production of cocoon in J&K is 900 metric tons (MT) or 9 lakh kgs. “Maximum of these cocoons go to West Bengal and Karnataka and a very small portion of cocoons are turned into silk or fabric in Srinagar’s reeling and weaving factories,” said Nazir. He said that now silk reeling and weaving units have also been established in Jammu. Nazir said that last year, cocoons worth ₹5.5 crore were procured from the farmers which produced 23, 000 kg of yarn or 4 lakh metres of silk fabric. “This year, we intend to procure double the quantity worth ₹11 crore, which will be around 130-150 metric tonnes,” he said. “Promoting Kashmir silk as a brand is important for helping the local industry and safeguarding of the livelihood of the farmers, ” Nazir added. “Young people only know that Kashmir is known for handicrafts or horticulture. Silk is also an important part of Kashmir. To encourage this, we want the brand promotion of silk as well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-to-weave-a-brand-for-kashmir-silk-101620762328548.html
12-05-2021||Other||Lightning strikes 2 dead in Rampur; 24 sheep, goats washed away in Bharmour||Two Nepalese workers were killed after being struck by lightning in Mashnoo panchayat, Rampur, in Shimla district on Monday night.The victims are Resham and Vishal, of Rapti Anchal, Nepal. They worked in the orchard of one Sishupal of Mashnoo. Rampur sub-divisional police officer Chander Shekhar said the duo were returning from work when it started raining, forcing them to seek shelter under a tree that was struck by lightning rendering them unconscious. The injured were rushed to a hospital in Sarahan where the doctors declared the victims dead on arrival. Police have initiated inquest proceedings under the Section 174 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).Flashflood wreaks havocIn another incident, at least 24 sheep and goats were washed away in a flashflood triggered by heavy rainfall in Poolan panchayat of the tribal Bharmaur sub-division in Chamba district.Police said Madan Lal, a shepherd, was camping in the fields with his livestock on Monday night when they were struck by a flashflood. Lal escaped but around two dozen of his livestock were washed away. Bharmour sub- divisional magistrate Manish Kumar Soni said a team of revenue official had been sent to the spot to assess the loss.Pandoh receives heaviest rainfall At 31mm, Pandoh in Mandi district witnessed the highest rainfall, followed by Chamba (16 mm), Keylong (15 mm), Seohbag in Kullu (12 mm), Mandi town (11mm) and Bajaura and Kheri 10mm each.Keylong and Kalpa were the coldest in the state with a minimum temperature of 6.7°C each. Una was the warmest with a day temperature of 36.7°C.The meteorological department has forecast rain and thunderstorm across the state till May 15. A yellow warning for thunderstorm, lightening, hailstorm and gusty winds (30-40km/hr) has been issued in low and middle hills for May 12 and 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lightning-strikes-2-dead-in-rampur-24-sheep-goats-washed-away-in-bharmour-101620762088364.html
12-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana: 60 deaths in two days send alarm bells ringing||Covid-19 continued to wreak havoc in Ludhiana as 30 more patients lost their battle to the virus in 24 hours, taking the district’s two-day toll to 60. Besides, 1,386 persons also tested positive, taking the active cases in the district to 11,480 on Tuesday. The district toll since the pandemic outbreak has now touched 1, 610 while the total number of cases is 69,851. Deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma described the situation as ‘critical’ and reiterated that people should not take the matter lightly. “The situation is very critical at the moment. The cases and deaths are rapidly rising. As of now, we are not short of oxygen, but we don’t know what will happen if the situation fails to show improvement in the coming days. Hospitals are choked to capacity, we are witnessing such a high number of deaths daily and still some people are not serious,” he said. The DC added that the state is short of vaccines and oxygen supply, but officials are leaving no stone unturned to ensure that lives are saved. Sharma added that the current situation calls for a complete lockdown, but the administration has given a relaxation due to economic considerations. “There were worries that the poor may not be able to survive another lockdown, so a relaxation has been given in the morning hours to help them earn a livelihood. But that does not mean people start crowding public places and markets,” he said. Of the 30 deaths reported on Tuesday, the youngest is a 26-year-old woman of Sandhu Nagar while the oldest is also a woman, an 88-year-old from Civil Lines. A total of 23 men and seven women are among those who succumbed to the virus. Eight of the fatalities were in their 50s, eight others were in their 60s, seven were in their 70s and two in 80s. Three persons who died were in their 40s while two other victims were aged 33 and 26. High efficiency gas chamber started for cremationsDue to escalation in death rate in Punjab, a new type of LPG gas fired cremation chamber with enclosed stainless-steel structure, which can withstand high temperature, has been designed by a team of engineers headed by Ranjodh Singh, managing director, GST group, Ludhiana. The whole cremation will take less than an hour with very little emission and low gas consumption. The first cremation making use of this chamber was performed on Tuesday at Ramgarhia Shamshanghat, Dholewal, Ludhiana, of Uma Pati, aged 60, who succumbed to Covid-19 at civil hospital, Ludhiana. So far, Ramgarhia cremation ground, under the management of Ramgarhia Educational Council (regd) has performed 739 Covid cremations, of which 138 were in May alone. Ranjodh Singh said, “We will supply the LPG gas chambers to other crematoriums in Ludhiana and Punjab, at cost-to-cost basis.” Panel to streamline O2 supply to private individuals, NGO’s With the rising number of Covid critical care patients, there is an increased demand for oxygen by private individuals as well as NGOs. As per the order dated May 2, oxygen prescription to private individuals in home isolation has been prohibited. Despite these orders, a lot many people are approaching oxygen plants directly to get oxygen cylinders, said the DC. To streamline this system, a committee, headed by nodal officer Dr Hatinder Kaur Kaler, has been formed to streamline the system to issue oxygen cylinders to individual patients and NGOs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/60-deaths-in-two-days-send-alarm-bells-ringing-101620761969552.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||At 217, Punjab sees highest-ever single-day deaths||Punjab broke its record for highest-ever single-day Covid death toll by reporting 217 fatalities on Tuesday. This is for the first time since the pandemic outbreak that the death toll has crossed the 200-mark in the state. The state also reported 8,668 fresh cases, registering a positivity rate of 15.03%. According to the media bulletin, a maximum of 30 deaths were reported in Ludhiana, followed by 27 in Bathinda, 17 each in Patiala and Amritsar, 13 each in Muktsar and Sangrur, 12 in Fazilka, 10 in Ferozepur, 9 each in Mohali and Gurdaspur, 8 each in Faridkot and Pathankot, 5 in Kapurthala and 4 each in SBS Nagar and Tarn Taran. Ludhiana topped the chart with 1,386 fresh cases, Mohali 1,020, Fazilka 702, Bathinda 682, Patiala 638, and Jalandhar 571. Mansa has highest positivity rate Mansa district registered a maximum of 34.71% positivity rate in the state, followed by 30.81% in Mohali, 29% in Ferozepur, 22.19% Fazilka, 21.35% in Bathinda, 18.25% in Muktsar and 15.54% in Pathankot. A total of 7,324 people were discharged on Tuesday. 9,652 patients are on oxygen support and 324 on ventilator support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-217-punjab-sees-highest-ever-single-day-deaths-101620761968438.html
12-05-2021||Delhi||Will float global tenders for vaccines soon: Manish Sisodia||The Delhi government will float global tenders for Covid-19 vaccines soon, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Tuesday, even as he criticised the Centre for exporting vaccines to other countries and “pitting states against each other” for procurement of doses in the international market due to a shortage of doses.The Delhi government has repeatedly flagged dwindling stocks of vaccine doses in the Capital, saying that manufacturers were not supplying enough stocks to meet the target of inoculating the city’s entire adult population in the next three months.Addressing a news briefing, Sisodia said the Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled central government was “forcing” state governments to invite global tenders for vaccine procurement. He said Delhi was faced with a situation where people aged between 18 and 44 were eager to get their Covid-19 vaccine jabs, but they were unable to do so because of a shortage of vaccines.“We will also float global tenders for vaccines. If state governments only have to fight with each other in the international market for vaccines and that is the only way left, then the Delhi government will also go that way. But, why is it that states have to buy vaccines from outside India? It was the Centre’s job to procure Covid-19 vaccines well in time from the international market and give it to states. Instead, the Centre was busy exporting vaccines for image-building exercise. Scores of lives could have been saved in our country had the central government not distributed 6.5 crore doses to other countries, and given it to its own citizens,” the deputy CM said.He gave the examples of how the US and the European nations focused on ensuring the vaccination of all their citizens first.A BJP spokesperson was unavailable for comment, despite repeated attempts. Earlier on Monday, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra had accused AAP of playing politics over the vaccine issue.Also read | Allow more pharma firms to make vaccines: Delhi CM Kejriwal to CentreSisodia, who is also Delhi’s nodal minister for Covid-19 management, blamed the central government for the “mess” created over the stocks of vaccinations.He said the Centre was “shirking from its responsibility” by asking states to directly procure vaccines through global tenders – a step which he said should have been taken by the Centre in March this year.He said it had never happened in the last 70 years that a central government left the states to fend for themselves at the global stage.The deputy chief minister said that if states were asked to purchase vaccines internationally through global tenders, then the state with the largest coffers would unfairly procure the most doses.“This will lead to fights among states, and further bashing and criticism of the country in international communities,” he said.Sisodia’s remarks came on a day the Delhi government said it will have to temporarily shut around 125 of its vaccine centres meant for those from the 18-44 age group due to the shortage of Covaxin vaccine doses.Sisodia reiterated that Delhi needed 300,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines every day, of which 150,000 were for those below 45 years of age.“I appeal to the central government to take cognisance of the crisis at hand and immediately begin a vaccine programme along the lines of the Pulse Polio Programme. If Delhi receives sufficient number of vaccines from the central government, we will ensure that all are vaccinated in a matter of three months,” Sisodia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/will-float-global-tenders-for-vaccines-soon-manish-sisodia-101620761668371.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal promotes 1.16 lakh Class 10 students to next class||After examinations were called off in the wake of the raging coronavirus pandemic, the Himachal Pradesh government promoted Class 10 students affiliated with the Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education to the next class on Tuesday. A circular to this effect was issued by director of higher education Amarjeet K Sharma to all deputy directors, principals, headmasters and headmistresses.As many as 1,16,954 students have been promoted to class 11 in the state. Students had taken their first examination, Hindi, on April 13. However, the rest of the exams were cancelled amid a sudden spike in cases.The circular also directed officials concerned to ensure admission of Class 10 students of their schools as well as those in their vicinity to Class 11 on provisional basis. “The deputy director of higher education of the districts concerned will ensure all students are admitted before the last date of admission May 31,” it said.Students will attend classes under the Har Ghar Pathshala programme and will be monitored on a daily basis .The criteria for tabulation of marks for Class 10 class will be prepared and circulated by the board’s Dharamshala office. Meet to tabulate criterion for promotion HPBOSE chairperson Suresh Kumar Soni and secretary Akshey Sood held a virtual meeting with the principals and headmasters of government schools of all 12 district to formulate a criteria to promote Class-10 students.It was agreed that the criteria should be based the performance of students in the first term, second term, pre-board exams and internal assessment. A formula of distribution of certain percentage of marks based on the performance of students will be developed, on the basis of which final evaluation will be done.The board officials will also hold a meeting with the association of private schools to discuss the matter on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-promotes-1-16-lakh-class-10-students-to-next-class-101620761789312.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Over 60% ventilators at Faridkot medical college non-functional||At a time when hospitals are facing shortage of ventilators for Covid patients, 73 of the 119 lifesaving machines at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College (GGSMCH), Faridkot, are not working due to multiple defects or are of “inferior” quality.Most of the defective ventilators were received under the PM Cares Fund, said officials. The hospitals also wrote to the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) urging officials to get the ventilators repaired.A GGSMCH official said that they received 80 ventilators under the PM Cares Fund last year but most of these are defective. “Six ventilators stopped working on Monday following some technical glitch. Of the 73 non-functional ventilators, 71 were received under the PM Cares Fund,” said an official. With only 46 ventilators working, the GGSMCH staring at crisis to provide treatment to critical patients. Presently, 40 patients, including critical Covid patients, are on ventilator support at the Faridkot hospital, which means only six ventilators are left. GGSMCH medical superintendent Dr Shilekh Mittal said due to multiple defects, 73 ventilators are not working. “We have informed the higher authorities and a team of engineers will visit the hospital on Wednesday. We are trying our best to provide treatment to every patient, but if ventilators are not repaired on time, we may face a shortage of lifesaving machines as number of critical patients is on the rise,” he said.BFUHS vice-chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur said they have raised these issues and conveyed that the quality of the ventilators under PM Cares Fund is inferior. “Otherwise also, when they are used for the patients, snag in working appear frequently, so these cannot be subjected to patients till we have a comprehensive repair mechanism,” he said. “Chief secretary in the last video conference has approved the hiring of engineers or technicians for repairing ventilators. We should have a long-term comprehensive maintenance contract with the agency, which has provided these PM Care Fund ventilators,” said Dr Raj Bahadur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/over-60-ventilators-at-faridkot-medical-college-nonfunctional-101620761668480.html
12-05-2021||Other||9 arrested for poaching in Maharashtra’s wildlife sanctuary||The wildlife department arrested nine people in the past week from Akole taluka in Maharashtra’s Ahmednagar district for their alleged involvement in what officials claim is an “inter-district” wildlife poaching ring. Another four accused, who have been identified as residents of Thane and Raigad districts, are currently absconding, said a forest department staffer who is a part of the investigation.The wildlife department also recovered an undisclosed quantity of wild boar meat from the home of one of the accused, in addition to various nets which were allegedly used to trap boar and possibly other small animals, said officials. Samples of the meat have been sent to a laboratory for testing.The matter came to light on the morning of May 3 when department officials in the Rajur forest range of Kalsubai Harishchandragad Wildlife Sanctuary received a tip-off that wild pigs were being hunted with rifles in the area.As these animals are protected under Schedule 3 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, two response teams, one from Rajur forest range and another from Bhandardara forest range, were roped in to investigate. “We got some credible information that a man in Somalvadi village was hunting pigs. After getting a search warrant and finding the evidence, the accused was remanded to police custody for three days, during which we also recovered photos and videos of him in the act [hunting], using a small bore rifle,” said Girish Ranadive, assistant forest conservator, Akole.During the interrogation, officials learnt of the involvement of at least 12 more individuals – four of whom were residents of Thane and Raigad and another nine who are Akole residents. “The locals have been arrested and they admitted to have engaged in hunting frequently. However, the primary weapon used was a rifle which is not in their possession. We have informed teams in Thane and Raigad as well, but the four main accused are still at large,” Ranadive said. Those arrested have all been booked under the relevant sections of the Wildlife Protection Act and the Indian Forest Act, 1927. Officials said a maximum penalty in the given scenario could extent up to seven years in prison with a fine of ₹25,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/9-arrested-for-poaching-in-maharashtra-s-wildlife-sanctuary-101620761547760.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Month on, SIT probing Behbal Kalan incident remains headless||Almost a month after Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh proceeded on voluntary retirement, no one has replaced him to lead the special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 Behbal Kalan police firing case in which two Sikh protestors were killed. Kunwar Vijay was reportedly upset after the Punjab and Haryana high court quashed the probe reports submitted by the SIT probing the Kotkapura firing case, and ordered the government to form a new probe team. Kunwar Vijay’s voluntary retirement request was accepted with effect from April 15.Acting on the HC orders, the state government constituted the new three-member SIT headed by ADGP (vigilance bureau) LK Yadav to probe the Kotkapura firing case.But the Behbal Kalan case is still under the first SIT formed by the Congress government in 2018. In June 2020, the investigation of the case was entrusted to Kunwar Vijay after a rift between the SIT members. But now after his retirement, the fate of the Behbal Kalan case hangs in the balance.The investigation team is facing an uphill task to defend the chargesheets filled in Behbal Kalan case after HC had quashed reports in the Kotkapura case. Hearing in the Behbal Kalan firing case on pleas of the accused cops, who claim they were falsely implicated, is scheduled for May 13 in the HC. The Faridkot court has fixed the next date of hearing on framing of charges against the accused on May 18. A senior police official said at present three SIT’s are probing 2015 sacrilege and police firing cases. “The SIT led by inspector general SPS Parmar is probing three FIRs related to Bargari sacrilege, while newly constituted SIT led by ADGP LK Yadav is investigating he Kotkapura firing case. But the Behbal Kalan firing case is still with the first SIT and there is confusion on who is leading it as no one has replaced Kunwar Vijay,” the official added. District attorney Rajnish Goyal said only some junior team members appeared for the hearings ever since Kunwar Vijay’s retirement. An SIT member said the probe in the Behbal Kalan case is complete and a six-member team was constituted by Kunwar Vijay on March 15 to assist the prosecution in the court. However, the district attorney said they have not received any communication in this regard. In a letter dated March 15 to DGP Dinkar Gupta, Kunwar Vijay mentioned that one challan is required to be filed in FIR no. 130, which was registered at Bajakhan police station in connection with the Behbal Kalan firing incident on October 21, 2015. He also said a closure report has to be filed in FIR 129 (another case registered by police against protesters in connection with this case on October 14, 2015).Sacrilege SIT yet to get new memberMore than a month after the retirement of IGP Ranbir Singh Khatra, Punjab Police are yet to appoint a new member of the SIT probing 2015 sacrilege cases of Guru Granth Sahib. SIT chairman, IGP (border range), Surinder Pal Singh Parmar, in a letter to the director, bureau of investigation, Arpit Shukla recommended that Jalandhar police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar may be nominated as a member of the SIT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/month-on-sit-probing-behbal-kalan-incident-remains-headless-101620761428801.html
12-05-2021||Other||Mumbai to face 10% water cut from May 17-21||The city will face 10% water cut from May 17-21 owing to a repair work at the Pise Dam, which supplies water to the city. “It’s an emergency repair work related to pneumatic valves on Pise Dam,” a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said. In a statement issued on Tuesday, BMC said, “Due to this repair work, 10% of water will be cut from Mumbai’s water supply from Monday, May 17, to Friday, May 21. It is appealed to the citizens of Mumbai to store water properly and use water sparingly during this water cut period and also to cooperate with the administration.”BMC supplies around 3,700 million litres to the city against its demand of around 4,200 million litres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-to-face-10-water-cut-from-may-1721-101620761307818.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||No shortage of O2 supply in hospitals: Jai Ram||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday said an adequate supply of medical oxygen was available at health institutions across the state and more oxygen plants were being setup to augment the supply. Currently, oxygen plants are functional at the zonal hospital, Dharamshala, Deen Dayal Upadhyaya (DDU) Hospital, Shimla, medical colleges in Chamba, Shimla, Tanda, Ner Chowk, Hamirpur and MMU, Kumharhatti. “The Defence Research And Development Organisation (DRDO) will setup oxygen plants at five more health institutions,” the CM said, adding that the state is producing 75.81MT oxygen per day against the daily consumption of 27.83MT. Thakur said eight industrial units were manufacturing 57.03 MT oxygen per day.There are a total 4,728 Type-D oxygen cylinders and 1,535 Type-B cylinders in the state and the state has urged the Centre to provide 5,000 more Type-D and 3,000 Type-B cylinders to the state, the CM said. The Union ministry has provided 75,000 personal protective kits and 75,000 N-95 masks to the state.“There are around 3,700 beds available in different health institutes across the state and almost half of them are unoccupied. We also have 244 intensive care unit (ICU) and 1,804 oxygenated beds. The bed capacity will be enhanced by 1,100 in makeshift hospitals at the earliest,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-shortage-of-o2-supply-in-hospitals-jai-ram-101620761188670.html
12-05-2021||Other||Mumbai Mall fire: Report blames 2 fire officers, mall and hospital management||mehul.thakkar@htlive.comIn a rare instance, a report by the civic body in the fire at Bhandup’s Dreams Mall has recommended a thorough probe into lapses by top fire brigade officials. The report also recommended action against the owner/management of the mall and the hospital inside it, and a criminal case against the safety audit agency. The inquiry report into March 25 level-4 fire at Bhandup’s Dream Mall, which had killed nine Covid-19 patients at Sunrise Hospital housed inside the mall, has recommended a full-fledged departmental enquiry (FFDE) against Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB)’s assistant divisional fire officer Rajendra Ghadge and the then chief fire officer SA Kale for “not following the rules and carrying out a proper inspection” of the mall last November. The report has also stated that a criminal case be filed against the owners/management of Dreams Mall and Sunrise Hospital, holding them responsible for the incident.The report, which was submitted and approved by municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal on Tuesday, has blamed the hospital and mall management for non-compliance of several norms and stated that both failed to take proper precautions as per the Maharashtra Fire Safety Act, 2006. The report has also asked the civic body to have MFB follow up with the police on the criminal cases filed against the hospital and mall’s owner/management for lapses in complying with fire safety norms. The probe report prepared by disaster management cell’s deputy municipal commissioner Prabhat Rahangdale has stated that a private firm – a licenced agency tasked with ensuring the mall’s fire safety compliance – had submitted a report that the firefighting equipment of the mall was working and all compliances were looked into for the period between July 1 and December 31, 2020. However, the preliminary report stated that on the day of the fire, none of the firefighting equipment was working.The report has recommended that the private agency’s licence be cancelled by the director of the Maharashtra Fire Services, and asked the chief fire officer to file a criminal case against the company. The report has also asked the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to take action against the banquet owner on the malls’ second floor for storing 45 LPG (liquefied petroleum gas) cylinders, despite having permission to only store two.According to the report submitted to Chahal, BMC had asked for an audit of all malls after the blaze at City Central mall in south Mumbai last October. “As per the circular issued by BMC chief in 2018, the J fire compliance form issued by assistant divisional fire officer (ADFO) Rajendra Ghadge was to be given with signature of chief fire officer, but Gadge gave it without the CFO’s sign. On asking the reason, Ghadge said he did the same on oral instructions from the then CFO SA Kale. This was in violation of rules. Kale was the deputy CFO of that region and holding charge of CFO. It was expected that he should have followed the circular issued by the municipal commissioner in 2018. An FFDE is recommended against the two,” the report stated. Kale was not available for a comment despite repeated attempts. It further added that after carrying out the mall’s inspection in November 2020, Ghadge had given 60 days to submit a compliance report that was submitted in February 2021, as he was down with Covid-19 in January. According to MFB officials, instead of taking further action on the compliance report by visiting and checking the compliance, Ghadge submitted the report to BMC. When contacted, Ghadge said, “I forwarded the compliance report because I was told via control message to do without CFO’s sign. More than 700 forms by fire officials were submitted without the signature of CFO. Also, I did not go for inspection because the mall did not come under my purview directly. Hence, I forwarded the report to the fire station concerned for further compliance.” The report has blamed the mall and hospital management for ignoring warnings from the fire brigade and BMC and not taking any corrective action. “It is recommended to cut off the water and electric supply of the mall and file a criminal case against the owners and directors of Dreams Mall, and Sunrise Hospital’s owners Ms Privilege Healthcare, as they are to be blamed for the incident,” Rahangdale said in his report.When contacted, Sunrise Hospital in a statement, said, “The fire report clearly stated that no fire incident occurred at Sunrise Hospital. The hospital is delinked from the mall and had all compliance in place. The report prepared by BMC and fire brigade dept clearly states that the fire was due to faulty electric circuit in shop No 140 on the upper ground floor of the mall. The spread of the fire is attributed to the lack of functioning sprinkler system of the entire mall. It must be noted that the said lapses are attributable to the administrator of the mall Rahul P Sahasrabuddhe, who was appointed by NCLT Mumbai vide order dated 31.08.2019 with the specific mandate to look after the mall premises and ensure that the same is not hazardous to its occupants.”However, Sahasrabuddhe said, “The said report holds up all the irregularities at Dreams Mall which was brought up by the administrator time and again before various authorities including MCGM (BMC). All my complaints filed with the government authorities about non-availability of water and electricity in the mall, leakage by the hospital and banquet hall, use of cylinders by the banquet hall was never redressed. I have protested about giving permission to the hospital without following any safety measures to MCGM and fire brigade, time and again, but no action has been taken. Had my complaints been heard by authorities in time, the tragedy would have certainly been avoided.”As part of its recommendations, the report has said that the existing standard operating procedure (SOP) be tweaked to adjust to Covid-19 pandemic situation. The report has also recommended that a new fire hazard response and mitigation plan be created for Mumbai. The report has recommended that it is not possible to follow conventional fire safety norms in all old hospitals. There should be water mist systems installed in all ICU wards urgently and two firefighters from licenced agencies must be deployed at all times at these wards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-mall-fire-report-blames-2-fire-officers-mall-and-hospital-management-101620761187721.html
12-05-2021||Other||Maratha reservation: Maharashtra CM writes to President, PM||Six days after the Supreme Court (SC) quashed the Maratha quota in government jobs and education, the state government wrote a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi over the issue. Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray met Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Tuesday evening to submit the letter addressed to the President and Modi. CM said they will also be meeting Modi to seek the quota for the community. Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray met Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Tuesday evening to submit the letter addressed to the President. “Today’s meeting with the Governor was in the backdrop of the SC’s last week decision in which it said that the states didn’t have an authority to grant reservation to a community. This right is with the Centre and the President. In response to the verdict, I had said that the state government will approach the President and the PM. To make the request and express our feelings, we met the Governor. He assured to convey [about the letter] to the President at the earliest,” CM told reporters outside Raj Bhavan.Thackeray led a delegation comprising senior ministers and leaders from all the three ruling parties — Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress. He was accompanied by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, public works department (PWD) minister Ashok Chavan, home minister Dilip Walse Patil, revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, urban development minister Eknath Shinde, state NCP chief Jayant Patil and Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole to meet the Governor.“SEBC Act was unanimously passed by the state legislature. It wasn’t just our decision but that of the entire state. We believe that the community should get its right. We will soon be meeting the PM in this regard and request him to take a decision,” he added.In his five-page letter, Thackeray requested the President to taking appropriate steps to grant 12% and 13% reservation to the Marathas in education and government jobs, respectively, by referring to the Apex court’s May 5 decision that the authority of identifying a community as ‘Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC)’ and providing them reservation lies only with the President and the Central government since August 2018 following the 102nd Amendment in Constitution.It also narrated the ways the state government had adopted for providing reservation to the Maratha community – from promulgating an ordinance in 2014 to holding legal battles in the Bombay high court and subsequently in the Apex court till May 5 – till the quota was quashed. SC had observed that people from a community cannot be declared educationally and socially backward just to bring them in the reserved category.“Resultantly, the aforesaid statute (SEBC Act) passed unanimously by both the Houses of the state legislature of my state on November 30 after the 102nd Constitutional Amendment has been held unsustainable. In term of the aforesaid majority of the SC on and from August 15, 2018, the day on which the Constitutional Amendment has been brought into force, the President alone (i.e. the Central Government) under Article 342 (I) by reason of Article 367 read with section 3(8) (b) of General Clauses Act, has jurisdiction, authority and power to identify and declare Maratha community of my state to be a SEBC. Also, it is held that an appropriate exercise in this regard is to be conducted by the National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC), in consultation with our state (sic),” stated the letter, dated May 10, to the President.“As a consequence of the aforesaid majority view of the Supreme Court, it is the President i.e. the Union government alone, which can identify and notify the Maratha community of my state as SEBC, enabling it to enjoy reservation in education and public employment. This is therefore, to earnestly request you that appropriate steps be taken, albeit in accordance with law, declared by the SC to identify and declare Maratha community of my state as SEBC to enable them to claim reservation in education and public employment at least to extent of 12% and 13% respectively (sic),” it added.Meanwhile, the state government on Tuesday also constituted an eight-member panel headed by Dilip Bhosale, retired chief justice of Allahabad HC, to examine the Apex court judgment in detail and prepare a comprehensive guidance and analysis till May 31 which will help the state in taking the next course of action. The panel comprises of senior law expert Rafique Dada, former advocate general of Maharashtra Darius Khambata, retired bureaucrat Sudhir Thakre, senior law advisor of law and judiciary department Sanjay Deshmukh, secretary (legislation) law and judiciary department Bhupendra Gurav, advocate Ashish Raje Gaikwad and joint secretary BZ Sayyad. The government has also appointed two more advocates — Akshay Shinde and Vaibhav Sugdare — who will assist the committee over the matter.The demand for reservation in government jobs and education has been a long-standing demand of the Maratha community since the 1980s and there have several agitations for it. It culminated in SEBC Act, 2018, which introduced 16% reservation for the community. The law was challenged in Bombay HC, which brought down the reservation to 12% and 13% in education and jobs, respectively.The CM made it clear that states should not be deprived with their authority and power to provide reservation to a particular community. “The authority to grant reservation to a community shall remain with the states. The matter is not related to just one state [Maharashtra in this case] but involves many others. We are expecting deliberation and decision on the same,” said Thackeray.He also praised the Maratha community for showing ‘self-restraint” and not holding any agitation against the Apex court verdict or the state government. “We are expecting a reply on the letter and also a decision, as granting the reservation to the Maratha community was a unanimous move. Even BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) may not have any objection on this,” he said.The CM also took a dig at his predecessor Devendra Fadnavis over the latter’s claim that SEBC Act was “fool proof”. “Had it been true, we would have not come here to meet the Governor in this regard,” Thackeray said responding to a question.Thackeray’s visit to Raj Bhavan comes after a year amid an ongoing a tussle between his Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and the Governor. The last time the CM had called on Koshyari was after being elected as the member of the legislative Council on May 18, 2020. He was accompanied by his wife Rashmi and son Aaditya, who is also the state environment minister.Meanwhile, many organisations are planning to hold state-wide virtual agitations by starting social media campaigns against leaders of the political parties in Maharashtra as a mark of protest and to create pressure for taking decisions to bring back reservation for the community.Ex-Maharashtra CM Ashok Chavan to evaluate Congress’s poll debacle in 5 states A day after the Congress Working Committee (CWC) decided to form a leaders’ group to evaluate the party’s debacle in the recently-concluded Assembly polls in five states, Maharashtra’s former chief minister (CM) Ashok Chavan has been appointed to lead it. Senior Congress leaders Salman Khurshid, Manish Tewari, Vincent H Pala and Jothi Mani are the other members of the group.In the CWC meeting at New Delhi on Monday, party chief Sonia Gandhi had proposed to form a group to evaluate the party’s performance in Kerala, Assam, West Bengal, Puducherry and Tamil Nadu polls. Gandhi had said the party has to put its house in order by “facing reality and drawing lessons” from the setback it received in the polls.“Honourable Congress president has constituted a group to evaluate the results of the recently-concluded Assembly elections with immediate effect. The group will submit the report within two weeks,” a press statement signed by party general secretary KC Venugopal read.Chavan’s appointment is seen to be significant for the leader, known to be a party loyalist. “I’m thankful to the party president for the responsibility. We’ll present the report on party’s performance in the elections by speaking to the candidates, officer bearers and key workers from the respective states,” Chavan, who is the state public works department minister, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maratha-reservation-maharashtra-cm-writes-to-president-pm-101620761007756.html
12-05-2021||Other||26/11 canine hero dies in Palghar||Fifteen-year-old retired canine Naughty, who had helped in detecting arms and ammunition during the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks in 2008, passed away at Saphale, Palghar, late on Monday evening due to age-related ailments.“Naughty, who was a part of the Railway Protection Force’s (RPF) bomb disposal squad, had sniffed out arms and ammunitions hidden by terrorist Ajmal Kasab at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) on November 26, 2008,” said retired Ranji player and former Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) selector Rajesh Sutar, 54, who adopted Naughty in April 2015. Naughty had won the Bravery Award in 2017 at a function organised by the Bombay Veterinary College, Lower Parel, and non-governmental organisation (Spandan) and was given medals and appreciation certificate, added Sutar. The canine had retired from RPF’s dog squad, Matunga unit, in 2014.From the past few days, the black Labrador had been undergoing treatment at a vet hospital in Dahanu. “Naughty was suffering from old-age ailments and had low platelets. He died during treatment. He was to celebrate his 15th birthday on August 17,” said Sutar. The 26/11 hero was laid to rest in the premises of Sutar’s house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2611-canine-hero-dies-in-palghar-101620760588354.html
12-05-2021||Bhopal||Elgar Parishad case: Hany Babu has got eye infection, needs help, says kin||The family of Hany Babu, 54, an associate professor in the department of English with Delhi University and an accused in the Elgar Parishad case, has expressed fear that Babu may suffer brain damage if not treated in time.The family in their statement released on Tuesday said, “Hany Babu has developed an acute eye infection while in Taloja jail. He has little or no vision in his left eye due to the swelling, which has spread to the cheek, ear and forehead, compromising other vital organs as well, and posing a significant risk to his life if it spreads to the brain. He is in agonising pain and is unable to sleep or perform daily chores. Due to an acute water shortage in the prison, he does not have access to clean water to even clean his eye and is forced to dress his eye with soiled towels.”His wife, Jenny Rowena, has claimed that Babu started experiencing pain and swelling in the left eye on May 3, but even after requests, he was not taken to hospital as no escort was available.The family claimed he was taken to a hospital only after few days, but has not been taken again for follow-up. The family claimed that even after several calls to prison authorities, the family has not been given any update on his health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/elgar-parishad-case-hany-babu-has-got-eye-infection-needs-help-says-kin-101620760408228.html
12-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Hindmata to get relief this monsoon?||Under its two-part plan to ease traffic flow on Babasaheb Ambedkar Road at Hindmata junction, which witnesses waterlogging during the monsoon, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is constructing underground water tanks at the junction below the flyover, and a three-meter-high elevation connecting Hindmata bridge with Parel TT flyover. While the first will abate waterlogging, the second will help ease traffic movement. Every year, during the monsoon, the Hindmata junction in Dadar East, ahead of Dadar TT, is inundated in two- or three-ft deep rainwater. In the past two years, it took the BMC several hours to drain the water and clear the route for traffic. During this time, vehicles can either take two flyovers, or the traffic is completely diverted from BA Road, as the distance between these two flyovers is about 100m, which is at road level. This area also gets submerged in rainwater. A senior civic officer from the bridges department said, “The waterlogging at Hindmata leads to traffic jams on the flyovers, or traffic diversions off Babasaheb Ambedkar road. We want to complete this elevation work on priority, before the monsoon.” The elevation will connect the two flyovers at a height of three feet and its length is 100m. The work is being carried out by two departments - the stormwater drains department and bridges department. Officers from the stormwater drains department were unavailable for a comment on Tuesday. The plan to construct underground water holding silos across the city to abate flooding was first mooted two years ago. At least two tanks were planned to be constructed in the eastern suburbs. However, the project did not take off due to lockdown. The water from the tanks constructed under the Hindmata flyover will be supplied for non-potable purposes to nearby gardens and clubs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-hindmata-to-get-relief-this-monsoon-101620760347667.html
12-05-2021||Mumbai||Unit in Pune to be used to produce Covaxin; to be handed over in 3 days||After the Bombay high court (HC) directed the state government to hand over a vaccine manufacturing unit locate in Pune district to an associate of Bharat Biotech for vaccine production, the forest department said it will complete the process within the next three days. The HC has directed the Pune district collector to hand over possession of an idle vaccine manufacturing unit at village Manjari Khurd, in Haveli Taluka, to Biovet Pvt. Ltd, an associate of Bharat Biotech, to manufacture ‘Covaxin’ and other vaccines. The unit is situated on land admeasuring 11.58 hectares. A division bench of justice KK Tated and justice Nitin Borkar, while hearing an interim application by ‘Biovet’ which sought possession of the vaccine manufacturing unit being used by Intervet India Pvt Ltd, a multinational subsidiary of Merck & Co which was granted the land in 1973 to manufacture vaccine for Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD). The company which was shutting down its operations in India had agreed to transfer the land and unit to Biovet, however, the government through the forest department refused the transfer, on the grounds that the transfer in 1973 was bad. Deputy conservator of forest (Pune division) Rahul Patil said his department, which owns the land, will cooperate with the procedure while formalities related to handover will be completed in two-three days following which the pharma company can take make arrangements required for the vaccine production.On May 6, advocate RD Soni for Biovet informed the bench that the company had filed a petition challenging the July 2020 order of the deputy conservator of forest, Pune, who had rejected their application to re-examine and review the refusal order passed by the assistant conservator in June 2018. Soni submitted that if the unit was handed over to Biovet it could start manufacturing Foot and Mouth Disease and Covid-19 vaccine.Soni also submitted that due to the dispute between the company and the state government, the plant and machinery, which could start manufacturing of Covaxin, was lying idle, hence the court should direct the government to transfer the land to Biovet and also permit them to carry out structural changes to maximise the manufacturing capacity of the unit. The company also assured the court that they would not claim any equity in their favour and would use the unit for manufacturing life-saving vaccines including Covaxin.Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni for the state government submitted that it did not have an objection if an interim application was allowed to the extent that applicants would use the premises only for manufacturing Covaxin and other life-saving vaccines without claiming any right, title and interest on the said property. The AG also informed the court that the concerned officer would cooperate with Biovet for grant of any permission required to start the manufacturing process for Covid-19 vaccine.After hearing the submissions, the bench accepted the undertaking by Biovet and directed the state government to grant appropriate licenses, permissions or NOCs to Biovet in a ‘time-bound manner’ to enable manufacturing of FMD vaccine and Covaxin along with other life-saving vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/unit-in-pune-to-be-used-to-produce-covaxin-to-be-handed-over-in-3-days-101620760287718.html
12-05-2021||Mumbai||Vaccine shortage in Mumbai: BMC may reserve 2-3 days for those seeking second dose||To administer on-time vaccination to beneficiaries taking their second dose, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is likely to reserve two or three days of the vaccination drive in the coming week, exclusively for those taking their second dose. This will depend on the availability of vaccine stock. Concerns over delay in beneficiaries taking their second shot were discussed in a meeting between Mumbai suburbs guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, and Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of BMC’s public health department on Tuesday. Senior civic officials said detailed guidelines will be published by BMC on Wednesday based on Tuesday’s discussions. Guidelines will be on how to administer on-time second dose for beneficiaries, and measures BMC can take to reach those who are not on social media.Other concerns regarding over-crowding at vaccination centres, technical glitches experienced by users while registering on the Co-WIN application, and catering to beneficiaries who are not tech-savvy and are unable to effectively register on the Cowin application on time to receive a slot were also discussed at the meeting.Meanwhile, the vaccination drive will continue as it is at present, for all age groups only after registration and receiving a slot online. Beneficiaries who are to get their second dose can walk in and show their certificates from the first dose and will receive their second shot after verification. Aaditya Thackeray told HT on Tuesday evening, “There are several beneficiaries who received their first shot five or six weeks ago. They are due for their second vaccine shot, who have not received it. Concerns were raised about these beneficiaries receiving their second dose on time. We have discussed some measures BMC can roll-out subject to availability of vaccine doses.”Thackeray said, “A lot of people are not on social media. Many have experienced problems while registering on the Co-WIN application. So we can look at long term measures making it easier for beneficiaries to register, such as the token system, which is issued for the second dose, at the time of vaccinating for the first dose itself.” Thackeray tweeted after the meeting, “This afternoon I met with MC Chahal ji and AMC Kakani ji to discuss and work out a strategy for 1) Ensuring second shot is administered on time 2 Communication and slots for those not tech savvy or on social media 3) activation of 227 vaccination centres 4 preps for possible third wave.” Thackeray also tweeted, “While we explore possibilities of globally procuring vaccines and also increasing vaccination centres to have 1 in every municipal ward, the road map for administering second shot for every age group will be published soon.” He later said, “If centres are set up at every municipal ward, we will be able to tackle the problem of overcrowding, even though vaccines will have to be dispatched in small quantities.” BMC will also make arrangements for mothers of kids who have Covid-19 and are hospitalised, to stay with their child, without catching covid. A separate area in pediatric wards is likely to be set up for mothers as well. Creches will be set up for children whose parents have tested Covid-19 positive, but the child has not tested positive, Thackeray said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccine-shortage-in-mumbai-bmc-may-reserve-2-3-days-for-those-seeking-second-dose-101620760167662.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s non-Covid private hospitals rue inadequate oxygen quota||Around 25 non-Covid private health centres in the city have flagged the issue of inadequate supply of oxygen at a time when more patients are rushing to them for health services.The UT administration on Tuesday fixed the quota of 30 cylinders for the private hospitals with ICU facilities for primarily non-Covid patients, but the hospital administrators have said that it was “grossly inadequate”.The local chapter of the Indian Medical Association had also presented the requirement to the authorities according to the bed occupancy. After the quota was fixed, the local chapter of IMA again wrote to the UT health authorities, asking them to reconsider the decision.Requirement of 100 cylinders in hospitals“There is a requirement of around 100 cylinders in the hospitals catering to non-Covid services. We appeal to the administration to supply us more oxygen,” said Dr V Kappall, the president of IMA Chandigarh.“They (administration) have promised to augment supply as soon as they are in a position to do so. Let’s hope they at least allot 60 cylinders to non-Covid hospitals, who are taking emergencies, refused by the PGIMER, GMCH, GMSH and other Covid centres,”said Dr RS Bedi, owner of a hospital in Sector 33.Dr Neeraj Kumar, who also runs a private hospital, said that several emergency procedures were also conducted at private facilities and since suppliers were overburdened with Covid management, emphasis should be on equal distribution.“We run paediatric ICUs and currently we are running on 3-4 hour supply. It takes around 7-8 hours to refill the cylinders. If the current situation persists, we may have to tell the patients to find some other facility, but we do not want to create panic,” said Dr Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-non-covid-private-hospitals-rue-inadequate-oxygen-quota-101620760108886.html
12-05-2021||Other||2 die of mucormycosis in Kalyan-Dombivli||Two Covid-19 recovered patients have died due to mucormycosis in Kalyan-Dombivli limits so far. As per the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) records, a total of six patients, admitted in a private hospital in Dombivli, are suffering from mucormycosis, of which two have succumbed and two are undergoing treatment in the intensive care unit (ICU). The 69-year-old man, a resident of Daudi village, was infected with Covid-19 on May 1. He succumbed to the fungal disease on May 7, while, the 38-year-old man, a resident of Mharal village, Kalyan-Murbad Road, was admitted at a Dombivli hospital on May 9, succumbed to the disease on Tuesday. “There are two deaths due to mucormycosis reported in our vicinity as of now. We are also inquiring with other hospitals if there are such cases in their records. However, as of now, there are six such patients admitted at a hospital in Dombivli,” said Ashwini Patil, medical health officer, KDMC. “Mucormycosis is an opportunistic infection which is caused by a fungus. This particular disease is found in those with low immunity. Some of the symptoms of the disease are pain and redness in eyes, fever, headache, coughing, breathing issues, vomiting of blood and altered sensorium,” said a KDMC official, who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-die-of-mucormycosis-in-kalyandombivli-101620760049236.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali launches two drive- through vaccine facilities||In a first, the Mohali district administration is launching two drive-through vaccination facilities on Wednesday. While one will become operational at the District Sports Complex near the Sohana gurdwara on Airport Road in Sector 78, the other is at Piccadilia The Theatre Cafe in Mullanpur, New Chandigarh.Subdivisional magistrate Jagdeep Sehgal said the initiative was planned keeping in mind the increasing number of Covid-19 cases and the need to maintain social distancing.Though the administration is organising special vaccination camps at various residential and commercial complexes, maintaining social distancing has remained a challenge. Dr Rajendra Bhooshan, vaccine in-charge in Mohali, said that though the drive is picking the pace, there is fear among people to venture out of their homes amid the second wave. The drive-through facility is only for those aged above 45 years, and registration will be done on the spot. The person has to carry the Aadhaar card or any other identity card. The SDM said the facility will remain open from 10am to 3pm daily. Citizens will have to remain in their vehicle for around 30 minutes after receiving the injection, he said.Even though Mohali has the highest number of active cases in the tricity, it is leading on the vaccination front, with around 10,000 people being jabbed daily. The drive is being carried out at 118 centres in the district, including 104 government sites and 14 private hospitals. According to data available on the Co-WIN app, till May 11, Mohali has administered 3.22 lakh doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-launches-two-drive-through-vaccine-facilities-101620760048180.html
12-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s positivity rate falls to 6.06%, deaths remain a concern||Despite the number of cases and daily positivity rate going down to as low as around 6% in the city on Tuesday, followed by an increase in bed availability, the number of deaths has not gone down, reveals data of the state health department.On Tuesday, city recorded 1,717 cases, followed by 51 deaths. This took the total case tally to 679,129 and toll to 13,906. Around 28,258 tests were conducted on Tuesday. The recovery rate in the city is 91% with 679,129 recoveries, and mortality is 2.04%. The positivity rate of 6.06% was recorded. Dharavi has 692 active cases and 5,605 have been discharged.According to state health department data, between April 4 and May 8, the number of cases being reported has steadily gone down on a week-on-week basis from around 60,000 cases to 20,000. However, the death count on a week-on-week basis has only increased but has stagnated in the past one week.As per the data, between April 4 and April 10, 69,037 cases were reported followed by 190 deaths, while between April 11 and April 17, 60,506 cases were reported followed by 357 deaths and between April 18 to April 24, 51,128 cases were reported followed by 425 deaths.In the next two weeks, the weekly cases went down to 30,222 cases between April 25 and May 1, however, the deaths in the same period went up to 533. Lastly, in the week between May 2 to May 8, 21,421 cases were reported followed by 498 deaths. The fatality rate also in this period has almost remained the same, that was 2.41% on April 4, 2.06% on April 22 and 2.03% on May 8.In this period, the bed availability has also improved, and the overall capacity of beds has increased in the same period from around 16,000 beds to around 22,000, as of May 11.The state task force on the other hand claims the fatality rate in the second wave has been much lesser when compared to that of the first wave. Dr Shashank Joshi, member of Maharashtra’s Task Force said, “The deaths will go down in the coming days. The deaths recorded in the second wave’s peak is much lesser than the peak of the first wave. The deaths generally go down in a period of three to six weeks after the peak is over. The death rate increasing has nothing to do with the new strain considering this strain spreads easily, but is less deadly. The deaths are also increasing due to delayed treatment.”Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We are witnessing that the deaths are going down slowly, and they will not go up for now, until we control the number of cases. The deaths are due to the piled up cases of the earlier days. These are referred late to the hospitals from nursing homes or due to delayed treatment or diagnosis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-positivity-rate-falls-to-6-06-deaths-remain-a-concern-101620759987644.html
12-05-2021||Mumbai||Deaths from Mumbai, MMR dip in 3 months||Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded lower daily positivity rate for the third consecutive day, as it saw 40,956 fresh Covid-19 cases. The state tested 217,664 samples in the past 24 hours with a positivity rate of 18.82%. On Monday, the state had a positivity rate of 19.36%, while on Sunday it was 19.56%. However, the state saw a jump in deaths from Monday, as it reported 793 deaths, taking the toll to 77,191. The active caseload in the state declined to 558,996 on Tuesday. Since mid-February, the state has seen nearly 25,000 fatalities with rural and semi-urban areas showing a higher death count compared to the urban areas of Mumbai, Mumbai Metropolitan Region, and Pune district. In the past three months, the share of fatalities from Mumbai, MMR and Pune district has reduced from 51.94% to 43.91%, indicating that deaths are from rural and semi-urban centres in the state spread across 31 districts. Between February 11 and May 11, the state recorded 24,983 fatalities. Till February 11, Mumbai, MMR (which includes Thane district, Navi Mumbai and urban as well as rural areas of Palghar and Raigad districts) and Pune district had 24,707 of the 51,415 deaths. On May 10, of the total deaths, 42,844 came from the 31 districts, while 33,554 were from Mumbai, the MMR and Pune district. Of the 31 districts, 13 districts have reported over 100% increase in deaths between February 11 and May 11. Nandurbar district recorded the highest increase with 222.54% jump in deaths, from 213 to 687. Nanded, Amravati, Washim, Yavatmal, Gadchiroli, Parbhani and Sindhudurg districts recorded between 179% and 145% jump in deaths in the three-month period. Hingoli, Gondia, Wardha, Chandrapur, Beed, Jalna, Ahmednagar and Latur districts recorded a jump in deaths between 127% and 103.19% during the same period. Health experts and state officials attribute the rise in deaths in the rural and semi-urban areas to higher viral activity in these areas in the second wave and poor health infrastructure that was strained after the sheer caseload. “Compared to the previous wave, the rural and semi-urban areas saw more viral activity. Local body election in January, weddings, public gathering and increased movement of people led to more cases. The public health facilities do not have quality infrastructure. There aren’t enough private hospitals in rural areas, tier-two cities have them, but they are not as good as Mumbai or Pune,” a health department official, who did not wish to be named, said. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, former director-general of health services (Maharashtra) and advisor to the state on Covid-19, said there are multiple factors leading to higher deaths in rural and semi-urban areas, including poor health infrastructure, mutating virus and inadequate quantity of drug and oxygen. “The sheer number of cases that are recorded in the second wave has put pressure on health infrastructure in many districts. One nurse is minding 30 patients, including critical ones, on one night shift. How can one manage? There was a shortage of drugs, oxygen, etc too. Besides, earlier, patients used to be fine within seven days. Now, they become critical after eight to nine days in some cases, leading to deaths,” he said. Dr Salunkhe added that the case fatality rate (CFR) and overall death rate in these districts have not increased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/deaths-from-mumbai-mmr-dip-in-3-months-101620759927673.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Fuel rates touch a new high in Chandigarh tricity||After a brief respite from hike in fuel rates, prices of both petrol and diesel have hit a new high across the tricity. The prices remain the highest in Mohali, with petrol available for ₹94.02 per litre and diesel for ₹85.25 per litre. In Panchkula, the prices stand at ₹89.50 and ₹82.74, respectively, and in Chandigarh at ₹88.31 and ₹82.03, respectively.After a steep hike in January and February, the fuel rates had stabilised in March and April amid a marginal drop in global oil prices. However, in the past one week, the prices have started rising again, breaking all records.Chandigarh Petroleum Dealers Association president Arjan Singh claimed the government had capped the fuel rates during the election season, but now with the results in, restrictions have been removed. “Amid the pandemic, our sales had already dropped by 50%. The steep hike in rates, especially that of diesel, will also hit the common man,” he said.Transporters, too, rued the hike. “It is affecting our profit margins. We urge the government to provide special aid to us so that supply lines can be maintained,” said BL Sharma, general secretary, Chandigarh Transport Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fuel-rates-touch-a-new-high-in-chandigarh-tricity-101620759869741.html
12-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Poor planning leaves board students stuck||Confusion and lack of coordination within the state education department has left nearly 33 lakh Class 10 and 12 aspirants in the state board in a lurch this year.With the rising Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra and the resultant lockdown, the state government decided to cancel Class 10 SSC exams that was earlier scheduled to be held in June. While the education department declared in April that it will mark Class 10 students based on internal assessments, it later came up with a survey asking schools if considering such assessments to mark students is feasible. The survey brief stated that internal assessment will be based on online classes, WhatsApp-based teaching and assessment, online tests, term examinations, practice tests. “Schools which didn’t undergo these processes will assess their students’ performance based on their Class 9 progress,” as per the survey.The education department also released another survey asking students if they would be willing to take an entrance exam for first-year junior college admissions. Both these surveys, however, exposed the education department’s poor handling of the issue and a lack of coordination between its various wings such as the state board, the MSCERT and its administrative and bureaucratic officials. While the government had formed a committee of experts to provide inputs on the conduct of exams and assessments for the year, members of the group said they were not kept in the loop about the surveys. “We also saw them in some groups and have no idea where it came from. The surveys are not just unscientific but are poorly worded and thus create confusion. While decisions on calculating assessments and conducting entrance tests are yet to be taken, the survey brief almost mentions this as a matter of fact which has confused schools too,” said a member of the expert committee. While the education department had said in April that exams for HSC (Class 12) will be conducted as per the earlier plan in May end, the state board has neither released a timetable nor come up with a notification stating whether or not these exams can be conducted. “Right now, students are just kept in the dark. They don’t know whom to ask. Students need to be told about the status of their exams at least a month in advance. The current situation is just too stressful,” said Ranjana Mahajan, a city-based parent.Officials at the department did not respond to calls and messages.Experts are now calling for better coordination and communication between various wings of the government and the education department. “Communication made to students should be consistent and timely,” added a senior academician.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-poor-planning-leaves-board-students-stuck-101620759808208.html
12-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Teen murdered, body found near temple||The Samta Nagar police on Tuesday found the body of a 16-year-old boy in the wee hours near a temple in Ganesh Nagar at Kandivli (East).The police registered a case of murder after the post-mortem revealed it was a case of homicidal death.According to the police, the locals informed the police after they experienced a strong stench of the decomposing human body. The boy was identified as Vicky Gupta, a commerce student and a resident of Ganesh Nagar.On questioning, the mother of the deceased said that the victim had left his house at 8.30am on Monday and he was to return in an hour.“The boy did not own a mobile phone so the parents could not find out where he was,” said an officer. At 2am on Tuesday when the boy failed to return home, they reported his disappearance.A few hours later the body was found with injury marks pointing to murder. Police are awaiting the autopsy report to find out his cause of death.The officers investigating the case said that a few months ago the deceased had an affair with the daughter of a neighbour who had threatened Gupta that he would kill him if he continued meeting his daughter. “We have detained him, however, we are also investigating other angles which could lead to Gupta’s killer,” added the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-teen-murdered-body-found-near-temple-101620759747753.html
12-05-2021||Mumbai||Fuel price hike: 1l of petrol costs ₹98.12; diesel ₹89.48||Fuel prices in the city hiked on Tuesday with one litre of petrol crossing ₹98. Premium petrol crossed ₹100 and was available at ₹102 in Mumbai.With a hike of 26 paise and 31 paise respectively, one litre of petrol was available at ₹98.12, while one-litre diesel was available at ₹89.48 on Tuesday.Premium petrol that consists of higher octane (a chemical component of petrol), was available at ₹102.06 and premium diesel was available at ₹92.72.On Monday, one litre of petrol was priced at ₹97.86 and one litre of diesel was available at ₹89.17.One litre of petrol also crossed ₹100 in Parbhani in Maharashtra on Monday.Citizens and transporters have expressed are irked by the constant rise in fuel prices.“Constant increase of fuel prices with the shutting of local train services is impacting the lives of common citizens. How is one supposed to travel if the fuel prices are increasing every day and local trains shut? Taxes on petrol should be reduced immediately.” said Nitin Rathore, a Bandra resident.“Lakhs and crores of rupees, as well as lives, were wasted in recent elections and nobody questioned their source, perhaps money recovered from excess taxation is siphoned for that purpose only as it does not reflect in any tangible benefit to the common man. Instead of providing any relief or facility to the people, the government is trying to squeeze the last drop of blood from them,” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fuel-price-hike-1l-of-petrol-costs-98-12-diesel-8948-101620759687670.html
12-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra diverts jabs for 18+ to keep 2nd shots for 45+ moving||Amid the shortage of vaccine doses against the rising number of beneficiaries above the age of 45 waiting for their second shots, the Maharashtra government on Tuesday decided to divert 310,000 Covaxin doses meant for those aged between 18 and 44 to the 45+ age group. Even though state health minister Rajesh Tope stopped short of suspending the inoculation drive for the 18-44 age group, officials feel it is likely to be halted owing to limited sessions. Maharashtra has more than 2.1 million people above 45 years whose second dose is due, of which more than 500,000 are awaiting the second Covaxin shot. Tope said the decision to divert the stock was taken after the Centre asked states to use the stock procured for the third phase of the drive — the 18-44 age group. He said all vaccination centres have been directed to divert the stock . The state has received 600,000 doses of Covishield and 36,000 of Covaxin this week. Of them, 350,000 doses of Covishield were for the 18-44 age group, while the remaining stock was for 45+. Covishield is an Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine locally manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII), and Covaxin is co-developed by Bharat Biotech International Ltd. and the Indian Council of Medical Research.“I spoke to union heath minister Dr Harsh Vardhanji, requesting him for additional stock for the second doses of people above 45 years. He, however, informed us about the unavailability of doses and asked us to utilise the stock procured for the 18-44 age group. After talking with chief minister Uddhav Thackerayji, we have decided to divert the stock of 310,000 doses of Covaxin, which will now be made available for the second dose [for 45+]. This includes 275,000 doses of Covaxin procured by the state for 18-44 years and 35,000 supplied by the Centre,” said Tope.“More than 500,000 people are waiting for second dose of Covaxin, while 1.6 million people are due for their second dose of Covishield. The diversion of the stock is expected to slow down the vaccination drive for the age group of 18-44 years. We will take a call how to go about the drive for this age group by talking to the task force,” he said.“There is unrest among the people whose second dose is due as the uncertainty over the availability of the doses looms large. There was no other option, but to divert the stock procured by us from SII and Bharat Biotech. We can begin the vaccination of age group of 18-44 years with the stock of Covishield as and when we receive it,” said an official from the health department.Maharashtra has vaccinated 15,140,471 people with 18,787,531 doses, with 375,713 administered on Tuesday.“It is the responsibility of the Centre to provide the vaccines to the state for the vaccination of those above 45 years, but it is not being fulfilled by them. There will be no desired effect achieved if the second dose is not administered within a stipulated period. We have written to both SII and Bharat Biotech but there is no positive response from them. Perhaps the demand raised by us is huge in quantity,” Tope said.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has, however, said state governments should reserve at least 70% of stock supplied to them by the Centre for the second does. He said the states should prioritise the administration of second doses to address the issue of the large number of people waiting for their second doses.Maharashtra’s BJP unit has, however, slammed the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, saying the shortage was because of mismanagement. “Tope has announced to suspend the drive for the age group of 18-44 by blaming the Centre. In fact, the shortage is because of the mismanagement and failure to procure the vaccine. The MVA government did not pay the manufacturers within the stipulated time and hence they have not been responding to the government positively. After the decision of procuring doses from two manufacturers was taken on April 28, the payment was done only on May 7,” he accused.Tope also said the Centre should give nod to other international companies for the supply of their vaccines in India. “The Centre should give the approvals to other vaccines, like they have given it to Sputnik V. We are ready to import them through global tenders. The Central authorities should act on this, so that state can directly procure them through global tenders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-diverts-jabs-for-18-to-keep-2nd-shots-for-45-moving-101620758967648.html
12-05-2021||Other||Five of 13 inmates who escaped Rewari jail arrested||Five inmates of 13 infected with Covid-19, who had escaped from Rewari jail on Saturday night, were arrested, police said on Tuesday.Those arrested are identified as Naveen Sharma alias Golu, Ajit alias Neta, Rajesh alias Kalia, Abhishek and Ashish.Rewari superintendent of police (SP) Abhishek Jorwal said three inmates were arrested by Narnaul CIA and one each was arrested by the Bawal and Model Town police of Rewari. “We are searching to nab the eight other inmates,” the SP added.As per information, four of the five inmates were booked on murder charges. So far, no action was taken against the security officials so far for their alleged negligence.The inmates were lodged in the section designated for Covid patients and fled after cutting grill of their barracks on Saturday.“One staff member was deployed inside the barrack and another outside, and both were sleeping when the incident took place,” Jorwal said, adding that there was negligence on part of the jail staff.“These inmates were sent there after they tested positive for Covid. Most of them came from Nasibpur jail where 284 inmates had contracted the infection,” he added.The Rewari jail was recently turned into a dedicated centre for inmates testing positive for virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-of-13-inmates-who-escaped-rewari-jail-arrested-101620758728180.html
12-05-2021||Pune||Pune district reports over 7,000 new Covid-19 cases, tally reaches 933,516||Pune district reported 7,714 new coronavirus cases on Tuesday, taking its Covid-19 count to 9,33,516, while 142 more patients died due to the infection, a health department official said.He said the death toll rose to 14,642 with 142 patients succumbing to the infection in the western Maharashtra district.Also, 3,486 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, the official said."Of the 7,714 cases, 2,404 were reported from Pune Municipal Corporation areas, where the count rose to 4,50,133. With 1,547 cases, Pimpri-Chinchwad's Covid-19 tally increased to 2,32,904," he said.The number of positive cases in rural and Pune Cantonment Board areas increased to 2,50,479, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-over-7-000-new-covid-19-cases-tally-reaches-933516-101620757429212.html
12-05-2021||Other||Police serves notices to six accused to join probe in Tikri rape case||The special investigation team (SIT) probing the rape case of a 25-year-old woman from West Bengal, who later died of Covid-19 at a private hospital in Jhajjar’s Bahadurgarh, has served notices to all six accused and Sanyukt Kisan Morcha leaders to join the investigation.Bahadurgarh DSP Pawan Kumar Sharma said they have served notices to all six accused and some farm leaders, including Yogendra Yadav to appear before the SIT in connection with the sexual assault case of a woman from West Bengal, who came to join farmers’ protest at Tikri on April 11.“One of the accused, Yogita Suhag, had appeared before the SIT. She confessed that she along with others made a video of the victim in which she alleged that Anil Malik, who is associated with Kisan Social Army had misbehaved with her when they were coming to Tikri from West Bengal in a train,” the DSP said.“We have formed three teams to arrest them. Four persons were booked apart from the two accused as the victim’s father had mentioned the role of these six persons in the case. If any of them is found to be innocent, we will give them a clean chit,” the DSP said.The SIT also interrogated Yogendra Yadav . “Police recorded my statement. I shared information about the case and assured full cooperation as the truth should come out,“ said Yadav.The DSP added that they have searched the farmers’ tents at Tikri border after co-accused Anup Singh’s video came to fore in which he was seen sitting in a tent.Meanwhile, co-accused Anup has said that they were sleeping in the train when Malik misbehaved with the victim.“The woman had narrated the incident to her father once we reached Tikri. Her health started deteriorating and the farm leaders decided to send her back with Malik and me. When we reached Hansi, Yogendra Yadav asked us to come back and start her treatment at any hospital in Delhi so we returned. There was no abduction. I have no role in the case and am ready to face probe,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-serves-notices-to-six-accused-to-join-probe-in-tikri-rape-case-101620758609194.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||This is war and there’s no time to cry for our losses: PGI Covid panel head||Dr GD Puri, a noted name in the field of anaesthesia, has been at the forefront of the battle against Covid-19 in the region.Head of the department of anaesthesiology and intensive care at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, he also heads the Covid-19 management committee of the premier tertiary care institute. Having closely monitored patients requiring critical care at the institute’s Covid-19 dedicated block, he shares with Hindustan Times what it is like to deal with the unprecedented second wave, when resources run short and tough decisions are to be taken in the nick of time:Q. What are the challenges in dealing with the new virus strains?A. The main issue is the manifold rise in infection numbers and subsequent need for hospitalisation, which has overwhelmed our Covid-19 facility. In the last week of April, there was a tsunami of patients at our Emergency, and our resources got exhausted. Important medications went out of stock, we had to open new wards for patients, and all this sapped out our energy and motivation. We are even seeing young patients from Chandigarh coming with 70% oxygen saturation, as they could not arrange a bed or did not report on time.Q. How is the patient load being managed? What are the criteria for admissions in critical care wards?A. I carry guilt in my heart when I say this, but it is very difficult for us to choose between two patients for giving intensive care. You have to make this decision that if a patient is young and has no comorbidities, they will be shifted to the ICU at the cost of an old person, who let us say has kidney or liver failure. It is not like that we abandon the old patients, but we could have given them more intensive care. We could have pushed a little more. This is sad for us too, but you have to move on. This is war and there is no time to cry for our losses. Q. Are you getting enough oxygen supply for Covid, non-Covid and surgical patients?A. I can tell you with authority that we can increase our critical care beds, but the oxygen supply is limited. There has to be a holistic approach for distributing the resources, and it should be strictly as per the requirements. We are saving every unit of oxygen. Wherever there is a possibility of oxygen wastage, we have plugged it, and new guidelines have been provided to all departments on its judicious use.Q. The fatality rate in the region is going up exponentially? What could be the reasons?A. Since the infection number is increasing, deaths are bound to increase, but there can be other reasons as well. There is a need to ensure uniformity in treatment being given by smaller nursing homes. There is a lot of irrational use of drugs, steroids, and antibiotics, which results in deterioration of condition of such patients and decreases their chance of survival.Q. When is the situation expected to improve?A. From the example of Delhi, we can expect that after four to six weeks of restrictions, the cases plateau and start to decline. So, we can soon expect the outcomes of restrictions imposed in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/this-is-war-and-there-s-no-time-to-cry-for-our-losses-pgi-covid-panel-head-101620758608230.html
12-05-2021||Other||Panipat plant per day production reaches over 270 MT to meet O2 need in country||Faced with unprecedented demand of medical liquid oxygen, hundreds of workers at the oxygen plant of the Indian Oil Corporation’s Panipat refinery are working tirelessly to ensure that the life-saving oxygen reaches hospitals.With efforts of the officials, the plant is running round-the-clock and stretching itself to meet the sky-rocketing demand of medical oxygen from thousands of hospitals across country, especially Delhi.As per officials, the plant has crossed it’s per day production capacity of 240MT and now producing 270 MT medical oxygen. Of this, 80 MT is being supplied to Haryana, 20 MT to Punjab and the rest is left for Delhi.“Soon after the second wave of Covid hit the country last month, there was a huge pressure to meet the demand of liquid medical oxygen in multiple states, we have never faced such a situation but are working hard to ensure that no patient dies due to lack of oxygen,” said a senior official of the refinery.He said in the face of a massive surge in demand for medical oxygen, Indian Oil has diverted high-purity oxygen used in its mono ethylene glycol unit to produce medical-grade liquid oxygen at the Panipat refinery.K John Prasad, chief general manager (corporate Communications) IOC, said that the throughput of the unit has been scaled down to serve the more critical cause and the Indian Oil is converting 14 LNG tankers of 17 MT each into medical grade oxygen carriers to strengthen the medical oxygen logistics in country.“By next week, over 20 road tankers and 25 ISO containers of about 820 MT combined capacity will be pressed into action by the corporation,” he said, adding that over the next six months, they will manufacture 10 cryogenic road tankers at heir cryogenic plant in Nasik.To further streamline the medical oxygen supply scenario, they have launched a single-window app, Sanjeevani Express, to enable real-time monitoring of liquid oxygen supply.On whether the supply will be increased as a 500-bed Covid hospital is being set up near the plant, he said, “We are producing as per capacity and since the hospital is being set up in Haryana it will have oxygen supply from Haryana’s allocation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panipat-plant-per-day-production-reaches-over-270-mt-to-meet-o2-need-in-country-101620758433710.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||15,728 more Covid recoveries, 11,637 new cases reported in Haryana||Haryana on Tuesday recorded 15,728 more recoveries, 11,637 new cases and 144 fatalities due to Covid-19, as per the health bulletin.The highest of 18 people succumbed to the infection in Rohtak, 16 in Mahendergarh, 13 in Gurugram, 12 in Hisar and 10 in Bhiwani. In the last 24 hours, 64,874 samples were taken and 11,637 fresh cases were detected across state.There are over one lakh active patients till Tuesday. The day’s positivity rate came down to 21.46% from 25.30% on Monday even as the cumulative positivity rate rose to 8.07% from 7.97% a day earlier.The recovery rate kept improving even on Tuesday and rose to 82.05%.Over one lakh people were inoculated during the day increasing the cumulative tally of people vaccinated so far to 45.93 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/15728-more-covid-recoveries-11-637-new-cases-reported-in-haryana-101620758010850.html
12-05-2021||Lucknow||Bonding over food on Eid!||As the holy month of Ramzan is about to end and festival of Eid is around the corner. The festivity that brings food, enjoyment and dressing up to the forefront is almost there. After the sighting of moon the celebrations will begin along with the prayers. Now, with ‘corona curfew’ underway in Uttar Pradesh and markets closed, the celebrations will be limited to the premises of home. “Last year too, Eid-ul-Fitr was celebrated under lockdown but this year the situation is far worse, festivities will surely be not as it used to be. Moreover, markets are closed, and people are not moving out due to fear of contracting the deadly virus. To keep up with the festive spirit, symbolic preparations will be done at home within the given resources,” said Anjum Zaidi, a homemaker. On the occasion HT City bring for you some simple recipes that can easily be prepared within limited availability of ingredients. Arabic Mandi Biryani Ingredients: 4 cups basmati rice , soaked in water for at least half an hour Whole chicken 1 kg. Onion - 1 cut in two pieces Onion - 2 thinly sliced Green Chillies - 4 into two pcs Black cardamom - 4 Whole black peppercorns - 1 teaspoon Cloves 1 teaspoon Cinnamon 2 stick Bay leaf 2 Nutmeg powder 1 pinch Nutmeg 1 Mace 1 Garlic 20 cloves Ginger 4 inch Coriander seeds 2 teaspoon Water 6 cups Salt as required 25 g Cashewnut 25 g Almonds Ginger garlic paste 4 teaspoons Cumin seeds 2 teaspoon Curd 1 cup Green chillies 5 broken Garam masala powder 1 teaspoon Cardamom pods/seeds 5 Fennel seeds 3 teaspoon ground Directions To make the ‘bouquet garni’ or a spice potli, take a clean muslin cloth and place the onion, garlic pods, whole ginger, black cardamom pods, black peppercorns, coriander seeds, cloves, cinnamon stick, nutmeg, and mace on it and collect the ends of the cloth to tie a potli. In a saucepan, add water on medium heat, and add the whole chicken, salt and the bouquet garni and boil it for around 15 minutes. Take out chicken, sprinkle salt and pepper dash of lemon juice and bake it in oven for 15 min at 180 degree C. Till it’s golden brown in colour. Remove the bouquet garni from the stock. The ‘yakhni’ is ready. In a wide pan, heat oil on medium heat and fry the sliced onions, cashewnut and almonds. Take 1/4 of the onions, cashewnut and almonds and keep aside. In the remaining onions, add cumin seeds, ginger garlic paste, salt, green chillies and stir fry for about 3 minutes. After 3 minutes, add yogurt, garam masala and green cardamom. Cook on medium-high heat Add fennel seeds and chicken pieces to the masala and let it simmer for another 3 to 4 minutes. Add this masala and soaked and drained rice to the prepared yakhni (stock) in the saucepan, turn on the heat and cook the rice in it uncovered for about 5 minutes or till the water dries up. Sprinkle fried onion, cashewnut and almonds on the rice, add a tablespoon of ghee and seal the pot with foil or atta dough so that the flavors don’t escape from the yakhni pulao. Cook the yakhni pulao on low heat for 15 minutes or till rice is done. After 20 minutes, switch off the stove and it is ready to be served. By Chef Zulfiqar Hussain Kesar suji ka halwa Desi Ghee- 1/2 cup Semolina (Rava/Suji)- 1 cup Saffron Water - 10 strands soaked in ¼ cup water Cardamom Powder- 1pinch Cashew- pieces 5-6 chopped Raisins - 6-7 pieces Sugar/Sugar free- As per requirement Water- 4 cups (warm) Method: Heat desi ghee in a pan and roast cashews in it till they are golden in colour. Bring them out. In pan heat ghee again and add semolina (suji) in it and mix well. Dry roasts the semolina for at least 15-20 minutes, stirring occasionally. After that it will turn white to pinkish brown and also you can sense a nice aroma. Once suji has been perfectly roasted now add sugar and warm water in it. Be careful while adding water in it. Turn the flame to high and mix it well by stirring continuously. Add soaked saffron water and cardamom powder in it and mix well. Add all the dry fruits and mix well. Keep stirring over medium flame till sugar dissolves completely and Semolina absorbs water. Halwa is ready. Garnish with cashew and raisins. Enjoy it hot. By Chef Mujeebur Rehman Amritsari choley Step 1 : Soak Chickpeas overnight Chickpeas: 250 gms Black cardamom: 2 no Green cardamom: 5 pcs Cinnamon: 1 stick Bay leaf: 2 pcs Dry amla: 8 slices Water: 1.5 ltr Black salt to taste Next morning pressure cook everything 4 whistles. The deep dark colour and tangy taste comes from dry gooseberries (amla). And other significant flavour comes when you make your own spice blend. STEP 2: Make spice blend Coriander seeds: 50 gms Cloves: 4 pcs Cumin: 10 gms Carom seeds: 5 gms Kasturi methi: 20 gms Dry Kashmiri chilly: 7-8 pcs Black pepper whole: 5 gms Pomegranate seeds dry: 10 gms Dry roast all spices and blend it in mixer. STEP 3: Make Puree Make tomato puree: 200 gms tomatoes Make ginger garlic paste: 30 gms Chopped onion: 150gms Chopped tomatoes: 50gms STEP 4: Final preparation Ghee: 50 gms Cumin seeds: 5gms Whole chilly dry: 2 pcs Bayleaf: 1 pc Start by heating ghee add whole spices and cumin Now add chopped onion cook slow on medium heat till golden brown. Add ginger garlic paste and cook well. Now add tomatoes cook properly and then add tomato puree. Add your special spice blend, use all of it. Cook till the sides of masala leaves fat . This is the time to add boiled chickpeas, let it cook along for 15 mints ,smash some chickpes to make thick gravy. Adjust Seasoning. STEP 5: Garnish Ginger julienne: 7 -8 Onion rings: 7-8 Green chilly: 3 to slit half Coriander: freshly chopped. Lemon: few wedges By Chef Himani Sharma||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bonding-over-food-on-eid-101620757769593.html
12-05-2021||Kolkata||BJP’s Bengal poll tally to go down to 75; two MPs who contested to resign||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) tally in the West Bengal assembly will go down to 75 from the existing 77 as two Lok Sabha members who contested the polls will resign to remain in the Parliament, HT has learnt.The MPs are Nisith Pramanik from Cooch Behar Lok Sabha constituency in north Bengal’s Cooch Behar district and Jagannath Sarkar, the MP from Ranaghat in south Bengal’s Nadia district. While Pramanik contested the Dinhata seat in Cooch Behar, Sarkar was fielded from Shantipur in Nadia.The BJP did exceptionally well in the north Bengal region, winning 30 of the 54 assembly seats. It suffered in south Bengal where 240 seats helped the TMC win the polls.Although the BJP’s other newly-elected MLAs took oath alongside the 213 TMC legislators last week, Pramanik and Sarkar did not come to Kolkata. The BJP state leadership said some MLAs had to stay in their constituencies in the wake of post-poll violence but the absence of the two MPs triggered speculations that they might not resign from Parliament since holding on to two Lok Sabha seats in Bengal is more important for the BJP in view of the assembly poll results.In 2019, the BJP bagged 18 of Bengal’s 42 Lok Sabha seats and created a record.The saffron camp had vowed to oust the TMC government by winning more than 200 seats. The final verdict, however, came as a setback although the party’s star candidate and former TMC minister Suvendu Adhikari defeated Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee in East Midnapore district’s Nandigram by 1,900 votes.The assembly elections were held in 292 of the state’s 294 seats as two candidates at two seats in Murshidabad district died of Covid-19 during the unprecedented eight-phase polling. Polls in these constituencies will be held later. Once Pramanik and Sarkar resign as MLAs, fresh polls will have to be conducted in their constituencies as well. Mamata Banerjee, too, has to get elected to the assembly to remain a chief minister. The same rule applies to finance minister Amit Mitra who did not contest the polls. He virtually took oath on Monday.“We have to follow the decisions of our party,” Pramaik said on Tuesday.“Staying in Parliament is more important, feels the leadership,” added Sarkar.In the assembly polls, BJP sprang a surprise by naming Union minister Babul Supriyo, three other sitting Lok Sabha members and Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta alongside several actors and former TMC leaders in its list of candidates. Two Lok Sabha MPs, Supriyo and Locket Chatterjee lost the polls. Dasgupta, who had to resign from the Rajya Sabha to contest, was defeated too.While Supriyo is a two-time MP, Chatterjee, Pramanik and Sarkar went to the Lok Sabha for the first time in 2019.Pramanik contested from Dinhata against the TMC’s Udayan Guha, who was a minister during the Left Front era and left his party, the Forward Bloc, to join the ruling party after 2011. After the polls, Guha was injured in an assault, allegedly carried out by BJP workers, in Dinhata town. His right arm got fractured.“Given the wave it is riding right now, the TMC is likely to win all the seats where fresh polls will be held,” said Kolkata-based political science professor and poll analyst Udayan Bandopadhyay.Meanwhile, in a tweet, TMC MP Derek O'Brien wrote, "BJP fielded 4 sitting LS MPs, incl a Union Min & 1 RS MP for #BengalPolls. 3 lost. 2 won. Now these 2 to quit as MLAs😜They were elected last week! World’s largest (sic) party have set a world record for electoral egg on face."One Nation One Election! What say Narendra, Amit😛#BJP fielded 4 sitting LS MPs, incl a Union Min & 1 RS MP for #BengalPolls. 3 lost. 2 won. Now these 2 to quit as MLAs😜They were elected last week! World’s largest (sic) party have set a world record for electoral egg on face. One Nation One Election! What say Narendra, Amit😛||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjps-bengal-poll-tally-to-go-down-to-75-two-mps-who-contested-to-resign-101620756748125.html
12-05-2021||Pune||Pune hospitals claim rise in Mucormycosis cases; state to give free treatment||Hospitals in Pune are now claiming a rise in the number of Mucormycosis cases, the treatment for which is costly.Once a rare infection, Mucormycosis, commonly called the “black fungus” has now become an increasingly common complaint among patients who have recovered from Covid-19.In severe cases, the infection could lead to loss of eyesight and in rare cases, death.Hospitals are also finding it difficult to admit such patients due to the non-availability of beds for non-Covid patients.Sahyadri hospital is now seeing 40-50 black fungus cases a month across its four branches.Dr Kailash Sant, ENT specialist at Sahyadri hospital said, “We are seeing an increasing number of cases from all over and the interiors of Maharashtra coming to Pune for treatment. Those who have recovered from Covid-19 should be vigilant as post-Covid Mucormycosis has become a cause of concern in the second wave. The mortality rate is almost 50% where the brain is involved and about 20% in nasal and orbital involvement. Judicious use of steroids in treatment of Covid-19 and strict control over blood glucose levels can bring down the risk of Mucormycosis.”Doctors at Noble, where a patient underwent reconstructive surgery after losing his eye two weeks ago, said hospital has seen about 40 cases in the last one month alone.Dr Abhishek Ghosh, a microvascular reconstructive surgeon from Noble hospital who treated the patient, said, “From mid-March to mid-April, we saw six to seven cases. Recently, in the last 30 days we have seen 30 to 40 cases of Mucormycosis. Around 80 per cent of people do well post treatment. Because of increased awareness, we are able to save a patient’s eyesight, as they are coming at early stages. Early diagnosis and treatment are critical in saving vision and life in such patients.”Dr H K Sale, executive director of Noble hospital said, “We are not able to admit more non-Covid19 patients due to unavailability of beds, but we are seeing a rising number of such patients.”Ruby hall has about 15 such patients currently undergoing treatment. Also Rising Medicare hospital, Symbiosis Lavale hospital, Rao Nursing home and Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital are all treating black fungus cases.Dr Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical director, Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital said, “Currently there are three cases of Mucormycosis under treatment and we have seen 10 cases which came in in just the last two months. We also saw two deaths due to the infection.”District administration does not have a count on how many such cases have been reported in the city. District health officer Dr Bhagwan Pawar said, “We do not have any such number on how many reported cases of Mucormycosis. However, the district task force has sent out an advisory to government hospitals to take all necessary precautions and seek administrative help when required.”Free treatment for Mucormycosis: Tope In view of the costly treatment, the state government has decided to include expenses under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana. “The treatment for Mucormycosis is costly. So the government has decided that Mucormycosis patients will be treated for free under Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana,” said Maharashtra health Minister Rajesh Tope speaking to reporters in Mumbai.According to the health minister, 2,000 cases have been reported and eight people have died of this infection in the state so far. “We are making special wards for these patients. An awareness campaign to educate people about the infection will also be organised while government is planning to procure drugs to treat the infection,” Tope said.“The incidence of Mucormycosis among corona patients with uncontrolled diabetes is on the rise and the state government has decided to procure 0.1 million injectable vials effective against the disease. A request has been made to Haffkine Institute for the same and the procurement process will be carried out by issuing a tender,” he said.The Indian Medical Association (IMA), Maharashtra chapter welcomed the government decision to offer free treatment for Mucormycosis.“It is known that this fungal infection of Mucormycosis is common in diabetics and in cases of Covid-19 treated by injudicious use of steroids. We, at IMA are making our members aware of the above facts and training them in proper treatment. We are sure that the government will show a similar proactive approach,” stated IMA in a press release issues on Tuesday.Mucormycosis – keep black fungus at bayInfection mainly affects people who have health problems or take medicines that lower the body’s ability to fight germs and sickness, commonly known as low-immunity status or immune compromised individuals.Early signs include headache, facial numbness, nasal stuffiness, reduced vision, vision loss, inability to open the eye and redness in the eye.If you notice any symptoms, immediately visit doctor for diagnostic nasal endoscopy examination. Mucormycosis is seen in the deep areas of the nose and sinuses (as blackish discoloured mucosa), which may not be visualised by conventional methods of nose examination.Early diagnosis with MRI &CT scan of nose, sinuses, jaw bones, orbit and brain will formulate treatment protocol.This will include early administration of antifungal drugs, tight control of blood sugar level , plus timely intervention by endoscopic radical debridement surgery to reduce fungal load from sinuses.Treatment consists of tight control of blood sugar levels (daily basis) and maintaining normal function of kidneys and other organs.However in instances where the disease is detected late and involves eye/ jaw bones, extensive surgery may be the only choice and can result in disfigurement of face.In some cases the treatment may involve a multidisciplinary approach and involve a physician, diabetologist, infectious disease expert, microbiologist, ENT endoscopy surgeon, eye surgeon, oral surgeon, neuro physician, nephrologist and neurosurgeon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-hospitals-claiming-rise-in-number-of-black-fungus-cases-state-to-give-free-treatment-for-mucormycosis-condition-101620744686687.html
12-05-2021||Pune||Lockdown has cost MSRTC ₹50 crore since April, with only 7 buses on the road||PUNE The state-wide lockdown has severely affected public transport with the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation’s (MSRTC) Pune division running a loss of at least ₹50 crore so far, since April. Daily, not more than seven buses are running across the Pune division. Daily income which was ₹1 crore per day, pre-lockdown, is now at Rs1 lakh per day. “As the statewide lockdown started the number of daily passengers travelling on MSRTC buses from Pune division has been decreasing. Before lockdown, from the Diwali period last year till the end of March we had gained momentum, and through our 750 daily bus operations, daily income had reached ₹1 crore. Then it started dropping in April,” said Ramakant Gaikwad, divisional controller, MSRTC Pune. “The buses that run are mostly between Pune and Mumbai for emergency services. Daily income has gone down to around ₹1lakh. Also, buses have been converted into goods’ carriers the state as per orders,” added Gaikwad. There are three major ST stands in Pune city, at Swargate, Wakdewadi and Pune railway station. Mahesh Sarnaik, secretary of the state ST bus passengers’ forum said, “Due to the strict restrictions in the state, police e-pass is compulsory to travel inter- district. Those in an emergency should also allowed to travel by MSRTC. Some restrictions need to be relaxed so people can travel taking all the necessary safety precautions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lockdown-has-cost-msrtc-rs-50-crore-since-april-with-only-7-buses-on-the-road-101620742286482.html
12-05-2021||World||US fuel shortages worsen on day six of pipeline outage||Fuel shortages worsened in the southeastern United States on Wednesday, as the shutdown of the largest US fuel pipeline network entered its sixth day and Washington officials pledged to help alleviate supply issues.A ransomware attack on the Colonial Pipeline last week halted 2.5 million barrels per day of fuel shipments. The pipeline stretches 5,500 miles (8,850 km) from US Gulf Coast oil refineries to consumers in Mid-Atlantic and Southeast states.US Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg said the Biden administration is working around the clock to help deal with fuel shortages and restore Colonial operations, including moving gasoline to places that need it.The White House also said top officials were considering new ways to alleviate the shortages, following a raft of waivers easing quality standards for gasoline and extending working hours for fuel truckers to boost shipments.“Our top priority right now is getting the fuel the communities that need it, and we will continue doing everything that we can to meet that goal in the coming days," Buttigieg told reporters at the White House.Congressional committee members have asked for a formal briefing from a White House interagency task force about the federal response to the most disruptive cyberattack on US energy infrastructure.On Tuesday, Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm said Colonial's chief executive indicated that the company would decide Wednesday whether it can make a full restart, which could take days to complete.Privately owned Colonial Pipeline opened portions of the line manually in Georgia, Maryland, New Jersey and the Carolinas. It also accepted 2 million barrels of fuel to begin a restart that would "substantially" restore operations by week's end, the company said.The supply crunch has sparked panic buying in the US Southeast, bringing long lines and high prices at gas stations ahead of the Memorial Day holiday weekend at the end of May, the traditional start of the peak summer driving season.The average national gasoline price rose to above $3.00 a gallon on Wednesday, the highest since October 2014, the American Automobile Association said.Nearly 60% of gas stations in metro Atlanta were without gasoline on Wednesday, tracking firm GasBuddy said. More than 70% of stations were out in metro Charlotte and Raleigh, North Carolina, and Pensacola, Florida. Virginia and South Carolina also saw relatively high outages.LONG LINESStevenson Rosslow, 47, was filling up his Lexus with regular gas at a BP station in south Atlanta on Wednesday morning."This takes premium, but they're out," said Rosslow, the owner of the Wrecking Bar Brewpub in Atlanta's Reynoldstown neighborhood. "Even at that, the price jumped to what, $3.39?"The station Rosslow stopped at was the fourth he had tried. "I think we're having a problem here because of hoarding," he said.Four southeastern states - Florida, North Carolina, Virginia and Georgia - joined federal regulators in relaxing driver and fuel restrictions to speed deliveries of supplies. Georgia suspended sales tax on gasoline until Saturday.The FBI has accused a shadowy criminal gang called DarkSide of the ransomware attack. DarkSide is believed to be based in Russia or Eastern Europe.Russia's embassy in the United States rejected speculation that Moscow was behind the attack. President Joe Biden on Monday said there was no evidence so far that Russia was responsible.REFINERS, AIRLINES REACTIt is unknown how much money the hackers are seeking, and Colonial has not commented on whether it would pay.Gulf Coast refiners that move fuel to market on the Colonial Pipeline have cut processing. Total SE trimmed gasoline production at its Port Arthur, Texas, refinery, and Citgo Petroleum pared back at its Lake Charles, Louisiana, plant.Citgo said it was moving products from Lake Charles and "exploring alternate supply methods into other impacted markets." Marathon Petroleum said it was "making adjustments."Colonial also serves US airports including Atlanta's Hartsfield-Jackson Airport, the world's busiest by passenger traffic.Several airlines have been transporting fuel by truck or fueling planes at destinations rather than at East Coast origins. American Airlines has made changes to two long-haul flights out of Charlotte, North Carolina – one of its hub airports – through Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-fuel-shortages-worsen-on-day-six-of-pipeline-outage-101620842359737.html
12-05-2021||World||WHO appointed panel slams slow response to Covid-19 in 2020, seeks more powers for UN body||A World Health Organization (WHO) appointed panel has concluded that countries around the world could have done more in early 2020 to contain the spread of the Coronavirus and called for the UN body to be given more powers to respond to future pandemics. The Independent Panel for Pandemic Preparedness and Response, which was appointed by WHO director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus in response to a World Health Assembly resolution seeking an independent and impartial review of the current pandemic, also called on the world community to end the Covid-19 pandemic by implementing recommendations to redistribute, fund and increase the availability of vaccines. The panel issued its findings and recommendations on Wednesday after an eight-month review of lessons learned during the past year. “Our message is simple and clear: The current system failed to protect us from the Covid-19 pandemic,” said former Liberian president Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, co-chair of the Independent Panel. “If we do not act to change it now, it will not protect us from the next pandemic threat, which could happen at any time.” The panel described February 2020 as “a lost month” because “many more countries” could have done more to contain the spread of the new Coronavirus after WHO declared a public health emergency of international concern on January 30 after the initial outbreak at Wuhan in China. Quicker action “would have helped to prevent the global health, social and economic catastrophe that continues its grip”, the panel said, adding that “the system as it stands now is clearly unfit to prevent another novel and highly infectious pathogen, which could emerge at any time, from developing into a pandemic”. In a statement on its report, “Covid-19: Make it the Last Pandemic”, the panel said: “The current system – at both national and international levels – was not adequate to protect people from Covid-19. The time it took from the reporting of a cluster of cases of pneumonia of unknown origin in mid-late December 2019 to a Public Health Emergency of International Concern being declared, was too long.” Johnson Sirleaf added: “The shelves of storage rooms in the UN and national capitals are full of reports and reviews of previous health crises. Had their warnings been heeded, we would have avoided the catastrophe we are in today. This time must be different.” India, which was elected chair of WHO’s executive board last year, has pushed for reforms of the UN health body on the grounds that it had not reacted speedily to the spread of the Coronavirus. The panel asked high-income countries with adequate vaccine supplies to commit to provide at least one billion doses to 92 low and middle income countries covered by the WHO-backed COVAX facility by September 2021. Major vaccine producing countries and manufacturers should agree to share intellectual property rights on their doses, guided by the UN health agency and the World Trade Organization (WTO), it said. “If actions on this don’t occur within three months, a waiver of intellectual property rights under the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights should come into force immediately,” the panel said. The G7 or the world’s wealthiest countries should immediately allocate 60% of the $19 billion required for the Access to COVID-19 Tools Accelerator (ACT-A) for vaccines, diagnostics, therapeutics and strengthening health systems, the panel recommended. As part of reforms to prevent a future outbreak becoming a pandemic, the panel called for establishing a “Global Health Threats Council” that will “maintain political commitment to pandemic preparedness and response and hold actors accountable. It said countries should adopt a “Pandemic Framework Convention” within the next six months. The panel recommended a new global system for surveillance, based on full transparency, should be established to provide WHO with the “authority to publish information about outbreaks with pandemic potential on an immediate basis without needing to seek approval and to dispatch experts to investigate at the shortest possible notice”. Countries should invest in national preparedness “now as it will be too late when the next crisis hits”, and all governments should review preparedness plans and allocate necessary funds and people to be prepared for another health crisis. The current ACT-A should be transformed into a global platform for delivering global public goods, including vaccines, diagnostics, therapeutics and supplies, swiftly and equitably worldwide by shifting from a market model, the panel said. The panel also recommended that the world community should strengthen the authority and financing of WHO, including by developing a new funding model that increases member state fees, and create an “International Pandemic Financing Facility” that will have the capacity to mobilise long term contributions of about $5 billion to $10 billion a year to finance ongoing readiness. The Independent Panel said 125 million people were estimated to have been pushed into extreme poverty and 72 million primary school-age children were at risk of being unable to read because of school closures. According to WHO, there have been more than 159 million Coronavirus infections globally, including more than 3.3 million deaths, since the pandemic began. In its weekly epidemiological update, WHO said some 1.2 billion vaccine doses had been administered so far. India is currently grappling with a devastating second wave of the pandemic that has seen Coronavirus infections surge well past the 350,000-mark for several days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-appointed-panel-slams-slow-response-to-covid-19-in-2020-seeks-more-powers-for-un-body-101620839204846.html
12-05-2021||World||Myanmar protesters decry arrests, beatings as junta fights for control||Myanmar security forces fired shots and arrested about 30 people at an anti-coup rally in the country's second-biggest city on Wednesday, witnesses said, as protesters kept defying a months-long crackdown by a junta struggling to impose order.Chaos erupted in Mandalay, a hotbed of anti-military sentiment, when plainclothes police emerged from vehicles minutes into a protest, firing guns and beating demonstrators who fell as hundreds fled, according to four witnesses. They said they saw about 30 people arrested."There are no words to describe their cruelty," Aung Pyae Sone Phyo, 21, a protest leader, told Reuters. "They used enormous force to crack down on us. More than 10 military vehicles filled the little ward, they blocked every road in the area," he said."We will keep doing what we are doing until our revolution prevails."Myanmar has been gripped by protests and deadly violence since the military seized power from an elected government on Feb. 1, unleashing an outpouring of public anger and international condemnation of the junta's lethal response.Many demonstrators back a National Unity Government (NUG), an anti-junta coalition that has declared itself Myanmar's legitimate authority and pushed hard for international recognition and support.The State Department said on Wednesday U.S. officials had held conversations with the NUG where it outlined its inclusive vision for a diverse, unified, federal democracy."The U.S. will continue to support all those working peacefully to restore Burma to the path of democracy and urges the military to cease its violent actions and release all those unjustly detained," a State Department spokesperson said.GROWING UNRESTHnin, a frontline protester in Mandalay, said security forces held demonstrators to the ground, beating some and confiscating many motorcycles."They pushed their faces to the wall. Some were beaten by the soldiers and plainclothes security members," she said.A junta spokesman did not answer calls seeking comment.Myanmar has seen a succession of small explosions in recent weeks, some at government offices and military facilities, while several junta-appointed administrators have been fatally stabbed.A group calling itself the People's Defence Force in Tamu in the central Sagaing region said it had killed 15 security personnel in separate clashes on Tuesday night and early on Wednesday. State MRTV in its nightly news said one member of the security forces was wounded in an attack by "terrorists".It followed an ambush that killed three soldiers on Monday, claimed by another militia in Sagaing, just days after the NUG announced the formation of a People's Defence Force to fight the military.Military-controlled media said 39 people had been arrested across the country on suspicion of orchestrating explosions and arson attacks, as well as seeking military training with an ethnic minority rebel group.It said 48 "handmade mines", 20 sticks of TNT, gunpowder, detonators, fuses and other material had been seized in a raid.With 783 people killed in the suppression of protests, according to an advocacy group, some supporters of the ousted government have sought military training with insurgents that have battled the military for decades in remote border regions.The United Nations cites the same death toll. Reuters is unable to independently verify casualties and the military has imposed restrictions on the media, internet services and satellite broadcasts.The military ruled Myanmar, once known as Burma, from 1962 to 2011 before launching a phased transition to democracy that led to unprecedented economic and political reforms and modernisation under a quasi-civilian government.But its intervention after only a decade has rekindled memories of oppressive rule and economic mismanagement that pro-democracy groups say people will not tolerate again.The military said it seized power because its complaints of fraud in a November election won in a landslide by Aung San Suu Kyi's party were not addressed by an election commission that deemed the vote fair.The United States, European Union and Britain have imposed targeted sanctions on the generals and the military's businesses, while activists have urged the United Nations Security Council to impose an arms embargo on Myanmar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-protesters-decry-arrests-beatings-as-junta-fights-for-control-101620839153711.html
12-05-2021||World||Israel declares curfew, boosts police in Arab-Jewish town hit by violence||Jews cleared Torah scrolls from a torched synagogue on Wednesday and burnt-out cars lined nearby streets in an ethnically mixed Israeli town hit by violence denounced by the president as "unforgivable" acts by Arabs incensed at air strikes on Gaza.Moving to head off further violence in Lod, which has also seen assaults by Jews on Arab passersby, police declared a night-time curfew and deployed heavily armed reinforcements.In several other areas populated by Israel's 21% Arab minority, Palestinian flags festooned electricity poles and hundreds of residents have turned out for protests, sometimes clashing with police or Jewish residents."We have lost control of the city and the streets," Lod Mayor Yair Revivo told Channel 12 News after nightly confrontations in which an Arab townsman was shot dead, a killing in which two Jewish suspects have been arrested.Scores of other people have been arrested in Lod and in majority-Arab towns in central and northern Israel, including Umm al-Fahm along the West Bank border and Jisr al-Zarqa on the Mediterranean coast, police said.In Lod, men carried Torah scrolls through the blackened and debris-strewn yard of the torched synagogue. President Reuven Rivlin described events in terms recalling anti-Semitism abroad."The sight of the pogrom in Lod and the disturbances across the country by an incited and bloodthirty Arab mob ... is unforgivable," he said, calling the flying of the Palestinian flag by protesters "a brutal assault on shared existence".Israel's Arab minority - Palestinian by heritage, Israeli by citizenship - is mostly descended from the Palestinians who lived under Ottoman and then British colonial rule before staying in Israel after the country’s 1948 creation.Most are bilingual in Arabic and Hebrew, and feel a sense of kinship with Palestinians in the occupied West Bank and the Gaza Strip. They often complain of systemic discrimination, unfair access to housing, healthcare, and education services.Tension in Arab-Jewish towns has risen as Israel conducted air strikes in Gaza and Palestinian militants fired rockets into Israel in an escalation of violence since clashes in East Jerusalem on Monday morning.In the coastal city of Acre, Uri Buri, a Jewish-owned fish restaurant, was set fire to and some Arab residents said they were scared to leave home.In Jaffa, near Tel Aviv, Arab protesters clashed with police firing stun grenades to disperse them."We condemn that our people's solidarity and cohesion with our brethren in Jerusalem and the Gaza Strip is being channelled through acts of sabotage to public and private property, as is now happening at Umm al-Fahm's entrance," said Samir Mahamid, Mayor of Umm al-Fahm.Neighbourhoods with Arab residents, including Lod and Jaffa, were among those where sirens were triggered by rocket fire. An Arab resident of Lod and his daughter were killed on Wednesday when a vehicle was hit by a rocket, Israeli authorities said.In Haifa and Jaffa, and in the Arab city of Nazareth, protesters have chanted slogans in support of Palestinians facing eviction from an East Jerusalem neighbourhood under a long-running legal case.Arab citizens of Israel were among the thousands of protesters who have faced off in recent days with Israeli police near Al-Aqsa mosque and elsewhere in Jerusalem's Old City.A spokesman for the Hamas Islamist militant group in Gaza encouraged Arab citizens to "rise up" against "our enemy and yours".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-declares-curfew-boosts-police-in-arab-jewish-town-hit-by-violence-101620836650722.html
12-05-2021||World||Minnesota judge finds aggravating factors in George Floyd murder||A Minnesota judge has ruled that aggravating factors were involved in the death of George Floyd, opening the possibility of a longer sentence for former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin.Chauvin, a white former officer convicted in a Minnesota state court of murdering Floyd, a 46-year-old Black man, during an arrest last May, is scheduled to be sentenced on June 25.In a six-page ruling dated Tuesday, District Court Judge Peter Cahill found that prosecutors had proven Chauvin abused his position of trust and authority, treated Floyd with particular cruelty, committed the crime as a group and did so with children present, all aggravating factors."The slow death of George Floyd occurring over approximately six minutes of his positional asphyxia was particularly cruel in that Mr. Floyd was begging for his life and obviously terrified by the knowledge that he was likely to die but during which the defendant objectively remained indifferent to Mr. Floyd's pleas," Cahill wrote.A jury convicted Chauvin, 45, of second- and third-degree murder and manslaughter on April 20 after hearing three weeks of testimony in a highly publicized trial.Floyd's death after he was handcuffed on a Minneapolis street with Chauvin's knee on his neck for more than nine minutes prompted massive protests against racism and police brutality in many U.S. cities and other countries last summer.Three other former officers who were at the scene have been charged with aiding and abetting second-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter in Floyd's death and are set to go on trial on Aug. 23.Cahill, who presided over the trial, will also sentence Chauvin, who technically faces a combined maximum 75 years in prison if the sentences run consecutively. State guidelines, however, give judges leeway to impose sentences that are far less harsh.Prosecutors on April 30 asked Cahill to consider several aggravating circumstances in Floyd's death so that he could make "an upward sentencing departure" in the case.While Cahill accepted most of the prosecutors' arguments that aggravating circumstances were present, he rejected one of them, finding that they had failed to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that Floyd was "particularly vulnerable."Also pending before Cahill is a May 4 request for a new trial in which Chauvin's lawyer argued that his client was deprived of a fair trial because of prosecutorial and jury misconduct, errors of law at trial and that the verdict was contrary to the law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/minnesota-judge-finds-aggravating-factors-in-george-floyd-murder-101620838075682.html
12-05-2021||World||EU says Russia is aiming to ‘de facto integrate’ eastern Ukraine||The European Union says Russia is trying to gradually absorb parts of eastern Ukraine, according to a document the bloc shared this week with member states.In the paper, seen by Bloomberg, the EU says steps by the Kremlin such as organizing illegitimate elections and issuing passports to locals are “aimed at de facto integration of Ukraine’s non-governmental-controlled areas into Russia.” The EU’s foreign-affairs arm, the EEAS, will prepare a report on the matter, according to the paper.Russia has repeatedly denied plans to take over the territories, saying it’s committed to a now-stalled 2015 peace deal under which they’d receive substantial autonomy within Ukraine.War broke out in the breakaway regions after President Vladimir Putin’s annexation of Crimea from his neighbor in 2014. While major fighting between Ukraine’s army and Kremlin-backed insurgents ended the following year, fatal skirmishes continue today, adding to the more than 13,000 deaths already recorded.Greater autonomy for the region, known as Donbas, would potentially give it veto power over national goals such as NATO and EU membership that are opposed by Putin but backed by a majority of the county’s 42 million population.Tensions between the former Soviet allies spiked last month as Russia deployed military hardware and more than 100,000 troops to the border area before partially pulling back following calls by Western leaders to de-escalate. In a show of support, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken visited Kyiv last week.The EU document presents options the bloc could take to strengthen Ukraine’s resilience to Russian aggression, including:The EU has faced criticism for not going as far as the U.S. in sanctioning Russia. Further penalties would depend on a “further grave deterioration of the situation with regard to Ukraine’s sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity,” according to the document.Ukraine has also sought backing from Brussels for its bid to join NATO.EU ambassadors of the bloc’s political and security committee had diverging views on the paper when they discussed it Tuesday, according to a separate memo seen by Bloomberg.One group broadly supported the timing and contents of the options. Another said the proposals didn’t sufficiently emphasize the reforms Ukraine must implement itself -- such as anti-corruption measures -- and that member states should talk more before exploring cooperation involving the bloc’s security programs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-says-russia-is-aiming-to-de-facto-integrate-eastern-ukraine-101620833288592.html
12-05-2021||World||'Tamed the virus': US deaths hit lowest level after July 2020||Covid-19 deaths in the US have tumbled to an average of around 600 per day — the lowest level in 10 months — with the number of lives lost dropping to single digits in well over half the states and hitting zero on some days.Confirmed infections, meanwhile, have fallen to about 38,000 days on average, their lowest mark since mid-September. While that is still a cause for concern, they have plummeted 85% from a peak of more than a quarter-million cases per day in early January.The last time deaths were this low was early July, nearly a year ago. Covid-19 deaths in the US topped out in mid-January at an average of more than 3,400 a day, just a month into the biggest vaccination drive in the nation's history.Kansas reported no new deaths from Friday through Monday. In Massachusetts, the Boston Herald put a huge zero on Wednesday's front page under the headline “First time in nearly a year state has no new coronavirus deaths.”Dr. Amesh Adalja, an infectious disease specialist at Johns Hopkins University, said that vaccinations have been crucial even as the nation struggles to reach herd immunity.“The primary objective is to deny this virus the ability to kill at the rate that it could, and that has been achieved," he said. “We have in effect tamed the virus.”Nearly 45% of the nation's adults are fully vaccinated, and over 58% have received at least one dose, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. This week, Pfizer's vaccine won authorization for use in 12- to 15-year-olds, in a move that could make it easier to reopen the nation's schools.Physicians like Dr. Tom Dean in South Dakota’s rural Jerauld County are cautiously optimistic, concerned about the many people who have decided against getting vaccinated or have grown lax in guarding against infections. The county has seen just three confirmed cases in the last two weeks, according to Johns Hopkins data.“What I’m afraid of is people believing this whole thing is over and you don’t have to worry about it any more,” Dean said. “I think complacency is our biggest threat right now.”The encouraging outlook stands in sharp contrast to the catastrophe unfolding in places like India and Brazil.The overall US death toll stands at about 583,000, and teams of experts consulted by the CDC projected in a report last week that new deaths and cases will fall sharply by the end of July and continue dropping after that.“I think we are in a great place, but I think India is an important cautionary tale," warned Justin Lessler, a professor of epidemiology at John Hopkins.“If there is a right combination of vaccine hesitancy, potentially new variants and quickly rolling back control measures that comes together, we could potentially screw this up and have yet another wave that is completely unnecessary at this point."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tamed-the-virus-us-deaths-hit-lowest-level-after-july-2020-101620836167411.html
12-05-2021||World||Escalating Mideast violence bears hallmarks of 2014 Gaza war||Rockets streamed out of Gaza and Israel pounded the territory with airstrikes Wednesday as the most severe outbreak of violence since a 2014 war took on many hallmarks of that devastating 50-day conflict, with dozens killed and no resolution in sight.Palls of gray smoke rose in Gaza, as Israeli airstrikes levelled two apartment towers and hammered the militant group's multiple security installations, destroying the central police compound.In Israel, barrages of hundreds of rockets fired by Gaza's Hamas rulers and other militants at times overwhelmed missile defenses and brought air raid sirens and explosions echoing across Tel Aviv, Israel's biggest metropolitan area, and other cities.The death toll in Gaza rose to 48 Palestinians, including 14 children and three women, according to the Health Ministry. More than 300 people have been wounded, including 86 children and 39 women.Six Israelis, including a soldier, three women and a child, were killed, and dozens of people were wounded.While the rapidly escalating conflict has brought images familiar from 2014 Israel-Hamas war, the past day has also seen a startling new factor: A burst of fury from Israel's Palestinian citizens in support of those living in the territories and against Israel's recent response to unrest in Jerusalem and its current operations in Gaza.Amid those protests, communal violence erupted in several mixed Jewish-Arab Israeli cities, including the burning of a Jewish-owned restaurant and a synagogue, the fatal shooting of an Arab man and attacks on Arab-owned cars.In a rare move that highlighted the tensions, Israeli Defense Minister Benny Gantz on Wednesday ordered units of border guards deployed to help police keep order.There was no sign that either side is willing to back down. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has vowed to expand the offensive, saying “this will take time.” Hamas has called for a full-scale intifada, or uprising. The last such uprising began in 2000 and lasted more than five years.The latest eruption of violence began a month ago in Jerusalem, where heavy-handed police tactics during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan and the threatened eviction of dozens of Palestinian families by Jewish settlers ignited protests and clashes with police.A focal point was the Al-Aqsa Mosque compound, a site sacred to Jews and Muslims.Late Monday, Hamas, claiming to be “defending Jerusalem,” launched a barrage of rockets at the city in a major escalation.The Israeli military said militants have fired more 1,050 rockets since the conflict began, with 200 of them falling short and landing inside Gaza. Lt. Col. Jonathan Conricus, a military spokesman, said two infantry brigades were sent to the area, indicating preparations for a possible ground invasion.The army also confirmed that a soldier — Staff Sgt. Omer Tabib, 21 — was killed in an anti-tank missile attack near the Gaza Strip, the first Israeli military death in the fighting.Israel has struck hundreds of targets in the Gaza Strip, where 2 million Palestinians have lived under a crippling Israeli-Egyptian blockade since Hamas took power in 2007.The fiercest attack was a set of airstrikes that brought down an entire 12-story building. The building housed important Hamas offices, as well as some businesses. Israel fired a series of warning shots before demolishing the building, allowing people to flee and there were no casualties.Israeli aircraft heavily damaged another Gaza City building early Wednesday. Israel said the nine-story building housed Hamas intelligence offices and the group's command responsible for planning attacks in the occupied West Bank; it also had residential apartments, medical companies and a dental clinic. A drone fired five warning rockets before the bombing.Fighter jets struck the building again after journalists and rescuers had gathered around. There was no immediate word on casualties. The high-rise stood 200 meters (650 feet) away from the AP bureau in Gaza City, and smoke and debris reached the office.In another strike, Hamas' Gaza City commander was killed Wednesday, the group confirmed, making him the highest-ranking military figure in the group to be killed by Israel since the 2014 war. Israel's internal security agency said that a series of airstrikes had killed Bassem Issa and several other senior militants.At one point Wednesday, Hamas fired 100 rockets at the Israeli desert town of Beersheba in what it said was retaliation for some of the strikes.Samah Haboub, a mother of four in Gaza, said she was thrown across her bedroom in a “moment of horror” by an airstrike on an apartment tower next door. She and her children, aged 3 to 14, ran down the stairway of their apartment block along with other residents, many of them screaming and crying.“There is almost no safe place in Gaza,” she said.One strike hit a taxi in Gaza City, killing a man, woman and driver insider, and a second strike killed two men nearby on the street, witnesses who brought the bodies told the AP at the hospital. Several other bystanders, including a woman, were wounded.In the Israeli city of Lod, a 52-year-old man and his 16-year-old daughter, reportedly Arab citizens of Israel, were killed early Wednesday when a rocket from Gaza hit the courtyard of their home.The Jerusalem turmoil and the ensuing battle come at a time when the long-stalled Israeli-Palestinian peace process is virtually non-existent. (AP) IND||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/escalating-mideast-violence-bears-hallmarks-of-2014-gaza-war-101620834933367.html
12-05-2021||World||'Broader conflict' must be averted in Israeli-Palestinian violence: EU||Israelis and Palestinians must immediately halt their violence "to prevent a broader conflict" impacting civilian populations, EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell warned on Wednesday."The EU is dismayed at the large numbers of civilian deaths and injuries, including children," he said in a statement. "All efforts should be directed at avoiding civilian casualties, and supporting de-escalation."The statement came as Israelis and Palestinians traded missile and rocket fire in a military escalation after weekend clashes in and around the shared holy Al-Aqsa compound in Jerusalem."The grave escalation in Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including the major upsurge in violence in and around Gaza, must stop," Borrell said.While saying the "indiscriminate launching of rockets from Hamas and other groups towards Israeli civilians is unacceptable" and affirming Israeli's "legitimate need to protect its civilian population," Borrell stressed that the response "needs to be proportionate"."The EU calls for an immediate end to the ongoing violence. Everything must be done to prevent a broader conflict, which will, first and foremost, affect the civilian populations on both sides," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/broader-conflict-must-be-averted-in-israeli-palestinian-violence-eu-101620834893368.html
12-05-2021||World||More data needed before Covid-19 vaccine booster decisions: EU regulators||More clinical and real-world data is needed on how well and for how long Covid-19 vaccines are protective before any decisions should be made on offering third or booster doses, Europe's drug regulators said on Wednesday.Speaking at the first of planned regular fortnightly media briefings on the coronavirus pandemic, the European Medicines Agency's head of biological health threats and vaccines strategy Marco Cavaleri cautioned against making "premature" moves to deploy booster Covid-19 shots."We need to look into real-world evidence ... to give us the data we need to know when would be the right time to give a third dose," he said."We need to have data that show in the field, either real-world evidence or clinical trials, that show what is the level of protection that is retained by the vaccines that we currently have."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/more-data-needed-before-covid-19-vaccine-booster-decisions-eu-regulators-101620824879319.html
12-05-2021||World||US CDC identifies 28 clotting cases after Johnson & Johnson Covid-19 vaccine||The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said on Wednesday it had identified 28 cases of serious, potentially life-threatening cases of blood clotting, among the more than 8.7 million people who had received the Johnson & Johnson Covid-19 vaccine.The CDC said in a presentation that current evidence "suggests a plausible causal association" with the J&J vaccine and the cases of thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome (TTS). TTS involves blood clots accompanied by a low level of platelets - the cells in the blood that help it to clot.Three of the 28 have died. Previously, as of April 25, the CDC had reported 17 cases of clotting among nearly 8 million people given vaccines.It said the events appear similar to what is being observed following administration of the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine in Europe.The syndrome does not appear to be associated with either of the Covid-19 vaccines produce by Pfizer Inc and BioNTech SA or Moderna Inc.Most of the cases were among women aged 18 to 49, the CDC said. Rates among women aged 30-39 and 40-49 were particularly high, according to the presentation, at 12.4 cases per million and 9.4 cases per million, respectively.Only six of the clotting events identified were in men.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-cdc-identifies-28-clotting-cases-after-johnson-johnson-covid-19-vaccine-101620835903598.html
12-05-2021||World||Russia jails former mayor Roizman over tweets in support of Navalny||A Russian court on Wednesday sentenced popular opposition politician Yevgeny Roizman to nine days in jail for urging people to join demonstrations in support of jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny.The sentence follows a wave of court rulings that have sidelined or sent into exile allies of Navalny, who was jailed by authorities in February for more than two years on old embezzlement charges he says are politically motivated.Roizman, 58, was mayor of Russia's fourth-largest city Yekaterinburg between 2013 and 2018 and frequently participates in rallies organised by the opposition, including Navalny.Roizman said on Twitter that he was accused of organising protests on January 31 and April 21 through posts on his Twitter account that has close to 500,000 followers.A court in Yekaterinburg found him guilty and sentenced Roizman to nine days in jail on both charges, the state-run TASS news agency reported.The jail terms will be served simultaneously, so the politician will spend a total of nine days behind bars.Roizman pleaded not guilty to both offences.Earlier in March, he was fined 20,000 rubles (around $270) for taking part in rallies in January.The winter marches were held in cities across Russia after Navalny, 44, returned to Moscow from Germany, where he was recovering from nerve agent poisoning.- Telegram messenger fined -Navalny was taken into custody for allegedly breaching parole terms and in February sentenced to two-and-a-half years in a penal colony.He announced a hunger strike in late March, demanding proper medical treatment for pain in his back and numbness in his legs, sparking fresh nationwide rallies on April 21.He ended his hunger strike after 24 days.The rallies were met with a harsh response from authorities, with participants receiving fines and short jail terms and some facing several years in prison.Russia has also ramped up pressure on domestic and foreign social networks, accusing them of refusing to delete opposition content.On Wednesday, popular encrypted messenger Telegram was slapped with a fine of five million rubles ($67,000) for not removing calls "inciting minors" to join protests, Russian news agencies reported.Moscow has repeatedly fined foreign internet companies, including Facebook, Google and Twitter, for failing to comply with Russian legislation.Last month, Russia also throttled Twitter's services in the country, saying the platform did not remove illegal content on its request.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-jails-former-mayor-roizman-over-tweets-in-support-of-navalny-101620833115025.html
12-05-2021||World||Moderna to deliver 25 million Covid-19 vaccine doses to Australia by 2022||US pharmaceutical company Moderna on Wednesday agreed to deliver 25 million Covid-19 vaccine shots to Australia by the end of next year as the country deals with a lagging immunization campaign.Moderna will deliver 10 million doses this year and by 2022 deliver 15 million booster shots that are still being tested but meant to neutralize variants of Covid-19, the company and the Australian government said in a statement."We appreciate the partnership and support from the government of Australia with this first supply agreement for doses of the Moderna COVID-19 vaccine and our variant booster candidates," Moderna CEO Stephane Bancel said in a statement.This month, Moderna released positive results from trials of a modified vaccine aimed at the South African and Brazilian Covid-19 variants, and of a third dose of its initial vaccine.Australia's Covid-19 vaccine campaign has lagged behind those of other countries and the government's target. This week Canberra set a new goal of vaccinating all willing adults by the end of this year.So far, Australia has delivered 2.5 million vaccine shots, versus the roughly 50 million jabs needed to vaccinate the entire population.After a series of problems with vaccine delivery and the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine for those under 50, the government is now in talks to manufacture promising mRNA vaccines domestically.Australia has ridden out the coronavirus pandemic by effectively sealing itself off from the rest of the world, and with a series of snap local lockdowns.It remains one of the few places where there is no widespread community transmission and daily life is relatively normal.But very few Australians are immunized and there have been repeated outbreaks linked to quarantine facilities, raising fears that its success could be fleeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-to-deliver-25-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-to-australia-by-2022-101620831751472.html
12-05-2021||World||President Biden beats first GOP effort to block stimulus ban on tax cuts||The Biden administration can enforce a congressional ban on tax cuts by states that tap almost $200 billion in Covid stimulus money while a lawsuit over the provision proceeds, a judge ruled.The ruling on Wednesday denying Ohio Attorney General Dave Yost’s request for an injunction against the ban is the first legal test of the restriction, which triggered five legal challenges in mostly Republican-led states after it was added to the $1.9 trillion American Rescue Plan Act.U.S. District Judge Douglas R. Cole’s decision is a positive early sign for Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen, who argued in court papers that the tax mandate is a “straightforward exercise” of Congress’s authority to attach conditions that “preserve its control over the use of federal funds.”But the dispute is far from over. Judges in the other cases may come to different conclusions when ruling on pending requests for injunctions, and either side could ultimately prevail on the merits following a trial.Yost’s press secretary, Steve Irwin, didn’t immediately have a comment when reached by phone.Read More: Ohio Sues Biden Administration Over Stimulus Tax RestrictionThe dispute is one of several GOP-led legal challenges to the Biden administration’s policies, including lawsuits over his moratorium on oil and gas leasing on federal public land and his plan to freeze deportations of undocumented immigrants for 100 days, which was blocked by a judge pending trial in another suit brought by Republican state AGs.In the Ohio case, Yost argued that the tax mandate added by Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer was holding the state’s $5.5 billion in federal relief “hostage.” Republican state AGs have said they should be permitted to accept federal cash and cut taxes without fear that the money will be clawed back. Democrats in Congress say the funds should be used for relief efforts and not to finance tax cuts popular with Republican voters.The relief money “may be directed to a broad variety of state efforts to respond to the public health emergency created by the Covid-19 pandemic and to its economic effects, including by funding state-level government services and by providing assistance to households, small businesses, and industries,” Yellen said in a filing responding to a parallel suit by Arizona.Other states that have sued include Alabama, Tennessee and Kentucky, whose legislature is controlled by Republicans. The states have called the tax mandate an improper offer of federal money they “can’t refuse” and an attempt at a “complete take-over of state finances.”The case is State of Ohio v. Yellen, 21-cv-00181, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Ohio (Cincinnati).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/president-biden-beats-first-gop-effort-to-block-stimulus-ban-on-tax-cuts-101620831699784.html
12-05-2021||World||Covid-19 cases spike among prisoners in Bangkok||Nearly 3,000 inmates at two prisons in Thailand’s capital have tested positive for Covid-19, the Corrections Department said Wednesday, as the country battles a new wave of the coronavirus.The department said 1,785 of the 3,274 inmates tested positive at Bangkok Special Prison, which holds detainees ahead of trial. At the Central Women’s Correctional Institution, 1,040 of the 4,475 inmates were infected, it said.The Corrections Department announced the infections after a prominent political activist released on bail last week announced Wednesday that she had tested positive for the virus. Panusaya “Rung” Sitthijirawattanakul and fellow members of a student-led pro-democracy movement are awaiting trial on charges of defaming the monarchy, or lese majeste, which is punishable by up to 15 years' imprisonment.The department confirmed last week that two other activists also tested positive for Covid-19. The legal aid group Thai Lawyers for Human Rights said nine activists who were detained have tested positive, including Panusaya and another who has been released.Health authorities on Wednesday announced 1,983 new coronavirus cases, bringing Thailand's confirmed total to 88,907 since the pandemic began. There were 34 new deaths, for a total of 486.The new coronavirus wave began at the beginning of April, originating in upmarket entertainment venues in Bangkok and spawning clusters in several crowded slum communities, followed by other venues such as department stores. Many recent cases involve the British variant of the virus, which is more infectious than the original form found last year.The new wave accounts for about two-thirds of all confirmed Thai cases and more then three-fourths of the deaths.Anti-coronavirus restrictions have been tightened, although there are no strict curfews or travel bans. In the worst-hit areas, such as Bangkok, restaurants are barred from dine-in service and can only sell take-out meals.The surge in cases and deaths has strained the capacity of hospitals to provide beds and ICU facilities, leading to the establishment of temporary field hospitals.There is concern over the slow pace of vaccinations after Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha’s government failed to secure adequate vaccines. Less than 3% of the country’s population has been vaccinated.Even with limited supplies, demand for vaccinations through an online scheduling app has fallen short of targets in some areas, said health officials, who announced plans to make it easier to get inoculated.While it will still be possible to book online, people will also be able register via groups to which they belong, such as their workplaces, as well as go to several mobile walk-in centers without reservations, Public Health Minister Anutin Charnvirakul announced. The expanded system will come into effect in June, when local production of the AstraZeneca vaccine is to begin at a planned rate of 10 million doses monthly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-cases-spike-among-prisoners-in-bangkok-101620831020652.html
12-05-2021||World||Russians pay tribute to victims of mass shooting at Kazan school||Mourners left toys and flowers on Wednesday in tribute at a Russian school where nine people, including seven children, were killed after a teenage gunman opened fire at a school.The attack on Tuesday in the city around 450 miles (725 km) east of Moscow was the deadliest school shooting since 2018 when a student at a college in Russian-annexed Crimea killed 20 people."(I came here) because this is such a disaster ... It's impossible to just remain indifferent," a woman who gave her name only as Albina said after coming to pay her respects at School Number 175.The head of Russia's Muslim-majority region of Tatarstan, where Kazan is the main city, has called it a national tragedy and the Kremlin has called for tighter gun controls.Russia has strict restrictions on civilian firearm ownership, but some categories of gun are available for purchase for hunting, self-defence or sport, once would-be owners have passed tests and met other requirements.Around 100 people, some of them wearing face masks because of the COVID-19 pandemic, gathered at a traditional Muslim funeral for Elvira Ignatieva, an English teacher who was among the victims."She was protecting her children ... She was protecting (them) and didn't hide away," said Talgat Gumerov, a Kazan resident.Twenty-three people were still in hospital on Wednesday, including 12 children with gunshot wounds, the TASS news agency reported. Five children were in a serious condition and one of them was critical, it said.The Investigative Committee, which investigates major crimes, said that it planned to charge a suspect named Ilnaz Galyaviev later on Wednesday. A court was expected to rule later on the terms of custody for the 19-year-old.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russians-pay-tribute-to-victims-of-mass-shooting-at-kazan-school-101620830141434.html
12-05-2021||World||UK PM Johnson has unpaid 535 pound debt: Document||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, whose personal finances have come under the spotlight over the renovation of his Downing Street apartment, has an unpaid debt of 535 pounds ($756.12) court records showed on Wednesday.The court judgement seen by Reuters did not name the other party in the case, but listed Boris Johnson and the address of his 10 Downing Street office.The record was dated Oct. 26 2020, and listed as 'Unsatisfied' meaning it was wholly or partly unpaid. It was first reported in the "Private Eye" magazine.Johnson's office did not immediately have a comment when contacted by Reuters.Johnson's finances have been the subject of extensive scrutiny in recent weeks, with electoral authorities investigating the funding of refurbishments to his flat, and parliament investigating the declaration he made relating to a donor-funded foreign trip.A county court judgement is issued when someone submits a claim and judges decide the money needs to be paid. The register of these judgements is used by banks and other financial institutions to determine an individual's credit rating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-pm-johnson-has-unpaid-535-pound-debt-document-101620818789961.html
12-05-2021||World||UK said to reconsider plan to buy AstraZeneca Covid-19 antibody drug||The U.K. has reconsidered plans to buy one million doses of AstraZeneca Plc’s Covid-19 antibody treatment, according to two people with knowledge of the situation.While the first data from the treatment’s trials are expected in the coming weeks, the UK has no orders for it and is still evaluating the role antibody cocktails may play in Britain’s response to the pandemic, according to one of the people, who didn’t want to be identified because details of the discussions are private. Alok Sharma, the U.K.’s former business secretary, said in November that the country had procured the doses pending trial results.The deal Sharma announced last year was a non-binding and in principle agreement, the person said. By contrast, the U.S. increased its order for the Astra antibody treatment by half a million doses in March, taking its potential supplies to 700,000 in 2021.Monoclonal antibodies are aimed at protecting high-risk people such as cancer patients whose immune systems may not be able to cope with vaccination. The drugs can neutralize the virus and mimic the necessary immune response to avoid infection. Astra’s treatment -- AZD7442 -- proved effective against variants of the virus in early testing. The company is expected to report the first data shortly from a trial evaluating the drug’s ability to prevent infection in people who have been exposed to Covid-19 in places like nursing homes.A spokesman for the U.K. Department of Health and Social Care declined to comment. A spokesman for Astra said the company is “working with international and government agencies around the world to enable broad access” to the treatment if it proves effective in trials.Astra has five advanced-stage trials testing a combination of two long-acting antibodies for both the prevention and treatment of Covid-19 in different populations. The company said last month that, if the data were positive, it would apply for emergency authorization in the U.S., followed by other global submissions for clearance.Unlike with vaccines, it’s much harder to scale up production of monoclonal antibodies. Drugmakers like Astra can only manufacture several million doses a year.A number of antibody treatments have shown success in trials and been cleared for use. A cocktail treatment from from Eli Lilly and Co. was granted an emergency use authorization earlier this year, while GlaxoSmithKline Plc and Vir Biotechnology Inc. have applied for such clearance of their antibody drug, targeted at people with mild to moderate infection at risk of progressing to severe Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-said-to-reconsider-plan-to-buy-astrazeneca-covid-19-antibody-drug-101620809343671.html
12-05-2021||World||Republicans oust Trump critic Liz Cheney from leadership||Wednesday's vote by House Republicans over whether to oust anti-Trump conservative Liz Cheney from her leadership role will almost certainly confirm that the party out of power in Washington is casting its lot with the former US president.Eighteen months before crucial midterms and three years before the next presidential race, the Republican Party appears intent on punishing one of its own because she refuses to embrace Donald Trump's false claim that Democrats stole the 2020 election.Republicans argue it's about unity, and that Cheney hammering on about Trump and what she calls his "dangerous and anti-democratic cult of personality" has done nothing to bring a fractured party together following a contentious election that left them in the political hinterland.Cheney, a Wyoming conservative and the daughter of former vice president Dick Cheney, is expected to be removed from her role as the number three House Republican in a morning vote by the party's conference.On Tuesday evening she delivered a defiant speech on the House floor, warning her colleagues of the potential "unraveling of our democracy" as a former president continues to mislead millions of Americans and sow doubt about election integrity."Remaining silent and ignoring the lie emboldens the liar," Cheney told a nearly empty chamber."I will not participate in that. I will not sit back in silence as others lead our party down a path that abandons the rule of law, and joins the former president's crusade to undermine our democracy."In a statement issued Wednesday morning before the vote, Trump said House Republicans "have a great opportunity today to rid themselves of a poor leader, a major Democrat talking point, a warmonger, and a person with absolutely no personality or heart.""As a representative of the Great State of Wyoming, Liz Cheney is bad for our Country and bad for herself," the ex-president added.- What comes next? -Trump, top House Republican Kevin McCarthy and number two Steve Scalise have all endorsed a young moderate-turned-Trumpist, Elise Stefanik, as Cheney's replacement.Stefanik does not yet have serious competition for the post, and the endorsements make her the clear frontrunner.But a vote for a new conference chair is not yet set, as some Republicans worry that Stefanik -- while a fierce Trump defender -- is insufficiently conservative.Regardless of Cheney's replacement, "it's clear that we need to make a change," McCarthy told members Monday."Each day spent relitigating the past is one day less we have to seize the future."While Cheney and a few allies, such as House Republican Adam Kinzinger, warn against clinging to the former president, many in the GOP including Senator Lindsey Graham believe their party cannot move forward without Trumpism -- whether or not Trump himself remains a force.In a Tuesday letter to fellow Republicans, congressman Chip Roy said Cheney will be ousted because she spent more time "unhelpfully engaging in personal attacks and finger-wagging towards president Trump" than building a party platform to take on Democrats."She forfeited her ability to be our spokesperson by pulling us into distraction," the Texas lawmaker said.With Republican divisions on awkward display, President Joe Biden will court bipartisanship Wednesday when he hosts his first White House meeting with the four congressional leaders: House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, and Republicans McCarthy and Senator Mitch McConnell.The huddle may serve as a reminder that in the midst of a purge of a congressional leader, Washington's gears continue churning."Hopefully... they can talk about areas of agreement and things like infrastructure," White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki told reporters.Cheney nevertheless sits at the center of a crisis for a party unable to quit its defeated former president or reject his false claim of election fraud.mlm/dw/jm||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/republicans-oust-trump-critic-liz-cheney-from-leadership-101620824915186.html
12-05-2021||World||Britain to launch public inquiry into Covid response, says PM Boris Johnson||A full, independent public inquiry into the British government's handling of its response to the coronavirus pandemic will be held early next year, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Wednesday.The country had "found itself in the teeth of the gravest pandemic for a century" and the state has "an obligation to examine its actions as rigorously and as candidly as possible and to learn every lesson for the future", he told lawmakers.Britain has been hit hard by the outbreak, with more than 127,000 deaths since March last year -- the world's fifth highest official toll, according to data collected by AFP -- raising questions about why it has fared worse than other nations.Johnson told parliament the inquiry would be established on a "statutory basis", with oral evidence given under oath and powers to "compel the production of all relevant materials".He added he expected the inquiry, which is likely last over a year, will begin in the spring of 2022.The government in London will work with the UK's devolved administrations in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland to determine the scope of the inquiry.Johnson's government has rebuffed months of calls for a wide-reaching investigation into its handling of the pandemic, saying it would hamper the ongoing response.But months of lockdown restrictions are being eased, and the number of cases of Covid-19 and deaths has fallen sharply, as a mass vaccination campaign continues apace.Opposition Labour leader Keir Starmer called for the inquiry to start "as soon as possible".Johnson, however, said the start had to be delayed so it did not "weigh down the efforts of those engaged in protecting us every day".The events of the last year needed to be looked at in the "cold light of day", he added.Johnson's leadership has come under particular scrutiny since the start of the outbreak.He has been accused of being too slow to impose a nationwide lockdown measures to contain the virus at the outset, and too fast to lift restrictions once the first wave passed.There were also initial problems with the supply of protective equipment to frontline workers, testing capacity, and glitches in an app to trace Covid contacts.Johnson has denied that he dismissed the prospect of a wave of Covid-19 deaths, after reports he had said he would rather see "bodies pile high in their thousands" than impose a third coronavirus lockdown.Ultimately, Johnson did order a new round of restrictions in January.Johnson's former top aide Dominic Cummings has publicly called into question his ex-boss' judgement at key moments during the pandemic.He is due to give evidence to a separate parliamentary inquiry into the government's Covid response later this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-to-launch-public-inquiry-into-covid-response-says-pm-boris-johnson-101620824482837.html
12-05-2021||World||EU court scraps Amazon's $303 million EU tax order||Europe's second-top court on Thursday annulled an EU order to Amazon to pay about 250 million euros ($303.28 million) in back taxes to Luxembourg, part of an EU crackdown against unfair tax deals between multinationals and EU countries.The Luxembourg-based General Court said Amazon had not enjoyed a selective advantage in its tax deal with Luxembourg."The Commission did not prove to the requisite legal standard that there was an undue reduction of the tax burden of a European subsidiary of the Amazon group," judge said.The European Commission in its 2017 ruling said the Grand Duchy spared the U.S. online retailer from paying taxes on almost three-quarters of its profits from EU operations by allowing it to channel profits to a holding company tax-free.The cases are T-816/17 Luxembourg v Commission & T-318/18 Amazon EU v Commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-court-scraps-amazon-s-303-million-eu-tax-order-101620812393711.html
12-05-2021||World||Norway will not use AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine: Report||Norway will not resume its use of the Covid-19 vaccine made by AstraZeneca due to a risk of rare but harmful side-effects, newspaper VG reported on Wednesday.Prime Minister Erna Solberg is expected to announce at 1600 GMT whether Norway will resume the use of the AstraZeneca shot, as well as the government's decision on Johnson & Johnson's inoculation.The prime minister's office and the health ministry were not immediately available for comment.Authorities on March 11 suspended the AstraZeneca rollout after a small number of younger inoculated people were hospitalised for a combination of blood clots, bleeding and a low count of platelets, some of whom later died.A study in Denmark and Norway found slightly increased rates of vein blood clots among people who have had a first dose of AstraZeneca's vaccine, including clots in the brain, compared with expected rates in the general population.On May 10, a public panel of medical, legal and other experts said the two vaccines should not be offered as part of the national inoculation scheme, although volunteers should be allowed to take them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/norway-will-not-use-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-report-101620813290935.html
12-05-2021||World||Sri Lanka announces night travel ban to check surge in Covid-19 cases||Sri Lanka on Wednesday intensified travel restrictions across the country, restricting movement of traffic at night to combat the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic that has claimed over 800 lives in the island nation.The ban, from 11 pm to 4 am daily, will come into place from tonight until May 31, Army chief Gen Shavendra Silva, who heads the COVID combat operations, told the media.However, essential services and transportation of food items will be allowed during this period.The move comes after inter-provincial travel restrictions were put into place across the country until May 30.Additionally, there would be a blanket travel ban from 11 pm on Thursday until 4 am on Monday in view of the long weekend and festival of Eid on Friday.Silva said people were noticed breaking COVID preventive guidelines in the night as large numbers were seen on the roads and attending private functions.The Sri Lanka Medical Association (SLMA) had warned of a possible breakdown in the healthcare system in the island if the current surge was left unchecked.The SLMA officials met President Gotabaya Rajapaksa on Monday to stress on the need for a strict action.They warned that the number of people requiring oxygen and those waiting for intensive care treatment was rapidly rising.There was a severe shortage of PCR facilities, particularly in peripheral hospitals, there were many diagnosed COVID cases remaining in their homes awaiting admission to hospitals or intermediate centres, they said.The COVID deaths may reach unprecedented levels and a grave national catastrophe is a real potential threat in the near future unless something that offers rapid results is implemented, the SLMA warned.Achieving rapid control would save many lives, ease the burden on hospitals, lay the background for vaccination and be economically beneficial in the longer-term, the SLMA told the president.Sri Lanka is battling the third wave of the pandemic. The country reported 149 COVID deaths over the last 10 days, health officials said.According to the Johns Hopkins Coronavirus data, Sri Lanka has reported 131,098 COVID-19 cases and 850 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sri-lanka-announces-night-travel-ban-to-check-surge-in-covid-19-cases-101620820121646.html
12-05-2021||World||'I am PM of Pakistan. We stand with Palestine', tweets Imran Khan||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on Wednesday said that his country stands with Palestine, as he denounced the attacks in Gaza Strip by Israeli forces. "I am PM of Pakistan. We stand with Gaza. We stand with Palestine," Khan posted on Twitter attaching a quote by writer Noam Chomsky."You take my water, burn my olive trees, destroy my house, take my job, steal my land, imprison my father, kill my mother, bombard my country, starve us all, humiliate us all, but I am to blame: I shot a rocket back," Chomsky's attached quote read.I am PM of Pakistan and #WeStandWithGaza #WeStandWithPalestine pic.twitter.com/0Gpb9DxjJGMeanwhile, the country's foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi urged the Muslim nations around the world to unite against the Israeli strikes on the civilian areas of Palestine, reported AP.The death toll from Israeli airstrikes in Gaza that began on Monday has reached 43. It also includes 13 children and three women, as per the Gaza health ministry, according to the AP report.The airstrikes have been reported to be the worst since 2014. The escalating tensions between Israel and Palestine ignited after the clashes between the Palestinian protesters and Israeli police on the compound of Al-Aqsa Mosque, the holiest site for Muslims in Jerusalem.More than 600 rockets were fired at Israel from Monday evening to Tuesday afternoon. As much as 200 of them were intercepted by Iron Dome missile defence batteries and 150 others couldn't reach the target, according to the Israeli army. Three people were killed as of Wednesday morning in the rocket strikes from Gaza to Tel Aviv.Also read: 'Heart goes out to 9-yr-old son,' Israel's India envoy speaks to Soumya's familyThe protests by Palestinians against the eviction from Sheikh Jarrah and attack by the Israeli forces on the Palestinian worshippers in Al-Aqsa mosque with stun grenades and rubber bullets over those protests exacerbated the conflict.The Palestinians in Sheikh Jarrah live in houses built on land that a court has ruled belonged to Jewish religious associations before the establishment of Israel in 1948.On May 9 as well, Pakistan PM Khan condemned the violence by Israeli forces against the Palestinians and said it violated all norms of humanity and international law."Strongly condemn Israeli Forces' attack esp during Ramazan on Palestinians in Qibla-e-Awaal, Al-Aqsa Mosque, violating all norms of humanity & int law. We reiterate support for Palestinian ppl. Int community must take immed action to protect Palestinians & their legitimate rights," Khan had said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/i-am-pm-of-pakistan-we-stand-with-palestine-tweets-imran-khan-101620817204889.html
12-05-2021||World||Afghan security forces fight to recapture Taliban-held district outside Kabul||Afghan security forces mounted an operation to recapture a Taliban-held district outside the capital Kabul on Wednesday just before the start of a three-day ceasefire at midnight, a local official said.Taliban insurgents had killed or captured some government soldiers and forced others to retreat after storming the district centre, which lies in Wardak province less than an hour's drive from Kabul.Government forces have been struggling against stepped-up attacks by the insurgents as US troops withdraw after two decades of fighting in the country.Wardak mayor Zarifa Ghafari said that if the district was not taken soon, fighting would reach the gates of Kabul in a few days.The defence ministry said on Wednesday special forces have been deployed in the area to retake the district after troops made a "tactical retreat" on Tuesday.A senior government official said they aimed to regain control before a three-day ceasefire announced by the Taliban for the Muslim religious holiday of Eid, which starts on Thursday."We will have to do it today because after the ceasefire, it will give the Taliban enough time to dig in and will complicate the operations and increase our casualties," the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity.The government carried out air strikes at the start of the operation, the defence ministry said.The insurgents have maintained a strong presence in Wardak and nearby Logar province to the south over the years. Afghan officials say the Taliban have used the provinces as launchpads for hit-and-run attacks and suicide bombings on Kabul.The Taliban has staged a months-long campaign to expand its influence across the country as the United States has begun withdrawing troops from May 1 and closed some bases in keeping with a peace deal it signed with the Taliban last year.Afghan officials say since Washington announced plans last month to pull out all US troops by Sept. 11, the Taliban have stepped up attacks.Critics of the decision to withdraw say the Islamist militants will try to sweep back into power.US-led forces ousted the Taliban from power in late 2001 for sheltering the al-Qaeda militants involved in the September 11 attacks on the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-security-forces-fight-to-recapture-taliban-held-district-outside-kabul-101620819677592.html
12-05-2021||World||Covid-19: Brazil will vaccinate athletes, staff headed to Tokyo Olympics||Brazilian athletes and staff travelling to Tokyo for the Olympics will receive Covid-19 vaccines with the first doses set to be administered on Friday, the Brazilian Olympic Committee (COB) has said.The COB said they are looking to administer the second dose by June 21 -- two weeks before the start of the July 23-Aug. 8 Games. Paralympic participants will also get their shots before the Games begin on Aug. 24.Around 1,800 people are set to be vaccinated across six cities, with COB vice-president Head of Mission Marco Antonio La Porta saying the Brazilian population would receive two doses for every person on the delegation who is vaccinated."This is a great contribution from the Olympic Movement at this very difficult time that the world is facing," La Porta told reporters."Even without the vaccine being mandatory for participation in the Games, there is no doubt that we will feel safer to represent Brazil in the Olympic Games."Health Minister Marcelo Queiroga said they would be using either the Pfizer or the Sinovac shots.Brazil has recorded the second-deadliest Covid-19 outbreak in the world and continues to average more than 2,000 deaths per day. More than 425,000 people have died from Covid-19 since the pandemic began, according to the Health Ministry.On Tuesday, the Health Ministry announced it had signed a deal for Pfizer to deliver an additional 100 million doses of its Covid-19 vaccine, doubling the number of shots from the company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-brazil-will-vaccinate-athletes-staff-headed-to-tokyo-olympics-101620817527546.html
12-05-2021||World||Death toll rises from air strikes in Gaza and rocket fire on Israel||Israel carried out hundreds of air strikes in Gaza on Wednesday and Palestinian militants fired multiple rocket barrages at Tel Aviv and the southern city of Beersheba in the region's most intense hostilities in years.At least 49 people have been killed in Gaza since violence escalated on Monday, according to the enclave's health ministry. Six people have been killed in Israel, medical officials said.A Palestinian source said truce efforts by Egypt, Qatar and the United Nations were continuing but without progress so far. U.N. Middle East peace envoy Tor Wennesland said the United Nations was working with all sides to restore calm.In Gaza, a multi-storey residential building collapsed after Israel warned its occupants in advance to evacuate, and another was heavily damaged in the air strikes.Israel said its warplanes had targeted and killed several of the Islamist group Hamas's intelligence leaders. Other strikes hit what the military said were rocket launch sites, Hamas offices and the homes of Hamas leaders.The heaviest offensive between Israel and Hamas since a 2014 war in the Hamas-ruled enclave has increased international concern that the situation could spiral out of control."Israel has gone crazy," said a man on a Gaza street, where people ran out of their homes as explosions rocked buildings.Sixteen people were killed in Israeli air strikes on Gaza on Wednesday, Gaza's health ministry said. Witnesses and health officials in Gaza said one Israeli air strike killed three people, including a woman, in a car.Many Israelis also spent a sleepless night, with sirens wailing in Tel Aviv, heralding several waves of rocket strikes in Israel's heartland."The children have escaped the coronavirus, and now a new trauma," an Israeli woman in the coastal city of Ashkelon said in footage on Channel 11 television.Israelis ran to shelters or lay flat on pavements in communities more than 70 km (45 miles) up the coast from Gaza as interceptor missiles streaked into the sky."All of Israel is under attack. It's a very scary situation to be in," said Margo Aronovic, a 26-year-old student, in Tel Aviv.An Israeli was killed by an anti-tank missile fired from Gaza at a vehicle near the border, Israel's national ambulance service said. Hamas claimed responsibility. Two people were killed by a rocket that hit their car in Lod, near Tel Aviv.Lod and other mixed Arab-Jewish towns have been gripped by demonstrations over the Gaza violence and tensions in Jerusalem.Israeli Defence Minister Benny Gantz said Israeli forces had attacked "many hundreds of targets" and killed senior militants in Gaza and that "all means and options" remained on the table."The Israeli military will continue to attack and will bring about complete and long-term quiet," Gantz told reporters. "Only when we achieve this goal, can we talk about calming things down. At the moment, there is no end-date."NEW CHALLENGEHamas's armed wing said it fired 210 rockets towards Beersheba and Tel Aviv overnight in response to the strikes on the tower buildings in Gaza City. Israel's military says about a third of the rockets have fallen short, landing within Gaza.For Israel, the targeting of Tel Aviv, its commercial capital, posed a new challenge in the confrontation with Hamas, regarded as a terrorist organisation by Israel and the United States.The violence followed weeks of tension during the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan, with clashes between Israeli police and Palestinian protesters near Al-Aqsa Mosque in East Jerusalem.These escalated ahead of a court hearing - now postponed - that could lead to the eviction of Palestinian families from East Jerusalem homes claimed by Jewish settlers.The conflict has led to the freezing of talks by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's opponents on forming a governing coalition to unseat him after Israel's inconclusive March 23 election.Violence has also flared in the occupied West Bank. Medical sources said a 16-year-old Palestinian was killed in clashes with Israeli forces on Wednesday."If they (Israeli forces) want to escalate, the resistance is ready, if they want to stop, the resistance is ready," Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh said.Gaza's health ministry said 14 of the people reported killed in the enclave were children. The Israeli military said it was looking into these reports and that preventing civilian casualties was a priority.The White House said on Tuesday Israel had a legitimate right to defend itself from rocket attacks but applied pressure on Israel over the treatment of Palestinians, saying Jerusalem must be a place of coexistence.Israel said it had dispatched infantry and armour to reinforce tanks already gathered on the border, evoking memories of the last Israeli ground incursion into Gaza to stop rocket attacks in 2014.Witnesses said Israeli aircraft destroyed Gaza's Hamas-run police headquarters in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/death-toll-rises-from-air-strikes-in-gaza-and-rocket-fire-on-israel-101620818772007.html
12-05-2021||World||WHO chief Tedros says will work with member states on panel findings||The head of the World Health Organization said on Wednesday that the agency would discuss with its 194 member states the findings and recommendations of an independent pandemic review panel - which found shortcomings by WHO and by governments.A Covid-19 pandemic review panel issued its report on Wednesday saying that a new transparent global system should be set up for probing disease outbreaks, empowering the WHO to deploy investigators at short notice and reveal findings."We look forward to working with our member states to discuss the recommendations of this panel and the other committees to build a stronger WHO and a healthier, safer, fairer future for all of us," WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreysus told an event to launch the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-chief-tedros-says-will-work-with-member-states-on-panel-findings-101620816533859.html
12-05-2021||World||Japan's Covid-19 vaccine booking system crashes||Technical problems derailed Japan's coronavirus vaccination booking system on Wednesday, compounding frustration over the government's handling of new outbreaks of infections and an inoculation drive that critics say has been woefully slow.The online system to book a vaccine crashed in many places including parts of Tokyo and the western city of Minoh because of a global problem with US cloud computing vendor Salesforce.com Inc, public broadcaster NHK reported.Salesforce chief technology officer Parker Harris said on Twitter that the company was experiencing a "major disruption", later updating to say services had been mostly restored."Making an appointment for a vaccination seems to be a tall order for the elderly," wrote Twitter user @obachan66972352."Please consider making it possible to get the vaccine without an appointment."A representative of the health ministry's vaccine office was not immediately available when contacted by Reuters.The ministry has faced numerous technical problems throughout the pandemic, from a contact tracing application that failed to pass on vital information to a cumbersome database that health workers were reluctant to use.Japan has only inoculated 2.8% of its population, the lowest rate among wealthy countries despite an ambitious government target of giving shots to its 36 million elderly people by July, when the Olympics Games are due to open in Tokyo.But according to government projections, about 86% of Japan's 1,741 cities and towns would meet that goal.Health Minister Norihisa Tamura said to meet the target, about 1 million shots a day had to be delivered, about three times the current pace.Japan's inoculation campaign was initially slow because of tight supplies of imported doses of Pfizer Inc's vaccine but has since been plagued by a shortage of manpower and other logistical snags.Taro Kono, the minister in charge of vaccines, has urged the public to be patient and to take steps to streamline the booking process.Christophe Weber, chief executive of Japan's biggest drugmaker Takeda Pharmaceutical Co, acknowledged on Tuesday that the country was behind on its inoculation push and needed to accelerate.Some 75% of Japanese are dissatisfied with the vaccine rollout, and they had the lowest opinion of their government's handling of the pandemic among six major economies in a survey by global consultancy Kekst CNC released on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japans-covid-19-vaccine-booking-system-crashes-101620816473564.html
12-05-2021||World||UK to help vulnerable countries against Russia, China cyber threat||Britain said on Wednesday it would invest 22 million pounds ($31 million) to help vulnerable countries in Africa and the Indo-Pacific build up their cyber defences to prevent China, Russia and others from filling a cyberspace vacuum.British foreign minister Dominic Raab said Britain and its partners needed to take action to ensure there was a cyberspace that was free, open and peaceful in the face of hostile states seeking to undermine democratic elections and turn the internet into a lawless space."We've got to win the hearts and minds across the world in a much broader space for our positive vision of a cyberspace ... there for the benefit of the whole world," Raab said at an online security conference."Frankly, we've also got to prevent China, Russia and others from filling the multilateral vacuum. That means doing a lot more to support the poorest and most vulnerable countries who are most at risk."Last month, Britain joined the United States in saying Russia's foreign intelligence service, known as the SVR, was responsible for the SolarWinds hack which led to the compromise of nine federal agencies and hundreds of private sector companies.Britain's top cyber spy also warned in April that the West needed to act urgently to ensure China does not dominate important emerging technologies and gain control of the "global operating system".Raab said Britain's investment would be used to support national cyber response teams, advise on mass online safety awareness campaigns and to collaborate with global police coordination agency Interpol to set up a new cyber operations hub in Africa.This hub would operate across Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria and Rwanda to help fight cybercrime in the fast-growing economies, the foreign office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-to-help-vulnerable-countries-against-russia-china-cyber-threat-101620814881095.html
12-05-2021||World||Could have prevented Covid-19 but institutions failed: Expert panel||The catastrophic scale of the Covid-19 pandemic could have been prevented, an independent global panel concluded Wednesday, but a "toxic cocktail" of dithering and poor coordination meant the warning signs went unheeded.The Independent Panel for Pandemic Preparedness and Response (IPPPR) said a series of bad decisions meant Covid-19 went on to kill at least 3.3 million people so far and devastate the global economy.Institutions "failed to protect people" and science-denying leaders eroded public trust in health interventions, the IPPPR said in its long-awaited final report.Early responses to the outbreak detected in Wuhan, China in December 2019 "lacked urgency", with February 2020 a costly "lost month" as countries failed to heed the alarm, said the panel.To tackle the current pandemic, it called on the richest countries to donate a billion vaccine doses to the poorest.And the panel also called on the world's wealthiest nations to fund new organisations dedicated to preparing for the next pandemic.Read more: Foreign aid for Covid-19 swiftly cleared for states, says Centre- 'Delay, hesitation and denial' -The report was requested by World Health Organization (WHO) member states last May.The panel was jointly chaired by former New Zealand prime minister Helen Clark and former Liberian president Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, a 2011 Nobel Peace Prize laureate.The report, "Covid-19: Make it the Last Pandemic", argued that the global alarm system needed overhauling to prevent a similar catastrophe."The situation we find ourselves in today could have been prevented," Sirleaf told reporters."It is due to a myriad of failures, gaps and delays in preparedness and response."The report said the emergence of Covid-19 was characterised by a mixture of "some early and rapid action, but also by delay, hesitation, and denial."Poor strategic choices, unwillingness to tackle inequalities and an uncoordinated system created a toxic cocktail which allowed the pandemic to turn into a catastrophic human crisis."The threat of a pandemic had been overlooked and countries were woefully unprepared to deal with one, the report found.- Vaccine ultimatum -The panel did not spare the WHO, saying it could have declared the situation a Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC) -- its highest level of alarm -- on January 22, 2020.Instead, it waited eight more days before doing so.Nevertheless, given countries' relative inaction, "we might still have ended up in the same place", said Clark.It was only in March after the WHO described it as a pandemic -- a term that is not officially part of its alert system -- that countries were jolted into action.As for the initial outbreak, "there were clearly delays in China -- but there were delays everywhere", she added.Without the lag between the first identification in Wuhan and the PHEIC declaration -- and then the "lost month" of February 2020 -- "we believe we wouldn't be looking at an accelerating pandemic, as we have for the last 15 or 16 months or so. As simple as that", said Clark.The panel made several recommendations on how to address the current pandemic.Rich, well-vaccinated countries should provide the 92 poorest territories in the Covax scheme with at least one billion vaccine doses by September 1, and more than two billion by mid-2022, it said.The G7 industrialised nations should pay 60 percent of the $19 billion ($15 billion euros) required to fund vaccines, diagnostics and therapeutics via the WHO's Access to Covid Tools Accelerator programme in 2021, it added.Fellow G20 nations and others should provide the rest.The WHO and the World Trade Organization should also get major vaccine-producing countries and manufacturers to agree voluntary licensing and technology transfers for Covid-19 vaccines, the panel said."If actions do not occur within three months, a waiver of... intellectual property rights should come into force immediately."- Invest billions, save trillions -To tackle future outbreaks and pandemics, the panel called for a Global Health Threats Council made up of world leaders, plus a pandemic convention.The G20 should also create an International Pandemic Financing Facility, able to spend $5-10 billion a year on preparedness, with $50 to $100 billion ready to roll in the event of a crisis."Ultimately, investing billions in preparedness now will save trillions in the future, as the current pandemic has so clearly illustrated," Clark told reporters.The panel also proposed an overhaul of the WHO to give it greater control over its funding and more authority for its leadership.Its alert system needed to be faster and it should have the authority to send expert missions to countries immediately without waiting for their green light, it added.The panel believe their recommendations would have stopped Covid-19 from becoming a pandemic, had they been in place before the outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/could-have-prevented-covid-19-but-institutions-failed-expert-panel-101620814549381.html
12-05-2021||World||China gives Bangladesh 500,000 doses of Sinopharm Covid-19 vaccines||China delivered 500,000 doses of Sinopharm vaccine as a gift to Bangladesh on Wednesday to help it cope with a shortage.Bangladesh, a nation of 160 million people, is in desperate need after India banned exports of Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccines produced by the Serum Institute of India because of its own devastating surge in infections.Chinese Ambassador to Bangladesh Li Jiming formally handed over the Sinopharm vaccines in Dhaka on Wednesday. Bangladesh has already approved the Chinese vaccines after the World Health Organization has recently listed the Sinopharm for emergency use globally.Bangladesh received about 7 million doses from the Indian institute, but its deal had called for 30 million doses to be delivered by June.Bangladesh already suspended administering the first dose of vaccines. Some few hundreds of thousands of people are due their second dose but would be left out if new doses do not arrive soon.Bangladesh has attempted to diversify its vaccine sources, asking the United States for 4 million doses from its stock and signing a deal with Russia to produce Sputnik-V vaccines locally in Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-gives-bangladesh-500-000-doses-of-covid-19-vaccines-101620810159822.html
12-05-2021||World||Nepal extends ban on international flights till May 31 as Covid-19 situation worsens||The Nepal government has extended suspension on operation of international flights till May 31 as coronavirus cases continue to rise at an alarming rate in the Himalayan nation.The deadly virus has so far infected 413,111 people and claimed 4,084 lives in the country, which has a population of approximately 29.5 million.The suspension period of international schedule flights has been extended till May 31, the Civil Aviation Authority said in a notification on Tuesday.However, two weekly flights on the Kathmandu-Delhi sector -- one of Nepal Airlines and the other of Air India -- will remain operational under an air bubble arrangement between Nepal and India, it said.Nepal had decided to halt all domestic flights from May 3 midnight and all international flights from May 7 midnight until May 14 to check the rapidly growing spread of COVID-19.Meanwhile, prohibitory orders in Kathmandu Valley that have been in place since April 29 to contain the spread of the coronavirus have been extended until May 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-extends-ban-on-international-flights-till-may-31-as-covid-19-situation-worsens-101620810181802.html
12-05-2021||World||China should offer couples $156,000 to incentivise childbirth: Expert||The Chinese government should offer couples 1 million yuan (more than ₹11 million/$156,000) for each newborn to incentivise childbirth and increase country’s declining birthrate, a high-profile entrepreneur and economist has suggested.China’s population is growing at its slowest pace in decades, latest census data released on Tuesday showed, with the country adding only 72 million people in the past decade.It has raised widespread worries about China’s ageing population and declining workforce.The slump in the growth rate - despite Beijing withdrawing the one-child policy in 2016 strictly in force since the late 1970s - will add pressure on Beijing to incentivise childbearing as the most populous country deals with a rapidly ageing population and the resultant economic burden.One way to incentivise is to pay couples in cash or subsidies, Liang Jianzhang, professor of applied economics at the Peking University in Beijing and founder of multinational online travel company, Trip.com, has suggested.Liang said on China’s Twitter-like social media platform Weibo that it would likely cost China 10% of its GDP to push up birthrates from the current 1.3 total fertility rate to the replacement-level fertility, the level of fertility at which a population exactly replaces itself from one generation to the next.Breaking down the 10% of the GDP-cost, Liang said it would amount to about a 1 million yuan per child, which could be paid in cash, housing subsidies or tax relief.“I’ve spoken to a lot of young people ... if it’s just a few tens of thousands of yuan it basically wouldn’t encourage people to have another child,” Liang was quoted as saying by Reuters.The costs incurred now by the government would be offset by future contributions made to the economy by the population, said Liang.“If a family gives birth to another child, that child’s future contributions to social security, to tax revenues, will exceed 1 million yuan,” he said.Liang has repeatedly suggested that the Chinese government carry out urgent reforms in its population policy. “For instance, it is suggested that the Ministry of Finance may consider the overall distribution of maternity subsidies. From the birth of a child to the age of six, the state finance can issue a certain amount of childcare subsidies every month. The specific amount can refer to the local minimum wage standard,” Liang had argued in a state media editorial last year.In terms of incentivising the housing policy for couples, he said, the government should consider the high price of housing as an influencing factor in couples’ willingness to have children.“For example, exempting land prices could slash the housing prices by half. To make it more feasible, the local governments could directly exempt multi-children families from the land price or refund them if they have more children after purchasing houses, with a flexible exemption ratio in line with the fertility rate,” he argued in the editorial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-should-offer-couples-156-000-to-incentivise-childbirth-expert-101620808771134.html
12-05-2021||World||Over 1,050 rockets, mortar shells fired from Gaza Strip since Monday||The Israeli Army on Wednesday said over 1,050 rockets and mortar shells were fired from the Gaza Strip towards Israel since the violence broke out on Monday evening.Israel defence forces (IDF) Spokesperson Hidai Zilberman said the Iron Dome air defence system had an interception rate between 85 and 90 per cent of rockets heading toward populated areas, The Times of Israel reported.In response, the IDF launched strikes on upwards of 500 targets in the Gaza Strip, aimed at Hamas personnel, weaponry and infrastructure, Zilberman says.The Israeli Air Force carried out a series of early morning airstrikes early today on the Gaza Strip, destroying dozens of police and security installations, witnesses say.Watch: Indian woman killed in Hamas airstrike in Israel; condolences pour inA wall of dark gray smoke rose over Gaza City and observers in Gaza said that it is one of the heaviest Israeli strikes ever.The ongoing violence marks a dramatic escalation of tensions linked to the potential eviction of Palestinian families from East Jerusalem by Israeli settlers and access to one of the most sacred sites in the city, which is a key hub for Islam, Judaism and Christianity.The confrontation intensified in recent days as Ramzan brought large crowds to al-Aqsa and clashes broke out between Palestinians and Israeli police. More than 300 Palestinians were injured on Monday.The protests spread to other Arab areas inside Israel. In the mixed Jewish-Arab city of Lod, Arab protesters threw stones and fireworks at passersby and police early Tuesday. And a man whose identity has not been disclosed opened fire on a group of Arab protesters carrying Palestinian flags, The Washington Post reported.More than 1,100 Palestinians were injured in clashes with the Israeli military on May 7-10, according to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR).Health authorities in Gaza said at least 36 Palestinians - including 10 children - were killed in Israeli airstrikes on the Strip since late on Monday, after Hamas launched rockets from the coastal territory towards Israel. At least 250 others were injured.At least five people in Israel have also been killed.The security forces in Israel are bracing up for further violence. Police Commissioner Kobi Shabtai ordered a "significant" bolstering of police presence in the city of Lod and a number of other locations after Public Security Minister Amir Ohana declared a state of emergency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-1-050-rockets-mortar-shells-fired-from-gaza-strip-since-monday-101620803532052.html
12-05-2021||World||Taliban seize district on outskirts of Afghan capital: Officials||The Taliban have seized a district from Afghan government forces on the outskirts of Kabul, ahead of a three-day ceasefire agreed between the warring sides, officials said.Nerkh district is around 40 kilometres (25 miles) from the Afghan capital in neighbouring Wardak province, which has long been used by militants as a gateway to reach the city and launch deadly attacks.Violence has soared since May 1 when the US military began formally withdrawing its last remaining troops, even as peace efforts between the Taliban and the Afghan government have stalled."Security and defence forces made a tactical retreat from the police headquarters of Nerkh district," Interior Ministry spokesman Tareq Arian told AFP.Zabihullah Mujahid, a spokesman for the Taliban, said the insurgents had captured the area on Tuesday, adding its fighters had seized the police headquarters and an army base.The Defence Ministry on Wednesday said it would launch an offensive to win back the district, home to more than 60,000 people."Commando reinforcements are on their way," Fawad Aman, a spokesman for the defence ministry said.Large swathes of Wardak and neighbouring Logar province have been controlled or contested for years by Taliban fighters and have served as a strategic staging ground for militants hoping to enter Kabul.The main highway that connects Kabul to southern Kandahar province -- the former Taliban stronghold and the scene of intensive fighting in recent weeks -- crosses through the district.Taliban fighters have been increasingly encircling major Afghan urban centres, spurring speculation the militants are waiting for the Americans to withdraw before launching all-out assaults on the country's cities.The capture of Nerkh comes after the Taliban and the Afghan government agreed to observe a three-day ceasefire to mark the Eid al-Fitr holiday starting on Thursday.Ceasefires in the past have widely held in what is largely thought to be an exercise by the Taliban leadership to prove they have firm control over the myriad factions across the country that make up the jihadist movement.Violence has intensified across the provinces, particularly in the south, since the US missed a May 1 deadline agreed with the Taliban to withdraw the last of its troops.While the Taliban have avoided engaging American forces, attacks against government and civilian targets have not stopped.Thousands of residents in Helmand have been displaced because of clashes, which saw the US military called in to defend Afghan forces.In the latest violence to rock Kabul, more than 50 people were killed and scores wounded in a western district of the capital when three bombs exploded outside a girls' school on Saturday.It was the deadliest attack in more than a year and came as residents were out shopping ahead of Eid.The US military has so far completed between six and 12 percent of its final withdrawal, the Pentagon said Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-seize-district-on-outskirts-of-afghan-capital-officials-101620803028683.html
12-05-2021||World||Here's what Melinda Gates may spend her fortune on after her divorce||Even after her divorce with Microsoft co-founder and billionaire Bill Gates, American philanthropist Melinda Gates will remain one of the wealthiest persons in the world. Her philanthropic engagement with the world points towards what is expected of her in the decades ahead, according to a CNN report.Alexsis de Raadt St. James, founder and managing partner of Merian Ventures, describes Melinda Gates' impact as 'so disproportionately powerful'. "I have no doubt in her ability to have impact," Alexsis told CNN.Melinda and Bill Gates, who launched the world’s largest charitable foundation, said they would continue to work together at the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation after their divorce.Here is a look at what else Melinda Gates is expected to focus on:Women empowerment: In her own words, there is a 'structural inequality' in women's and girls' lives and to address that, she launched her investment and incubation company, Pivotal Ventures in 2015. The company helps amplify women-focussed efforts and even encourages women to run for public office, according to the report. "The data is unequivocal: No matter where in the world you are born, your life will be harder if you are a girl," according to Melinda. She has also been vocal about the right to access to contraceptives for women as it not only gives her right over their bodies but also serves as the "greatest anti-poverty tool in the world."Mental health: Melinda Gates has initiated several mental health programmes. Her association with 'Sound It Out' and her last year's launch of 'The Upswing Fund for Adolescent Mental Health' suggests that she will keep her focus on the issue in the upcoming decades.Covid-19 vaccine access: The philanthropist has on several occasions highlighted how important it was for everyone to have access to the Covid-19 vaccine. "Everybody needs this vaccine," she told CNN's Poppy Harlow in December. "If we only get it to the high-income countries, this disease is going to bounce around. We're going to see twice as many deaths. And our recovery of our economies is going to be much slower than if we get the vaccine out to everybody," she said.Paid leave: Pivotal Ventures works with US' national campaigns such as Paid Leave for All and PL+US (Paid Leave for the US). Melinda Gates invested more than $65 million in efforts to bring about a comprehensive federal paid leave policy since 2016, according to CNN. Going forward too, her company could further contribute to the cause. In May 2019, Melinda Gates told CNN that the US was the only country that did not have a government-funded paid family leave and that it "makes an enormous difference."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/heres-where-melinda-gates-may-spend-her-fortune-after-her-divorce-101620787278933.html
12-05-2021||World||India to receive another consignment of Covid-19 supplies from Canada||A second consignment of relief material to help India tackle its ongoing Covid-19 crisis has been dispatched and will arrive in New Delhi on Thursday.Making the announcement, Karina Gould, the minister for international development tweeted that 300 ventilators and tech equipment were en route to India.The CC-150 Polaris aircraft carrying the material left the base in Trenton on Tuesday, as minister for national defence Harjit Sajjan said the Canadian Forces “will always be there to support those in need. We will get through this pandemic together”.That aircraft was also utilised when the first batch was sent on May 5.That shipment included 25,000 vials of the anti-viral remdesivir as well as 50 ventilators.The Canadian government is also providing support through Unicef’s response to the pandemic in India with the urgent provision of 1,450 oxygen concentrators. This support is in addition to 10 million Canadian dollars donation to the Canadian Red Cross Society, which is supporting the Indian Red Cross Society’s procurement of essential supplies and medicines.When the original shipment was sent, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau had tweeted that the “surplus material” was being sent over to “support those on the front lines”.In a statement, Canada’s high commissioner to New Delhi Nadir Patel said, “Collective action is the only way to defeat #COVID19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-to-receive-another-consignment-of-covid-19-supplies-from-canada-101620794790440.html
12-05-2021||World||Trump administration officials to testify on January 6 riots||Two senior Trump administration officials plan to defend their actions during the Jan. 6 riots at the U.S. Capitol when they appear before Congress, with former acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller standing behind every decision he made that day.Miller will tell the House Oversight Committee on Wednesday that he was concerned before the insurrection that sending troops to the building could fan fears of a military coup and cause a repeat of the deadly Kent State shootings, according to a copy of prepared remarks obtained by The Associated Press.His testimony, in the latest in a series of congressional hearings centered on the riot, is aimed at rebutting broad criticism that military forces were too slow to arrive even as pro-Trump rioters violently breached the building and stormed inside.Miller will be joined by former acting Attorney General Jeffrey Rosen, who is also testifying for the first time about the Justice Department's role in the run-up to the riot.Miller will say he was determined that the military have only limited involvement, a perspective he says was shaped by criticism of the aggressive response to the civil unrest that roiled American cities months earlier, as well as decades-old episodes that ended in violence.The Defense Department has “an extremely poor record in supporting domestic law enforcement," including during civil rights and Vietnam War protests in the 1960s and 1970s and the fatal shooting 51 years ago of four students at Kent State University by Ohio National Guard members, Miller says in his prepared remarks.“I was committed to avoiding repeating these scenarios," he says.Miller also denies that former President Donald Trump, criticized for failing to forcefully condemn the rioters, had any involvement in the Defense Department's response.Miller will be the most senior Pentagon official to participate in hearings on the riots. The sessions so far have featured finger-pointing about missed intelligence, poor preparations and an inadequate law enforcement response.The Capitol Police have faced criticism for being badly overmatched, the FBI for failing to share with sufficient urgency intelligence suggesting a possible “war” at the Capitol, and the Defense Department for an hourslong delay in getting support to the complex despite the violent, deadly chaos unfolding on TV.“Our hearing will provide the American people the first opportunity to hear from top Trump Administration officials about the catastrophic intelligence and security failures that enabled this unprecedented terrorist attack on our nation’s Capitol,” the committee’s chair, Rep. Carolyn Maloney, D-N.Y., said in a statement.Rosen, for his part, is expected to tell lawmakers that the Justice Department “took appropriate precautions” ahead of the riot by putting tactical and other elite units on standby after local police reports indicated that 10,000 to 30,000 people were expected at rallies and protests.Miller's testimony will amount to the most thorough explanation of Pentagon actions after months of criticism that it took hours for the National Guard to arrive.In his prepared remarks, he defends his resistance to a heavy military response as being shaped in part by public “hysteria” about the possibility of a military coup or concerns that the military might be used to help overturn the election results.Fearful of amplifying those suspicions — as well as the possibility a soldier might be provoked into violence in a way that could be perceived as an attack on First Amendment activities — he says he agreed in the days before the insurrection to deploy soldiers only in areas away from the Capitol.“No such thing was going to occur on my watch but these concerns, and hysteria about them, nonetheless factored into my decisions regarding the appropriate and limited use of our Armed Forces to support civilian law enforcement during the Electoral College certification,” Miller says. “My obligation to the Nation was to prevent a constitutional crisis.”Although he says the Defense Department should not play a lead role in domestic law enforcement, he felt it important to initiate planning discussions out of concern about a lack of coordination and information-sharing between other agencies.Democrats have signaled that they intend to press Miller on why it took so long for the National Guard to arrive despite urgent plans for help. In his prepared testimony, Miller contends that those complaints are unjustified, though he also concedes that the Guard was not rushed to the scene — which he says was intentional.“This isn’t a video game where you can move forces with a flick of the thumb or a movie that glosses over the logistical challenges and the time required to coordinate and synchronize with the multitude of other entities involved, or with complying with the important legal requirements involved in the use of such forces," he says.Although the timeline Miller offers in his remarks generally matches up with that provided by other high-ranking leaders, he notably puts himself at odds with William Walker, who as commanding general of the D.C. National Guard testified to what he said were unusual Pentagon restrictions that impeded his response. He also described a more than three-hour delay between when aid was requested aid and when it was received.Walker has since become the House sergeant-at-arms, in charge of the chamber's security.Miller says that Walker was given “all the authority he needed to fulfill the mission" and that before Jan. 6 had never expressed any concern about the forces at his disposal. Miller says he authorized the deployment of 340 National Guard personnel, the total amount Walker had said would be necessary.Miller says he approved the activation of the Guard at 3 p.m. That support did not arrive at the Capitol complex until well after 5 p.m., which Miller says reflected the time-consuming process of coordination and planning.Miller served as a White House counterterrorism adviser under Trump before being tapped as acting defense secretary for the final months of the Trump administration. He replaced Mark Esper, who was fired as defense secretary after the election after being seen by Trump as insufficiently loyal.The abrupt appointment raised concerns that Miller was in place to be a Trump loyalist. Maloney foreshadowed a focus on Trump at Wednesday's hearing, saying his “inflammatory language provoked and incited the violent mob."In his opening statement, though, Miller says he believes Trump “encouraged the protesters" but declines to say if Trump bears responsibility. He recounts a Jan. 5 conversation when Trump, impressed by a crowd of supporters at a rally that day, told him 10,000 troops would be needed the next day.“The call lasted fewer than thirty seconds and I did not respond substantively, and there was no elaboration. I took his comment to mean that a large force would be required to maintain order the following day,” Miller says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-administration-officials-to-testify-on-january-6-riots-101620793909212.html
12-05-2021||World||Canadian province halts AZ vaccine drive over rare blood clot fears||Canada’s most populous province Ontario has halted the administration of doses of AstraZeneca (AZ) Covid-19 vaccine over concerns related to a rare adverse reaction in the form of blood clots.The announcement that the province will no longer roll out the vaccine as part of its inoculation programme was made by its chief medical officer of health Dr David Williams. That decision was also linked to a decreasing case load in the province as well as easier access to other vaccines as AZ supply has been constrained due to several factors including the ongoing coronavirus crisis in India.In a statement, he said, “This decision was made out of an abundance of caution due to an observed increase in the rare blood clotting condition, known as vaccine-induced immune thrombotic thrombocytopenia (VITT), linked to the AstraZeneca vaccine.”A total of 12 cases of this side-effects have been reported in the country so far, including three that led to death.Federal health authorities have yet to comment on the Ontario decision.Canada has so far received approximately 2.3 million doses of the vaccine, including 1.5 million from the United States, 500,000 manufactured by the Serum Institute of India under the Covishield brand and the remainder from the global Covax facility.Williams pointed out that till May 8, 651,012 doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine were administered with a rate of VITT of 0.9 per 100,000 doses administered and 202,873 doses of the Covishield vaccine were administered with a rate of VITT of 1 per 100,000 doses administered. “However, over the last few days, there have been increased reports of VITT, with a rate of 1.7 per 100,000 doses administered.”Provincial health authorities are now conferring with Health Canada and others and reviewing data to consider whether to administer the AZ jab going forward for the second dose. Among those who received the AZ injection as their first dose is Canada’s Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.Williams also stated that data from the UK “points to a much-reduced risk of VITT in second doses of AstraZeneca”. He also maintained that those who got their first dose in the form of the AZ vaccine “did absolutely the right thing”.Among the options being explored is mixing vaccines, as the province awaits results of research currently underway. “The decision to pause is also based on the increased and reliable supply of the Pfizer and Moderna mRNA vaccines and the downward trend in cases. We are also seeing early promising results of administering two doses of different vaccines,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadian-province-halts-az-vaccine-drive-over-rare-blood-clot-fears-101620793710469.html
12-05-2021||World||US took note of China’s warning to Bangladesh against Quad: Official||The US has taken note of a Chinese diplomat’s statement warning Bangladesh against joining the Quad, the informal grouping of Australia, India, Japan and America to coordinate in the Indo-Pacific region, a top State Department official has said.State Department Spokesperson Ned Price told reporters at his daily news conference on Tuesday that the US has an incredibly strong relationship with Bangladesh.“We have taken note of that statement from the PRC (People’s Republic of China) ambassador to Bangladesh.“What we would say is that we respect Bangladesh's sovereignty and we respect Bangladesh's right to make foreign policy decisions for itself,” Price said.Responding to a question, he said that the United States is close with its partners on a range of issues from economic growth to climate change to humanitarian issues.“When it comes to the Quad, we have said this before… it’s an informal, essential, multilateral mechanism that right now convenes like-minded democracies, the United States, India, Australia and Japan to coordinate in the Indo-Pacific and fundamentally to push forward our goal of a free and open Indo-Pacific region,” Price said.In a provocative remark on Monday, China's ambassador in Dhaka Li Jiming warned Bangladesh against joining the US-led Quad alliance, saying that Dhaka's participation in the anti-Beijing "club" would result in "substantial damage" to bilateral relations.“Obviously, it will not be a good idea for Bangladesh to participate in this small club of four (Quad) because it will substantially damage our bilateral relationship,” Li said at a virtual meeting organised by the Diplomatic Correspondents Association, Bangladesh.Bangladesh's foreign minister Dr AK Abdul Momen described the Chinese envoy's comment as "very unfortunate" and "aggressive"."We are an independent and sovereign state. We decide our foreign policy," he said.Initiated in 2007, the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, Quad for short, is an informal grouping of the US, India, Australia and Japan.China has vehemently opposed the formation of the Quad with a Chinese foreign ministry spokesman emphasising in March that exchanges and cooperation between countries should help expand mutual understanding and trust, instead of targeting or harming the interests of third parties.The Quad member countries have resolved to uphold a rules-based international order in the Indo-Pacific amid growing Chinese assertiveness in the strategically vital region.The first summit of the Quad leaders was hosted by US President Joe Biden on March 12 and the virtual meeting was attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga.The four Quad leaders have vowed to strive for an Indo-Pacific region that is free, open, inclusive, healthy, anchored by democratic values, and unconstrained by coercion, sending a clear message to China against its aggressive actions in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-took-note-of-china-s-warning-to-bangladesh-against-quad-official-101620786558702.html
12-05-2021||World||35 killed in Gaza, 5 in Israel, as violence escalates||Hostilities between Israel and Hamas escalated overnight, with 35 Palestinians killed in Gaza and five in Israel in the most intensive aerial exchanges for years.Israel carried out hundreds of air strikes in Gaza into the early hours of Wednesday, as the Islamist group and other Palestinian militant groups fired multiple rocket barrages at Tel Aviv and Beersheba.One multi-story residential building in Gaza collapsed and another was heavily damaged after they were repeatedly hit by Israeli air strikes. Israel said it attacked Hamas targets, including intelligence centres and rocket launch sites.Watch: Indian woman killed in Hamas airstrike in Israel; condolences pour inIt was the heaviest offensive between Israel and Hamas since a 2014 war in Gaza, and prompted international concern that the situation could spiral out of control.UN Middle East peace envoy Tor Wennesland tweeted: "Stop the fire immediately. We're escalating towards a full scale war. Leaders on all sides have to take the responsibility of de-escalation."The cost of war in Gaza is devastating & is being paid by ordinary people. UN is working w/ all sides to restore calm. Stop the violence now," he wrote.Into the early hours of Wednesday morning, Gazans reported their homes shaking and the sky lighting up with Israeli attacks, outgoing rockets and Israeli air defence missiles intercepting them.Israelis ran for shelters or flattened themselves on pavements in communities more than 70 km (45 miles) up the coast and into southern Israel amid sounds of explosions as interceptor missiles streaked into the sky.In the mixed Arab-Jewish town of Lod, near Tel Aviv, two people were killed after a rocket hit a vehicle in the area. Israeli media reported one was a 7-year-old girl.Hamas's armed wing said it fired 210 rockets towards Beersheba and Tel Aviv in response to the bombing of the tower buildings in Gaza City.For Israel, the militants' targeting of Tel Aviv, its commercial capital, posed a new challenge in the confrontation with the Islamist Hamas group, regarded as a terrorist organisation by Israel and the United States.The violence followed weeks of tension in Jerusalem during the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan, with clashes between Israeli police and Palestinian protesters in and around Al-Aqsa Mosque, on the compound revered by Jews as Temple Mount and by Muslims as the Noble Sanctuary.These escalated in recent days ahead of a – now postponed - court hearing in a case that could end with Palestinian families evicted from East Jerusalem homes claimed by Jewish settlers.Violence has also flared in the occupied West Bank, where a 26-year-old Palestinian was killed by Israeli gunfire during stone-throwing clashes in a refugee camp near the city of Hebron.'A VERY HEAVY PRICE'There appeared no imminent end to the violence. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu warned that militants would pay a “very heavy” price for the rockets, which reached the outskirts of Jerusalem on Monday during a holiday in Israel commemorating its capture of East Jerusalem in a 1967 war.The outbreak of hostilities led Netanyahu's political opponents to suspend negotiations on forming a coalition of right-wing, leftist and centre-left parties to unseat him after an inconclusive March 23 election.Opposition leader Yair Lapid has three weeks left to establish a government, with a new election - and another chance for Netanyahu to retain power - likely if he fails.The Arab League, some of whose members have warmed ties with Israel over the last year, accused it of "indiscriminate and irresponsible" attacks in Gaza and said it was responsible for "dangerous escalation" in Jerusalem.Hamas named its rocket assault "Sword of Jerusalem", seeking to marginalise Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas and to present itself as the guardians of Palestinians in Jerusalem.The militant group's leader, Ismail Haniyeh, said Israel had “ignited fire in Jerusalem and Al-Aqsa and the flames extended to Gaza, therefore, it is responsible for the consequences."Haniyeh said that Qatar, Egypt and the United Nations had been in contact urging calm but that Hamas’s message to Israel was: "If they want to escalate, the resistance is ready, if they want to stop, the resistance is ready."The White House said on Tuesday that Israel had a legitimate right to defend itself from rocket attacks but applied pressure on Israel over the treatment of Palestinians, saying Jerusalem must be a place of coexistence.The United States was delaying U.N. Security Council efforts to issue a public statement on escalating tensions because it could be harmful to behind-the-scenes efforts to end the violence, according to diplomats and a source familiar with the U.S. strategy.State Department spokesman Ned Price urged calm and "restraint on both sides", saying: "The loss of life, the loss of Israeli life, the loss of Palestinian life, It's something that we deeply regret."He added: "We are urging this message of de-escalation to see this loss of life come to an end."PLUMES OF BLACK SMOKEIsrael said it had sent 80 jets to bomb Gaza, and dispatched infantry and armour to reinforce the tanks already gathered on the border, evoking memories of the last Israeli ground incursion into Gaza to stop rocket attacks, in 2014.More than 2,100 Gazans were killed in the seven-week war that followed, according to the Gaza health ministry, along with 73 Israelis, and thousands of homes in Gaza were razed by Israeli forces.Video footage on Tuesday showed three plumes of thick, black smoke rising from a 13-story Gaza residential and office block as it toppled over after being demolished by Israeli air strikes.The Israeli military said the building, in Gaza City's Rimal neighbourhood, housed "multiple" Hamas offices, including ones for military research and development and military intelligence.The existence of one Hamas office, used by political leaders and officials dealing with the news media, was widely known locally.Residents in the block and the surrounding area had been warned to evacuate the area before the air strike, according to witnesses and the Israeli military.A second residential and office building in the same neighbourhood was heavily damaged in Israeli attacks shortly before 2 a.m. on Wednesday. Residents and journalists working in the building had already left.On Tuesday Gaza health ministry officials put the death toll at 32, but a Hamas-affiliated radio station later said three more people, including a woman and a child, were killed shortly before 2 a.m. on Wednesday in an Israeli air strike on an apartment above a restaurant.Israeli political leaders and the military said they had killed "dozens" of militants, and hit buildings used by Hamas.Defence Minister Benny Gantz said Israel had carried out "hundreds" or strikes, and that "buildings will continue to crumble."Gaza's health ministry said that of the 30 reported dead, 10 were children and one was a woman.Israel's Magen David Adom ambulance service said a 50-year-old woman was killed when a rocket hit a building in the Tel Aviv suburb of Rishon Lezion, and that two women had been killed in rocket strikes on Ashkelon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/35-killed-in-gaza-5-in-israel-as-violence-escalates-101620786634131.html
12-05-2021||World||Doubts emerge over Xi Jinping's chances of securing 3rd term as Chinese President||As Chinese President Xi Jinping's hard-line policies beyond Chinese shores are squandering Beijing's soft power, doubts are emerging over Xi securing an unprecedented third term.The G7 last week called on Xi on everything from actions on Taiwan, incursions in cyberspace, human-rights abuses, fallout from its Belt and Road Initiative. The same week, Hong Kong activist Joshua Wong received another 10-months in jail for his role in 2019 anti-government protests, writes William Pesek for Nikkei Asia.At the same time, he suspended a ministerial economic dialogue with Canberra, with his government hitting Prime Minister Scott Morrison's for a "Cold War mindset" and "ideological discrimination".Pesek wrote that China's inner circle is miffed about Morrison's questions, which everyone should be asking - on Covid-19 and its demands for a seat on the G7 table despite being irresponsible for the pandemic.Much of South Asia avoids getting at Xi's bad side. After South Korea welcomed a US-designed Terminal High Altitude Area Defense, or THAAD, missile-defense system, Chinese tourism flows to Seoul disappeared.Xi had a once-in-lifetime opportunity to grow Beijing's soft power at America's expense amid trade wars between then US President Donald Trump. However, he blew it and China's international image in international polls has lost ground since 2018.As the Covid-19 ravaged the world, Xi's belligerence deserves considerable blame - with Hong Kong, Taiwan and the Galwan border clash with India, Canada and more.Meanwhile, current US President Joe Biden is pivoting the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue against China, much to Xi's chagrin, with additional resistance from China.Pesek for Nikkei Asia wrote that despite the common view that the Chinese President does not care what the world thinks, press freedom in China is racing in the wrong direction and Xi himself seems to fear Google and Facebook.These actions signal insecurity and a dearth of savvy that a leading power needs to exploit at the moment and thus not a great report card a year out from Xi's plan to secure yet another term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/doubts-emerge-over-xi-jinping-s-chances-of-securing-3rd-term-as-chinese-prez-101620786298600.html
12-05-2021||World||US expresses 'serious' concern over Israel-Palestine conflict, calls for de-escalation||The US White House on Tuesday (local time) expressed "serious concern" over the ongoing conflict between Israel and Palestine, calling for de-escalation of tensions between both countries by establishing a two-state solution.Speaking at her daily press briefing, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said: "The President has been briefed daily on developments in Jerusalem and Gaza. He just received another update before I came out here from the National Security Advisor.""Since last week, he has directed his team to engage intensively with senior Israeli and Palestinian officials, as well as leaders throughout the Middle East. His team is communicating a clear and consistent message in support of de-escalation, and that is our primary focus," she added.Also Watch: Indian woman killed in Hamas airstrike in Israel; condolences pour inAlso Read: Israel hits Gaza with airstrikes as Netanyahu vows to step up attacks on HamasPsaki added that the US stands against extremism that has inflicted violence on both Israeli and Palestinian communities."We will also continue to support a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. That is the only way to ensure the just and lasting peace that two peoples have struggled to achieve. We believe Palestinians and Israelis deserve equal measures of freedom, security, dignity, and prosperity," she said.She also said that US officials have spoken to their Israeli counterparts on how evictions of Palestinian families and demolitions of these homes work against their common interests in achieving a solution to the conflict.Meanwhile, US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan on Tuesday (local time) spoke to his Israeli counterpart Meir Ben Shabbat, where he condemned the ongoing rocket attacks by Hamas and other terrorist groups."He also conveyed the United States' encouragement of steps toward restoring a sustainable calm. They agreed to continue to stay in close touch. Sullivan also spoke today with the Government of Egypt on the situation in Gaza and Jerusalem. They discussed steps to restore calm over the coming days and agreed to stay in close touch," read a White House readout.This comes as the tensions between Israel and Palestine are rapidly escalating, with ramping up of rocket attacks and airstrikes from both sides. Three people have been killed in rocket strikes from Gaza on Tel Aviv.On Tuesday, Hamas said that it fired 137 rockets in around five minutes in an apparent attempt to overwhelm the Iron Dome missile defense system.Over 630 rockets were fired at Israel from Monday evening through Tuesday afternoon, 200 of which were intercepted by Iron Dome missile defence batteries while 150 others fell short of their targets and landed inside the Strip, according to the army.Meanwhile, Israeli bombing raids across Gaza from Monday have killed at least 28 people, including 10 children, and injured at least 152 more, CNN reported citing Palestinian health officials. The Israeli military said it had killed more than 15 militants.The country has been embroiled in conflict over the impending eviction of dozens of Palestinians from East Jerusalem's neighbourhood.Over 70 Palestinians in total are set to be evicted from Sheikh Jarrah in the coming weeks to be replaced by right-wing Jewish Israelis. The Palestinians live in houses built on land that courts have ruled were owned by Jewish religious associations before the establishment of Israel in 1948, reported The Times of Israel.Over 300 Palestinians have been injured in the riots, several of them seriously hurt by rubber-tipped bullets in the head, eye and jaw.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-expresses-serious-concern-over-israel-palestine-conflict-calls-for-deescalation-101620783405660.html
12-05-2021||World||NASA's giant Webb telescope succeeds in key pre-launch test||The world's largest and most powerful space telescope unfolded its giant golden mirror for the last time on Earth on Tuesday, a key milestone before the $10 billion observatory is launched later this year.The James Webb Space Telescope's 21 feet 4 inch (6.5 meter) mirror was commanded to fully expand and lock itself into place, NASA said -- a final test to ensure it will survive its million-mile (1.6 million kilometer) journey and is ready to discover the origins of the Universe."It's like building a Swiss watch at 40-feet-tall... and getting it ready for this journey that we take into the vacuum at minus 400 degrees Fahrenheit (-240 Celsius), four times further than the Moon," said Scott Willoughby of lead contractor Northrop Grumman.He was speaking at the company's spaceport in Redondo Beach, California, from where the telescope will be shipped to French Guiana to be launched on an Ariane 5 rocket, with NASA targeting October 31 for liftoff.Webb's primary mirror is made of 18 hexagonal segments coated with an ultra-thin layer of gold to improve its reflection of infrared light.It will fly to space folded like a piece of origami artwork, which allows it to fit inside a 16-foot (5-meter) rocket fairing, and will then use 132 individual actuators and motors to bend each mirror into a specific position.Together, the mirrors will function as one massive reflector, to enable the telescope to peer deeper into the cosmos than ever before.Time machine Scientists want to use the telescope to look back in time over 13.5 billion years ago and see for the first time the first stars and galaxies that formed, a few hundred million years after the Big Bang.To do this, they need to detect infrared. The current premier space telescope, Hubble, only has limited infrared capacity.This is key because by the time the light from the first objects reaches our telescopes, it has been shifted towards the red end of the electromagnetic spectrum as a result of the Universe extending the space between objects as it expands.Another key area will be the discovery of alien worlds. The first planets to orbit other stars were detected in the 1990s and there are now more than 4,000 exoplanets that have been confirmed.Webb "has instrumentation that will propel this new and exciting field into its next epic of discovery," said Eric Smith, James Webb telescope program scientist.Scientists from 44 countries will be able to make use of the telescope, with proposals including using the infrared capabilities to penetrate the supermassive black holes at the center of galaxies, including our own."The discovery capability of Webb is limited only by our own imaginations, and scientists around the world will soon be using this general purpose observatory to take us places we haven't dreamed of going before," said Smith.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nasas-giant-webb-telescope-succeeds-in-key-pre-launch-test-101620777975535.html
12-05-2021||World||Covid cases, deaths are plateauing: WHO chief||The World Health Organization (WHO) has said that the planet was seeing a plateauing in the number of Covid-19 cases and deaths, with declines being observed in most regions including the Americas and Europe, the two regions worst-affected by the coronavirus pandemic.“But it’s an unacceptably high plateau, with more than 5.4 million reported Covid-19 cases and almost 90,000 deaths last week,” the WHO’s director-general Tedros Adhanom warned.The WHO chief also criticised the trend of “vaccine diplomacy”, slamming countries for using Covid-19 vaccines to gain competitive advantage rather than engaging in cooperation.“Vaccine diplomacy is not cooperation,” he said. “We cannot defeat this pandemic through competition. If you compete for resources... then the virus gets the advantage.”Nepal: Foreign climbers return to Mount EverestForeigners climbed Mount Everest for the first time since Nepal reopened the mountain after it was shut last year due to the pandemic, despite coronavirus cases being reported at its base camp in recent days.Thirty-eight climbers including ten Bahraini and two British mountaineers climbed the world’s highest mountain on Tuesday, according to hiking companies.WHO warns against use of ivermectin for CovidThe WHO has recommended against the use of the orally-administered drug ivermectin for treating those suffering from Covid-19.“Safety and efficacy are important when using any drug for a new indication. WHO recommends against use of ‘ivermectin’ for Covid-19 except within clinical trials,” Dr Soumya Swaminathan, the WHO’s chief scientist, tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-cases-deaths-are-plateauing-who-chief-101620777468917.html
12-05-2021||World||Hamas rockets target Tel Aviv after Israeli strikes flatten Gaza tower||Palestinian militants Hamas fired a barrage of rockets at Israel's economic hub Tel Aviv on Tuesday in retaliation for an Israeli strike that destroyed a tower block in Gaza, as the foes traded their heaviest fire for several years.The sharp escalation, triggered by violence in Jerusalem, has killed at least 32 Palestinians in the blockaded Gaza Strip and three Israelis, and wounded hundreds more."This is just the beginning" of Israel's strikes, Defence Minister Benny Gantz warned.Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh vowed that "if Israel wants to escalate, we are ready for it."Watch: Indian woman killed in Hamas airstrike in Israel; condolences pour inThe UN envoy for Middle East Peace, Tor Wennesland, warned that Israel and Hamas were "escalating towards a full-scale war".In the crowded, Israeli-blockaded enclave of Gaza, 10 children and one woman were among those killed since Monday night.A further 220 people were reported wounded from the ongoing Israeli air strikes, many rescued from the smouldering ruins of buildings.- 'It was scary' -In Israel, sirens sounded as Hamas rockets rained down, and some of those unable to make it to underground shelters took cover under bridges."It was scary," said Haim Roy Ben Shlomo, 38, resident of Ramat Gan near Tel Aviv, adding he had heard "several loud shots, or booms, above our heads."An Israeli woman was killed as rockets hit Rishon Letzion on the coastal city's southern edge, while in nearby Holon, AFP footage showed a burnt-out bus as rescue workers cleaned up debris.The rocket fire forced Israel to suspend flights at its main airport of Ben Gurion, near Tel Aviv.Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu declared a state of emergency in the central city of Lod which borders the airport, as police said "wide-scale riots erupted by some of the Arab residents".Reinforcements were sent to the area after clashes broke out the night after an Israeli Arab was killed in the city.- 'Hell' -In Gaza, people sifted through debris after an Israeli air strike destroyed a 12-storey building.Hamas, which controls the Palestinian territory, said the tower block had been a residential building. AFP reporters said it also houses offices of several Hamas officials.Hamas threatened to turn the nearby Israeli city of Ashkelon into "hell", and rockets fired by militants in Gaza killed two women there.At one stage the group claimed to have fired more than 100 rockets in under five minutes to overwhelm air defences.At least 100 Israelis were injured in Tuesday's escalation.Israel's army said more than 600 rockets had been fired since Monday from Gaza towards Israel mainly by Hamas, which rules Gaza, and the Islamic Jihad group.Many landed inside Gaza or were taken out by Israel's Iron Dome air defence system.Hamas and the Islamic Jihad confirmed they had commanders who had died in the Israeli strikes.- 'Fighting will intensify' -Army spokesman Jonathan Conricus said Israel estimated it had killed 20 Islamist militants in Gaza, warning that "our expectation is the fighting will intensify".Asked about unconfirmed reports that Hamas was seeking a ceasefire, Conricus said: "I don't think my commanders are aware, or particularly interested."A member of the Palestinian intelligence services was killed and another wounded by Israeli army gunfire in the north of the occupied West Bank, a Palestinian security source told AFP.The Israeli army reported an attempted drive-by shooting, saying "two assailants were neutralised at the scene".Weeks of tensions boiled over when Israeli riot police clashed with crowds of Palestinians at Jerusalem's Al-Aqsa mosque, on the last Friday of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan.Nightly clashes since then at the compound, which is holy to both Muslims and Jews, and elsewhere in east Jerusalem have left at least 700 Palestinians injured.Palestinians clashed again with Israeli officers in riot gear on Tuesday evening, with 245 injured, according to the Palestinian Red Crescent.Hamas had warned Israel on Monday to withdraw all its forces from the mosque compound and the Jerusalem district of Sheikh Jarrah, where looming evictions of Palestinian families have fuelled protests.Sirens wailed across Jerusalem just after the deadline as people in the city, including lawmakers in the Knesset legislature, fled to bunkers for the first time since the 2014 Gaza conflict.- Another UN emergency meeting -Diplomatic sources told AFP that Egypt and Qatar, who have mediated past Israeli-Hamas conflicts, were attempting to calm tensions.But Egypt's Foreign Minister Sameh Shoukry told an emergency Arab League meeting that although Cairo had "extensively reached out" to Israel and other countries, "we did not get the necessary response".The UN Security Council was set to discuss the violence at an emergency meeting on Wednesday.A previous meeting on Monday ended without a joint statement, with the United States expressing reluctance to adopt a draft statement "at this point".Large protests were held in solidarity with Palestinians around the world, including in London, as well as in Muslim-majority countries including Kuwait, Oman, Pakistan, Tunisia and Turkey.Five members of a single family were killed by an Israeli strike in northern Gaza on Tuesday, including young brothers Ibrahim and Marwan, who were filling sacks of straw when it hit."We were laughing and having fun, when suddenly they began to bomb us, everything around us caught fire," their cousin, also called Ibrahim, told AFP."I saw my cousins set alight, and torn into pieces," said the 14-year-old, breaking down in tears."Why did they leave me? I would have wanted to die as a martyr like them."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hamas-rockets-target-tel-aviv-after-israeli-strikes-flatten-gaza-tower-101620777852361.html
12-05-2021||World||Bengal tiger seen roaming around in Texas neighborhood, 'owner' arrested||Police in an upscale Texas neighborhood searched Tuesday for a fugitive Bengal tiger that was seen roaming on lawns and streets until its apparent owner fled with the animal.That man, who already had legal troubles, was arrested Monday night for felony evasion of arrest after loading the tiger into a car and driving away, just as police arrived at his home in Houston.But there was no sign of the big cat."The tiger portion of the investigation is continuing," Houston police tweeted after the arrest of 26 year old Victor Hugo Cuevas, whose lawyer insisted the tiger does not belong to Cuevas.News accounts said the cat lived in a house rented by Cuevas.The drama began Sunday evening when the tiger was seen walking calmly across front lawns in a neighborhood in west Houston."I mean, I couldn't believe it," neighbor Jose Ramos told local television station KPRC. He took a picture, posted it on a neighborhood blog with a warning for people to stay away, and called an emergency police number."It was very scary because this is a very family-oriented community, and you see lots of kids and (babies) strolling," Ramos said.Wes Manion, an off-duty sheriff's deputy who lives in the area, saw the post, raced to the scene and confronted the cat with a revolver in footage filmed by neighbors."Last thing I wanted to do was shoot the tiger," Manion told another TV station, KHOU. "It didn't seem super aggressive."Cuevas was known to police because he was free on bond awaiting a murder trial.On Twitter, people feasted on news of the missing feline."Are you conducting a meownhunt? Is pawrole on the table?" wrote @CooperEarlJones."There must be some claws in the statute that says this is allowed," quipped @EssBee44.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bengal-tiger-seen-roaming-around-in-texas-neighborhood-owner-arrested-101620777550363.html
12-05-2021||World||Pipeline shutdown sparks fear of US gasoline shortage||Fears the shutdown of a major fuel pipeline network would cause a gasoline shortage led to some panic buying and prompted US regulators on Tuesday to temporarily suspend clean fuel requirements in three eastern states and the nation's capital.While it remained unclear the degree to which supplies would be affected, drivers lined up to fill their tanks at gas stations in the southeast, with some carrying extra containers amid fears of fuel scarcity.A ransomware attack Friday on Colonial Pipeline forced the company to shut down its entire network, but government officials on Tuesday urged calm and said the situation is only temporary.The operator of the largest fuel conduit system in the United States, Colonial Pipeline sends gasoline and jet fuel from the Gulf Coast of Texas to the populous east coast through 5,500 miles (8,850 kilometers) of ducts that serve 50 million consumers.The company said it expects to have the pipeline network fully up and running by the end of the week.Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm said some areas "may feel a supply crunch, as Colonial fully resumes."However, "there should be no cause for hoarding gasoline, especially in the light of the fact that the pipeline should be substantially operational by the end of this week and over the weekend," she told reporters at the White House.The shutdown raised fears the shortages would cause gasoline prices to spike just ahead of the US Memorial Day holiday, the unofficial kickoff to the summer travel season.But Granholm called on station owners to act responsibly and said, "We will have no tolerance for price gouging."The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) on Tuesday announced a one-week suspension of clean air rules in an effort to ease supply issues.The waiver is meant "to address the fuel supply emergency caused by a cyberattack on Colonial Pipeline's computer networks that led to the pipeline's shutdown," EPA Administrator Michael Regan said in a letter to the governors of Maryland, Pennsylvania and Virginia and the mayor of Washington.Regan said the EPA and Energy Department "have been actively monitoring the supply of fuel" and found that "the unusual pipeline shutdown has affected gasoline supplies."- No gas by nightfall? -The EPA move, effective through May 18, suspends rules that require urban areas to use fuel with additives like MTBE, which makes gasoline less polluting but also more expensive.The waiver "is necessary to take action to minimize or prevent disruption of an adequate supply of gasoline to consumers," Regan said.That followed the weekend announcement from the Transportation Department that it was easing up on time limits for drivers of tankers carrying diesel, gasoline and jet fuel to 18 of the most affected states, and is considering easing shipping rules as well."Everybody's seeing the news, you know, they get fearful, then everybody rushes out and gets gas. They're filling up gas cans and everything," one gas station manager in Raleigh, North Carolina told AFP."We'll be out of gas before the sun goes down if it stays this way."Oil industry analyst Patrick De Haan said on Twitter the national average gasoline price reached $2.97 a gallon, "matching the highest since 2018."While he said some gasoline stations along the east coast are running out of fuel, including a little over five percent in Georgia and 7.5 percent or more in North Carolina and Virginia, he cautioned against overreacting."Rack prices, or the prices stations pay for gasoline, rose only by a couple of cents today throughout the southeastern US. There is no pending spike coming to (gas prices) in the area, folks. No reason to freak out," De Haan said.Oil prices already had been on the rise as the global economy bounces back from the Covid-19 pandemic, rebounding to just over $68 a barrel on Tuesday from less than $22 in April 2020.John Catsimatidis, CEO of United Refining Company, which processes more than 70,000 barrels per day of oil and owns more than 400 gas stations in the New York area, said on Monday that the pipeline shutdown will send prices higher, estimating an impact of "at least four cents a gallon."Colonial said late Tuesday it was making progress in "around-the-clock efforts to return our system to service."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pipeline-shutdown-sparks-fear-of-us-gasoline-shortage-101620777315513.html
12-05-2021||World||Indian Covid-19 variant found in 44 countries, all regions: WHO||The World Health Organization said Wednesday that a variant of Covid-19 behind the acceleration of India's explosive outbreak has been found in dozens of countries all over the world.WATCH| ‘Vaccines effective against mutant Covid variant from India’: WHO officialThe UN health agency said the B.1.617 variant of Covid-19, first found in India in October, had been detected in sequences uploaded to the GISAID open-access database "from 44 countries in all six WHO regions," adding it had received "reports of detections from five additional countries".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-covid-19-variant-found-in-44-countries-all-regions-who-101620777409132.html
12-05-2021||World||Gaza boils as Hamas, Israel clash||A confrontation between Israel and Hamas sparked by weeks of tensions in contested Jerusalem escalated on Tuesday. Israel unleashed new airstrikes on Gaza, killing a number of militants and civilians, while militants barraged southern Israel with hundreds of rockets, killing two Israelis.On Tuesday night, the Israeli city of Tel Aviv was under fire from a barrage of rockets launched from the Gaza Strip.The outgoing volleys set off air raid sirens across the city, and Israel’s anti-rocket defence systems were activated.Hamas said it launched a total of 130 rockets, its most intense strike so far, in response to Israel’s destruction of a high-rise building in Gaza earlier in the evening.Since sundown on Monday, 28 Palestinians - including 10 children and a woman - were killed in Gaza, most by airstrikes, health officials there said. The Israeli military said at least 16 of the dead were militants.Two women were killed by rockets fired from Gaza that hit their homes in the southern city of Ashkelon - the first Israeli deaths in the current violence. At least 10 other Israelis have been wounded since Monday.Netanyahu vows to step up attacks on HamasAfter those deaths, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said officials decided to “increase both the strength and rate of the strikes” against militant groups Hamas and Islamic Jihad in the Gaza Strip. “Hamas will receive blows now that it didn’t expect,” he said.Egypt was trying to broker a ceasefire, but the cycle of violence was gaining momentum. Even before the two Israeli deaths, the Israeli military said it was sending troop reinforcements to the Gaza border and the defence minister ordered the mobilisation of 5,000 reserve soldiers.The barrage of rockets and airstrikes was preceded by hours of clashes on Monday between Palestinians and Israeli security forces, including dramatic confrontations at Jerusalem’s Al-Aqsa mosque compound. The current violence has been fuelled by conflicting claims over Jerusalem, which is at the emotional core of the long conflict.In a sign of widening unrest, hundreds of residents of Arab communities in Israel staged overnight demonstrations denouncing the recent actions of Israeli security forces against Palestinians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gaza-boils-as-hamas-israel-clash-101620777106168.html
12-05-2021||World||US working closely with India on Covid-19 crisis: White House official||The US is working closely with India on its continued and emerging needs during the unprecedented second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, a top State Department official has said.While the assistance from the US government has been worth USD 100 million, the private sector has donated an additional USD 400 million, totalling half a billion dollars to India, State Department Spokesperson Ned Price told reporters at his daily news conference on Tuesday.“We are continuing to work closely with Indian officials and health experts to identify continued needs and emerging needs in this ongoing crisis,” he said.“I was talking about our catalytic effect in another context earlier… Secretary (of State) Tony Blinken, Special Coordinator Gayle Smith participated in calls the other week with the US India Business Council and the Chamber of Commerce in an effort to elicit additional supplies from the private sector, which we'd be terrifically gratified to see,” Price said.Earlier in the day, top American senator Mark Warner spoke with India’s ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu and assured his full commitment for the assistance to India.“India right now is at the epicenter of Covid-19. This morning I spoke with the Indian ambassador and pledged to do our part to help the Indian people respond to the surge. I will continue working with the Biden administration on this,” Warner said after the call.Warner is Chair of the Senate Intelligence Committee.“Thanked him for his strong support for India during this challenging time,” Sandhu tweeted.Congressman Andy Levin said that more needs to be done for India.“We cannot lose sight of the catastrophe wracking India right now. While the US is starting to work to make vaccines more accessible, we must do more. The Indian people need equipment and other tools now to end this crisis,” he said.Meanwhile, the 4th consignment of more than 78,000 doses of Remdesivir from Gilead Sciences reached India.“More than 2,61,000 have reached so far, in addition to US Government support of around 1,25,000 doses. More to follow!” the Indian envoy tweeted.Congresswoman Deborah Ross said that helping India respond to this latest wave is humane and is in the US' national interest as this pandemic will not end anywhere until it ends everywhere.“Please consider supporting groups that are providing what is needed locally on the ground,” she said.Noting that India is seeing daily new Covid-19 cases at 400,000, and the deaths are catastrophic, Indian-American congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi said that he is pushing the Biden administration to slow this dangerous rise in cases through sharing resources.“A Covid-19 fire anywhere in the world is a threat to us,” he said.According to Price, there have now been six airlifts to India deployed by the USAID in the course of six days.Among the supplies included in those airlifts are 20,000 courses of Remdesivir, nearly 1,500 oxygen cylinders, 550 mobile oxygen concentrators, 1 million rapid diagnostic tests, nearly 2.5 million N95 masks, large scale deployable oxygen concentration system and pulse oximeters, he said.“In addition, USAID immediately allocated funding to purchase locally an additional 1,000 mobile oxygen concentrators,” Price added.Meanwhile, Pentagon Spokesperson Peter Hughes said in response to a question that currently the Defence Logistics Agency is preparing 159 oxygen concentrators at Travis Air Force Base scheduled to ship via commercial air for a Monday delivery to India."We remain in close communication with our partners in the Indian Government“As (Defence) Secretary (Loyd) Austin has said previously, we’re committed to use every resource at our disposal, within our authority, to support India’s frontline healthcare workers,” he said.India has been severely affected by the unprecedented second wave of the coronavirus and hospitals in several states are reeling under the shortage of health workers, vaccines, oxygen, drugs and beds.After recording over four lakh fresh cases for four consecutive days, India witnessed a single-day rise of 3,66,161 Covid-19 cases on Monday and 3,29,942 infections on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-working-closely-with-india-on-covid-19-crisis-white-house-official-101620775813425.html
12-05-2021||World||'Deeply lamentable': US calls on Israel, Palestinians to end civilian deaths||The United States on Tuesday urged both Israel and the Palestinians to avoid "deeply lamentable" civilian deaths after air strikes by the Jewish state in response to rocket fire in Gaza."Israel does have a right to defend itself. At the same time reports of civilian deaths are something that we regret and would like to come to a stop," State Department spokesman Ned Price told reporters."We don't want to see provocations. The provocations we have seen have resulted in a deeply lamentable loss of life," he said."We continue to call for calm, continue to call on all sides to de-escalate and to exercise restraint in their actions."At least 30 people including children have been killed as Israel strikes the Gaza Strip in response to rocket fire from Hamas, which said its attacks were meant to force Israeli forces out of the Al-Aqsa mosque compound in tense Jerusalem.In Canada, like the United States a key ally for Israel, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau called the violence "terrible.""There needs to be de-escalation immediately. We need to see a cessation of violence and attacks," Trudeau told reporters."The rocket attacks from Hamas are absolutely unacceptable. We're also gravely concerned about the settlements and the evictions of Palestinians."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/deeply-lamentable-us-calls-on-israel-palestinians-to-end-civilian-deaths-101620759712518.html
12-05-2021||World||India reopened prematurely, causing ongoing Covid surge: Top US medical adviser||Top public health officials of the Biden administration told US lawmakers on Tuesday that the ongoing devastating surge in Covid-19 cases in India is the result of an “incorrect assumption” that led to reopening “prematurely” and it has become a cautionary tale of the dangers of not being careful.“The reason that India is in such dire straits now is that they had an original surge and made the incorrect assumption that they were finished with it,” Anthony Fauci, head of the National Institute of Allergy and Infection Diseases and chief medical adviser to the US president, said at a Senate hearing when asked what lessons could be learnt from the situation in India.He added that “they opened up prematurely and wound up having a surge right now that we’re all very well aware of is extremely devastating”.Fauci is known for offering straightforward assessments and views that had put him at odds with former president Donald Trump and his conservative allies such as Senator Rand Paul, who continue to question his views.Fauci went on to list two more lessons emerging from India’s ongoing battle with the second wave of Covid-19 cases and fatalities, which are projected by the Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation, a US research body, to rise cumulatively to 1.49 million by September 1.The second lesson from India, Fauci said, is the need for “preparedness”. “We need to continue to build up our local public health infrastructure which over the last decades, we have led to actually in many respects go into disarray, likely because of our successes in controlling so many diseases,” he said.The third lesson, Fauci said, “is that this is a global pandemic that requires a global response, and we need to pay attention to the responsibility that we have not only for our own country but to join with other countries, to make sure that we have the access to interventions, particularly vaccines, throughout the world”.The epidemiologist pointed to a new variant of Sars-Cov2 detected in India, B.1.617. “We have a threat here in the United States, particularly with variants and you know this one variant in India.”Fauci, who has shaped the Biden administration’s response to the pandemic, pressed for the need to send Covid-19 vaccines to India and other countries, over and above the supplies already sent to India, such as oxygen cylinders, PPE kits, therapeutic drugs and test kits.Rochelle Walensky, who heads the US Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), cited India as a cautionary tale of what to not do. With more people getting vaccinated, she said while giving senators an update on the situation in the US and abroad, “we are cautiously optimistic. However, globally the pandemic is more severe than ever. India’s surge of cases is tragic and a reminder that the virus can rapidly outstrip our efforts to contain it, if we are not careful”. More than 152 million Americans have received at least one shot of a Covid-19 vaccine so far, which is 57.2% of the eligible population and 46% of the total population.While the US government has sent assistance worth $100 million to India, it has also indefinitely suspended travel from the country on the advice of the CDC due to - as the White House said in an announcement in April end - the Covid-19 “caseloads and multiple variants circulating in India”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-reopened-prematurely-causing-ongoing-covid-surge-top-us-medical-adviser-101620758068086.html
12-05-2021||World||US looking at joint production of Johnson & Johnson vaccine in India||The US is looking at the joint production of the Johnson & Johnson Covid-19 vaccine in India and ways to help Indian manufacturers, such as the Serum Institute of India (SII), ramp up production to meet vaccine needs around the globe, a senior American diplomat said on Tuesday.US chargé d’affaires Daniel Smith said the US stockpile of AstraZeneca vaccines – currently believed to be 10 million doses – can’t be shared with other countries till the jabs are certified as safe and effective by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) because of problems associated with the plant that manufactured them.Smith, a career diplomat who served as acting secretary of state, was named the acting head of the US mission in New Delhi last month to help oversee the Biden administration’s efforts to help India cope with a devastating second wave of the pandemic that has seen daily infection rates surge well past the 350,000-mark for several days.He told a virtual news briefing the US administration is working on a list of raw materials and other supplies urgently needed to manufacture vaccines but cautioned this wouldn’t be an easy task because of disruptions to global supply chains.“We are now working closely with them to go through this list to decide what is available, what we can provide and how quickly we can provide that. I just want to say this is not an easy task, that is, there are global challenges in the global supply chain right now when it comes to precursors and raw materials necessary for these vaccines,” Smith said.In addition to working with the SII and other Indian vaccine manufacturers on ways to boost production, the US is looking into the joint production of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine in India and encouraging private sector discussions to ramp up manufacturing.“I know [the US International] Development Finance Corporation is looking at how we can invest so that we can help produce the Johnson & Johnson vaccine here in India,” Smith said.“I think we are watching carefully the production levels at the SII and elsewhere. We’ve been in close touch with the SII to try to determine what raw materials we could provide, and assistance that we can provide to help boost production. But that’s an issue with vaccines across the board, it’s not simply with the AstraZeneca vaccine in that regard,” he said in response to a question from HT about what India and the US are doing to ramp up production to help other countries through the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad.At a time when India and other countries are hoping the US will begin shipping doses from its stockpile of some 10 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine, Smith said this wouldn’t be possible till the FDA certifies the safety and efficacy of the vaccines made at a plant outside Baltimore.The FDA is investigating an error at the Baltimore plant that led to ingredients of the AstraZeneca shot contaminating a batch of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, which were being made at the same facility.“I know that there are a number of doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine that were made in the plant outside of Baltimore, but there were problems with this plant. So far, the FDA hasn’t certified that these vaccines are available for anyone’s use, for export or not. So I can’t say when that will happen or what will be done exactly as we go forward,” Smith said.The Biden administration, he added, decided not to use the AstraZeneca jabs as it has sufficient stocks of three other vaccines, and is “eager to supply these to the world but we won’t do so before we’re assured that they are safe and effective”.The US is determined to do all it can to help boost India’s vaccine production because Washington recognises New Delhi’s critical role in helping the world counter the pandemic. “Our global partnership with India, when it comes to vaccines and vaccine production, is essential for the world’s emergence from this pandemic. We recognise that in helping India, we’re helping a lot more than just India,” Smith said.Smith also cautioned that a proposal by India and South Africa for waiver of patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines at the World Trade Organization (WTO) would be a long and complex process despite support extended by the Biden administration.“The WTO is a consensus-based organisation. So, we’re going to have to negotiate this with our partners in the WTO as we go forward... We’re not just waiting for that to take place, what we’re also doing is ramping up all of our efforts across the board, in partnership with India and other countries, to increase production of Covid-19 vaccines and increase availability,” he said.“We are concerned obviously with the current course of the pandemic in India, not simply because of the humanitarian catastrophe but the fact that it has global implications... India’s role as the supplier for not just what was envisioned by the Quad but for much of the world when it comes to vaccines is critical,” he added.As the world’s largest manufacturer of vaccines, India exported more than 65 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines under its “Vaccine Maitri” initiative but supplies have slowed to a trickle since March as domestic infection rates surged.Smith said the US plans to work with European partners and other countries that have additional AstraZeneca doses to help countries in the region whose vaccine supplies were affected once India began focusing on its second wave. “The challenge is nobody has studied the viability of using a different vaccine for the second dose...Some countries may even resort to starting over with the Pfizer or Moderna vaccine but obviously if we could solve this by providing a second dose of the AstraZeneca vaccine, that would be the simplest and best solution,” he said.He outlined the aid worth more than $100 million that the US has provided to India, mainly oxygen-related equipment and medical supplies, and said the US side is working closely with the Indian government on the use of this official assistance. “I think we have very good visibility to where that assistance is gone,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-looking-at-joint-production-of-j-j-vaccine-in-india-101620740066908.html
12-05-2021||India||About 22 lakh people waiting for 2nd Covid-19 vaccine dose in Odisha||The Odisha government on Wednesday informed the centre that about 22 lakh people in the state are waiting for the second shot and therefore the state requires at least 25 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines.This was stated by Odisha's Health and Family Welfare Minister N K Das, who joined a virtual meeting of Union Health & Family Welfare minister Harsh Vardhan with state health ministers.Das said that the state has been facing an acute shortage of vaccines and people are waiting to get their crucial second dose.He said the state immediately require at least 25 lakh of Covishield vaccines to meet the requirement.The minister also requested the Centre to ensure supply of oxygen cylinders.While daily consumption of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) in Odisha is 52.9 metric tonne (MT), production capacity in the state is 155.51 MT (through cylinders).However, the surplus LMO cant be utilised due to shortage of cylinders. Hence the state urgently needs 15,000 B-type oxygen cylinders and 15,000 D-type oxygen cylinders, Das said.This apart, the health minister also said that the state precently has 89,683 active cases. As patients in the second wave require oxygen and intenstive care treatment, Odisha needs 500 ventilators.Das said keeping in view the surge of new positive cases, Odisha also needs more antigen kits in order to ramp up Covid-19 tests for early detection of the virus.For the safety of health workers and doctors, the state needs 5 lakh PPE kits, 10 lakh gloves and 10 lakh N-95 masks, Das said demanding setting up a a 247 helpline in the national task force for availing timely assistance and information on medicines used for critical patients.Das also further informed the union minister that Odisha's case fatality ratio (CFR) stands at 0.39 per cent due to effective Covid management.The national CFR is 1.08%. Besides, the recovery rate in Odisha is more than 80 per cent , he said.Meanwhikle, the state government informed all the district authorities that the due date for second dose of Covishield vaccine has been revised to 42 days (six weeks) after the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.Therefore, beneficiaries visiting vaccination centre for second dose of Covishield between four and six weeks cannot be vaccinated and the Co-WIN portal will not allow the same, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare (H &FW) P K Mohapatra said in a letter to district authorities."The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has made modification in Co-WIN portal for second dose of Covishield with effect from today. The due date for the second dose has been revised to 42 days (6 weeks) after first dose, which was 28 days (4 weeks) earlier."You are requested to share the same with all officials, supervisor, vaccinators and verifiers," the H & FW department said in the letter.However, there has been no such modification for Covaxin vaccines, sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/about-22-lakh-people-waiting-for-2nd-covid-19-vaccine-dose-in-odisha-101620839943131.html
12-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu CM Stalin invites leaders to discuss Covid-19 situation||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin has invited leaders of legislature parties to deliberate on measures to tackle the spike in Covid-19 spread and a meeting would be held here on Thursday, the government said. The meet, to be chaired by Stalin, is to elicit the views of floor leaders of parties in the Tamil Nadu Assembly to tackle and help prevent the increasing spread of the virus. The CM has invited them through letters to give their suggestions to the government on the matter, an official release said. The meeting of leaders of legislature parties would be held in the conference hall at the Secretariat at 5 pm and two representatives on behalf of each legislature party has been invited, the release added. Congress with 18 members is the largest after the main opposition AIADMK with 66 MLAs. Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, the CPI and CPI(M) are allies of the DMK and the PMK and BJP are partners of AIADMK. Smaller parties like the Manithaneya Makkal Katchi and Puratchi Bharatham fought on the symbol of DMK and AIADMK respectively in the April 6 Assembly polls. Though they are officially regarded as members of DMK and AIADMK in the House, they are also expected to take part in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-cm-stalin-invites-leaders-to-discuss-covid-19-situation-101620835672271.html
12-05-2021||India||J-K: Union min Jitendra Singh calls for audit of oxygen cylinders, ventilators||Union minister Jitendra Singh on Wednesday called for an audit of oxygen cylinders and ventilators in Jammu and Kashmir for their equitable distribution in time of distress for needy patients.He said even a single death due to alleged unavailability of oxygen causes tremendous social unrest and negates all the other good work, if any."A confidence building message has to go out loud and clear that a premier institution like the Government Medical College (GMC), Jammu will ensure that not a single death occurs on account of oxygen unavailability," said Singh, the minister of state for personnel.Singh, also a Lok Sabha member from J&K's Udhampur, called for the audit of oxygen cylinders and ventilators in the Union territory for equitable distribution in the time of distress for needy patients, according to a Personnel Ministry statement.He made the clarion call during a high-level meeting of administration and medical staff convened by him in view of certain reports emanating from GMC, Jammu with regard to COVID-19 management facilities.The meeting was attended by Advisor to LG, R R Bhatnagar, Financial Commissioner, Atal Dullo, Divisional Commissioner Raghav Langer, DC Jammu Anshul Garg apart from the Principal, GMC, Jammu, Dr Shashi Sudan Sharma and others.Singh said community management is a vital component of optimum COVID-19 management and the GMC as well as the administrative authorities should not feel shy of taking the community into confidence and soliciting their cooperation.He asked about the steps being taken by the administration for augmenting oxygen capacity of the Government Medical College, Jammu and other district hospitals across the UT.In this regard, he was informed that two oxygen plants each of 1,200 lpm capacity have been set up in GMC, Jammu, the statement said.A 1,000 lpm oxygen plant has also been set up in Chest and Diseases Hospital, Jammu, it said.Further, in Government Hospital, Gandhi Nagar another 1,000 lpm plant has been set up, the statement said, adding that two more plants are being set up in GMC, Jammu to augment its oxygen capacity.With regard to the buffer stocks of oxygen cylinders, Singh was informed that presently a stock of 400 cylinders was present in GMC, Jammu, it said.While commending the steps being taken to augment the oxygen capacity of hospitals, the minister called for the audit of oxygen capacity as well as ventilators in the UT so that no lives are lost for the want of critical care.He further expressed his support to the administration and hospital staff for fighting the battle against COVID and saving the lives of people.Singh instructed the divisional commissioner to post one mechanical engineer and one biomedical engineer in the GMC to exclusively look after the upkeep of oxygen supply so that the patient's attendants or nurses do not have to undergo the ordeal of struggling to maintain oxygen supply.He asked for a regular issue of medical bulletin by the authorities and keeping public representatives informed about what is being done by the GMC.Singh also reviewed the situation of ventilators to handle critical patients.In this regard, he was informed that around 60 ventilators and respirators were being provided to GMC, Jammu, the statement said.To overcome the shortage of staff, Singh asked the administration to engage post-graduate students, final year medical students, paramedical and nursing students.He urged the GMC doctors to surrender their private rooms/chambers in Chopra Nursing Home so that they could be converted into COVID chambers.For the patient's relatives, Singh asked for arranging proper SOPs and PPE kits.Instead of being dealt by police force, the patient's relatives should be sensitively counselled with the help of social volunteers and well-meaning NGOs, he said.For this, the minister assigned the responsibility to DC Garg.While taking stock of the vaccination status in Jammu, Singh was informed that around 96 per cent of population of the age-group of 45 plus had been vaccinated in Jammu alone, while the figure was around 60 per cent for the whole UT.He was also informed that the vaccination in the age-group 18-45 years was under process and daily around 200-250 shots in this age group were being provided in Jammu and around 16,438 people had received the first dose.Singh suggested that better information flow to the public should be carried out to facilitate the vaccination process and if a vaccination centre is not operating at a certain time, it should be frankly conveyed to the public.He said that the referral process should be streamlined and only patients that need critical care should be shifted to GMC, Jammu.In this regard, Singh was informed that home kits were being provided to COVID-19 patients and call centres had been engaged for making calls to them on a regular basis so that patients, only in dire need, may visit hospitals.The minister also called for better coordination and synergy between various departments, involvement of civil society groups and NGOs for reaching out to the public to fight the virus and follow COVID-appropriate behaviour.He further said that the Union Government was committed to support the UT administration and to fill in missing gaps, where required, to save lives and improve the health infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-union-min-jitendra-singh-calls-for-audit-of-oxygen-cylinders-ventilators-101620831670556.html
12-05-2021||India||Oxygen supply now more than 3 times of what it was during first Covid-19 wave: PM Modi told at high-level meeting||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday chaired a high-level meeting to review the availability and supply of oxygen and medicines to check the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country. The Prime Minister has been holding regular meetings on the Covid-19 situation, suggesting ways to check its spread and proactively taking key decisions to give a boost to health infrastructure in the country.Wednesday's meeting focussed on availability and supply of oxygen and medicines in the wake of various state governments flagging shortages in supply.The Prime Minister took stock of the situation on oxygen availability and supply. The ministers told him that the supply of oxygen is now more than three times the supply during the peak of the first wave.Amid reports of ventilators lying unused in some states, PM Modi said at the meeting that states should be asked to operationalise them in a time-bound manner and resolve technical and training issues with the help of the manufacturers, according to people aware of the developments.He also said that India has a very vibrant pharmaceutical sector and the Centre's continued close coordination with them will ensure proper availability of all medicines, according to people cited above.During the meeting, the ministers told the Prime Minister that the Centre is actively monitoring the supply of drugs being used in the management of Covid as well mucormycosis - a black fungus which has affected many Covid-19 patients. The symptoms of mucormycosis or black fungus include pain and redness around the eyes and/or nose, fever, headache, coughing, shortness of breath, vomits with blood, altered mental status.PM Modi was also informed that government officials are in regular touch with manufacturers of oxygen and medicines to enhance production and extend all kinds of help needed. The ministers said that states are being provided medicines in good quantities.The Prime Minister was also apprised that the production of all drugs including Remdesivir have been ramped up significantly in the last few weeks.The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said that PM Modi was also briefed about the operations of oxygen rail and sorties by Indian Air Force (IAF) planes besides the status of procurement of oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders as well as the status of plants being installed across the country to produce the life-saving gas.Many state governments, including worst-hit Maharashtra and Delhi, have flagged the issue of shortage of vaccines in their respective areas. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said that the state government has halted the vaccination of those between the ages of 18 and 44, and diverted the vaccines to give a second dose to those above the age of 45.In Delhi, the lawmaker of ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Atishi said that stocks of Covishield will last only nine days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reviews-availability-and-supply-of-oxygen-at-high-level-meeting-on-covid19-101620837354264.html
12-05-2021||India||Transmission of Covid-19 through water is not a concern: Experts||Experts on Wednesday said transmission of coronavirus through water is not a concern, after bodies of suspected Covid-19 patients were fished out of the Ganga and Yamuna.Satish Tare, professor at IIT-Kanpur, said dumping of dead bodies in the Ganga or its tributaries or sub-tributaries is a serious matter, particularly at a time when the country is grappling with the Covid-19 crisis.The Ganga and Yamuna are key sources of drinking water for many villages, local bodies along the rivers.The professor, however, stressed that dumping of bodies will not have a significant effect on transmission.Tare said dumping bodies in the Ganga or its tributaries is not new, but it has come down significantly in the last 10-15 years.Dumping of bodies primarily leads to pollution of rivers, he said."Even if the bodies of suspected Covid-19 patients were fished out, there is a lot of dilution that happens (during the flow of water). The effect may not be significant," he said."If the water is passed for water supply, then it passes through the water supply system. Normal treatment takes care of it,” said Tare, who teaches environmental engineering, water quality and wastewater treatment.He, however, added that there are patches where people draw water directly from the river. But even during this people do exercise caution.Tare is also associated with the National Mission for Clean Ganga, the apex body under the Jal Shakti Ministry that deals with the cleaning of Ganga, its tributaries and sub-tributaries.On Tuesday, the Bihar government fished out 71 bodies from the Ganges in Buxar district, where these were found floating in the river, triggering suspicion that the abandoned corpses could be those of Covid-19 patients.According to Ballia residents in Uttar Pradesh, at least 45 bodies were seen floating at the Ujiyar, Kulhadia and Bharauli ghats in the Narahi area. However, the district authorities did not tell the exact number of bodies found there.On Monday, residents in Hamirpur district spotted five bodies floating in the Yamuna, creating a scare that these were of Covid patients. The bodies were later fished out and cremated.This also led to panic among people of the riparian districts.K Therie, former finance minister of Nagaland, took to social media and said other states should avoid using the water of the river."Ganga is contaminated, with coronavirus death bodies. States living below UP and Bangladesh should avoid Ganga water (sic)," Therie tweeted.The Centre on Tuesday had asked states along the Ganga to ensure strict vigilance and check future incidences of people dumping bodies in Ganga and its tributaries after 71 corpses were fished out of the river body in Bihar.In a letter to the District Ganga Committees which are chaired by district magistrates/ collectors, the National Mission for Clean Ganga also asked the authorities to dispose of unidentified dead bodies of suspected Covid-19 victims in accordance with safety protocols."Ensure strict vigilance along length of the river within territorial jurisdiction of the district to prevent and check such future incidences of people dumping dead bodies in Ganga and its tributaries and of any other activities hazardous for river Ganga and health and hygiene of the area," the NMCG Director General Rajiv Ranjan Mishra said in a letter to the chairpersons of the District Ganga Committees.It has also asked to submit an action-taken report (ATR) to the NMCG in the next 14 days, the letter said.Responding to a question on this in a briefing on May 7, V K Paul, Member (Health), Niti Aayog had said, "Spread of transmission through water is not a concern. Not to worry."In the same media briefing, Principal Scientific Adviser K VijayRaghavan said there is no worry about transmission through such mediums."Primary transmission happens when people speak, or when two people are in close proximity and if the droplets drop on any surface come in contact with the other person then it can spread through water,” he had said."But mostly it spreads through aerosol. It also depends on airflow. There is no need to worry. It dilutes in the water to an extent that there is little danger of transmission," Raghavan added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/transmission-of-covid-19-through-water-is-not-a-concern-experts-101620835653619.html
12-05-2021||India||CPWD puts up boards banning photography, curbs public entry at Central Vista site||The construction arm of the government Central Public Works Department has installed boards prohibiting photography or video recording and restricted the entry of public at the construction site for the Central Vista, which includes most of the Rajpath stretch.The boards installed on the site also include the name of construction firm Shapoorji Pallonji. Last week, citizens and activists shared pictures on social media of the dug-up Rajpath stretch lamenting the imminent loss of the heritage jamun trees, some around 100 years old.The boards came up over the weekend.A CPWD spokesperson, responding to a query on why the boards were installed said his organiation “will not comment on the matter.” The ministry of housing and urban affairs but did not respond to queries seeking comment. A spokesperson for Shapoorji Pallonji declined comment.Hindustan Times, on May 7 reported that the list of trees that will be removed for the project will include at least 20 Jamun trees that are nearly 100 years old that were planted as part of the original plan of Lutyens’ Delhi in the 1920s.Environment activists said they think the boards came up on the barricades of the India Gate lawns around the weekend. It was not just the prohibitory signage but on Wednesday, security personnel were also seen stopping people from even standing across the barricades for more than a few minutes, citing “security protocol”.To be sure, many construction sites do prohibit entry of people indiscriminately, especially because of safety concerns. However, the bit about the “security protocol” is unclear because the Central government told the Delhi High Court on 11 May, that the ongoing work in and around Rajpath and India Gate “is not what is colloquially referred to as “the Central Vista project” (which includes Parliament, refurbishment of North Block, South Block, construction of new offices for central government i.e Common Central Secretariat, Central conference facilities, etc)...but limited to the redevelopment of the Central Vista Avenue (i.e, both sides of Rajpath, where Republic Day celebrations are held annually.” It wasnt on to add that the scope of work was “providing public ameneties like toilet blocks, paths, parking...”, “pedestrian underpasses’, and “improvement of canals, bridges, lawns, lights....”Environment activist Rajeev Suri, who was a petitioner in at least five cases highlighting the lapses and violations in the Central Vista project, said that the signage has only reiterated the “government’s brazenness to carry on with the project while the country was battling a pandemic”.“They (the government) will carry on with this project, no matter the cost. This only shows that while the nation is battling a pandemic, where bodies are floating in rivers, your priority is to build the Central Vista. To make things worse you have also left no transparency in the entire process,” said Suri.Addressing concerns over the project union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Puri In a series of Tweets on May 8 said: “Do not believe in fake photos & canards about ongoing work at Central Vista Avenue. No jamun trees have been removed. Only few trees will be transplanted in entire project. Overall green cover will increase. Defining elements of built heritage like lamp posts etc will be restored.”He added that the transformed Central Vista will be a “world class” public space in the heart of national capital. “The project is progressing on schedule. With more public space, landscaping & modern amenities, it will eventually be something every Indian will be proud of,” he tweeted.The Shapoorji Pallonji Group in January emerged as the lowest bidder for the Centre’s tender for the redevelopment and restructuring of the Central Vista Avenue after it quoted a financial bid of ₹477 crore, nearly 5% lower than the estimated cost of the project pegged at ₹502 crore. This is the second phase of redevelopment after Tata Projects Limited was tasked with the construction of the new Parliament complex on September 29, 2020.The tender for the redevelopment of the Central Vista avenue also mandates the firms to maintain it for five years from completion, and requires that the project be completed within 300 days. Work will also need to be carried out in sections to minimise the portion of the avenue that is cordoned off at any given time. “The contractor may have to execute the work in three shifts with large manpower of workers, supervisors and professional engineers,” according to the project tender document.Work on the project continues apace despite the pandemic and the ongoing lockdown in Delhi; the work has been categorised an essential activity.HT on May 4 reported The Vice President’s, and Prime Minister’s new residences are scheduled to be completed by May and December 2022, respectively, according to Central Public Works Department (CPWD), the nodal agency for the Central Vista Project, as the environment ministry’s expert appraisal committee (EAC) has granted the necessary clearance for the rest of the buildings under the plan.The plan, being handled by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs, involves having a new Parliament building in place by India’s 75th Independence Day in 2022, while the project, which includes constructing 11 administrative buildings to house all the government ministries, is slated to be finished by 2024.Under the Central Vista project, the Prime Minister’s residence will be shifted behind the existing South Block, while the V-P’s residence is proposed to be relocated behind North Block.The plan also includes razing buildings such as Shastri Bhawan, Udyog Bhawan and Krishi Bhawan that house important government ministries to build a common secretariat for roughly 70,000 central government employees who are currently located across 30 buildings.Amid criticism for continuing the Central Vista project during the pandemic Puri on Friday attacked the Congress calling the discourse “bizzare.” The minister’s retaliation came hours after Congress MP Rahul Gandhi criticised the Modi government for executing the project, terming it a “criminal wastage”, while asking the dispensation to focus on people’s lives during the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpwd-puts-up-boards-banning-photography-curbs-public-entry-at-central-vista-site-101620836624361.html
12-05-2021||India||India’s new Covid-19 cases have peaked, Cambridge School tracker shows||The number of new coronavirus infections in India has peaked, according to a new tracker developed by researchers at Cambridge Judge Business School and the National Institute of Economic and Social Research.“But there is substantial variation among states and union territories in their trajectories, with cases continuing to increase over the next two weeks in areas such as Assam, Himachal Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Tripura,” the researchers wrote.The projections are based on reported numbers and are in line with those from some other experts, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s advisers. India reported a record 414,188 new cases on May 7 -- about 32% higher than the world’s previous peak reported by the U.S. last year but with just a fraction of the testing and vast undercounting -- and official data suggest daily deaths could continue near the unprecedented 4,000-level.Health services remain overwhelmed and several hospitals face a shortage in oxygen supplies. With the state being criticized for failing to ensure critical needs including oxygen and medicines, businesses are suspending operations and offering employees time off “to heal.”A variant of the virus first identified in India appears to have higher rates of transmission and preliminary evidence suggests potentially reduced effectiveness of certain antibodies, the World Health Organization said in its latest report.The nation has reported more than 300,000 new infections for more than 20 straight days. The numbers are probably vastly undercounted, experts say.“A recent risk assessment of the situation in India conducted by WHO found that resurgence and acceleration of COVID-19 transmission in India had several potential contributing factors, including increase in the proportion of cases of SARS-CoV-2 variants with potentially increased transmissibility; several religious and political mass gathering events which increased social mixing; and, underuse of and reduced adherence to public health and social measures,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-new-covid-19-cases-have-peaked-cambridge-school-tracker-shows-101620836106912.html
12-05-2021||India||Gujarat sees 11,017 new Covid-19 cases; 102 related fatalities||Gujarat on Wednesday reported 11,017 new coronavirus positive cases and 102 casualties that raised the tally of infections to 7,14,611 and toll to 8,731, an official from the state health department said.The number of recoveries exceeded the infections, as 15,264 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, the official said.With this, the state's recovery rate has increased to 80.94 per cent and the count of recoveries has reached 5,78,397, he said.After peaking at 180 on April 29, the state's daily Covid-19 fatalities have seen a decline, dropping to 102, which is the lowest since April 17.According to the official data, Ahmedabad continued to report the highest number of daily cases in the state, with 2,883 new infections.Vadodara followed with 1,148 new cases, Surat with 1,045, Rajkot with 621, Jamnagar with 511, Junagadh with 484, Bhavnagar with 436 and Mehsana with 411 cases, etc.Ahmedabad recorded 17 deaths, followed by Surat with 14, Vadodara and Jamnagar with nine each, etc.The state is now left with 1,27,483 active cases, with 804 patients on ventilators, the health department release stated.In the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, the total number of Covid-19 cases rose to 9,318 with 104 new cases, an official said.As many as 161 patients were discharged on Wednesday, increasing the number of recovered cases to 8,067, leaving the Union Territory with 1,247 active cases, he said, adding that four patients have died of the infection so far.Meanwhile, a total of 1,45,67,089 doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered so far in Gujarat, with the addition of 1,87,724 beneficiaries covered during the day.As many as 27,28,366 beneficiaries have received their second dose of the vaccine, the department said in its release.At least 3,86,743 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 have been covered in the drive so far, it was stated.Gujarat's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 7,14,611, new cases 11,017, death toll 8,731, discharged 5,78,397, active cases 1,27,483, people tested so far - figures not released.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-sees-11-017-new-covid-19-cases-102-related-fatalities-101620833979572.html
12-05-2021||India||Daily Covid-19 infections in Tamil Nadu breach 30,000-mark; 293 deaths reported||Tamil Nadu recorded 30,355 new Covid-19 cases in the single biggest day spike so far on Wednesday, pushing the caseload to 14,68,864 while 293 deaths in the last 24 hours took the toll to 16,471. According to a medical bulletin, 19,508 people were discharged today, taking the tally to 12,79,658 leaving 1,72,735 active infections. With the pandemic raging the southern State, Tamil Nadu for the first time went past the grim 10,000-mark on April 18 and 20,000 on May 2. The State capital accounted for 7,564 new infections, totalling 4,12,505 till date. The metropolis leads in the number of fatalities also with 5,458 deaths. The number of samples tested today was 1,56,356 pushing the cumulative number of specimens examined so far to 2,44,67,287. Besides Chennai, Chengalpet added 2,670 cases, Coimbatore 2,636, Kanyakumari 1,076, Madurai 1,172, Thiruvallur 1,344 while the remaining districts clocked new infections in triple digits. Ariyalur reported 149, Cuddalore 530, Dharmapuri 200, Dindigul 358, Erode 961, Kallakurichi 144, Kancheepuram 767, Karur 246, Krishnagiri 497, Nagapattinam 322, Namakkal 354, Nilgiris 186, Perambalur 206, Pudukottai 263, Ramanathapuram 333, Ranipet 173 and Salem 664. Sivagangai recorded 197, Tenkasi 324, Thanjavur 646, Theni 438, Thirupathur 329, Thiruvannamalai 600, Thiruvarur 310, Tuticorin 748, Tirunelveli 742, Tiruppur 647, Tiruchirappalli 879, Vellore 577, Villupuram 568 and Virudhunagar 535, the bulletin said. Among the 293 deceased, 67 of them were without co- morbidities which include a 27-year-old man from Thanjavur who succumbed to the virus due to Covid-19 pneumonia. As many as 19 people who tested positive today were returnees from other destinations, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daily-covid-19-infections-in-tamil-nadu-breach-30-000-mark-293-deaths-reported-101620833944541.html
12-05-2021||India||Pappu Yadav’s arrest in 32-yr-old case lights up a huge political row in Bihar||The arrest of Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) founder and former MP Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav in a 32-year-old case has sparked off a huge political storm in Bihar with the opposition targeting the Nitish Kumar government the arrest and two leaders in Bihar’s ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) questioning the timing of the police action.Yadav was initially detained by the Patna Police on Tuesday on charges of violating lockdown norms during his visit to Patna Medical College and Hospital and then taken into custody in a 32-year-old kidnapping case registered in Madhepura.Opposition leaders said Yadav was on the government’s radar ever since he claimed to have found 24 ambulances parked at BJP MP Rajiv Pratap Rudy’s Saran residence. Yadav claimed that the ambulances had been purchased from funds made available from the Member of Parliament Local Area Development scheme.Former health minister and RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav took to Twitter to criticise the JAP leader’s arrest, saying that Bihar appeared to treat thieves well but put away people who caught the thieves. Former minister Shyam Rajak said it was clear that the government could not tolerate anyone who criticised it.Leaders of the Congress and the CPI (ML) have also been unsparing in their criticism over the timing of the arrest and demanded his early release.Leaders of two NDA constituents in Bihar, Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular (HAM-S) and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) - they have four MLAs each in the assembly - have also flayed the government for arresting Yadav after he exposed what his supporters say were flaws in the state’s Covid management.Former chief minister and HAM-S leader Jitan Ram Manchi tweeted that the action against a leader, who had been working for people’s welfare day in and day out during the pandemic, was dangerous for humanity. “There should be a judicial inquiry of the case in which Yadav has been arrested,” said Manjhi on Twitter.VIP chief and minister Mukesh Sahni said he had no intention to interfere with the judicial process “but this is not the time to settle political scores”. All parties should unite and fight the pandemic for saving humanity,” said Sahni, adding that the government should also inquire into causes that led to unauthorised parking of ambulances at Rudy’s residences.BJP MLC Rajnish Kumar also described the JAP leader’s arrest as unfortunate and demanded his immediate release. JDU leader and former minister Monazir Hassan slammed the government. “Yadav was helping people to fight Covid by arranging medicines and oxygen to critical patients,” said Hassan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pappu-yadav-s-arrest-in-32-yr-old-case-lights-up-a-huge-political-row-in-bihar-101620833983717.html
12-05-2021||India||Army Base Hospital commandant’s sudden transfer triggers speculation||The commandant of the army’s Base Hospital in Delhi, Major General Vasu Vardhan, has been transferred out of the premier hospital, triggering speculation in some military circles about the reason behind the sudden move that came barely three months before the military doctor’s retirement, people familiar with the development said on Wednesday. But senior officials in the Army Headquarters said it was a routine transfer after the completion of the usual 18-month tenure. Vardhan has been posted at the Delhi-based Army Hospital (Research and Referral) as an additional officer and is being replaced by Major General SK Singh, deputy commandant of the Army Medical Corps Centre and College, Lucknow. The Directorate General of Medical Services (Army) issued the transfer order on May 10. The change of guard at the Base Hospital comes at a crucial juncture when its infrastructure has been stretched by a deluge of coronavirus (Covid-19) cases among serving soldiers, veterans and their dependents. “The commandant has completed more than 18 months in his current appointment. It is a routine posting carried out as part of a larger plan of HR management within the Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS),” a senior official in the Army Headquarters said. The Base Hospital was converted into an all-Covid-19 facility for soldiers, veterans and their dependents in April after a second wave of infections tightened its grip on the country. “It is unusual for a hospital commandant to be moved out like this three months before retirement. I think there’s more to this than meets the eye,” said a former director general of the AFMS, asking not to be named. Vardhan refused to comment on his transfer. “Nothing from my side on this,” he said. The Base Hospital currently has 650 beds, but its capacity will be increased to 900 oxygenated beds by mid-June to cater to the rising patient load. More than 5,000 soldiers from the three services are currently undergoing Covid-19 treatment in military hospitals across the country, almost a five-fold jump in hospital admissions in three weeks after the second wave erupted, as reported by Hindustan Times on Wednesday. The cases under hospitalisation in the military increased from 1,067 on April 18 to 5,134 on May 10, reflecting in some measure the wider national trend of a surge in coronavirus infections. The 1.5-million strong armed forces have done a better job than others in checking the transmission of the virus and keeping the mortality rate exceptionally low by adhering to strict Covid-19 protocols --- 133 deaths of serving soldiers have been reported since the pandemic broke out last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-base-hospital-commandant-s-sudden-transfer-triggers-speculation-101620833503994.html
12-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Justice DY Chandrachud tests positive for Covid-19, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Supreme Court judge Justice DY Chandrachud tests positive for Covid-19Justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, who is heading the Supreme Court bench for scanning the Centre's policy and preparedness in management of the second Covid-19 wave, has tested positive for coronavirus, court administration said on Wednesday. Read moreRaj to float global tender for Covid vaccine, says Centre should have done thisA day before Rajasthan is expected to float a global tender to import Covid-19 vaccines, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday said it would have been much better if the Centre had procured the vaccines on behalf of the states. Read moreMaharashtra cabinet recommends extending lockdown-like restrictions for 2 weeksThe Maharashtra cabinet has recommended extending the lockdown-like restrictions in the state for two weeks to check the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state, health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday. He said that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will take a decision in this regard soon. Read more‘He picked our brains’: Chappell says Rahul Dravid followed Australian structure to create solid pool of Indian playersFormer Australian batsman and Indian head coach Greg Chappel has said that Rahul Dravid has followed the Australian formula to create a strong domestic structure that has been serving as a feeder line for Team India. Read moreDisha Patani on kissing Salman Khan with a tape on her lips in Radhe: 'It was a funny experience'Disha Patani spoke about kissing Salman Khan with a tape on her lips in Radhe: Your Most Wanted Bhai. When the trailer released, fans presumed Salman broke his longstanding no-kiss policy as a silhouette of the on-screen couple kissing featured in it. Eventually it was revealed that Disha was wearing a piece of tape on her mouth during the scene. Read moreWatch: ‘If you don’t understand..’: Cong slams Sitharaman over GST on Covid supplies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-justice-dy-chandrachud-tests-positive-for-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news-101620831126552.html
12-05-2021||India||'Your scheduled visit to areas hit by post-poll violence violates norms', Mamata Banerjee writes to governor Dhankar||A day before his planned visit to post-poll violence-affected Cooch Behar district, West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankar received a letter from chief minister Mamata Banerjee where she said claimed that the scheduled visit violates long-standing protocols."I find from social media that you are unilaterally proceeding to Cooch Behar district on May 13 and, sadly, I find that to be violative of the long-standing norms as evolved over several decades," Banerjee said in her letter."I, therefore, would expect you will kindly follow the well-established norms of protocol, as stated above, and desist from abrupt decisions with regards to field visits," she further said.The governor had announced on Tuesday that he will visit areas affected by post-poll violence in Cooch Behar district on May 13.Banerjee also referred to her letter written to Dhankhar on September 26 last year, in which she had urged him to "refrain from surpassing the chief minister and her council of ministers and communicating with and dictating the state officials, in excess of your power under the Constitution and directing them to attend before you". The CM alleged that the governor is "steadily ignoring" this advice.At least 16 people, mainly from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Trinamool Congress (TMC), have been killed in post-poll violence in West Bengal. Political clashes also left a number of people injured in the state since the results of the assembly elections were announced on May 2.Dhankhar will also visit camps in Assam on May 14 after his visit to affected places in Cooch Behar, a statement from Raj Bhavan said. During his visit to Assam, the West Bengal governor will go to Ranpagli and Srirampur camps, the Raj Bhavan statement further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/your-scheduled-visit-to-areas-hit-by-post-poll-violence-violates-norms-mamata-banerjee-writes-to-governor-dhankar-101620831717438.html
12-05-2021||India||12 Opposition leaders write to PM Modi, blame govt for ‘apocalyptic human tragedy’||Top leaders of twelve opposition parties including Sonia Gandhi of Congress and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to put across nine demands including a free Covid-19 vaccination campaign. They also asked PM Modi to halt the Central Vista project and instead divert the money to buy oxygen and vaccines.In the letter, the leaders argued that they have “repeatedly in the past” drawn the PM’s attention to the measures, they think, are “absolutely imperative” for the Central government to undertake and implement.” “Unfortunately, your government has either ignored or refused all these suggestions. This only compounded the situation to reach such an apocalyptic human tragedy,” the letter read. The letter, signed by former PM HD Deve Gowda, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray, Tamil Nadu CM MK Stalin, Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren, CPIM general secretary Sitaram Yechury and others, said, “Procure vaccines centrally from all available sources - global and domestic” and “immediately begin a free, universal mass vaccination campaign across the country. Invoke compulsory licensing to expand domestic vaccine production. Spend budgetary allocation of Rs. 35,000 crores for the vaccines.” It asked for stopping the Central Vista construction and demanded that all money held in the unaccounted private trust fund, PM Cares must be released to buy more vaccines, Oxygen and medical equipment required. The letter reiterated that all jobless people should be given at least ₹6000 per month and there must be free distribution of food grains to the needy as over one crore tonnes of food grains are currently rotting in central godowns. The letter, however, also invoked the farm law issues and reiterated that the three farm laws have to be repealed to “protect lakhs of our annadatas becoming victims of the pandemic so that they can continue to produce food to feed the Indian people.” The letter has also been signed by NCP leader Sharad Pawar, JKPA leader Farooq Abdullah, SP’s Akhilesh Yadav, CPI’s D Raja and Tejaswi Yadav of RJD. All these demands have been repeatedly raised by the Opposition parties in the last few months. The government, however, recently defended the Central Vista project and argued that its expenses would be carried out over a few years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-opposition-leaders-write-to-pm-modi-blame-govt-for-apocalyptic-human-tragedy-101620831163606.html
12-05-2021||India||Maharashtra cabinet recommends extending lockdown-like restrictions for 2 weeks||The Maharashtra cabinet has recommended extending the lockdown-like restrictions in the state for two weeks to check the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state, health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday. He said that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will take a decision in this regard soon."At the Cabinet meeting, the health department and ministers proposed to extend the lockdown for 15 days. The chief minister will take a final decision on this matter," Tope told reporters.The current lockdown-like curbs will end at 7am on May 15.According to officials, the lockdown will be as strict as it is currently, while in some districts where the cases are on the rise, the local administration is expected to impose stricter curbs.At present, cases are on the rise in 21 districts and dropping in 15, including Mumbai and Thane.Th cabinet meeting was held on a day when Maharashtra reported a slight increase in the number of Covid-19 cases. According to state government's health bulletin on Wednesday, the state registered 46,781 new cases of the infection in a 24-hour span, which took the statewide tally to 5,226,710.Wednesday’s case count in Maharashtra is 5,825 more than that of Tuesday’s when 40,956 cases were recorded.The slowed-down vaccination drive is another reason for the extension of the lockdown. Tope said that the state government has suspended the vaccination drive for the age group of 18-44 years for time being due to shortage of the vaccines.The Maharashtra health minister added that the doses meant for 18-44 age group will be diverted for the second dose of the people above 45 years.Will May 11, Maharashtra has administered 1,88,21,485 doses of Covid-19 vaccine, according to state government data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-cabinet-recommends-extending-lockdown-like-restrictions-for-2-weeks-101620830749548.html
12-05-2021||India||West Bengal Guv Dhankhar to visit Ranpagli, Srirampur camps in Assam on May 14||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar will visit Ranpagli and Srirampur camps in Assam on May 14. The post-poll violence victims from West Bengal have taken refuge at these camps.Dhankhar took to Twitter to inform about his visit to the camps."Governor WB Jagdeep Dhankhar will be visiting Ranpagli and Srirampur camps in Assam where due to post-poll retributive violence @MamataOfficial some people of WB had taken refuge for safety. Governor Dhankhar will be reaching Ranpagli Assam at 9.45 am by BSF Helicopter," the Governor tweeted."Governor Dhankhar visit to camps in Assam on May 14 is after his visit to affected places in Coochbehar," he further tweeted.Dhankhar had earlier informed that he will be visiting the areas affected by the post-poll violence in West Bengal on Thursday."Governor... will be leaving Kolkata by BSF Helicopter on May 13 to visit post-poll unprecedented violence-affected areas @MamataOfficial #Sitalkuchi and other places in Coochbehar to connect with sufferers," he tweeted yesterday.The Governor said, "As part of my constitutional duty, I've decided to visit affected parts in State and asked the government to make arrangements. Unfortunately, their response hasn't been very responsive. I'll go ahead with my schedule and make arrangements for self visit in coming days."Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleged that nine of its party workers have been killed in the post-poll violence. However, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) has been refuting the allegations.On May 7, a four-member team deputed by the Ministry of Home Affairs had visited the Diamond Harbour area of West Bengal's South 24 Parganas district to assess the ground situation.A five-member Constitution Bench of the Calcutta High Court had also ordered West Bengal Home Secretary to file a report mentioning the places where the violence occurred and the steps taken.Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) had earlier requested President Ram Nath Kovind to take effective steps to immediately stop the "unprecedented post-poll violence" committed by "TMC activists and Jihadists" in West Bengal.Following the declaration of West Bengal Assembly poll results on May 2, incidents of violence have been reported in several parts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-guv-dhankhar-to-visit-ranpagli-srirampur-camps-in-assam-on-may-14-101620829438385.html
12-05-2021||India||10-day lockdown begins in Telangana, inter-state borders sealed to curb Covid-19 spread||The 10-day lockdown imposed by the Telangana government to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the state began on Wednesday with police authorities strictly enforcing the restrictions after a four-hour relaxation. The Telangana police sealed all the inter-state borders and only ambulance services carrying critically-ill patients from neighbouring states to Hyderabad were allowed, according to the directions of the state high court. Director-General of Police M Mahendar Reddy said all other vehicles from neighbouring states would be allowed only after showing e-passes given by their governments for emergency travel. Those from Telangana, travelling to other states should also obtain an e-pass issued by the police department, he said. For those who have to travel to other districts within the state and also for those travelling from one place to another within the limits of Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda police commissionerates during the lockdown, e-passes are available online. “Passengers travelling by flights and trains are also allowed to travel, provided they carry valid tickets,” he said. With the Telangana government suspending operation of inter-state bus services and other transport services, including those by private operators, all state-run Road Transport Corporation buses were cancelled. Many people, who were not aware of the orders, rushed to bus and railway stations to leave for their native places but had to return disappointed. The DGP said all arrangements had been made across the state to implement the 20-hour lockdown. Instructions had been issued to all commissioners and superintendents of police to ensure strict enforcement of lockdown. “Stringent punishment will be given to those who violate lockdown rules,” he said. In Hyderabad and all the major towns in Telangana, the police strictly made all shops and business establishments shut down before the restrictions came into force. At the historic Charminar, which witnessed crowds ahead of Eid-ul-Fitr (Ramzan) till Tuesday night, roads wore a deserted look within minutes of the lockdown coming into force from 10 am. Since it was the first day of the lockdown, the police allowed people to rush back to their homes after buying essentials for 15-20 minutes after the lockdown came into force. The police personnel conducted a flag march to enforce the restrictions. Hyderabad Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar, who supervised the implementation of the lockdown at Charminar, told reporters that 180 check posts were set up in the city to check the movement of vehicles. Cyberabad Police Commissioner V C Sajjanar and Rachakonda Police Commissioner Mahesh Bahgwath also monitored the situation in their respective police commissionerates. Earlier in the day, there were traffic jams in several areas, as people came out on the roads in large numbers to purchase essential commodities. There were long queues at supermarkets, vegetable markets, and medical shops and even at wine shops as early as 6.30 am. Restaurants remained closed, and some roadside eateries and mobile canteens did brisk business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10day-lockdown-begins-in-telangana-inter-state-borders-sealed-to-curb-covid-19-spread-101620829670337.html
12-05-2021||India||Supreme Court judge Justice DY Chandrachud tests positive for Covid-19||Justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, who is heading the Supreme Court bench for scanning the Centre's policy and preparedness in management of the second Covid-19 wave, has tested positive for coronavirus, court administration said on Wednesday.The bench, which also includes justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, was supposed to take up the suo motu (on its own motion) matter on Thursday. However, the case may now get deferred to some other date because of justice Chandrachud's indisposition.Besides, as per a circular issued by the Supreme Court, Thursday may get declared a holiday if Eid is to be celebrated on Thursday, depending on the sighting of the moon. All the cases will be heard on Friday if Thursday is declared a holiday.Also read: Supreme Court pulls up Central govt over differential Covid-19 vaccine pricingIt is still not clear if the other two judges on the suo motu bench will resume hearing the case on Friday in the absence of justice Chandrachud. Chief justice of India NV Ramana, who is the master of roster, also has the option of constituting another bench with some other senior judge to head it.The Supreme Court on Monday had said that the matter will be heard on May 13 as the virtual proceedings were encountering technical glitches and the deferment will give judges more time to go through the government affidavit which was filed late last night.The three-judge bench said, “Our server is down today. We judges had discussion among ourselves and have decided to take up the matter on Thursday”.Taking stock of the grim situation, another bench led by justice Chandrachud on May 8 said the central government’s policy on allocating medical oxygen supplies to states needed a “complete revamp”, highlighting what it said were the “most obvious points” of considerations overlooked by the expert committee.Observing that it was inclined to set up a committee to review the Centre’s policy, the bench of justices Chandrachud and MR Shah found fault with the Centre’s formula to link allocation of oxygen to only the number of beds in the hospitals of a state and its active cases.Also read | ‘We also hear cries’: Supreme Court asks govt to overhaul Covid plan“Your formula requires a complete revamp. Now, we tell you the practical problem is that when you prepared this formula, not everyone required oxygen or bed but many patients today require oxygen even at home. Your formula takes into account number of beds in hospitals but not those who will require it at home because there are no beds available anywhere,” it told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who represented the Union government.The court added that the formula, which computed total requirement of a state on the basis that 50% of the non-ICU beds required 10 litres of oxygen per minute, while 100% percent of the ICU beds required 24 litres per minute, also failed to take note of oxygen requirements for ambulances and Covid care facilities, besides the logistical issues regarding its transportation, turnaround time etc.On the grim oxygen crisis in the country resulting in deaths of Covid-19 patients, the Supreme Court on May 8 set up a National Task Force for an effective and transparent mechanism for allocating medical oxygen in view of a surge in Covid-19 cases.The Apex Court bench, headed by Justice DY Chandrachud, constituted National Task Force (NTF) to assess and recommend the need and distribution of oxygen in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-judge-justice-dy-chandrachud-tests-positive-for-covid19-101620824168055.html
12-05-2021||India||Covid-19: ASI extends closure of monuments till May 31||All centrally protected monuments, which were closed in April due to the rise in daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), will remain closed till May 31, or until further orders, due to the current Covid-19 situation, the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) announced in a notification on Wednesday.Also Read | Covid-19: All centrally protected monuments, museums closed for visitors till May 15“In continuation of the office order dated 15 April, 2021, all the Centrally protected monuments/sites under ASI shall continue to remain closed due to the present Covid-19 pandemic situation till May 31, 2021, or until further orders,” the ASI notification read.Union culture minister Prahlad Singh Patel shared the notification on his Twitter account. “The Archaeological Survey of India has decided to keep all its monuments closed till May 31 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The decision was taken after approval from the Union culture ministry,” a rough translation of Patel’s tweet, posted in Hindi, read.भारतीय पुरातत्व सर्वेक्षण विभाग @ASIGoI ने कोरोना महामारी को देखते हुए अपने सभी स्मारकों को ३१ मई तक बंद करने का फ़ैसला @MinOfCultureGoI की सहमति से किया है @PMOIndia @AmitShah @JPNadda @incredibleindia @tourismgoi pic.twitter.com/gWvQTHl1LnOn April 15, the ASI ordered closure of all the centrally protected monuments till May 15. The announcement came on a day the country reported more than 200,000 fresh Covid-19 infections in a single-day for the first time. The threshold of more than 100,000 daily coronavirus cases was breached on April 5, and, subsequently, the country also saw more than 300,000 and 400,000 cases in a single-day, along with record high of related daily fatalities.In July last year, the culture ministry gave its approval for the reopening of monuments, places of worship, museums, heritage sites etc., as the country started exiting the Covid-19 induced lockdown. The monuments were closed in late March, when the first national lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Also Read | Monuments to open, Setu app mustIndia’s Covid-19 tally is at 23,340,938, with the addition of 348,421 new cases from the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) dashboard on Wednesday morning. In the same period, 4,205 people succumbed to the viral disease, pushing the related death toll to 254,197.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-asi-extends-closure-of-monuments-till-may-31-101620824929569.html
12-05-2021||India||‘Only microscopic percentage inoculated in India’: Bengal CM tells PM Modi to speedily import vaccines||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to speed up the imports of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccines from global manufacturers, adding that a liberal, pro-active and discerning import of vaccination is the paramount need.Banerjee previously sent letters on the Covid-19 situation to PM Modi, seeking his and the central government’s help in vaccination drive, supply of oxygen and supply of essential drugs such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab.In her letter on Wednesday, Banerjee said the production, and hence the supply and distribution of vaccine doses in the country, is extremely inadequate and insignificant in context of the massive needs of the citizens at large. “About 10 crore people in West Bengal and 140 people in India need vaccination here and now, but only a microscopic percentage has been covered,” she informed PM Modi.Also Read| West Bengal's daily Covid-19 tally crosses 20,000-mark; 132 more deaths seenAs more and more companies across the globe have started manufacturing vaccine doses amid the skyrocketing demand, the Bengal CM noted that with the assistance of experts and scientists, it will be possible to identify reputed and authentic manufacturers which have international reputation and credibility. “And it is possible for us in India to speedily import vaccines from those ends across different parts of the world,” Banerjee subsequently wrote in the letter.She also suggested to Modi that the central government can encourage world players to open franchise operations in India. Even the national manufacturers can be inspired to opt for franchise mode for bulk production of vaccine doses, the chief minister said.Also Read| Mamata urges PM Modi to waive taxes on Covid-19 medical equipment, drugsWest Bengal has so far inoculated 12,146,487 beneficiaries of which 8,785,144 have received the first dose and the remaining 3,361,343 have received both doses. One of the worst affected states by the pandemic across India, West Bengal’s daily tally of the Covid-19 disease breached the 20,000-mark on Tuesday with 20,136 new cases in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 1,032,740.Meanwhile, 10 states - including Delhi, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Odisha - have said they will float global tenders to purchase vaccine doses from foreign manufactures amid a shortage of doses to inoculate eligible beneficiaries. However, officials in these states told Hindustan Times on Tuesday that there is no clarity on when the foreign manufacturers will be able to provide doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-another-letter-to-pm-modi-bengal-cm-urges-him-to-speed-up-vaccine-imports-101620824302483.html
12-05-2021||India||AIIMS doctor says proper hygiene necessary to prevent mucormycosis. All you need to know about fungal infection||The fungal infection mucormycosis, which is affecting many Covid-19 patients, is a growing concern in India. Dr Sanjeev Sinha, from All India Medical Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi, emphasised the need to maintain proper hygiene to prevent the infection. He also said that it is a curable disease, reported news agency ANI on Wednesday."We have to maintain proper hygiene to prevent mucormycosis. Immunosuppressant patients and those who use steroids for long time have to take extra precautions. It is a treatable disease," ANI quoted Dr Sinha as saying.Also read| 'Should we laugh or cry': Akhilesh Yadav on use of cow dung in Covid-19 fightThe fungal infection mainly affects people who are on medication for other health complexities that impair the ability to fight environmental pathogens, according to the Indian Medical Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The inhalation of fungal spores from the air affects the lungs and sinuses of such individuals, the ICMR further said.#Unite2FightCorona #IndiaFightsCOVID19 ✅#Mucormycosis or '#BlackFungus' has been observed in a number of #COVID19 patients recently. ✅Take a look to know what it is, Symptoms and How to reduce the risk of #Mucormycosis pic.twitter.com/DZ6jlGn3iBThe research body has also described the symptoms of mucormycosis or black fungus which include pain and redness around the eyes and/or nose, fever, headache, coughing, shortness of breath, bloody vomits and altered mental status.Also read: Cases of Covid-linked mucormycosis reported across IndiaAccording to ICMR, mucormycosis can be suspected in Covid-19 patients - including diabetics or immunosuppressed - when there is nasal blockage or congestion, blackish/bloody nasal discharge, and local pain on the cheekbone. It is also suspected if there is blurred or double vision with pain, fever, or skin lesion, thrombosis & necrosis (eschar), chest pain, pleural effusion, hemoptysis, worsening of respiratory symptoms, as per the ICMR.In order to spread awareness around the disease, the government also released a set of instructions to follow the prevent infections. Here are the dos and don'ts to reduce the risk of infections, as released by the ICMR:Dos:Control hyperglycemiaMonitor blood glucose level post-Covid-19 discharge and in patients with diabetesUse steroids judiciously. Timing, doses and duration should be correctUse clean, sterile water for humidifiers during oxygen therapyUse antibiotic or antifungals judiciouslyDon’ts:Miss warning signs and symptomsConsider all the cases with a blocked nose as cases of bacterial sinusitis, particularly in the context of immunosuppression and/or Covid-19 patients on immunomodulatorsHesitate to seek aggressive investigations, as appropriate (KOH staining & microscopy, culture, MALDI-TOF), for detecting fungal etiologyLose crucial time to initiate treatment for mucormycosis||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiims-doctor-says-proper-hygiene-necessary-to-prevent-mucormycosis-all-you-need-to-know-about-fungal-infection-101620819937295.html
12-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Shipment of 40 tons of oxygen from France reaches India||France Ambassador Emmanuel Lenain informed that the second shipment of 40 tons of oxygen reached India on Wednesday.Taking to Twitter Lenain said, "The second shipment of 40 tons of oxygen, donated by France's Air Liquide Group and filled in Qatar reaches Mumbai. Thanks to Indian Navy's frigate INS Tarkash."#FranceStandsWithIndia | The second shipment of 40 tons of #oxygen, donated by 🇫🇷 @airliquidegroup and filled in #Qatar reaches #Mumbai thanks to @IndianNavy frigate #INSTarkash.🇫🇷🇮🇳 #OxygenBridge in action! pic.twitter.com/S8i7PHHPYkTaking to Twitter, Spokesperson of Ministry of External Affairs Arindam Bagchi wrote, "Deeply value this continuing support from our friend & partner France. Grateful to our friend Qatar for the prompt facilitation in collaboration with the French Embassy in Qatar.""Operation Setu-II - a sea bridge that continues to deliver. INS Tarkash arrives in Mumbai (India) carrying 2 cryogenic tankers with 20 MT liquid medical O2 each. A tireless effort to augment our O2 availability, " Bagchi tweeted.Amid the massive surge in Covid cases, India received global support in the form of PPE kits, medical equipment, oxygen concentrators, and oxygen cylinders, and other medical aids.Earlier, France had announced that it will provide India with eight high-capacity oxygen generators, liquid oxygen for 2000 patients for five days, as well as 28 ventilators and equipment for ICUs.Twenty-eight tonnes of medical equipment sent by France as part of its solidarity mission for facing the Covid-19 crisis.Besides France, several other countries including the United Kingdom, the US, and Germany have also announced plans to support India.With 4,205 Covid-related deaths in the last 24 hours, India reported another grim record of the highest single-day death toll in one day, as per data from the union health ministry. The last record was reported on May 7, with 4,187 deaths.A total of 3,48,421 new Covid-19 cases and 3,55,338 discharges were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the country's total positive cases so far to 2,33,40,938.This includes 1,93,82,642 discharges and 2,54,197 deaths. There are currently 37,04,099 active cases in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-shipment-of-40-tons-of-oxygen-from-france-reaches-india-101620818822019.html
12-05-2021||India||Cases of Covid-linked mucormycosis reported across India||Hospitals across India have been reporting cases of Covid-linked mucormycosis or black fungus, a rare infection, with deaths of it reported from Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh and Thane in Maharashtra.On Monday, Odisha reported its first case of mucormycosis while Delhi, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, and Rajasthan have also detected its cases. New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences has created a separate ward to treat black fungus patients.Mucormycosis affects the sinuses, the brain, and the lungs and can be life-threatening in diabetic or severely immune-compromised individuals such as cancer patients or people with HIV/AIDS. Symptoms of mucormycosis include headache, fever, pain under the eyes, nasal or sinus congestion, and partial loss of vision. Some may even experience coughing, shortness of breath, bloody vomits, and altered mental status, doctors said.Doctors believe mucormycosis, which has an overall mortality rate of 50%, maybe being triggered by the use of steroids, which are life-saving drugs for severe and critically ill Covid-19 patients.Steroids reduce inflammation in the lungs in Covid-19 cases and appear to help stop some of the damage that can happen when the body’s immune system goes into overdrive to fight off coronavirus. But they also reduce immunity and push up blood sugar levels in both diabetics and non-diabetic Covid-19 patients. The reduction in immunity can cause mucormycosis, doctors said.In Jabalpur, three deaths of mucormycosis have been reported since May 1. About 10 people have lost vision while 40 others are undergoing treatment in Bhopal, Indore, Khandwa, Jabalpur, and Gwalior, said a state health official.State medical education minister Vishwas Sarang announced that separate wards will be set up for the patients infected with black fungus. “Mucormycosis units will be set up at medical colleges in Bhopal and Jabalpur for surgery of infected patients,” Sarang said.On Wednesday, Thane district in Maharashtra reported two more deaths caused by the black fungus. Six other patients in Thane are undergoing treatment for the infection, officials said.Health minister Rajesh Tope said that the state could have as many as 2,000 cases of mucormycosis and the government has decided to use hospitals attached to medical colleges such as King Edward Memorial (KEM), Parel and BYL Nair Hospital, Mumbai Central as treatment centres for the disease.As many as 14 cases of black fungus have been reported from Jaipur in Rajasthan. . Mohnish Grover, head of the ENT department at Sawai Madho Singh (SMS) hospital, said last year from August to December around 24 cases were reported of black fungus.“Before Covid-19, one or two cases were reported in a year. But during the second wave of Corona, the cases are exploding; now 2-3 cases are coming daily at SMS,” he said, adding that earlier the mortality rate was 30%-50%, which has now come down to 10%. He added in the present wave more people are losing their vision.At least 70 cases of mucormycosis have been detected in Hyderabad in the last month and at least six patients died of it in the last few weeks. In Apollo Hospitals, around 50 such cases were reported and the remaining at two other corporate hospitals. “At present, there are 10 cases being treated at Apollo Hospitals and all of them are in critical condition,” said Dr K Subba Reddy, head of critical care, Apollo Hospitals. The patients have been isolated and given treatment with extreme care, he said.Doctors at SLG Hospitals, Hyderabad, on Wednesday claimed to have saved the lives of three patients suffering from black fungus. “Three patients, aged 25, 42, and 63 years, who recently recovered from Covid-19, reported nasal obstruction and eye-sight related complaints. Large traces of mucormycosis were found in their nasal cavity and it required a surgical procedure to treat them,” said Dr Bhargaw Ilapakurty, consultant head and neck surgeon at the hospital.In Odisha, the throat swab of a 71-year-old man taken on April 18 came positive for the infection on Monday. On May 8, his eyes swelled, and he reported blackish discharge from his nose. After nasal endoscopy, it was found he has some black deposits on the turbinate.“The patient’s sample suggested fungal hyphae and the culture showed Rhizopus (mucorale). The infection was during the Covid home isolation,” a government official said. He added the man had uncontrolled diabetes.Chhattisgarh health department officials said 15 cases of black fungus infection have been reported in the state and all patients are admitted to AIIMS (Raipur). “Most of these black fungus infection cases are because of an overdose of steroids. The early treatment is advisable because, in later stages, it hits the eyes of the patients,” said a health official.In the past month or so, as many as 100 cases of black fungus have been reported from Gujarat, after which the state government has set up separate wards in hospitals for such patients. Officials said in some cases people have lost their vision also.Also Read | Floating bodies trigger panic in MP villagesAs the cases have increased, the union health ministry has decided to increase the production of anti-fungal injection Amphotericin B used to treat patients suffering from mucormycosis.Supply of the medicine is expected to improve with extra imports and an increase in domestic production, the ministry has said in the advisory. The ministry has asked states to create awareness about black fungus.“The hospitals have been asked to use filtered water in an oxy-flow meter. Similarly, ICUs should be sanitised properly. With discharge papers, the hospitals should provide a pamphlet of mucormycosis related to symptoms, cure, and preventive measures,” the health ministry said in its advisory.Maharashtra health department has requested the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority to put a cap on the prices of Amphotericin B that costs between ₹5,000 and ₹8,000. A tender has been floated for the procurement of 10,00,00 doses of the antifungal injection, Tope said.On Friday, Niti Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul said mucormycosis cases were being found in coronavirus patients and cases have been reported from several states. He said that states have been advised to create awareness about the fungal infection.(With inputs from state bureaus and agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cases-of-covid-linked-mucormycosis-reported-across-india-101620823722866.html
12-05-2021||India||SP leader Azam Khan's condition stable; next 72 hours critical, says hospital||The condition of senior Samajwadi Party leader and Rampur MP Mohammad Azam Khan, admitted to a private facility here, is stable but the next 72 hours will be "critical", the hospital treating him said on Wednesday.Azam Khan and his son Abdullah were shifted from the Sitapur jail to Medanta hospital here in Lucknow for coronavirus treatment, officials said."Azam Khan was admitted here on May 9. He has COVID pneumonia. Due to high oxygen demand, he was shifted to the ICU. As compared to Tuesday, his oxygen requirement has come down. He is conscious and taking food. His condition is stable and the next 72 hours will be critical," Medanta Medical Director Rakesh Kapoor said."Our entire team is taking care of him in accordance with the severe infection disease protocol. The condition of Abdullah is satisfactory and he is also under observation," Kapoor added.Azam Khan, along with his son and wife Tazeen Fatma, was lodged in the jail in February last year in connection with various cases.The Allahabad High Court had in December granted bail to Tazeen Fatma in all cases registered against her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/azam-khan-s-condition-stable-next-72-hours-critical-says-hospital-101620821655054.html
12-05-2021||India||Oxygen concentrator case: Delhi court reserves order on Navneet Kalra's anticipatory bail plea||A court in Delhi on Wednesday reserved its order on the anticipatory bail plea moved by businessman Navneet Kalra in connection with seizure of oxygen concentrators from his restaurants. The order will be pronounced on Thursday.The oxygen concentrators, required by Covid-19 patients, were seized from his upscale restaurants.Additional Session Judge Sandeep Garg reserved the order on the pre-arrest bail for Thursday at 10 am after hearing the arguments of both the prosecution and defense at length.Kalra has been on the run since the recovery of 524 oxygen concentrators from three of his restaurants - Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju between Wednesday and Friday, according to investigators. He could not be tracked despite raids being conducted in Delhi and in adjoining states such as Uttarakhand, the police said.Investigators said that they have evidence which shows the oxygen concentrators were bought for ₹14,000-15,000 and sold at ₹70,000-75,000.During the proceedings, public prosecutor Atul Shrivastava opposed the pre-arrest bail plea and told the court that Kalra's custodial interrogation is required and that bail should not be granted as he is an influential person.“His intention was to cheat the public at large and wrongfully gain. Had Delhi Police not busted the racket, many people would have been cheated,” the public prosecutor said.Kalra started the business of oxygen concentrators “out of greed”, Srivastava said, adding that anticipatory or regular bail should not be granted in such white collar crimes.Senior advocate Vikas Pahwa, representing the accused, asked the court how his client can be accused of selling the oxygen concentrators at exorbitant prices, if there is no ceiling price fixed by the government.The senior advocate emphasised that selective leaks are made by the Delhi Police against Kalra and that he is being made a scapegoat to divert the attention from the "core issues".The application was first being heard by Additional Sessions Judge Sumit Dass but was then transferred to Additional Sessions Judge Sandeep Garg on Wednesday due to change in jurisdiction after the case was transferred to the Crime branch of the Delhi Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxygen-concentrator-cases-delhi-court-reserves-order-on-navneet-kalra-s-anticipatory-bail-plea-101620822195591.html
12-05-2021||India||'Should we laugh or cry': Akhilesh Yadav on use of cow dung in Covid-19 fight||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday commented on a video from Gujarat's Ahmedabad which shows a group of men covering their bodies with cow dung and urine in the hope that it will boost their immunity against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Yadav attached the video shot by news agency Reuters in his tweet, and added a jibe."Should we laugh about it or cry," Yadav said in his tweet.अब इस पर हँसे या रोएं... pic.twitter.com/NJIbiXmSoXMany doctors have warned against using cow dung to ward off Covid-19 by confirming that its properties do not give any protection against the viral infection, and could cause other infections like black fungus or mucormycosis, which can be fatal.In the video shared by the Samajwadi Party leader, a small group of people in a cow shelter run by Shree Swaminarayan Gurukul Vishwavidya Prathisthanam (SGVP) vouch for cow-dung therapy, believing that it increases immunity against Covid-19.The shelter houses over 200 cows. For the last one month, around 15 people visit it every Sunday to apply cow dung and cow urine on the body. It is then washed off with cow milk, news agency PTI reported quoting the SGVP official.Doctors, however, do not vouch for its efficacy."I don't know if this therapy would really help people. I have never come across any research which suggested that application of cow dung on the body would increase immunity against coronavirus," Dr Dileep Mavlankar, Director of the Indian Institute of Public Health, Gandhinagar, told PTI."Cow dung is nothing but body waste. Applying cow dung and urine can never boost immunity or protect you from coronavirus. People should consult doctors and stay away from such therapies," said Dr Mona Desai, chairperson of the women's wing of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) said, reported PTI.Dr Desai said that instead of proving helpful, cow dung can pave way for other infections, including mucormycosis."Since cow dung also carries several fungi, they may enter into the body and infect you. I urge people to be little aware and not put their lives in danger," Dr Desai said.The coronavirus pandemic has wrought devastation in its second wave in India after the country posted record rise in deaths from Covid-19 over the last 24 hours, pushing its total fatalities past the 250,000 mark.Deaths from Covid-19 swelled by 4,205, while daily coronavirus cases rose by 348,421, with India's overall caseload now surging past 23 million, according to health ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/should-we-laugh-or-cry-akhilesh-yadav-asks-as-men-apply-cow-dung-to-fight-covid19-101620818617163.html
12-05-2021||India||West Bengal govt asks National Commission for Scheduled Castes to cancel visit||The West Bengal government has asked the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) to cancel its two-day visit to the state to inquire into the cases of atrocities against Dalits in the aftermath of post-poll violence, citing the pandemic restrictions and protocol.The commission, however, has decided to go ahead with the visit.The state government on Monday told the Kolkata high court that not a single incident of post-poll violence has been reported in the state after May 8. But the NCSC claims to have been receiving letters and complaints of atrocities against Dalits after the election results were announced on May 2.The Commission is a constitutional body established to check the exploitation of Scheduled Castes.According to a person aware of the details, the NCSC conveyed to the West Bengal government its plan to visit the state on May 13 and 14 and inquire into the cases of atrocities in East Burdwan and 24 Paraganas districts. The NCSC also sought a meeting with the chief secretary and the director-general of police.In a letter to the NCSC, dated May 11, the chief secretary asked the Commission to forward the complaints it has received to the director-general. “The letter from the state government has informed the NCSC that a five-member bench of the high court... heard the matter on May 10. The solicitor general has made a submission before the bench that a number of complaints have been received by, inter alia, the National Commission for Scheduled Castes. And that the high court has observed that in case any such complaints have been received by the commission with reference to violence during the polls or post-poll, the same may be forwarded to the director-general... so as to enable him to transfer the same to the concerned police station for appropriate action,” said the person aware of the details.Also Read | Uncertainty prevails over Class 10 board exams in Bengal after Covid surgeWhen the Commission wrote back saying that it was part of its mandate to conduct spot visits, the government wrote a second letter, also dated May 11, pointing out the NSCN should reconsider its decision during the pandemic. “The West Bengal government said there are many containment restrictions arising out of the current disaster management... which the NCSC is aware of,” said the person quoted above.“Even the hotel that was booked for the team has called to say that it cannot accommodate the visitors, citing excuses. The Commission will take it up with the state government.”When asked about the exact number of cases of atrocities and violence, the person said it will have to be provided by the state.NCSC chairperson Vijay Sampla declined to comment on the WB government’s letters but confirmed that he was scheduled to travel to the state on Wednesday.“It is the mandate of the commission to conduct spot visits. If there are cases of violence against Dalits anywhere in the country, we are entitled to set up an inquiry, seek reports, and even summon the state officials. There will be a problem if the state does not cooperate with the Commission or stops us from visiting three spots we have identified,” Sampla said.HT tried to contact West Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay twice on Wednesday afternoon. His office staff said he was busy in a meeting and would not be able to take calls.After the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleged that its workers are being attacked in the state allegedly by the ruling Trinamool Congress cadre, a series of inquiries have been initiated.Governor Jagdeep Dhankar will visit families of those affected by post-poll violence in the state.The Union home ministry has sanctioned security to all 77 BJP lawmakers following an assessment of the threat to them.The BJP has claimed some of the women cadre as well as family members of their workers have also been attacked.A team of National Commission for Women headed by chairperson Rekha Sharma also visited the state last week.The panel has set up a three-member committee to look into post-poll violence against women. The team visited West Midnapore where it met the family of a victim of rape and murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-government-tells-ncsc-to-postpone-visit-101620821022120.html
12-05-2021||India||Centre allows medically trained officials to practice, consult||The Centre on Wednesday allowed officials, who are medically certified, to practice or provide tele-consultations in their spare time purely on a charitable basis for “relief to the public” as cases of Covid-19 continue to rise.In a memorandum, the Department of Personnel and Training said that such officials could provide medical services as long as they did not impact their duties. “Central government employees holding recognised qualifications in any system of medicine and registered under the relevant law in force in the states or UTs [Union territories] concerned can undertake the practice/provide teleconsultation, subject to the condition that such practice is undertaken during spare time, purely on a charitable basis, and without detrimental to the official duties of the government servant concerned,” the department said.Also Read | Covid-19: Pay attention to rural IndiaThe instructions come amid queries about whether central government employees could provide such services.The department cited the precedent of a ministry of home affairs memorandum dated February 2, 1964, wherein heads of department may grant permission to employees with recognised qualifications to undertake practice without impacting official duties.“The Department has been receiving queries/requests from central government servants for providing teleconsultation services during the current pandemic,” the department said. It added the permission has been granted keeping in “view the unprecedented rise in numbers of Covid-19 cases and to utilize in-house capabilities of the spread of the virus and provide relief to the public”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-allows-medically-trained-officials-to-practice-consult-101620819824396.html
12-05-2021||India||PM okays procurement of 150,000 units of DRDO’s Oxycare System||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday approved the procurement of the 150,000 units of Oxycare System developed by Defence Research & Development Organisation (DRDO) at a cost of ₹322.5 crore. The system is aimed at optimising consumption of oxygen based on the SpO2 reading of the patient and thus, effectively increasing the utility of the oxygen cylinders.The system comes in two variants: Manual, and automatic. As many as 100,000 manual and 50,000 automatic oxygen systems will be procured along with non-rebreather (NRB) masks. Non-rebreather masks are the face masks connected to a reservoir bag which allow a patient to inhale only pure oxygen. A patient using an NRB is unable to inhale anything he or she exhales. A non-rebreather mask typically delivers 70 to 100% oxygen and increases the consumption from a single cylinder by 30 to 40%.DRDO said that this will lessen the workload of hospital staff by a large extent as it will eliminate the need of routine measurements and manual adjustments of oxygen flow. “The threshold SpO2 value for initiating flow from the system can be adjusted once and a display will then continuously keep monitoring the SpO2 levels of the patient” DRDO said.Also Read | PM, Union ministers thank nursing staff for their contribution against Covid-19It added that the technology has been transferred to multiple industries in India which will be producing the systems which will be later paid for by the PM-CARES fund. Also on April 28, PM Modi sanctioned the procurement of 100,000 portable oxygen concentrators. Chairing a high-level meeting, PM Modi instructed that these concentrators should be procured on war footing and provided to the states which have the highest case burden in the country.On the same day, PM had also sanctioned 500 PSA (pressure swing absorption) oxygen plants from the PM cares fund which were in addition to 551 PSA plants for which the Prime Minister’s office had given an “in-principle approval” earlier on 25th April last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmokays-procurement-of-150-000-units-of-drdo-s-oxycare-system-101620819401949.html
12-05-2021||India||Congress attacks Centre, demands GST exemption for Covid vaccine, Remdesivir||Congress on Wednesday attacked the Centre for levying high GST on products crucial in the fight against Covid-19 and sought an exemption for vaccines, Remdesivir and oxygen concentrators.Urging the government not to seek “opportunities in a disaster”, Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh attacked Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman over her argument that GST exemption on Covid-related medicines and supplies would make them costly.Vallabh said the government should provide exemption not only on the final product but also on the raw material being used. “If the finance minister is still not clear on this, we urge her to convene a GST council meeting and we can explain how this can be done. Don’t argue for the sake of arguing,” he said.Also Read | Odisha seeks GST exemption on Covid-19 vaccinesHe said, “The Congress demands that the Centre exempts all Covid-19 related medical items from GST. Taxes are collected to provide benefits to citizens. When the citizens can benefit directly from GST exemption, why not pass the benefits to them directly?”Claiming that GST exemptions on vaccine, Remdesivir and oxygen concentrators would save ₹6,000 crore, he said, “This amount can provide us 1.2million oxygen concentrators, vaccines for 200 million people, 120,000 ventilators and 6 AIIMS-like hospitals.”Apart from the Congress, several other leaders, such as Bengal chief minister Mamata Gandhi, have urged the government to waive off GST on Covid-related medicines and supplies amid the pandemic’s second wave.GOVT RESPONSE||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-attacks-centre-demands-gst-exemption-for-covid-vaccine-remdesivir-101620817842215.html
12-05-2021||India||UP industrial authority plans 'oxygen grid' to ease O2 supply during Covid-19||The Uttar Pradesh State Industrial Development Authority (UPSIDA) has taken the lead to provide help in increasing oxygen production in the state to help coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients. The initiative has been launched on the call given by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, it said.UPSIDA said that it plans to establish an 'oxygen grid' all across the state, extending from Saharanpur in the West to Deoria in the East covering all regions of Uttar Pradesh. The authority said it is in talks with various oxygen producing companies of the country to set up oxygen production units in the state.In order to fast-track establishing of the 'oxygen grid', the UPSIDA has taken some key initiatives, like priority allotment of land usually within a week and providing fast clearances to investors planning to set up units.In the last one year since the onset of the pandemic, UPSIDA has prepared a land bank of all plots available in its various industrial areas and also chalked out a detailed roadmap for closely monitoring all the project-proposals received in this regard.The authority said that 19 medium-sized companies from across Uttar Pradesh have shown interest in setting up these kinds of units in different industrial areas of UPSIDA with the proposed investment of nearly ₹503 crore. These companies are expected to produce 770 tonnes of oxygen and nitrogen per day. The companies are located in Greater Noida, Saharanpur, Shajahanpur, Bareilly, Mathura, Kanpur Nagar, Kanpur Dehat, Rae Bareli, Hardoi, Basti, Sultanpur, Amethi, Gorakhpur, Mau, Varanasi and Prayagraj, said UPSIDA.So far, seven companies have been allotted land, another four have identified land and in-principle approval for allotment has been issued to them on priority, the authority said, adding that the applications of the companies are expected to be cleared through fast-track mode.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had said on Monday that the process was on to set up 300 oxygen plants in Uttar Pradesh to make sure there was no oxygen crisis in the fight against Covid-19. He was in Ayodhya to review medical arrangements made by the district administration there.The CM also issued an appeal to people not to venture out of their homes unnecessarily and to step out only after wearing mask. He urged them not to take the pandemic lightly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-industrial-authority-plans-oxygen-grid-to-ease-o2-supply-during-covid19-101620814789361.html
12-05-2021||India||SpiceJet to start vaccination drive for all employees from May 17||Budget carrier SpiceJet has said it will start a company-sponsored vaccination drive for all its employees from May 17.The drive will commence from Delhi and Gurugram, which is SpiceJet's headquarters, and will cover the airline's employees across all the stations on its network, a release said on Wednesday. SpiceJet said it has around 15,000 employees.Other carriers like Air India, Vistara, IndiGo and GoAir and AirAsia India have already rolled vaccination drives for their employees.The first ones to get vaccinated will be the frontline employees of the airline including airport staff and in-flight crew, SpiceJet said. The vaccination program will be undertaken as per government rules and guidelines and basis the availability of the vaccine, SpiceJet said.The airline will also make efforts to facilitate vaccination for the families of employees going forward, it added.“At SpiceJet, the health and safety of our passengers and employees is our topmost priority. Vaccination is a key step towards fighting the Covid-19 pandemic and it's important that essential workers like airline employees are vaccinated on priority,” said Ajay Singh, Chairman and Managing Director, SpiceJet.He said that the company will ensure that each and every member of the SpiceJet family gets vaccinated as quickly as possible.“We have drawn up a detailed schedule for this company-sponsored initiative which would be undertaken as per government rules and guidelines,” added Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spicejet-to-start-vaccination-drive-for-all-employees-from-may-17-101620811212206.html
12-05-2021||India||How to download Covid-19 vaccine certificate from Co-WIN, Aarogya Setu app||India on Wednesday entered the 116th day of vaccination drive against the deadly coronavirus disease where more than 17.52 crore people have been administered the drug. Millions have lined up outside the government and private hospitals from January this year to get their vaccine doses, termed as a key protection against fighting the virus.The process requires individuals to register to receive a Covid-19 vaccine jab through the Co-WIN app of the Centre. The online portal shows the government and private hospital facilities under the desired PIN code and under districts.The people can also select the category to filter from options of selecting a slot under age group, paid and free facility and choice of vaccine between Covaxin and Covishield.Once an individual receives his/her first dose of the shot, the government issues a vaccination certificate which carries all the basic details - like name, age, gender - and also all the details of vaccination like vaccine name and date of receiving the first dose.People who have taken their doses of Covid-19 vaccination can download their certificate both from the Co-Win portal as well as from the Aarogya Setu app.How to download Covid vaccination certificate from CoWin?How to download Covid vaccination certificate from Aarogya Setu?The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers getting inoculated and the vaccination of frontline workers started from February 2.The next phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive started on March 1 for those over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with co-morbid conditions.India launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 from April 1, followed by vaccination for the age group 18-44 from May 1 to bring a larger population under the ambit of vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-to-download-covid-19-vaccine-certificate-from-co-win-aarogya-setu-app-101620810258771.html
12-05-2021||India||Tackling Covid-19: Swift clearing of foreign aid strengthens tertiary medical care, says Centre||The central government said on Wednesday that in the spirit of goodwill, the global community has been helping India to address the challenges of Covid management. A number of countries have sent aid of Covid-19 relief medical supplies and equipment since April 27, it said in a release.On Tuesday, India received major items from the UK, Egypt, Kuwait and South Korea. These include oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders and ventilators.The Centre also said that its ministries and departments are involved in delivering the received materials to various states and union territories (UTs) to increase their capacity. Till now, 9,284 oxygen concentrators, 7,033 oxygen cylinders, 19 oxygen generation plants and 5,933 ventilators have been delivered to states and UTs through road and air, the government added.The collaboration is being done under the 'Whole of Government' approach, the Centre further said.The Union health ministry has set up a dedicated cell for regular comprehensive monitoring of the entire process.An Indian Air Force (IAF) plane carrying 200 oxygen concentrators arrived from the United Kingdom in Chhattisgarh's Raipur on Tuesday night. Similarly, medical aid from Netherlands and Switzerland arrived at Delhi airport on Wednesday.The member states of the European Union are also delivering medical aid to India. The aid is being provided through the EU Civil Protection Mechanism, which is coordinated by the Emergency Response Coordination Centre of the European Commission.Foreign minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday said that "foreign friendships matter, every life counts and every gesture makes a difference."He posted several videos on micro-blogging site Twitter, where the people can be seen praising the efforts made by foreign countries including the UK, Russia, and the US.A total of 3,48,421 new Covid-19 cases and 3,55,338 discharges were reported in a span of 24 hours, taking the country's total positive cases so far to 2,33,40,938, the Union health ministry data showed on Wednesday.There are currently 37,04,099 active cases in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tackling-covid-19-swift-clearing-of-foreign-aid-by-centre-strengthens-tertiary-medical-care-101620813090488.html
12-05-2021||India||Floating bodies trigger panic in MP villages||Around half a dozen bodies have been found floating in a river in Madhya Pradesh’s Panna district and triggered panic, officials and residents said on Wednesday, a day after dozens of corpses were found in the Ganga in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh.Residents said bodies were floating in the river in Panna for four days, but the matter came to light on Tuesday after a video of the corpses went viral on social media. “The decomposed bodies can be seen easily in the river. We do not know whether the bodies belong to Covid-19 infected people or not, but this is for the first time we have seen floating bodies in this river. We are not allowing kids to come out of houses as we are afraid of the spread of the disease in the village,” said Rajesh Yadav, a Panna resident.Also Read | ‘Perform yagna, Covid third wave won’t touch India’: MP minister Usha ThakurPanna district collector Sanjay Kumar Mishra said two bodies of people from neighbouring villages, who died of cancer, were found floating. “There is a tradition of disposing of bodies in the river. Usually, the villagers go to dispose of bodies in Ken River but due to lockdown, they disposed of the bodies in the local river. We retrieved the two bodies and buried them. Now, we are checking whether there are more bodies in the river or not.”Raja Lodha, another resident, said they use the river water for drinking and cooking. “Now, it is impossible for us to use the water of the river. The administration should clean the river.”At least 70 corpses were fished out of the Ganga in Bihar’s Buxar district on Tuesday. In neighbouring Uttar Pradesh’s Ghazipur, residents spotted 12 dead bodies floating in the river upstream. Both states have ordered probes into the recovery of bodies amid speculation that they belonged to Covid patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/floating-bodies-trigger-panic-in-mp-villagers-101620813271311.html
12-05-2021||India||Centre approves procurement of 1.5 lakh units of DRDO's 'Oxycare' system||The Centre on Wednesday approved the procurement of 1,50,000 units of 'Oxycare' system developed by Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). The procurement will be done at a cost of ₹322.5 crore under the PM-Cares fund to help the Covid-19 patients.After the approval, the government will procure 1,00,000 manual and 50,000 automatic 'Oxycare' systems along with non-rebreather masks.'Oxycare' is a SpO2-based oxygen supply system which regulates the oxygen being administered to patients based on the sensed SpO2 levels. It prevents the person from sinking into a state of hypoxia which can be fatal.The 'Oxycare' system was originally developed for soldiers posted at extreme high-altitude areas. The indigenously developed system is robust and can be effectively used to treat Covid-19 patients.There are two variants of the DRDO system. The basic version consists of a 10-litre oxygen cylinder, a pressure regulator-cum-flow controller, a humidifier and a nasal cannula. In this model, the oxygen flow is regulated manually based on the SpO2 readings. The second one is equipped with electronic controls which automatically regulates the oxygen flow through a low-pressure regulator and a SpO2 probe.The DRDO has transferred the technology to multiple industries in India which will be producing the 'Oxycare systems.Apart from this, the DRDO has also decided to set up seven medical oxygen plants in Odisha.The plants will come up at Boudh, Cuttack, Bhadrak, Gajapati, Jharsuguda, Nayagarh and Koraput districts, CGM of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), Odisha, Ram Prasad Panda, said. The civil and electrical works of the plants will be done by the NHAI while the DRDO will look after the technical aspect, he added.The DRDO's move is a part of its massive drive under which it has decided to set up 500 medical oxygen plants in the country within three months with the help of its indigenous developed technology.Once completed, each plant will generate 1,000 litres per minute (LPM) of oxygen and the life-saving gas will be supplied to hospitals through pipelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-approves-procurement-of-1-5-lakh-units-of-drdo-s-oxycare-101620812006495.html
12-05-2021||India||In the India-Pakistan detente, the role of UAE and Saudi Arabia||New Delhi has maintained a stony silence in the face of growing signs of mediation by the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Saudi Arabia to nudge India and Pakistan towards putting their strained relations on an even keel.As Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan concluded a visit to the kingdom this week, Saudi foreign minister Prince Faisal bin Farhan Al-Saud said his country could play a role in reducing India-Pakistan tensions.In an interview with Pakistan Television, Prince Faisal lauded the calming of bilateral tensions through the recommitment to the 2003 truce on the Line of Control (LoC). “This is an excellent step in the right direction and we will only work to encourage that process and to make sure that tensions continue to be reduced between both nations,” he said.Prince Faisal made a pointed reference to Saudi Arabia’s “growing good relationship with India” and said his country hopes to “help everybody to work towards reduction in tension”.The Saudi leader’s comments came weeks after the UAE envoy to the US, Yousef Al Otaiba, publicly acknowledged the role the emirates played in bringing India and Pakistan together for talks aimed at calming tensions over Kashmir and getting bilateral ties “back to a healthy level”.In normal circumstances, the external affairs ministry would have swatted away such comments by reiterating New Delhi’s oft-stated position that there is no role for third party mediation in India-Pakistan issues. However, the ministry’s silence has only fuelled speculation about the exact role played by the two West Asian countries in supporting back-channels contacts that have now been extensively reported on by the media in India and other countries.Also Read | International travellers will now have to quarantine after entering Saudi ArabiaAccording to people familiar with developments, who spoke on condition of anonymity, these back-channel contacts have included a meeting of the intelligence chiefs of India and Pakistan in Dubai in January. Pakistan Army chief Gen Qamar Bajwa and senior military officials, during a seven-hour interaction with leading TV anchors and reporters last month, referred to how this meeting had contributed to the decision by both sides to recommit themselves to the LoC ceasefire.Reports of senior Indian and Pakistani security and intelligence officials holding meetings in the United Kingdom (UK) comes at a time when the British government has been positioning itself as a mediator between Pakistan and Afghanistan. The British side has played a role in helping arrange meetings between Bajwa and senior Afghan officials in Kabul on May 10 ,and in Bahrain on March 9, at which the UK chief of defence staff General Nicholas Carter was also present.Also Read | Covid-19: Over 5 lakh Favipiravir tablets from UAE arrive in IndiaPerhaps more than any part of the world, the Indian government has, in recent years, focused a lot of attention on reworking ties with West Asian states, which are home to about nine million expatriates and the source of billions of dollars in remittances. This push has coincided with several other factors that worked to India’s advantage — the deterioration of the ties of Saudi Arabia and the UAE with Pakistan, and the Abraham Accords that helped normalise Israel’s relations with several Arab nations.The gains made by India —such as the first ever visit to Saudi Arabia and the UAE by the Indian Army chief last December — wouldn’t have gone unnoticed in Pakistan, especially at a time when Pakistan’s relations with both West Asian states have been under strain. Saudi Arabia had sought the early repayment of a loan to Pakistan and the UAE came close to taking similar action before extending the repayment of a $2 billion loan last month.Following the normalisation of its ties with Israel, there are signs that the UAE wants to position itself as a bigger player in the region. Both Saudi Arabia and the UAE also realise their growing business and energy ties with India would get a further boost if the subcontinent remains peaceful, and experts believe this is a factor in efforts by both countries to mediate between India and Pakistan.With Pakistan now reportedly looking at India to take the next step — possibly an announcement regarding further normalisation of the situation in Jammu and Kashmir — to take forward the back-channel contacts, it remains to be seen what role Saudi Arabia and the UAE will play in this process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-the-india-pakistan-detente-the-role-of-uae-and-saudi-arabia-101620811471366.html
12-05-2021||India||'For being positive, we don't have to...': Prashant Kishor's fresh jibe at govt||Election strategist Prashant Kishor on Wednesday hurled an attack on the government saying the government's attempt to push "falsehood" and "propaganda" in the name of spreading positivity is "disgusting". This is the first time Prashant Kishor took to social media after the results of five state elections were declared on May 2."In the face of a grieving nation and tragedies unfolding all around us, the continued attempt to push FALSEHOOD and PROPAGANDA in the name of spreading POSITIVITY is disgusting! For being positive we don’t have to become blind propagandist of the Govt," he tweeted.In the face of a grieving nation and tragedies unfolding all around us, the continued attempt to push FALSEHOOD and PROPAGANDA in the name of spreading POSITIVITY is disgusting!For being positive we don’t have to become blind propagandist of the Govt.The attack comes as the country is reeling under the peak of the second wave of the pandemic. A few days ago, the government organised a workshop titled Effective Communications to "create a positive image of the government", and manage "perception through effectively highlighting positive stories and achievements" — a first such workshop of government officials. Around 300 officials, including joint secretaries (media) of each department, attended the workshop.The Rashtriya Swamsevak Sangh has started a series of online lectures titled 'Positivity Unlimited' between May 11 and May 15, with an aim to spread confidence and positivity among people amid the ongoing pandemic. The lecture series is being organised by RSS's Covid Response Team. RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, Wipro group chairman Azim Premji, spiritual leader Jaggi Vasudev are among the key speakers.In April, Prashant Kishor got embroiled in a controversy after a part of his audio char in 'Club House room' got leaked. In that conversation, Prashant Kishor was heard talking about PM Modi's popularity in Bengal. The I-PAC fohas also been vocal on social media against the governmet's Covid-19 management, vaccine policy etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-being-positive-we-don-t-have-to-prashant-kishor-s-fresh-jibe-at-govt-101620808975083.html
12-05-2021||India||BJP lawmaker hits out at Goa health minister over Covid mismanagement||Ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker Atanasio Babush Monserrate has hit out at Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane for failing to put in place adequate facilities in anticipation of the second Covid-19 wave and said he would demand a Central Bureau of Investigation inquiry into the affairs of his department. “People are dying... and these people [Rane] have no remorse whatsoever. Did one statement come from the health minister that ‘I am sorry for the deaths’...”Monserrate asked chief minister Pramod Sawant to take charge of the health ministry. “I am upset because our people are dying. And we cannot do anything.”Monserrate said many BJP lawmakers share his views but were afraid to speak out because of Rane’s “vindictive nature”. He added he has written to Sawant and asked him to call a meeting of lawmakers to take Rane to task there. “..I also want to know the views of all the other MLAs [members of legislative assembly]. This fellow [Rane] has...a vindictive attitude.”Also Read | India’s active Covid-19 caseload declines for 2nd consecutive day: 10 pointsRane said he is answerable to Sawant. “If he [Monserrate] wants to make any allegations I do not want to respond to that. I have no comment to offer,” Rane said.Rane told CNN on May 7 that it was an error of judgement to not impose a lockdown in Goa sooner before the state’s positivity rate shot up. “This [lockdown] should have come much earlier... I had suggested we should go through a stringent lockdown more than 15 days back and even 15 days back was too late, we needed it perhaps a month back... sometimes administratively we need to take decisions that have a balance and many times administrators holding positions sometimes make errors in judgement and I think this is one of those cases where we have made some error in judgement and the cases have spread,” Rane said.“We had thousands of people coming in January and had very less restrictions in place at that time. We had the whole of India coming into Goa at that time in the month of December, January and February… The opening of tourism in December has led to the situation in Goa and we are reporting the highest positivity rate in the country.”Sawant maintained lockdowns do more harm than good before finally announcing a curfew for two weeks. He gave the charge of oxygen supply to collectors from the health department. Sawant blamed those at the helm of the Goa Medical College [and Hospital] for mismanagement in oxygen supply and for not doing enough to ensure regular supply or to apprise him of the situation.“We will streamline the process of ensuring that the supply is adequate. We will allocate the work properly.”Rane has called for a probe into the deaths of 26 patients at the hospital amid reports of oxygen shortages on Monday.On Wednesday, Goa recorded 75 deaths, the highest since the pandemic began, taking the toll to 1,804. The state has 32,836 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjplawmaker-hits-out-at-goa-health-minister-over-covid-mismanagement-101620810811188.html
12-05-2021||India||Puducherry's Covid-19 tally climbs over 77,000; 2,007 new cases reported||Puducherry posted 2,007 fresh cases of coronavirus on Wednesday, pushing the total positives to 77,031. Twenty-seven more people succumbed to the disease during last twenty-four hours raising the toll to 1025. The deceased were in the age groups ranging between 47 and 85 years. Director of health and family welfare services S Mohan Kumar said while Puducherry region alone accounted for 1,590 new cases, Karaikal had 238 cases followed by Yanam 129 and Mahe 50. The 2,007 fresh cases were identified at the end of examination of 9,176 people projecting test positivity rate at 21.87 percent. There were 15,562 active cases (2065 in hospitals and remaining 13,497 in home isolation), 60,424 patients recovered and were discharged so far. As many as 1,247 patients recovered and were discharged during the last 24 hours. The fatality and recovery rates were 1.36 percent and 78.44 percent respectively. Kumar said so far 8.80 lakh samples were tested and of them 7.89 lakh were found to be negative. On the vaccination front, 33,219 health care workers and 19,629 front line workers have been inoculated so far. The official said 1,24,384 people coming under the category of either senior citizens (60 years and above) or those above 45 years with co-morbidities have been inoculated so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puducherrys-covid-19-tally-climbs-over-77-000-2-007-new-cases-reported-101620810116407.html
12-05-2021||India||India’s active Covid-19 caseload declines for 2nd consecutive day: 10 points||India on Wednesday reported a decline in the active caseload of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for the second straight day, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday. The country reported 348,421 fresh cases in the last 24 hours, according to the ministry's data. The deaths due to the viral infection, however, increased in the last day as 4,205 succumbed to the disease, as per the data.Here are some key highlights:1. At present, the active caseload of the country stands at 3,704,099, which was as high as 3,745,237 on May 10. The country that is reeling under the impact of a severe second wave of Covid-19 reported more than 400,000 daily new infections for four straight days in May. Since May 10, the number of new cases began to decline and came down below the 400,000-mark.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-192. A net decline of 11,122 was reported in the tally of active cases in the last 24 hours. On Tuesday, the active caseload declined by over 30,000 cases. The decline in the caseload was reported after 61 days, as per the ministry's data.3. The states that aided the decline are Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Telangana, Delhi. Maharashtra at the top reported a decline of more than 30,000 active Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours.4. The number of recoveries also outnumbered new cases for the second day in a row. A total of 3,55,338 patients recovered on Wednesday, while 3,56,082 recovered on Tuesday, as per the ministry's data. Currently, the total number of recoveries stands at 1,93,82,642, with a national recovery rate of over 83 per cent, an increase by nearly one percentage point in the last two days.5. Ten states namely Maharashtra, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Haryana, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh and Bihar account for more than 71 per cent of the total recoveries in the country.Also read: Covaxin trials approved in children between 2 and 18 years6. The country's positivity rate has also shown a declining trend in the last two days, as the active cases now comprise 15.87% of the total positive cases. On May 10, the active cases comprised more than 16 per cent of the total positive cases.7. Assam, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Odisha, Rajasthan, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka are the top states driving the number of new infections. All these states reported an increase in the number of active cases in the last 24 hours. Karnataka reported the highest increase in the active cases in a single day with an incline of over 16,000 cases.8. The number of testing in the country has also increased since May 10 and so the steady decline in the active cases coincides with an increase in the number of tests. In the last 24 hours, more than 19.83 lakh samples were tested. On Tuesday, over 18.5 lakh samples were tested, while more than 14.74 lakh samples were tested on May 9. Over 307.58 million samples have been tested to detect Covid-19 infection in the country so far, as per the Indian Medical Council of Research. (ICMR).Also read: WHO has not termed B.1.617 as Indian variant, says Centre9. The national mortality rate in the country currently stands at 1.09 per cent. On Tuesday, India reported 3,876 deaths from Covid-19 in contrast to over 4,200 deaths in the last 24 hours.10. Maharashtra, Karnataka, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Haryana and West Bengal account for 73.17 per cent of daily deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-active-covid-19-caseload-declines-for-2nd-consecutive-day-10-points-101620805011030.html
12-05-2021||India||WHO has not termed B.1.617 as Indian variant, says Centre||Amid reports claiming that the World Health Organization has said that the Indian Covid-19 variant has been found in 44 countries, the Centre on Wednesday said that WHO has not classified this variant as "Indian". "In fact, the word 'Indian' has not been used in its report on the matter," the Centre said. WHO also clarified that it recognises variants by their scientific names, not by the names of the countries where they originated from. WHO has classified B.1.617 as a variant of global concern, but many reports termed the mutant as "Indian variant", which is unfounded and without any basis, the Centre said.This variant is the fourth "variant of concern" after those detected in Britain, Brazil and South Africa. It was added to the list as it "appears to be transmitting more easily than the original virus", it said.B.1.617 variant of concern at global level: WHOThis variant, also known as the double mutant, leads to loss of neutralisation of antibodies. The emergence of this variant is being seen as a factor behind the sudden surge in the number of cases. According to reports, the variant has been detected in more than 4,500 samples from 44 countries in six WHO regions.But in its document, WHO has not termed this double mutant strain as an Indian variant, the Centre said.WHO does not identify viruses or variants with names of countries they are first reported from. We refer to them by their scientific names and request all to do the same for consistency. @PTI_News @PIB_India @ANI @timesofindia @htTweets @IndianExpress @the_hindu @MoHFW_INDIAThe double mutant virus was first detected on October 5, 2020, as was not so much widespread in India. But on April 1, this strain accounted for 80 per cent of all analysed genome sequences of mutant variants. The Centre did not establish a link between this variant and the surge of the cases in India during March-April but said it might be one of the reasons. Variants are natural in a virus and some variants are more potent than others, it said.Both Covishield and Covaxin, the two vaccines available in India, are effective against this strain, the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology said.These variants are often reported along with the name of the country where it was first reported. But officially, WHO has not mentioned the double mutant strain as 'Indian variant'. For that matter, it does not officially identify any strain as UK, South African, Brazil etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-has-not-termed-b-1-617-as-indian-variant-says-centre-101620805913031.html
12-05-2021||India||As Covid cases surge, Assam imposes stricter curbs in urban areas||A day after deciding against a complete lockdown in the state, Assam government on Wednesday imposed stricter restrictions in urban areas to control the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. “The measures have been taken in view of significant surge in positivity rate of Covid-19 cases in urban and adjacent areas in the past few days,” chief secretary Jishnu Barua said. He added that the fresh guidelines will be applicable in urban and neighbouring areas in 5 km radius from the periphery of the municipal corporations, municipal boards and revenue towns and will come into effect from 5am on May 13. In these areas, all offices will remain closed for 15 days and shops, markets and business establishments will have to down shutters at 1pm on all days. Weekly markets will have to remain shut for 15 days. Organisations and offices rendering essential services and emergency works and their employees have been exempted from the restrictions. Also Read | Assam’s new Cabinet decides against total lockdown to tackle Covid-19Educational institutions will remain closed for the next 15 days. All vehicles other than government ones will be allowed to ply between 5am and 2pm by following an odd-even formula to be decided to by district authorities. However, this restriction shall not apply to private vehicles used for medical emergencies. There will be a complete ban on movement of all individuals from 2pm to 5am the next day. Home delivery of food and essential e-commerce goods will be allowed by following all Covid-19 protocols. Restaurants and eateries will have to shut down at 1pm. But hotels and resorts will continue serving in-house guests through room service. Marriages, religious functions and funeral or last rites will have to be conducted with a maximum of 10 persons. All religious places will be closed for 15 days. All public transport will be allowed to ply with 30% passenger capacity. “We urge all citizens to take these guidelines seriously and follow them. We won’t hold back on using strict measures with those flouting the restrictions. Besides provisions of disaster management Act and relevant IPC sections, we could even book these people for attempt to murder,” said director general of Assam police Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta. On Tuesday, Assam recorded 6,258 new positive cases and 85 deaths --the highest ever figures for both categories in the state. The positivity rate was 9.13% and the number of active patients stood at 39,264. The districts that have recorded a significant surge in Covid-19 cases are Kamrup-Metropolitan (14,403), Dibrugarh (3,866), Kamrup-Rural (3,648) and Nagaon (2,237).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-cases-surge-assam-imposes-stricter-curbs-in-urban-areas-101620805711061.html
12-05-2021||India||Hindu man's mortal remains from Saudi arrived in India, MEA informs Delhi HC||The Union Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on Wednesday informed the Delhi High Court that the mortal remains of a Hindu man has arrived in India today morning who was wrongly buried in Saudi Arabia.Vishnu Sharma, Director, CPV Division MEA joined the court proceedings and apprised the court that the mortal remains of the deceased has arrived in India today morning and handed over to the family and currently the mortal remain is transported to Una (Himachal Pradesh), the native place of the deceased.A bench headed by Justice Prathiba M Singh on Wednesday took note of the submission of MEA officials appreciated the efforts made by the department and said it is a great relief for the court also. The Court also said "our gratitude also be conveyed to the Saudi Authorities".The Counsel for Petitioner Subhash Chandran also appeared from the Hospital (currently suffering from Covid) showed satisfaction with the court and authorities concerned for their efforts.Earlier, MEA had informed Delhi High Court that legal proceedings have been initiated in Saudi Arabia and the burial site has been located. It was also informed that Indian authorities are in touch with Saudi authorities and making all efforts.The court had also appointed Advocate Farukh Khan, Amicus Curie in the matter.Earlier, MEA submitted that the Indian mission in Saudi Arabia had not given the NOC for local burial, Death Certificate was translated by the employer, not by the Indian mission. Burial has taken place in a non-Muslim graveyard. MEA officials also informed the court that they received ₹4.65 lakh as compensation from the employer and the cheque will be handed over to the family.According to the petition, the woman's husband named Sanjeev Kumar, an Indian citizen passed away on January 24 this year at his workplace in Saudi Arabia. Sanjeev Kumar, who worked in Saudi Arabia for 23 years died due to diabetes, hypertension and cardiac arrest and the mortal remains were kept in Beesh General Hospital, Jizan, Saudi Arabia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hindu-man-s-mortal-remains-from-saudi-arabia-arrived-in-india-mea-informs-delhi-hc-101620803800963.html
12-05-2021||India||Supreme Court dismisses Gautam Navlakha’s bail plea||The Supreme Court on Wednesday rejected the bail plea of activist Gautam Navlakha in the case related to the violence that erupted in Maharashtra’s Bhima Koregaon village in January 2018 during the bicentennial celebrations of a British-era war commemorated by Dalits.Navlakha, who is among 15 prominent activists, academics, and lawyers arrested in the case, had sought default bail claiming that the National Investigation Agency (NIA) probing the case against him had failed to file the charge sheet within the stipulated 90-day period.In his plea, Navlakha urged the court to include the 34 days he spent under house arrest in 2018 to the 90-day period. He moved the top court after the Bombay high court rejected his bail on February 8.A Supreme Court bench of Justices UU Lalit and KM Joseph read out the operative portion of their judgment dismissing Navlakha’s appeal. It found no ground to entertain his request of including the duration of house arrest to the 90-day period for his default bail under Section 167(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure.The Section provides that no magistrate “shall authorise the detention of an accused person in custody for a period exceeding 90 days where investigation relates to an offence punishable with death, imprisonment for life or imprisonment for a term of not less than 10 years.” If the investigation is not completed within this period, the accused is entitled to default bail under this provision.Navlakha has been booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for his alleged links with Maoist insurgents. He faces life imprisonment if convicted.Additional Solicitor General SV Raju, who appeared for the NIA in the case, submitted no order of a magistrate was obtained in the case of Navlakha’s house arrest and hence it cannot be treated as legal custody.Navlakha was first arrested in connection with this case in August 2018 when the Maharashtra police were probing the case. Navlakha surrendered to the NIA in April last year when the federal agency took over the probe into the case in 2020.The Delhi high court set aside the order placing him under house arrest and subsequently he was released on bail. He enjoyed protection from arrest under orders passed by the Bombay high court and Supreme Court till the NIA took over the case. The Supreme Court directed Navlakha to surrender in April 2020.Navlakha’s lawyer, Kapil Sibal, argued the 34-day period was crucial for the determination of default bail as any kind of detention of an accused must be reckoned with the offence. He added here the offence for which the accused was under house arrest and later in judicial custody was the same. Sibal said Navlakha was under 11-day police custody from April 14, 2020, to April 25, 2020, and 46-day judicial custody (April 25, 2020, to June 10, 2020).The Bombay high court in February granted bail to Telugu poet and activist P Varavara Rao, 80, who was among those arrested in the case, for six months on health grounds, nearly two-and-a-half years after he was arrested.The activists attended a meeting (Elgar Parishad) on December 31, 2017, to commemorate the 200th anniversary of the Bhima-Koregaon battle, where a Dalit regiment of the British army is believed to have defeated the Marathas. The Bhima-Koregaon battle is celebrated as a symbol of Dalit empowerment. The Elgar Parishad preceded widespread violence on January 1, 2018. Rao, Navlakha, and other activists are accused of inciting violence at the meeting by creating communal disharmony.Activist Rona Wilson moved the Bombay high court in February seeking the quashing of criminal proceedings against him for allegedly the fomenting violence in Bhima Korega after an American digital forensics consulting company concluded that fabricated evidence was planted including in a laptop and thumb drive seized from his residence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-dismisses-gautam-navlakha-s-bail-plea-101620804750908.html
12-05-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Supreme Court reserves order on Gautam Navlakha’s bail plea and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Supreme Court reserves order on Gautam Navlakha’s bail pleaThe Supreme Court on Friday reserved orders on a petition filed by civil rights activist Gautam Navlakha demanding bail on default after he pointed out that the National Investigation Agency (NIA) failed to file its charge sheet in the Bhima-Koregaon case within the stipulated period of 90 days. Read moreCovid curfew relaxations scrapped in Srinagar after large-scale violationsThe Srinagar administration has reversed its decision to let the city’s residents step out of their homes to shop for essential items during the coronavirus curfew after complaints that people were not adhering to the Covid appropriate behaviour. Read moreSurge in Covid-19 cases prompts Manipur CM to hold emergency meetingManipur chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh late on Tuesday held an emergency meeting with his Cabinet colleagues, lawmakers, and health department officials to review a surge in Covid cases. Read more56 inmates test positive for Covid-19 at Karnal district jail in HaryanaAt least 56 inmates, including four women, have tested Covid-19 positive at the Karnal district jail, officials said on Wednesday and added they have been admitted to the prison’s Covid ward even as most of them are asymptomatic. Read more'Look at Ishan, Suryakumar when they made debuts': Amir slams Pak selector for picking players 'with technical flaws'Former cricketer Mohammad Amir has highlighted the grey areas of the Pakistan cricket board’s selection module. Read moreTwinkle Khanna gives shout-out to Hrithik Roshan and Vidya Balan for ‘quietly’ contributing towards Covid-19 reliefActor-turned-author Twinkle Khanna gave a shout-out to her ‘neighbour’, actor Hrithik Roshan, and actor Vidya Balan for contributing towards Covid-19 relief. Read moreCar sales slip in April, Covid-19 second wave unlikely to allow quick reboundPassenger vehicle wholesales in the country fell by around 10% in the month of April this year, as per data released by Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) on Wednesday. This is in comparison to figures from a month earlier - in March. Read moreBoy donates savings to buy cycle to Covid relief fund, Tamil Nadu CM gifts him oneIn a heartfelt gesture, a boy donated his saved up money to buy a new cycle to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister MK Stalin’s relief fund for Covid-19. In response to this heartening gesture the chief minister awarded him a brand new bicycle. Read moreWatch | Right time to get tested, report delays, & other hurdles: Dr Navin Dang on Covid||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-supreme-court-reserves-order-on-gautam-navlakha-s-bail-plea-and-all-the-latest-news-101620802555983.html
12-05-2021||India||'Heart goes out to 9-yr-old son,' Israel's India envoy speaks to Soumya's family||Isreal's ambassador to India, Ron Malka, on Wednesday spoke to the family of Soumya Santosh, the Kerala woman who has been killed in the Palestinian attack on Isreal on Tuesday. "I just spoke to the family of Ms Soumya Santosh, the victim of the Hamas terrorist strike. I expressed my sorrow for their unfortunate loss & extended my condolences on behalf of the state of Israel. The whole country is mourning her loss & we are here for them," he tweeted.The attack reminded him of little Moshe who lost his parents in the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack, the ambassador said. "My heart goes out to her 9-year-old son, Adon, who has lost his mother at such a young age and will have to grow up without her. This evil attack reminds me of little Moses, who also lost his parents during the 2008 #Mumbaiattacks. May God give them strength and courage," the envoy wrote.My heart goes out to her 9-year-old son, Adon, who has lost his mother at such a young age and will have to grow up without her. This evil attack reminds me of little Moses, who also lost his parents during the 2008 #Mumbaiattacks.May God give them strength and courage🙏32-year-old Soumya Santosh is one of those killed in the airstrike in which about 35 have been killed in Gaza and five in Israel. Reports said she has been living in Israel for the last seven years and working as a caregiver. At the time of the airstrike, she was at the Israeli coastal city Ashkelon. The women whom she used to attend, however, survived the attack. Soumya has a nine-year-old son who stays with his father in Kerala.She was on a video call with her family members when the strike took place. "My brother heard a huge sound during the video call. Suddenly the phone got disconnected. Then we immediately contacted fellow Malayalees working there. Thus, we came to know about the incident," Santhosh's brother Saji told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heart-goes-out-to-9-yr-old-son-israel-s-india-envoy-speaks-to-soumya-s-family-101620803478286.html
12-05-2021||India||Covid curfew relaxations scrapped in Srinagar after large-scale violations||The Srinagar administration has reversed its decision to let the city’s residents step out of their homes to shop for essential items during the coronavirus curfew after complaints that people were not adhering to the Covid appropriate behaviour. Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Manoj Sinha is learnt to have stepped in to caution the district administration that any missteps at this stage could lead to a surge in Covid cases.Srinagar deputy commissioner Aijaz Asad, who ordered the curfew in the city on April 29 to break the chain of Covid transmission, had later permitted some activities such as the opening of grocery stores, and even bakery shops from 8 am to 12 pm. The relaxation, however, saw a huge rush in markets especially outside bakeries, banks, meat shops. At some places, traffic jams were also reported.The large crowds triggered concern that Srinagar, which has the highest number of active Covid cases in the union territory, could end up frittering away any gains made due to the curfew. Srinagar has reported less than 1,000 cases for four days At a meeting on Tuesday to review the spread of the Covid pandemic, Lt Governor Manoj Sinha took a dim view of the lax implementation of the restrictions in Srinagar and even upbraided the officials concerned.Aijaz Asad withdrew the relaxation soon after. “The provision of exemption for partially permissible activities from 8 am to 12 pm is hereby withdrawn till further orders,” the deputy commissioner’s order on Tuesday evening said.He also asked people to stay indoors.“DDMA Srinagar asked for Testing of all Bakery workers. Out of 99 lifted samples, 8 have tested positive on RT-PCR. Mostly from renowned Bakery shops. Let’s stay indoors. #coronavirus has the unique art of locating the right person,” tweeted DC Srinagar.On Wednesday morning, a large number of security personnel were deployed across the Valley and strict restrictions were enforced to prevent the movement of the public.Government officials have also been told to get curfew passes to go to work.“Movement of government officials shall be facilitated through a Pass system from tomorrow. All HODs are requested to kindly place requisition for passes immediately,” a spokesman of Srinagar district said.Dr Muzaffar Maqbool, associate professor at Srinagar’s government medical college alluded to the crowds on streets in his tweet that spoke about how he had hoped the restrictions would lead to a decline in cases. “Had pinned a hope that expected “Lockdown Effect” is round the corner. But we have a habit of throwing it away. Hope the damage isn’t beyond repair.”Other people also worried that the crowds in the markets could lead to a fresh surge in cases.“This was a very untimely decision especially when our positivity rate is still high. Lets pray that things will remain under control,” said Tanveer Ahmad, a city resident.Srinagar, which reported a peak of 1,311 infections on May 4, was able to pull down the number of cases being reported from the city over the last few days. On Saturday, the city reported 853 cases, 920 on Sunday and 701 on Monday, the lowest in the past two weeks. On Tuesday, the recorded cases were 846.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-curfew-relaxations-scrapped-in-srinagar-after-large-scale-violations-101620802591130.html
12-05-2021||India||Day after Eid shoppers violate Covid lockdown norms, curfew-like restrictions imposed in Kashmir||A day after several areas in Kashmir witnessed a huge rush of people ahead of Eid festival, curfew-like restrictions were imposed in the valley on Wednesday as authorities enforced the lockdown put in place to contain an alarming surge in coronavirus cases in the union territory, officials said.Security forces have sealed vital roads and erected barricades at many places in the city and other district headquarters to stop unnecessary movement of people, they said.Markets are shut and public transport is off the roads.Movement of only those engaged in essential services and in cases of emergencies is being allowed, they added.The officials said the restrictions were tightened on Wednesday in the wake of crowds gathering at several places in the city here and many other areas of the valley for Eid shopping.Massive traffic jams were witnessed on Tuesday at several parts of the city including the commercial hub of Lal Chowk with people thronging the markets.On April 29, the Jammu and Kashmir administration imposed a curfew in 11 districts in a bid to tackle the surge in Covid-19 cases, which was subsequently extended to all the 20 districts the next day.The curfew, which was supposed to end at 7 am on May 3, was extended in the twin capitals of Jammu and Srinagar besides Budgam and Baramulla till May 6.However, the authorities in other districts of the Kashmir valley also ordered extension in the restrictions first till May 6 and then till May 10. The restrictions were again extended till May 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-eid-shoppers-violate-covid-lockdown-norms-curbs-increased-in-kashmir-101620801136432.html
12-05-2021||India||International Nurses Day 2021: PM Modi, Union ministers thank nursing staff for their contribution against Covid-19||It is International Nurses Day on Wednesday and on the occasion, many national leaders saluted the essential healthcare workers who are at the forefront in the fight against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) since the pandemic hit the country last year.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the occasion expressed gratitude to the nursing staff of the country and said that their sense of duty, compassion and commitment towards a healthy India is exemplary."International Nurses Day is a day to express gratitude to the hardworking nursing staff, who is at the forefront of fighting Covid-19. Their sense of duty, compassion and commitment towards a healthy India is exemplary," PM Modi's tweet read.International Nurses Day is a day to express gratitude to the hardworking nursing staff, who is at the forefront of fighting COVID-19. Their sense of duty, compassion and commitment towards a healthy India is exemplary.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan thanked the nurses for their commitment to providing efficient and effective care and for going the extra mile in their efforts during the health crisis caused by Covid-19."Thank You Nurses for going the extra mile in your efforts to nurse the world to health during Covid-19. Your commitment to provide efficient & effective care founded on professionalism, skills & deep compassion is awe inspiring," Vardhan tweeted.#InternationalNursesDay #ThankYouNurses for going the extra mile in your efforts to nurse the world to health during #COVID19 💉🙏🏼Your commitment to provide efficient & effective care founded on professionalism, skills & deep compassion is awe inspiring. @MoHFW_INDIA pic.twitter.com/9hDT2dHyyJInternational Nurses Day is celebrated worldwide on May 12 on the birth anniversary of Florence Nightingale, who is also known as 'The Lady with the Lamp. Nightingale, a British nurse, social reformer and statistician, is known to be the founder of modern nursing.The International Council for Nurses commemorates this day each year with the production and distribution of the International Nurses' Day (IND) resources and evidence.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also saluted the nursing staff of the country on the occasion. Gandhi said, "My wishes to those who are nursing away pain and suffering from this world. We salute your contribution and admire your altruistic spirit. Thank you, Nurses."Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president J P Nadda also wished the nurses across the country on the occasion, recognising nursing staff as the backbone of the medical system.Also read: US looking at joint production of J&J vaccine in India"Nursing staff are the backbone of our medical system. Their care and healing touch ensure not just medical recovery but the emotional well-being of the patients. They have led the fight against Covid from the front. I salute the nurses of our country on this," Nadda tweeted with the hashtag #InternationalNursesDay."Heartiest congratulations and best wishes to all the nurses of the country on International Nurses Day. With due respect to the spirit of sacrifice, service and dedication of our nurse sisters who gave their invaluable services during this crisis of Corona epidemic," Union minister of state for health and family welfare Ashwini Kumar Choubey tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-nurses-day-2021-pm-modi-union-ministers-thank-nursing-staff-for-their-contribution-against-covid19-101620799370713.html
12-05-2021||India||Surge in Covid-19 cases prompts Manipur CM to hold emergency meeting||Manipur chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh late on Tuesday held an emergency meeting with his Cabinet colleagues, lawmakers, and health department officials to review a surge in Covid cases.“The discussion covers areas such as mechanisms to ensure timely admission of patients in hospitals, incentives for doctors & better monitoring of home isolation patients,” he tweeted.Also Read | Scientists race to study variants in India as Covid cases explodeOn Tuesday, Manipur reported the highest single-day fatalities (20) of Covid-19 patients, taking the state’s toll to 509, and 592 cases, the second-highest single-day spike since May 7 (600). The state’s total infection tally has now reached 36,370 with 4,981 active cases, according to an official statement.Imphal West (216) reported the most cases followed by and Imphal East (176). The recovery has reduced to 84.90%.The government separately further exempted child protection services (orphanages, children’s homes, observation homes), home delivery services, finance department, treasuries, and banking services from Covid curfew restrictions. It has also revised rates of 19 essential commodities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surge-in-covid-19-cases-prompts-manipur-cm-to-hold-emergency-meeting-101620801630746.html
12-05-2021||India||India’s decision allowing 5G trials without Chinese companies a 'sovereign' one: US||India’s recent decision authorising 5G trials without Chinese companies Huawei and ZTE is a sovereign one, a top State Department official has said, asserting that America is deeply concerned about the dangers of installing networks with equipment that can be manipulated, disrupted or potentially controlled by China.India’s Department of Telecom last week approved applications of telecom companies Reliance Jio, Bharti Airtel, Vodafone Idea and MTNL to conduct 5G trials but none of them will be using technologies of Chinese entities.Also Read: On 5G, India’s message to ChinaState Department Spokesperson Ned Price, at his daily news conference on Tuesday, said: “This was a sovereign decision on the part of the Indian government, so we refer you to the Government of India for any comment on that decision”.“But I would say more broadly, it is true that we are deeply concerned about the dangers of installing networks with equipment that can be manipulated, disrupted or potentially controlled by the PRC (People’s Republic of China).“Allowing untested, untrusted telecommunication suppliers, like Huawei or ZTE, to participate in or to have any control over any part of a 5G network creates unacceptable risks to national security, to critical infrastructure, to privacy and to human rights as well,” Price said.China last week regretted the decision by Indian authorities to not allow Chinese telecom companies to conduct 5G trials in India."We noted relevant notification, and express concern and regret that Chinese telecommunications companies have not been permitted to conduct 5G trials with Indian telecom service providers in India," Chinese embassy spokesperson Wang Xiaojian said in New Delhi."To exclude Chinese telecommunications companies from the trials will not only harm their legitimate rights and interests, but also hinder the improvement of the Indian business environment, which is not conducive to the innovation and development of related Indian industries," Wang said.Last year, the US designated Huawei and ZTE as “national security threats”, saying they have close ties to the Chinese Communist Party and China’s military apparatus, and they are broadly subject to Chinese law obligating them to cooperate with the country’s intelligence services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-decision-allowing-5g-trials-without-chinese-companies-a-sovereign-one-us-101620800380032.html
12-05-2021||India||Supplying vaccines directly to 18 states since May 1: Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech on Tuesday informed that the firm has been supplying its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin directly to 18 states since May 1."Unflinching in our efforts, we will continue the steady supply of our vaccine," the company tweeted.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe pharma firm also appealed to people to vaccinate themselves and their family members.Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, and Assam are among the 18 states where the company has been supplying the vaccines directly.Covaxin is one of the two vaccines being manufactured in India currently and has been developed by Bharat Biotech in association with the Indian Council of Medical Research and the National Institute of Virology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-supplying-vaccines-directly-to-18-states-since-may-1-101620797902663.html
12-05-2021||India||Suspected terrorists lob grenade at police picket in J&K’s Samba; no casualties||Suspected terrorists hurled a grenade near a police picket in Samba district of Jammu and Kashmir late Tuesday, said a police officer.Samba district police chief Rajesh Sharma said, “Around 9.45pm on Tuesday, there was a blast near the picket at Nud. This morning, we recovered lever of a hand grenade from the site of the explosion. We have a check post at Nud for checking vehicles and the recovery of the lever suggested that it was a grenade blast. We have launched a cordon and search operation.”Also Read | 18+ vaccination drive moves at snail’s pace as J&K awaits stocksThe Nud road leads to Udhampur district and further to Srinagar.It seems the grenade missed the intended target and exploded in an open area without causing any damage, said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspected-terrorists-lob-grenade-at-police-picket-in-j-k-s-samba-no-casualties-101620799290627.html
12-05-2021||India||Harsh Vardhan to meet health ministers of states lagging in Covid-19 vaccination||Escalating the pace of vaccination is very crucial to deal with the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India, as suggested by various scientists and experts. However, some states are lagging behind in inoculating the population against viral infection. To address the issue, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan will be meeting with the health ministers of Jammu and Kashmir, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Punjab, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and Telangana on Wednesday, news agency ANI reported.The central government launched its liberalised and accelerated phase 3 strategy to vaccinate everyone in the age bracket 18-44 years on May 1. More than 180 million Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far as of May 11, as per the data provided by the Union health ministry.Also read: Ten states gear up to import vaccines; bottlenecks remainUttarakhand, Haryana, Bihar and Jharkhand are noted to be emerging as Covid-19 hotspots in the country with the highest active Covid-19 caseload and deaths related to the disease. Vaccination, which is an integral component in the five-point strategy of the Centre for containment and management of the pandemic (including test, track, treat and Covid appropriate behaviour), thus needs to be boosted in these states.Uttarakhand, which reported the highest mortality rate of 33 deaths per lakh population on Monday, asked the government if the state can directly import the vaccines from abroad. State chief secretary Om Prakash said that the state needs one lakh vaccine doses per day, reported ANI.Jammu and Kashmir has so far consumed over 27.5 lakh vaccine doses, Uttarakhand has consumed over 23.9 lakh vaccine doses, Haryana consumed more than 44.29 lakh vaccine doses and have over 3.72 lakh doses available in balance, while 150,000 vaccine doses are in pipeline, Punjab has consumed a total over 41.47 lakh doses, Bihar has consumed over 82.39 lakh doses and has a balance of over 5.27 lakh, Jharkhand has consumed nearly 34 lakh vaccine doses, has over 400,000 in balance and 100,000 in the pipeline, Odisha has consumed over 62 lakh vaccine doses and Telangana has consumed over 52.82 lakh vaccine doses, as of Tuesday, according to the ministry's data. The total consumption also includes wastage. Haryana on Tuesday reported the highest vaccine wastage followed by Assam and Rajasthan.India on Wednesday reported more than 348,000 Covid-19 infections and over 4,200 fatalities in the last 24 hours, as per the ministry's Covid-19 dashboard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harsh-vardhan-to-meet-health-ministers-of-states-lagging-in-covid-19-vaccination-101620795945714.html
12-05-2021||India||'Health minister didn't suggest': Centre on Maharashtra's plan to halt vaccination for 18-44 age group||As Maharashtra plans to halt the vaccination of people between the age group of 18 and 44 years to give priority to those above the age of 45 years, the Centre has clarified that the suggestion did not comes from Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, unlike what state health minister Rajesh Tope claimed during a press meet on Tuesday.Maharashtra diverts vaccines for 18-44 yrs to 45+ amid shortage of supply: Health minister Rajesh TopeIt is being claimed in a tweet that Union Health Minister suggested Maharashtra government repurpose vaccine allotted for citizens aged 18-44 in the State for those aged 45 and above#PIBFactCheck: The claim is #Incorrect. @drharshvardhan has given NO such suggestion. pic.twitter.com/OMdGBrdjR1"I have personally talked to Dr harsh Vardhan. The Centre actually does not have vaccines, he told me. So, he also thinks that there is no other way. We have to divert the doses meant for 18+ people to those 45+. For the 18-44 age group vaccination, we have to go slow because vaccines are not available. We want to purchase vaccines from abroad also, but vaccines are not there," Rajesh Tope said.The minister said the government will be diverting three lakh vials of Covaxin, originally meant for the 18+ population to 45+ people. According to data, more than five lakh 45+ in Maharashtra are awaiting their second dose of vaccine.The Centre on Tuesday asked states to prioritise the administration of the second dose of the vaccine, but the Centre clarified it didn't suggest the Maharashtra government repurpose vaccines allotted for citizens aged between 18 to 44 years in the state for those aged 45 and above.Though the number of fresh cases in Maharashtra is coming down amid the strict restrictions imposed in the city, the state continues to report the highest number of daily cases. As the state is also reporting the highest number of people receiving vaccination per day, its vaccine stock is getting over soon. In the third phase of vaccination, which began from May 1, the Centre allowed states to also procure vaccines directly from the vaccine makers. The health minister said Maharashtra needs two crore vaccine doses every month to inoculate the entire population of the state in the next six months, but no supplier can make so many vials. The government has not yet received any response from Russian Direct Investment Authority on Sputnik V.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-minister-didn-t-suggest-centre-on-maharashtra-s-plan-to-halt-vaccination-for-18-44-age-group-101620797582825.html
12-05-2021||India||56 inmates test positive for Covid-19 at Karnal district jail in Haryana||At least 56 inmates, including four women, have tested Covid-19 positive at the Karnal district jail, officials said on Wednesday and added they have been admitted to the prison’s Covid ward even as most of them are asymptomatic.Ashok Kamboj, the jail deputy superintendent, said the prisoners were found infected during testing of all the inmates conducted by the health department.He added separate Covid-19 ward has been created inside the jail and the infected prisoners have been admitted there.Also Read | India to receive another consignment of Covid-19 supplies from CanadaKarnal’s chief medical officer, Yogesh Sharma, said if required they will also be provided oxygen and other medical assistance.Police superintendent Ganga Ram Punia said elaborate security arrangements have been made. He added the women prisoners will be shifted to a special ward created near Phoonsgarh village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/56-inmates-test-positive-for-covid-19-at-karnal-district-jail-in-haryana-101620796830626.html
12-05-2021||India||4.95% of Covid-19 vaccine doses wasted in Bihar: State health ministry||As many as 4.95% of Covid-19 doses have been wasted in Bihar, according to the state health ministry data even as there has been a growing demand for jabs amid a surge in infections. For Covishield, the wastage is 1.7% and 3.7% for Covaxin.A health department official said vaccine wastage usually occurs when the expected number of beneficiaries do not turn up for vaccination as per doses allotted to each centre. “Covaxin wastage appears to be higher because the vaccine came in 20 dose vials till recently, whereas Covishield stocks come in 10 dose vials. So, the difference in doses per vial has been a problem,” the official said. He added Covaxin doses remain unused as the turnout of beneficiaries for them is lesser compared to Covishield.Also Read | Bihar farmers crush their produce to protest against low tomato pricesOfficials said the wastage also occurs due to problems in the transportation of vaccines.State health society executive director Manoj Kumar: “We are trying to bring down the vaccine wastage percentage in overall terms in the state. Steps are being taken in that direction.” He said wherever there has been low vaccination, it has led to wastage because Covaxin came in 20 dose vials. “Now, Covaxin has started coming in 10 dose vials, which would help in reducing wastage.”Bihar until May 11 administered over 8.4 million vaccine doses. Officials said Covishield has been widely used. The ratio of allotment for Bihar has been 90:10 for Covishield and Covaxin. The government has placed a fresh order over 1.1 million doses of Covishield and 414,000 Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/495-of-covid-19-vaccine-doses-wasted-in-bihar-state-health-ministry-101620796110546.html
12-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Consignment of medical equipment from South Korea reaches India||A consignment of medical equipment including 200 oxygen concentrators from South Korea reached India as it battles against Covid-19 crisis."Cooperation with Republic of Korea continues. Consignment of medical equipment including 200 oxygen concentrators arrives. Appreciate this support from our partner," tweeted Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson Arindam Bagchi.Watch: India receives Covid-19 medical aid from Switzerland & NetherlandsOn Sunday, the first consignment from South Korea carrying 30 oxygen concentrators and 200 oxygen cylinders with regulators arrived in India.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe South Korean embassy, in a statement, had said that Seoul is sending two consignments of medical supplies, containing 230 oxygen concentrators, 200 oxygen cylinders with regulators and 100 negative pressure isolation stretchers to India.Seoul has extended its helping hand to the people of India to fight the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic crisis by way of providing urgent medical supplies, the embassy said.India has received outpouring of support from several countries, including the US, Russia and the UK as it battles a deadly second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.India reported a slight dip in new Covid-19 cases with 3,29,942 fresh infections were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to Union Health Ministry on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-consignment-of-medical-equipment-from-south-korea-reaches-india-101620795106313.html
12-05-2021||India||Scientists race to study Covid-19 variants in India as cases explode||A potentially worrisome variant of the coronavirus detected in India may spread more easily. But the country is behind in doing the kind of testing needed to track it and understand it better.On Monday, the World Health Organization designated the new version of the virus a “variant of concern" based on preliminary research, alongside those that were first detected in Britain, South Africa and Brazil but have spread to other countries.“We need much more information about this virus variant," said Maria Van Kerkhove, WHO's technical lead for Covid-19. "We need more sequencing, targeted sequencing to be done and to be shared in India and elsewhere so that we know how much of this virus is circulating.”Viruses mutate constantly, and the surge in infections here has resulted in more opportunities for new versions to emerge.But India was slow to start the genetic monitoring needed to see if those changes were happening and if they were making the coronavirus more infectious or deadly.Such variants also need to be monitored to see if mutations help the virus escape the immune system, potentially leading to reinfections or making vaccines less effective. For now, the WHO stressed that Covid-19 vaccines are effective at preventing disease and death in people infected with the variant.Indian scientists say their work has been hindered by bureaucratic obstacles and the government’s reluctance to share vital data. India is sequencing around 1% of its total cases, and not all of the results are uploaded to the global database of coronavirus genomes.When there isn't enough sequencing, there will be blind spots and more worrisome mutations could go undetected until they're widespread, said Alina Chan, a postdoctoral researcher at Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard who is tracking global sequencing efforts.Ravindra Gupta, a professor of clinical microbiology at the University of Cambridge, said: “It has all the hallmarks of the virus that we should be worried about.”First detected in the coastal Maharashtra state last year, the new variant has now been found in samples in 19 of the 27 states surveyed. Meanwhile a variant first detected in Britain has declined in India in the past 45 days.Indian health officials have cautioned that it is too soon to attribute the nation's surge solely to such variants. Experts point out that the spread was catalyzed by government decisions to not pause religious gatherings and crowded election rallies.Dr. Gagandeep Kang, who studies microorganisms at Christian Medical College at Vellore in southern India, said researchers need to figure out if the variant is capable of infecting those who previously had Covid-19 and, if so, whether it could result in severe disease.“I don’t get why people don’t see this as important,” she said.Sequencing efforts in India have been haphazard. The country uploads 0.49 sequences per 1,000 cases to GISAID, a global data sharing effort, Chan said. The U.S., which had its own troubles with genetic monitoring, uploads about 10 in 1,000, while the U.K. does so for about 82 per 1,000 cases.Late last year, Indian government institutions were ordered to buy domestic raw materials wherever possible, in keeping with Prime Minister Narendra Modi's goal of turning India “self-reliant.” This proved impossible, since all materials for sequencing were imported, resulting in more paperwork, said Anurag Agarwal, the director of the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology. The obstacles were most pronounced between September and December, he said, but his lab was able to find workarounds and continued sequencing.Other labs didn't, and scientists said that should have been when India ramped up its sequencing, because cases were declining at the time.Even after a federal effort started in Jan. 18, bringing together 10 labs that can sequence 7,500 samples weekly, the actual work didn't start until mid-February due to other logistical issues, said Dr. Shahid Jameel, a virologist who chairs the scientific advisory group advising the consortium.By then, India's cases had begun spiking.Jameel said India has sequenced around 20,000 samples, but only 15,000 were publicly reported because some were missing vital data. Until late last month, a third of the samples sent by states were unusable, he said.And now, the raging virus has infected many of the staff in the labs doing the work.“Many of our labs are facing this problem,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scientists-race-to-study-covid-19-variants-in-india-as-cases-explode-101620794620370.html
12-05-2021||India||Positivity rate down in Chhattisgarh but surge in infections in rural areas||The Covid-19 positivity rate has been declining in Chhattisgarh over the last week, but there has been a surge in infections in rural areas because of social functions such as marriages, health minister TS Singh Deo has said.Deo called the social events the biggest super-spreaders in villages, where people were not taking the pandemic seriously. “We have asked the administration to be more alert and implement the curfew strictly.”A health department official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the deaths have increased in the last 15 days in predominantly rural districts such as Raigarh, Janngir Champa, Kanker.Raigarh (11,533) has the highest active case in the state followed by Raigarh (10,463).The government on Monday said the positivity rate came down to 19% on May 9 from 28% on May 4.Also Read | 348,421 fresh Covid-19 cases, 4,205 deaths reported in India in 24 hoursDeo called the decrease some degree of success. “The death rate is still stagnant, and we are trying to reduce this. We have to make arrangements for the numbers and not the percentage and that is where our focus is right now. He added they have roped in social workers, NGOs to amplify the call for vaccination and testing. “They are doing their best to spread the word about the symptoms, encouraging people to get tested and countering the misinformation regarding vaccines,” he said.Deo added it is impossible to build hospitals in each village. “We need to shift patients to dedicated Covid care facilities to save their lives. We have activated lower-level centres for checking and monitoring. Once the symptoms are visible, they would shift the patients to the centres built to cure.”As many as 1,257 people have died of Covid-19 in the state since May 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/positivity-rate-down-in-chhattisgarh-but-surge-in-infections-in-rural-areas-101620794670398.html
12-05-2021||India||Goa's Dabolim airport to remain closed at night; undergoes maintenance||The flight operations during nights at the Goa airport will be shut till September 2021 as the runway is being closed for modernisation, a senior official said.The Goa airport is part of the INS Hansa Base at Vasco town in Goa.Indian Navy spokesman said the modernisation work has began from May 8 onwards which will continue till September 8, 2021.The runway will remain closed for all the traffic from 2200 hours to 0630 hours, he said.He said the modernisation work is being executed by Tata Power SED and will be carried out during night hours to have minimal impact on civil aircraft operations.Goa Airport Director Gagan Malik said the closure will not have much impact on the civilian flight operations.He said that due to the pandemic situation, almost 90 per cent of the flights have cancelled their schedule to Goa.The closure might have a 10-12 per cent impact on us but we will be able to mitigate it, Malik added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goas-dabolim-airport-to-remain-closed-at-night-undergoes-maintenance-101620793439146.html
12-05-2021||India||Vaccines not totally ineffective on Indian variant: Study||The Indian variant B.1.617 can “modestly” evade the neutralising antibodies produced after vaccination, but its two mutations do not have an additive impact on loss of sensitivity, according to a molecular study of the variant conducted by Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia in collaboration with researchers from UK.The variant is called “double mutant” because of it the mutations, E484Q and L452R. The yet-to-be peer-reviewed article uploaded on biorxiv shows that immune evasion of the “double mutant” variant is less than variants with E484K that caused ten-fold reduction in neutralisation as compared to the variant that was in circulation last year.“What we found was a reduction in the ability of the antibodies to neutralise this variant, but they weren’t ineffective. There are infections reported in vaccinated individuals but all vaccines protect against severe disease,” said Dr Anurag Agarwal, one of the authors of the paper and director of Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB).Also Read | 348,421 fresh Covid-19 cases, 4,205 deaths reported in India in 24 hoursHe added, “Breakthroughs are being seen with both (all) vaccines though. In vast majority, disease is mild.”Also Watch | ‘Vaccines effective against mutant Covid variant from India’: WHO officialThe researchers also found that the variant was more transmissible in laboratory setting, corroborated by the data of breakthrough infections – infection after complete vaccination – from a Delhi hospital. Of the 33 healthcare workers who got the infection, almost half were caused by B.1.617 variant.“The dominance of B.1.617 could be explained by prevalence of this lineage in community infection or simply reflect transmission between healthcare workers. The data nonetheless raise the possibility of a transmission advantage of B.1.617 in vaccinated individuals,” the article said.In addition, the mutation P681R – also found on the spike protein of the virus that attaches with the human receptors to infect a person – makes the virus more infective.“The P681R mutation increases the formation of syncytium (a single cell with several nuclei) makes the virus better equipped to enter the human cell, replicate for longer, and lead to a higher viral load. Basically, the viral cells fuse together, creating a larger space for the virus to replicate and making it difficult for the antibodies to destroy them. So, if 10 copies of the neutralising antibodies were needed to destroy the previous virus, the body may need to create 15 copies for this. This also means that the virus will stay in the body longer and transmit to others,” said Dr Rajesh Pandey, senior scientist at IGIB.The researchers conducted the experiments using a pseudovirus with the key mutations of the Sars-CoV-2 and sera from people who had received the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccines-not-totally-ineffective-on-indian-variant-study-101620792750461.html
12-05-2021||India||348,421 fresh Covid-19 cases, 4,205 deaths reported in India in 24 hours||India reported 348,421 fresh infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 4,205 deaths due to the virus on Wednesday, according to the Union health ministry dashboard. With this, the country's cumulative infections went up to 23,340,938 and the toll was pushed to 254,197.Meanwhile, 193,826,42 people have recovered from the disease till date and the country has 37,040,99 active cases, the ministry data showed. This means that the Covid-19 recovery rate has increased to 82.75 per cent and the active cases comprise 16.16 per cent of the total infections.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageWhile several cities, including Mumbai and Delhi, reported shortage of vaccines, the health ministry said that as many as 17,52,35,991 people were vaccinated against the virus, with 24,46,674 of them being inoculated in the last 24 hours.Chief minister of Delhi Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday urged the Centre to allow more pharmaceutical firms to manufacture Covid-19 vaccines in order to meet the high demand. Around 125 Covid-19 vaccine administration centres of the Delhi government were shut on Tuesday after they ran out of Covaxin vaccine for beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group, according to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).Also Read | Covid-19: Telangana to be under 10-day lockdown from todayIn Mumbai too, reports of vaccine shortage have surfaced. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said Tuesday that it may reserve vaccines enough for two or three days of their drive to inoculate those taking their second dose.In order to curb the spread of the virus, many states have introduced a slew of restrictions. According to a HT report, around 80 per cent of India’s population is living under partial or complete lockdown. Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have extended their ongoing lockdown till May 17, while Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Puducherry went under a two-week lockdown starting Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/348421-fresh-covid-19-cases-4-205-deaths-reported-in-india-in-24-hours-101620788876360.html
12-05-2021||India||Assam’s new cabinet decides against total lockdown to tackle Covid-19||Assam’s new cabinet on Tuesday decided against imposing total lockdown in the state for now while revising the existing measures to control the rising number of Covid-19 cases. It also tasked ministers to monitor the situation in districts. In other important decisions, committees were set up to create 100,000 government jobs and waive off micro finance loans taken by women groups.Newly appointed health minister Keshab Mahanta said Covid-19 scenario in the state was discussed threadbare in the meeting and details of the fresh pandemic containment guidelines will be released on Wednesday.“No decision has been taken on imposing total lockdown. Details of the new guidelines will be announced by the chief secretary and the DGP [director general of police] on Wednesday. The new measures will come into effect from Thursday,” he said.At present, all offices, shops and business establishments in Assam are shut down at 2:00pm and a night curfew is imposed from 6:00pm to 5:00am. Mahanta said if the new guidelines have to be extended beyond 15 days, the cabinet will decide on an economic package to mitigate losses.“The cabinet decided to allot 2-3 districts to each minister who will extensively tour these places, discuss the Covid-19 situation there and submit a status report in three days,” Mahanta said.On Tuesday, Assam recorded 6,258 new positive cases and 85 deaths—highest ever daily figures in both categories. The state has nearly 40,000 active Covid-19 cases.In other decisions, Mahanta said a committee has been constituted under finance minister Ajanta Neog to fulfil the promise of creating 100,000 government jobs. The committee will submit its report within a month.Another committee has been constituted under chairmanship of urban development minister Ashok Singhal on ways to waive-off microfinance loans taken by women/women groups. It will also submit its report in a month, he added.Industries minister Chandra Mohan Patowary said the government has also decided to increase its stake in Numaligarh Refinery Limited (NRL) from 12.35% to 26% by investing a sum of ₹2,187 crore.“This will be the biggest such investment till date. We had earlier invested ₹90.80 crore for 12.35% stake and got nearly ₹1,200 crore in dividends. With the fresh investment, the state is expected to earn around ₹900 crore annually. We have already invested ₹500 crore of the proposed ₹2187 crore,” said Patowary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assams-new-cabinet-decides-against-total-lockdown-to-tackle-covid19-101620792030347.html
12-05-2021||India||Bharat Biotech's Covaxin recommended for phase 2/3 trials on 2-18 year-olds||Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin was on Tuesday recommended by an expert panel for phase II/III clinical trial on those aged between two to 18 years, official sources said.The trial will take place in 525 subjects at various sites, including AIIMS, Delhi, AIIMS, Patna and Meditrina Institute of Medical Sciences, Nagpur.The Subject Expert Committee (SEC) on Covid-19 of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO) on Tuesday deliberated upon Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech's application seeking permission to conduct phase II/III clinical trials to evaluate the safety, reactogenicity and immunogenicity of Covaxin jabs in children aged 2 to 18 years. "After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended for conduct of proposed phase II/III clinical trial of whole virion inactivated coronavirus vaccine in the 2 to 18 years age group subject to the condition that the firm should submit the interim safety data of phase II clinical trial along with DSMB recommendations to the CDSCO before proceeding to phase III part of the study," a source said.WATCH| Covaxin gets nod for phase 2/3 trials on 2-18 year-olds: Why it is significantEarlier the proposal was deliberated in the SEC meeting dated February 24 and the firm was asked to submit a revised clinical trial protocol.Covaxin, indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), is being used in adults in India's ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-s-covaxin-recommended-for-phase-2-3-trials-on-2-18-yearolds-101620791223672.html
12-05-2021||India||Assam: NIA court allows Akhil Gogoi to take oath as MLA of new assembly||A special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court in Guwahati on Tuesday allowed jailed activist and president of Raijor Dal, Akhil Gogoi, to take oath as a new member of Assam’s assembly, his lawyer said. The 45-year-old activist was jailed in December 2019 for allegedly stoking violence during the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests with the aim to destabilise the country. “As per the court’s ruling, Gogoi will be escorted by police from Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH), where he is lodged now, to the state assembly and brought back after the oath taking ceremony,” said Santanu Borthakur, Gogoi’s lawyer. Gogoi was hospitalised last year for treatment of Covid-19 and is currently under treatment for other ailments.Gogoi defeated Surabhi Rajkonwari of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for the Sibsagar seat without campaigning himself. His 84 year old mother Priyada Gogoi campaigned on his behalf. Gogoi was arrested in December 2019 after a case was filed against him in Dibrugarh. The case was later transferred to NIA and a charge sheet was filed in June last year which alleged Gogoi had led the anti-CAA movement which turned violent and led to arson and attacks on police personnel. It also alleged that he hatched a conspiracy to target a particular community in order to disturb unity and integrity of the country. Last month, the Gauhati high court upheld NIA court’s decision to grant bail to Gogoi in one of the cases. He continues in custody as he is yet to get bail in another case lodged against him by the investigative agency. Raijor Dal was formed in October last year and Gogoi was later named its president. Raijor Dal tied up with Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP), another newly formed outfit, in the assembly elections but the alliance failed to win any other seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-nia-court-allows-akhil-gogoi-to-take-oath-as-mla-of-new-assembly-101620790050298.html
12-05-2021||India||Cyclone likely to form over Arabian Sea; expect rain, thunderstorms in NW India||A low pressure area is likely to form over southeast Arabian Sea around May 14 morning. It is likely to move north-northwestwards across southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Lakshadweep area and intensify gradually into a cyclonic storm over east central Arabian Sea around May 16, according to India Meteorological Department.This will be the first cyclone of this year and will be called Tauktae meaning gecko (named by Myanmar) when formed. There is a chance that the cyclone may cross the north Gujarat or Kutch area on May 20 but there is large variation among models on its likely track according to scientists.Under its influence, heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely at a few places over Kerala and Lakshadweep on May 14 and 15 and also over of Tamil Nadu and south Karnataka on May 15.Also Read | Heatwave conditions won’t set in till May 18: IMDFishermen are advised not to venture out to the southeast Arabian Sea, Maldives, Comorin and Lakshadweep areas, along and off Kerala coast from May 13 morning and east central Arabian sea and along and off Karnataka coasts from May 14, along and off Maharashtra and Goa coasts from May 15.Those who are at sea are advised to return to coast by night of May 12.A Western Disturbance as a trough (area of low pressure) is running and a cyclonic circulation is lying over Central Pakistan and adjoining west Rajasthan and an east-west trough running from this cyclonic circulation to Assam.In addition, there is likely confluence of winds from Arabian Sea and easterly winds at lower levels over northwest India during next 3-4 days. Under the influence these systems, fairly widespread rainfall with isolated thunderstorm or lightning or gusty winds and hailstorm is very likely over Western Himalayan region and scattered to fairly widespread rainfall with isolated thunderstorm over plains of northwest India during the next 3-4 days. Under the influence of the east-west trough at lower levels and north-south trough over northeast India, widespread rainfall or thunderstorm activity is very likely over northeastern states, West Bengal, and Sikkim; and isolated to scattered rain or thundershower over the rest parts of east India during the next five days. No heat wave is likely over any part of the country during the next five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-likely-to-form-over-arabian-sea-expect-rain-thunderstorms-in-nw-india-101620789090356.html
12-05-2021||India||'Masters of doublespeak', minister slams Cong over Covid-19 vaccine, Tharoor replies||Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri has singled out Congress leaders Shashi Tharoor, Jairam Ramesh and Rashid Alvi for fuelling vaccine hesitancy when India rolled out vaccination drive against Covid-19 in January. The fresh exchange of barb on social media started after Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi slammed the government's failure in managing the pandemic. BJP chief JP Nadda wrote to Sonia Gandhi, slamming Congress leaders' role for indulging in "wrong politics" over the Covic-19 vaccine, which "does not belong to any political party or leader".As India is at the peak of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, grappling with rising cases, deaths and depleting medical resources, the blame-game has become intense. Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan recently slammed Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren for criticising PM Modi's role in the management of the pandemic.On Tuesday, the war of words escalated with Hardeep Singh Puri singling a few Congress leaders out for doubting the vaccines. "When the vaccine rollout began, instead of asking all eligible people to get vaccinated, Congress leader Rashid Alvi continued with petty politics, doubting vaccine efficacy & fuelling hesitancy," Puri tweeted sharing a video in which Rashid can be seen claiming that opposition leaders may fear the misuse of the vaccine.Silence? My dear @HardeepSPuri, what a pity you don't read my tweets before you misrepresent them! See these: https://t.co/s4z8gwIz8m &https://t.co/7EsWISAYSR & this:https://t.co/5JGjXRQrHq [which i'm sure you will agree is the clincher!] Will you take back your words? https://t.co/pRrpIbTttsEarlier on 2 Jan 2021 he made an utterly weird & comical statement saying “There is no danger to the common people from COVID vaccine but there will be apprehension among opposition leaders". pic.twitter.com/JYm5ise23fAnother member of Congress ‘Inner Circle’ Jairam Ramesh said “Bharat Biotech is a first-rate enterprise, but it is puzzling that internationally-accepted protocols relating to Ph-3 trials are being modified for Covaxin”Now Rahul Gandhi wants the same vaccine free for everyone! pic.twitter.com/qUBGYdY1Nu"Another member of Congress ‘Inner Circle’ Jairam Ramesh said 'Bharat Biotech is a first-rate enterprise, but it is puzzling that internationally-accepted protocols relating to Ph-3 trials are being modified for Covaxin'.Now Rahul Gandhi wants the same vaccine free for everyone!" Puri said targetting Jairam Ramesh.Replying to Puri's accusation, Shashi Tharoor shared the links of his tweets where he congratulated Bharat Biotech for its Covaxin after it was found effective against the B.1.617 variant too. "Will you take back your words?" Tharoor said.After JP Nadda's letter to Sonia Gandhi, Congress spokesperson Ajay Maken said the BJP is trying to make Covid a political issue to hide its failures. Citing The Lancet, he said it is not only Congress which is attacking the government, many experts and journals have also criticised it."India’s fight against COVID-19 continues undaunted. Just a gentle reminder to those fuelling hesitancy & panic. More than 18 cr vaccine doses administered so far. Advance orders for May, June & July 2021 have been placed with the two manufacturers & payments have been made," Puri said adding that the Centre has placed advance orders of Covishield for 5.60 crore vaccines through PM-cares and 11 crore doses on April 22 and 10 crore doses on May 10 by the health ministry. As far as Covaxin is concerned, the government has placed advance orders for 1 crore vaccines through PM-cares and 5 crore doses on April 22 and 2 crore doses on May 10 through the ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/masters-of-doublespeak-minister-slams-cong-over-covid-19-vaccine-tharoor-replies-101620787735923.html
12-05-2021||India||Maharashtra reports over 40K fresh Covid cases, positivity rate drops further||Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded a further drop in daily Covid positivity rate for the third consecutive day, as it saw 40,956 fresh Covid-19 cases. The state tested 217,664 samples in the past 24 hours with a positivity rate of 18.82%. On Monday, the state had a positivity rate of 19.36%, while on Sunday it was 19.56%. However, the state saw a jump in deaths from Monday, as it reported 793 deaths, taking the toll to 77,191. The active caseload in the state declined to 558,996 on Tuesday.Since mid-February, Maharashtra has seen nearly 25,000 fatalities with rural and semi-urban areas showing a higher death count compared to the urban areas of Mumbai, Mumbai Metropolitan Region, and Pune district. In the past three months, the share of fatalities from Mumbai, MMR and Pune district has reduced from 51.94% to 43.91%, indicating that deaths are from rural and semi-urban centres in the state spread across 31 districts. Between February 11 and May 11, the state recorded 24,983 fatalities.Also Read | 2 reasons why young people getting more affected in Covid 2nd wave: ICMR chiefTill February 11, Mumbai, MMR (which includes Thane district, Navi Mumbai and urban as well as rural areas of Palghar and Raigad districts) and Pune district had 24,707 of the 51,415 deaths. On May 10, of the total deaths, 42,844 came from the 31 districts, while 33,554 were from Mumbai, the MMR and Pune district.Of the 31 districts, 13 have reported over 100% increase in deaths between February 11 and May 11. Nandurbar district recorded the highest increase with 222.54% jump in deaths, from 213 to 687. Nanded, Amravati, Washim, Yavatmal, Gadchiroli, Parbhani and Sindhudurg districts recorded between 179% and 145% jump in deaths in the three-month period. Hingoli, Gondia, Wardha, Chandrapur, Beed, Jalna, Ahmednagar and Latur districts recorded a jump in deaths between 127% and 103.19% during the same period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-reports-over-40k-fresh-covid-cases-positivity-rate-drops-further-101620788250142.html
12-05-2021||India||Unauthorised vaccination site at Assam govt hospital busted, probe ordered||A group of health workers is being probed for allegedly running a parallel Covid-19 vaccination centre at Silchar civil hospital in Assam without following the due process and charging as much as ₹2000 for each dose. They also didn’t keep any record of at least 80 persons who they administered a shot of Covishield, officials said on Tuesday.Assam health department authorities claimed they found that around ten vials of vaccine were issued in the name of Urban Health Center but were instead used to vaccinate people out of turn at a parallel vaccination centre being run at the Silchar hospital. As per initial investigations, health worker Swarnajit Paul and senior nurse Sarbani Roy were found supervising the unofficial vaccination site. More than 100 used syringes and some empty vials of Covishield vaccine were found there.The whole operation came under scanner on Tuesday afternoon when a motley crowd’s presence inside a room at the hospital raised suspicion, leading to some staff members of district’s additional chief medical & health office raising questions. Sarbani Roy and Swarnajit Paul then admitted to administering Covid-19 vaccines to unregistered beneficiaries without keeping any record. However, they claimed to be acting under orders from some senior officials.Sarbani Roy said she had recently joined the civil hospital at Silchar and was “ordered” to vaccinate people without any verification. “We vaccinated around 50 people on Monday and 30 people today. I received vaccine vials from a health worker but I don’t know his name. I am a single mother and I have to feed my family with this job. I don’t know if this is legal or not.”Swarnajit Paul claimed they were utilising vaccines likely to go waste as per the waste management scheme guidelines. “At least 10% of vaccines get wasted during the process of vaccination, we are allowed to vaccinate people from the half-used vials of vaccine. We started this process on Saturday under waste management but later some new vials were used.” He claimed he had received a list of people to be vaccinated from a very senior official.Additional deputy commissioner (health), Cachar district, Sumit Sattavan has ordered an investigation into vaccine mismanagement. “Action will be taken against the officials involved in this case within 24 hours,” Sattavan said.A 55-year-old resident of Silchar town who got a jab of the vaccine without registration said he paid ₹2000 for a dose. “I have vaccinated myself with the first dose but now [I am] a bit concerned about the second dose.”According to a union health ministry report, at 5.92 %, wastage of vaccine doses is second highest in Assam after Haryana at 6.49%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unauthorised-vaccination-site-at-assam-govt-hospital-busted-probe-ordered-101620787830020.html
12-05-2021||India||2 reasons why young people getting more affected in Covid 2nd wave, explains ICMR chief||Commenting on the number of young people getting more infected in the ongoing second phase of the Covid-19 pandemic, Indian Council of Medical Research Chief Dr Balram Bhargava said there are primarily two reasons behind the surge. Without dismissing the probable contribution of variants, he said, "We have found that younger people are getting slightly more involved because suddenly they have gone out and there are variants also prevalent in the nation which may be affecting the younger people as well."During the press briefing of the health ministry on Tuesday, Dr Bhargava was asked whether the Centre is taking any step to initiate vaccination of the children who are said to be the target of the third wave of the pandemic. Dr Bhargava said there is not much difference in age between the first and the second wave. "We have been analysing the date since August. People above the age of 45 years are more vulnerable to any adverse outcome and the hospitalised mortality is around 9.6 to 9.7 per cent," he said.Positivity rate in 42% of total districts higher than national average: ICMRThough more and more young people are reporting the infection on the ongoing wave, which started around March, the Centre in April refuted the reports of the shift in age groups. In April, the Centre showed data claiming that in the first wave, 31 per cent of people affected were under the age of 30 years while in 2021, the percentage rose to 32.Also Watch | Top doctor predicts Covid peak & explains high infections in youngThe government's principal scientific advisor K Vijay Raghavan recently said that the country should be prepared for a third wave of the pandemic which can be thwarted if adequate precautions are taken. Since then, various reports have been claiming that this wave will impact children more. The Maharashtra government has started setting up paediatric care centres in the state preparing for the third wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-reasons-why-young-people-getting-more-affected-in-covid-2nd-wave-explains-icmr-chief-101620783868484.html
12-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Telangana to be under 10-day lockdown from today||The Telangana government announced that the state will go under a 10-day lockdown in order to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from Wednesday. The lockdown will begin at 10am on May 12 and will be in place till May 22. However, there will be a relaxation of lockdown from 6am to 10am everyday, the chief minister's office said in a statement.  Also Read: Out of Covaxin, 125 Delhi government jab centres for 18-44 age group to be shutChief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao held a cabinet meeting on Tuesday in which it was decided that the four-hour relaxation period for people for their 'general activities and needs'. The decision to impose the lockdown comes within a week of the CM's statement that there will be no imposition of partial or complete lockdown in the state as it would lead to total collapse of the state’s economy. Here is what is allowed and what's not:- Agricultural activities and work in allied sectors will be allowed, according to the release. "Works related to agriculture produce, allied sectors, works undertaken with the agriculture machines, running of rice mills, transport of the paddy and rice, supplying paddy to FCI, fertiliser and seeds shops and manufacturing companies and other agri-based sectors are exempted from the lockdown," the statement said.- All medical and health services in government and private hospitals, pharmaceutical companies, medical equipment manufacturing units, medical distributors, and medical shops will be operational. Those working at these places will be given special passes for travelling.- Between 6am and 10am everyday, all the shops and businesses will be open. "For the remaining 20 hours, the lockdown would be strictly implemented. Only essential services would be allowed during the lockdown,” the official release said.- Another cabinet meeting was scheduled for May 20 to review the situation and take a call on whether the lockdown should be extended.- Exemption will be given to those working as part of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme.- State government offices will be open but with only 33 per cent of their staff members.- With prior permission, marriages with a maximum number of 40 guests will be allowed. For funerals, a maximum of 20 people will be allowed.- All cinema halls, swimming pools, clubs, gyms, amusement parks and sports stadiums will be closed. “The Director General of Police has been instructed to strictly implement the lockdown following the Covid guidelines,” the official release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-telangana-to-be-under-10-day-lockdown-from-today-101620780064792.html
12-05-2021||India||Lockdown-like curbs in Nashik from Wednesday to stop Covid-19 spread||Amid the surging cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Nashik will go under strict lockdown-like restrictions for 12 days beginning Wednesday, Maharashtra cabinet minister Chhagan Bhujbal said.Bhujbal said the number of Covid-19 positive cases has risen significantly in the district compared to the previous year. "Around 33,000-34,000 cases were added recently," he said.The decision was taken after at least 48 people died due to Covid-19 infection in the city.Nashik on Tuesday reported new 6,482 Covid-19 cases and 141 deaths. Here's what's allowed and what's not allowed during the curb:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdownlike-curbs-in-nashik-from-wednesday-to-stop-covid-19-spread-101620778479547.html
12-05-2021||India||ED books Deshmukh in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has booked Anil Deshmukh under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in connection with former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh’s allegations that the former Maharashtra home minister allegedly ran an extortion racket, officials familiar with the matter said on Tuesday.The fresh case against Deshmukh is based on the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) First Information Report (FIR) registered against him last month. The officials said ED was likely to summon Deshmukh and his personal staff soon. Unlike CBI, ED, the federal anti-money laundering agency, can record statements of any person in a case under PMLA’s Section 50 and it is admissible as evidence in court. The fresh case has been filed days after the CBI on April 24 said it has established “prima facie evidence” against Deshmukh, a leader of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), and booked him for corruption and criminal conspiracy.CBI’s case came a month after Singh accused Deshmukh of using the Mumbai Police for extortion from bars, hotels, and restaurants. CBI is probing Singh’s allegations as well as Deshmukh’s handing over of important cases to then assistant police inspector, Sachin Vaze, and influencing transfers and postings.In a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in March, Singh alleged Deshmukh asked Vaze to collect ₹100 crore monthly from bars, restaurants, hotels, and other sources in Mumbai. The letter was written after Singh was transferred for allegedly mismanaging the bomb scare outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house in February. The National Investigation Agency has arrested Vaze in connection with the discovery of the explosives-laden car outside and businessman Mansukh Hiran’s alleged murder. Hiran was linked to the vehicle.Four CBI teams on April 24 carried out raids for 12 hours from 6am at Deshmukh’s residences in Nagpur and Mumbai as well as at his personal assistant Sanjeev Palande’s premises and seized digital devices.Meanwhile, NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik dismissed ED’s case as politically motivated. “Whether it is the case registered by ED or allegations levelled by Param Bir Singh, [there is] an attempt to defame the MVA [Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi] government by using power.” Malik accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government of using central agencies CBI, ED for political reasons. Malik reiterated Deshmukh will cooperate with the probe.Congress leader Sachin Sawant said the action against Deshmukh has been initiated to cover up the Centre’s failure in tackling the second Covid-19 wave.BJP leader Atul Bhatkhalkar hit back and asked the ruling parties why they were scared of the probe if there was no involvement of Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-books-deshmukh-in-money-laundering-case-101620775857418.html
12-05-2021||India||‘Election Commission has always been neutral and impartial’: CEC Sushil Chandra||Fresh off assembly elections in five regions amid a spurt in Covid-19 cases, India’s chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra spoke to Smriti Kak Ramachandran about conducting polls in the midst of a pandemic, the challenges in implementing protocols, the West Bengal and Madras high court controversies, and future electoral reforms. Edited excerpts:What are the key learnings from elections conducted during the pandemic?Whenever we conduct elections, we take inputs from all stakeholders. We speak to all the political parties; take inputs from the ministry of home affairs, and health ministry, and from the states. On that basis, we decide how the election will be conducted. Last year, before the Bihar election, the most important thing for us was how to conduct the elections in the middle of the pandemic. But we issued strict guidelines and reduced the people per polling station from 1,500 to 1,000 for social distancing. About 30,000 polling stations were added. We issued guidelines for political rallies. Ultimately, the election was held very successfully... and the voter turnout was also more than the previous polls.This gave us confidence that we could deliver and hold election in four states and one Union territory. In spite of the fact that in the month of January-February, when the pandemic was receding, we decided against lowering the guard as far as the guidelines are concerned. We followed strict guidelines whether it was about presence of people in polling stations or increasing the stations; about 80,000 new polling booths were added.In light of Covid, do you see drastic changes in the way elections will be held in the future?In these elections, if you look at the polling percentage, West Bengal recorded 82%, Assam 83%, and Tamil Nadu 74%. It shows a system of establishing polling stations and a conducive atmosphere encouraging voters to participate in the polling process works. That is the ultimate aim of the election commission — that no voter should be left behind... Our personnel went to homes of the elderly to ensure that they could cast a vote; as a result, the total number of postal ballots went up from 2.9 lakh in 2016 to 13.6 lakh in 2021. Going forward, we will have meetings with the CEOs (chief electoral officers) of the states that went to the polls to understand what difficulties they faced, and what can be done for future elections. We will also consult all political parties to understand how campaigns can be held in the future...When the assembly polls were scheduled, the second wave had not set in. But subsequently it became clear that numbers were going up. Did the commission not consider deferring polls?It is the constitutional mandate of the ECI to conduct elections before the tenure of the assembly ends. We are happy to have been able to conduct elections, and are thankful to the voters, the state police, the central forces, and the 13 lakh election functionaries... Some of them overcame personal tragedies, but chose not to go on leave — that is the commitment of the election commission. We had consultations with states and disaster management authorities, and none of them suggested there was a need for deferring elections.But there was little adherence to the guidelines on the ground. There was no crowd control at rallies.The election commission was always ahead of the curve. During the pandemic, it is the duty of SDMA to take action. We wrote to them continuously... We also took steps not to conduct bigger rallies, and to maintain social distancing. Ultimately, it is a decision SDMAs need to take. By the time polling concluded on April 6, the second wave was not visible to this extent. In West Bengal, we put restrictive measures in place since April 16. During these elections, neither did the SDMA issue any additional instructions on lockdown, nor did it inform EC about the need for any specific curbs. On no occasion did we get any feedback in this regard...Did you flag any concerns with them and the state administration?We were continuously in touch with the chief secretary, and said strict action should be taken against violators. On April 16, we again issued a letter to all rally organisers that it is their personal responsibility to issue masks and ensure safety of the public. On April 22, we had an interaction with political parties where we told them that you are responsible and you will have to take the guidelines seriously. We showed anguish also and said no padyatra, no cycle rally or a big rally will be permissible. During the last three phases in Bengal, we increased the silent period from 48 hours to 72 hours. We communicated it to the state authorities and the chief secretaries to book people; to cancel rallies if they are not complying with the rules; but ultimately it is their role. The EC can issue the direction and tell them and that they should take action, but ECI cannot take on the role of SDMA. They are responsible for taking action on the ground. And at no stage did they tell us that there is any surge in the pandemic. If at any stage SDMA has not taken a proactive role for controlling this, then EC cannot be held responsible.What was the opposition to clubbing the last phases in WB, where the elections happened in eight phases, since it was legally tenable?There is a lot of preparation that is done much in advance. When the demand came, we had to consider the implications of what would happen if we clubbed elections. It would have been logistically difficult; there would be problems in transporting EVMs and the central armed forces...The Madras high court was scathing in its observations that ECI was responsible for allowing rallies with little or no Covid protocol and that its officials should probably be booked for murder.The Supreme Court ultimately has very clearly said that the [HC] remarks are very harsh and the metaphor inappropriate.EC has been in the midst of a controversy after election commissioner Rajiv Kumar sought to file a separate affidavit with the Madras HC on the panel’s role in conducting polls during the second wave, but it was later not filed. The EC also suggested a gag order on the media on reporting court observations.There is no controversy at all. As for the media gag, the aim was only to expunge the off-the-cuff remarks of the high court. A media gag was never an intention, and we have clarified it. We have high regard for the media.The Opposition, particularly in Bengal, has alleged that EC follows the cues of the Union government. The Trinamool Congress called it an “extension” of the BJP.We strongly refute these allegations. The election commission has always been neutral and impartial. It is a narrative, but the EC has been impartial.There is a bunch of suggestions from the EC pending with the law ministry for bringing about reforms. What is the status of these suggestions?Reforms are a continuous an ongoing process. We have proposed an amendment to section 40 (b) of the Representation of People Act that instead of having to wait for an entire year to enrol as voters, those who turn 18 can be enrolled the same year. We can carry out the enrolment three or four times a year.The second proposal is to link Aadhar with the electoral rolls for ensuring no duplication in the rolls. This will also make is easier for people to transfer their votes when they shift to a new place. This will also require an amendment to the law. We have also proposed that paid news should be a corrupt practice.The use of money in polls is a worrying trend. Some have even argued that funding of political parties is still not transparent.The EC is very concerned about this, and during these elections, we decided that we want an inducement-free election. We appointed five special expenditure observers who are retired from the income tax department. More than ₹1,000 crore of cash, liquor, and narcotics were seized, which is 4.5 times higher than the previous elections and this was possible because of the vigil by these officers. We have also set up a committee headed by Harish Kumar, an ex-IRS official who will submit a report on how we can further look at the expenditure limits who these can be controlled and monitored in a scientific manner. There is a demand from political parties to increase the limit; all this will be decided by the committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-commission-has-always-been-neutral-and-impartial-cec-sushil-chandra-101620774017227.html
12-05-2021||India||PIL against Central Vista bid to stall project: Centre||The Centre has told the Delhi high court that a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking a stay on construction at Central Vista amid the Covid-19 pandemic is just another attempt at stalling the project that has been facing such attempts from the beginning on different grounds.The “intentions and motive” behind filing of the plea are evident from the fact that the Central Vista project has been singled out by the petitioners despite several other agencies, including the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation, carrying out construction activities across the national capital, the Centre said in an affidavit filed before the court on Tuesday.The project, being handled by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs, involves building a new Parliament building by India’s 75th Independence Day in 2022, while the overall project, which includes constructing 11 administrative buildings to house all the government ministries, is slated to be finished by 2024.The Centre accused the petitioners, Anya Malhotra, who works as a translator, and Sohail Hashmi, a historian and documentary filmmaker, of deliberately suppressing facts in filing the plea to stop the construction work.The Union government said that construction is limited to redevelopment of the Central Vista Avenue which includes both sides of Rajpath where Republic Day celebration are held.“This is a very important public space and most widely visited by the common public and tourists in Delhi. It may be noted that the scope of work is as follows--Providing public amenities like toilet blocks, paths, parking space, vendor zone, making four pedestrian underpasses below Janpath and C-Hexagon Road, improvement of canals, bridges, lawns, lights etc,” the government said.Since the affidavit was not yet on record, a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jasmeet Singh listed the matter for hearing on Wednesday.The petitioners moved the Supreme Court against a May 4 high court order that adjourned their plea to May 17, saying it first wants to study the apex court’s January 5 judgment giving a go-ahead to the Central Vista project.In the appeal before the Supreme Court, the petitioners contended the project was not an essential activity, and can be put on hold during the pandemic.The apex court declined to interfere in the matter as the issue was pending before the high court. It, however, asked the petitioners to seek an early hearing before the high court. Subsequently, they moved an application to advance the matter.The ₹13,450 crore Central Vista project has faced criticism from various quarters and political parties, with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi last week calling it a “criminal wastage” as he asked the government to focus on saving people’s lives during the pandemic.Last Friday, Union minister for housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri attacked the Congress, terming the opposition’s objections “bizzare.”“Congress’s discourse on Central Vista is bizarre. Cost of Central Vista is about ₹20,000 crore, over several years. GoI has allocated nearly twice that amount for vaccination! India’s healthcare budget for just this year was over ₹3 lakh crore. We know our priorities. There are hundreds of projects being executed by various depts. Governance hasn’t come to a standstill, unlike the Congress’s times of policy paralysis,” Puri tweeted.“They (Congress) want to distract people from monumental governance failures in their states by spreading lies. So they indulge in cheap politics despite knowing this project creates direct & indirect employment for thousands of skilled, semi-skilled & unskilled workers in these times. Congress doesn’t stop at hypocrisy,” he added.In its affidavit, the central government has said that the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has permitted redevelopment of the Central Vista avenue — the stretch of Rajpath from India Gate to Rashtrapati Bhawan -- during the prevailing curfew, with the labourers residing on-site.The petitioners have also filed an application seeking the appointment of a commissioner to verify the Centre’s claims in an affidavit that workers engaged in the construction of the project are staying on-site and have been provided with all necessary health care equipment.The Centre, in its affidavit, said a Covid-19 compliant facility was installed at the site to accommodate 250 workers, who had chosen to stay there and continue the work. It also said that there was strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols. “It is unequivocally stated that the workers working on the project as of now, are residing at the work-site, following social distancing norms as well as other Covid-19 protocols,” the Centre said.Citing media reports, the petitioners asked the Centre why permission was sought for the movement of 180 vehicles. “Nowhere in the affidavit is there a disclosure, or response to the averments of the 500 subcontracted workers engaged in the construction of the Central Vista before the curfew who were formerly transported in four buses and were then ferried in a reduced number of such vehicles,” they said in the application.In its response, the Centre said: “The workers are staying on the site and, therefore, the notification relied upon by the petitioner is fully complied with. The petitioner is fully aware about this fact and he has deliberately suppressed it in the petition”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pil-against-central-vista-bid-to-stall-project-centre-101620772581202.html
12-05-2021||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||I have referred to the Nomura India Business Resumption Index previously in this column – a measure of the extent to which business activities in the country have resumed, with 100 indicating the pre-pandemic (when was that?) level.In February, it was almost there. Now, around three months since, it is back to levels seen last June, after the hard lockdown ended but many of the restrictions on movement and activities remained. In numerical terms, the index is at 64.5. That isn’t surprising.The lockdowns that most states have declared have put a damper on movement, consumption, and business activities. It was clear many months ago that while countries could use a mix of economic measures to alleviate the financial distress caused by the coronavirus disease pandemic, the only sustainable way to address the larger economic challenge was to simply focus on the health aspect. Put otherwise, crush the pandemic, and the economy will find its feet (with a little help). That is exactly what we are beginning to see in the US and the UK (despite cash handouts skewing the labour market in the former).Also read | Ten states gear up to import vaccines; bottlenecks remainGiven what’s happening in India, it is becoming clear that 2021-22 (or at least the first half of the financial year, and that’s in the best-case scenario) will not be the year of the great bounce-back everyone (including this columnist) expected.Back when those projections of double-digit economic growth in the year were made, the pandemic was under control (just around 10,000 cases on average across India), and the country had started vaccinating people (it launched its drive as early as January). But carelessness, complacency, poor science, wrong priorities, and a botched vaccine drive (compounded by stubbornness in correcting the course) have resulted in things spiralling out of control. It was almost as if Edward Murphy Jr (of the famous law) was writing the script.HT reported on Tuesday that around 80% of India’s population is living under some form of lockdown. That is likely to continue till at least the end of the month – and there is a high probability that more than half the country’s population continues to live that way till the middle of June. The first quarter then, is pretty much a washout, although the base effect (the economy contracted by almost a fourth in the first quarter of 2020-21) may mean it still ends up showing some growth.Through April, economists and analysts refused to revisit their projections of double-digit growth in India, but they will have to acknowledge the reality on the ground sometime soon (some have already begun doing so).India is definitely not going to show the 25%-plus growth in the April-June quarter that the Reserve Bank of India predicted not too long back.Also read | States can procure only 20 million Covid-19 jabs for 18+ in MayWill the second quarter be any better? It will likely be. With the learnings of the second wave behind them, state governments will insist on the continuation of non-pharmaceutical interventions such as the wearing of masks and social distancing, and they are also unlikely to allow large events. But things will not return to normal unless the majority of the population has been vaccinated. And that, given the country’s current vaccine strategy (there doesn’t seem to be one), the pace of vaccinations (over 1.9 million on average every day over the past week), and the supply situation (India will be short of vaccines for at least a few months, perhaps even longer), could take till early 2022.Until then, as I recently wrote in this space, states will have to be open to declaring statewide or more localised lockdowns every time there is a flare-up, which will be ever so often, especially given the emergence of more infectious variants of the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19.They will also have to place restrictions on movement and activities that will not bode well for business. I’m tempted to channel Burns via Wodehouse and speak about the best laid plans “gang aft agley”, only, in this case, there doesn’t seem to have been one – a plan, that is.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-what-you-need-to-know-today-101620769680965.html
12-05-2021||India||India may cross China as most populous sooner than thought||China’s population is growing at its slowest pace in decades, latest census data released on Tuesday showed, with the country adding only 72 million people in the past decade. The average annual growth rate was 0.53% over the last 10 years, down from 0.57% between 2000 and 2010, taking the population to 1.41 billion. The total population on the mainland stood at 1.41178 billion on November 1.The latest data puts China on course to be overtaken by India as the most populous country, which is expected to happen by the year 2025. India’s population last year was estimated by the UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs at 1.38 billion, or 1.5% behind China.India has maintained a fertility rate of around 2.3, which indicates that its population may surpass China’s by 2023 or 2024, He Yafu, an independent demographer, told Chinese state media on Tuesday, earlier than the latest UN prediction.The population growth rate in China is the slowest since 1953, when the first census was carried out. The slump in the growth rate – despite Beijing withdrawing the one-child policy in 2016 after it was in force since the late 1970s – will add pressure on Beijing to incentivise childbearing as the most populous country deals with a rapidly ageing population and the resultant economic burden.The fresh census results showed that China’s “…population is not just declining but also its demographic structure is deteriorating with a growing aging population, will serve as an important reference for China’s population and economic policy adjustment as well as plans to put off retirement, which may come in the next year or two”, a state media report said.Ning Jizhe, head of China’s National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), said 12 million babies were born last year – a significant decrease from the 18 million in 2016 and 14.65 million in 2019.Ning, however, added that it was “still a considerable number”. Ning said a lower fertility rate is a natural result of China’s social and economic development.Also read | India shouldn’t copy China’s birth-control policies, say expertsThe median age of the Chinese population stood at 38.8 in 2020 compared to 38 in the US. By 2050, this gap is set to increase with China’s median age rising to 55-56 and the US’s to 44-45. The current median age of the Indian population is 29 years and it is expected to increase to 38 by 2050, giving the country a significant demographic advantage.China’s demographic situation is similar to that of Japan, South Korea, and some other developed countries that are facing the problem of an ageing and a dependent population. But it will have to deal with the reality that, unlike developed countries, China has not yet been able to generate similar levels of household wealth.The census found there has been a rapid shrinking of China’s labour force in the past decade while the ageing population continued to increase. The proportion of people aged between 15 and 59 was 894 million, down by 6.79 percentage points from the 2010 census.“The number of people aged 60 and above grew to 264 million, up from 177.6 million in the 2010 census, and the number of people aged 65 and above grew to 190 million, up from 118.8 million in the 2010 census,” the state-run tabloid Global Times reported, quoting the new data.Huang Wenzheng, a demography expert at the Beijing-based think tank Centre for China and Globalisation, said: “That (the census data) means the official number of the births every year for the past 10 years were mostly accurate. It also means the downward trend is more significant than what we expected in the recent years.”The two-child policy, which was implemented in 2016, has failed to make an impact on the low birth rates. “From the trend of population development in recent years, the population growth will continue to slow in the future,” NBS head Ning said, adding that China’s total population will remain at more than 1.4 billion in the near future.He Yafu, an independent demographer, told the Global Times that there is no doubt that China will “fully lift birth restrictions in the near future…likely to remove its family planning policy as early as this autumn during the sixth plenary session of the 19th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China (CPC)”.Fully lifting birth restrictions may not be enough to avert a fall in total population, or prevent China from becoming another Japan, demographers said, noting that Beijing should come up with more measures to encourage childbirth, such as subsidising couples who choose to have more than one baby.China conducted national censuses in 2010, 2000, 1990, 1982, 1964, and 1953.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-may-cross-china-as-most-populous-sooner-than-thought-101620769047136.html
12-05-2021||India||Covid-19 wave ebbing in 9 regions, shows data||The second national wave of the Covid-19 outbreak continues to take a toll on India, but its trajectory appears to be receding in at least six regions – Delhi, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh – with cases and positivity rates seeing a steady drop in the past few weeks.Meanwhile, another three states – Bihar, Gujarat and Jharkhand – are exhibiting early signs of a plateau, according to data analysed by HT.To be sure, despite the relative recovery, several of these states remain among the worst-hit regions as districts there continue to report high volume of cases with respect to their populations.Districts in states such as Kerala, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, and Uttarakhand are still seeing the highest rate of addition of new Covid-19 cases, and are likely facing most pressure on available resources, the data suggests.To analyse the outbreak, HT analysed data from the past month (between April 11 and May 10) in India’s 20 most populous states and Union territories, looking at two factors — new infections of Covid-19, and positivity rates. It also looked at district data compiled by How India Lives to narrow down on regions in the country where the virus remains most active.The analysis shows that while the national wave may be yet to peak, and that daily cases continue to grow in most states, some regions have started turning the corner in their battle against the onslaught of India’s second Covid-19 wave with clearer results set to be visible in the coming weeks if these trends persist.Experts say positivity rate is a crucial metric as it shows how widespread the virus is in the community. When coupled with increasing new cases, it indicates that the virus is spreading fast within the community.Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh, the two states that were the earliest epicentres of the second wave, are both the only states that have seen their weekly average positivity rate decline over the past month.In Maharashtra, the figure went from 25.3% for the week ending April 11 to 20.8% for the week ending May 10 – a drop of 4.6 percentage points, the highest in the country.In Chhattisgarh, the figure went from 23.4% to 22.1% in the same time period. While this number did not improve over an entire month in Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh, it has started dropping.Also read | States can procure only 20 million Covid-19 jabs for 18+ in MayIn Delhi, for instance, the average positivity rate has dropped 9.2 percentage points from a peak of 32.9%. In MP, it fell by 6.3 percentage points from a peak of 24%, while it fell 5.3 percentage points in UP from a peak of 16.8% and 1.7 percentage points in Telangana.However, the national average of weekly positivity rate has shown only a minor improvement – it fell from 22.8% from 22.5% in the past month.During the Union health ministry’s weekly briefing on Tuesday, senior officials listed states where cases have shown a plateauing or declining trend – a majority of these states overlapped with HT’s findings.“A very recent trend has emerged where we can see marginal improvement in the country’s Covid-19 numbers in the past few days. We have noted a decline in new infections and deaths in the country in the past two-three days… and while this is too early to establish a clear trend, it is important that we analyse this and continue with our Covid management strategies on state and district levels to make sure numbers continue to go down,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry.Delhi has reported the most progress in terms of average weekly new cases per million population – average new cases dropped from a peak of 1,277 infections per million residents a day to 888. However, despite the improvement, the Capital remains among the regions reporting the most cases in the country when the population is factored in.Kerala (1,079 new cases per million in the last week) is the only region among those analysed that is seeing more infections in the last week. In Maharashtra, there have been 430 new cases per million in the past week, down from a peak of 536 cases per million around two weeks ago (week ending April 24). In Chhattisgarh, the recovery is particularly evident -- average cases fell from 543 new infections per million a day to 86 in the past two weeks.Watch | Covid update: WHO classifies ‘variant of concern’; Delhi runs out of Covaxin?﻿In UP, the cases have halved on this metric, from 155 cases per million (week ending April 27) to 76 in the past week. In MP, average cases have dropped from a peak of 159 infections per million a day to 86, while in Telanagana the figure fell from a peak of 216 case per million to 117 in the last 10 days.On average, there have been 291 new cases per million residents in the country for the week ending Monday. This number has only marginally shifted from peak levels (294 cases per million on Sunday). Population estimates for the analysis were based on 2020 projections by the Census of India.Three other regions have started exhibiting signs of recovery. In Bihar, the positivity rate fell from a peak of 15.3% to 12.9% in the past week, while average new cases fell from a peak of 119 cases per million to 93. In Jharkhand, the corresponding figures changed from 16.8% to 5.6% and from 169 per million to 111. In Gujarat, these numbers were 9.2% and 4.8%, and 211 per million and 118. In these three states, however, the changes were all around the past week, so it may be too early to say the numbers are on a consistent decline.At the district level, when looking at the number of new cases added on average per million population in the past week , of the 631 districts in the 2011 census (after merging Delhi and Goa districts), 19 reported over 1,000 cases per million per day on average in the week ending May 9, the latest date for which district-level data has been compiled by How India Lives.Forty districts – 23 of them in Kerala (7 districts), Maharashtra (7), Karnataka (5), and Haryana (4) – reported 700 to 1,000 cases per million every day on average in the week ending May 9. Another 87 districts – over half of them in Maharashtra (13), Karnataka (12), Chhattisgarh (9), Andhra Pradesh (9), and Himachal Pradesh (7) – reported 400 to 700 cases per million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-wave-ebbing-in-9-regions-shows-data-101620762974889.html
12-05-2021||India||Allow more pharma firms to make vaccines: Delhi CM Kejriwal to Centre||The shortage in Delhi at present is not of Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds or oxygen supply but of coronavirus vaccines, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday, urging the Centre to engage more pharmaceutical companies to ramp up production.Kejriwal called for a national scheme to vaccinate the entire population of the country in the next few months and said that “unless every Indian is vaccinated, we cannot win the war against Covid-19”.“Some states are struggling to widen the vaccine drive because of this shortage. Vaccine shortage is a major challenge now,” he said at a press briefing.According to the chief minister, the two companies producing vaccines in India are capable of manufacturing 60-70 million doses a month, and at this rate, it would take over two years to vaccinate the country’s entire population. “Such a long span is likely to witness multiple waves, which would lead to more deaths. So, it is important to take up vaccine production on a war footing.”In an affidavit filed in the Supreme Court, the Union government over the weekend said it expects 85 million doses to be manufactured by Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech, the makers of the two doses approved in India in January. Both these firms are expected to take their cumulative capacities to over 150 million by July.Kejriwal separately wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and called for ensuring the mass production of vaccines.Also read | States can procure only 20 million Covid-19 jabs for 18+ in May“The second wave of Covid is very fatal and the disease has reached the villages with many lives lost… There is a need to vaccinate all the citizens as soon as possible... Presently only two companies are manufacturing vaccines in India. Providing vaccines to the whole country through two companies only is not possible,” said Kejriwal in his letter to Modi, a copy of which HT has seen.“Every company in the country that has the capacity of safe production should manufacture the vaccines… The government can terminate the monopoly on vaccine production through the Patent law…”In its health bulletin on Tuesday, the Delhi government said around 4.02 million vaccine doses were administered till Monday -- of which 3.11 million were first doses.Pune-based Serum Institute of India produces Covishield and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech Covaxin.At the briefing, Kejriwal said the Centre should take the vaccine formula from the two companies and give it to the other companies which are capable of producing safe vaccines. “In such tough times, the Centre has the powers to take such decisions…,” said Kejriwal.Kejriwal said the vaccination turnout is high and all arrangements are in place and that they were currently administering 125,000 doses per day. “...we want to scale this up to 300,000 doses per day. Our aim is to ensure that the entire adult population of Delhi is vaccinated in three months. But, in Delhi, we have only a few days stock of vaccines left.”He cited the shortage of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits during the first wave of the pandemic in India. “Imagine if only two companies had the right to produce PPE kits, we would have faced a major shortage of PPE kits too...”Kejriwal said India has top pharma companies and the best scientists. “I am sure that they will cooperate in vaccine production. A fraction of the profit made by the other companies could be given to the original two companies as royalty...”In a tweet, former Union health secretary Sujatha Rao asked why the government was not invoking its powers to speed up production. “Provision of compulsory licensing was exactly for these conditions. Imposing it can help us and increase production. Why is the health of the pharma industry more important than of the people, someone explain?”Compulsory licensing allows the government to grant permission to other manufacturers to start making a patented product without permission from the company holding the patent, although pharma company executives said that intellectual property issues are not the main hurdle with vaccine production -- companies need to transfer technology, source the adequate raw material and include training that is consistent with the production of a particular vaccine||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allow-more-pharma-firms-to-make-vaccines-delhi-cm-kejriwal-to-centre-101620761169256.html
12-05-2021||India||States can procure only 20 million Covid-19 jabs for 18+ in May||State governments across India will altogether be given 20 million doses to inoculate their 18-44 age group population from the roughly 85 million vaccines doses expected to be produced this month, according to a formula shared by the Union government with the Supreme Court, in which the Centre said it has fixed quotas even for doses that states need to directly procure from vaccine makers.The Union government has said that these 20 million doses will be sent to states based on how many people they have in the 18-44 age group in order to ensure doses are distributed in an equitable manner, but some states have complained that their allocation is inadequate.“It is submitted that though the states are procuring vaccines from the manufacturers, the central government has, in consultation with the vaccine manufacturers, determined the pro-rata population of each state in the age group of 18-44 (years) and each state will procure only that quantity so that there is no disparity in availability of vaccines between the states inter-se, either based upon difference in their bargaining power or otherwise,” said the Centre’s response to the Supreme Court filed over the weekend.The affidavit listed the allocation for the month of May, and added that this supply pertained only to the doses states were directly procuring, with a separate formula is in place for how the Centre distributes the doses it acquires from the vaccine makers.India’s coronavirus vaccination drive follows two tracks: the Union government offers free doses meant for those 45 years of age and above; then there is the acquisition by state governments and private hospitals to give doses for any group they choose to cater to.Also read | More than 5,000 soldiers battle Covid-19 in hospitals, 5-fold jump in 3 weeksThe Union government has made it mandatory for vaccine makers in India – at present, the two shots being used widely are both made in India – to keep 50% of their doses for the central supply, while the remaining will be evenly split between private procurers and state governments.The 20 million doses allocated this month for direct acquisition by state governments are the only ones to be offered for free for those under the age of 45. The rest, ostensibly another 20 million, will be shots that will be paid for. India has roughly 595 million people between the ages of 18 and 44, according to the government’s Technical Group of Population Projections.Out of the 50% quota allotted to each state, the division is made evenly. In other words, from out of the 50% allotted to the state, half will go to the state’s public channel [calculated on pro-rata basis based upon the population of age group of 18-44 years] and the balance will go to the private sector based upon the contracts between private sector and vaccine manufacturers, according to the Centre’s affidavit, which was in compliance with a Supreme Court order to spell out the vaccination policy.“In vaccinating the 18-44 category, the central government’s role is to ensure equitable vaccine distribution among states; it should not be the case that a bulk of doses reaches only a particular state, and another one that needs more is left waiting. Since all states need vaccines, we have to see to it that all states get it, and to ensure that the Centre regularly discusses with states and advises accordingly,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union health ministry. Agarwal did not clarify how the pro-rata population estimate was calculated.According to a government official aware of the matter, population projections are likely be based on data sets that includes report on population projections by National Commission on Population.The Union government’s affidavit said that it expects vaccine production to go up in the next couple of months, with Bharat Biotech producing up to 55 million doses by July and Sputnik V’s manufacturers contributing 12 million by the same month. While the government did not give a figure for the scale-up in Covishield’s production by SII, the company’s CEO said during media interviews that the monthly capacity was set to go up to 100 million by July.In recent days, several states have raised concerns over the shortage of vaccines. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said on Tuesday the state will need to suspend the drive for those under the age of 45 and divert some of the doses from this category for the older age groups in order to meet the second dose demand.Watch | Covid update: WHO classifies ‘variant of concern’; Delhi runs out of Covaxin?﻿In Delhi, Aam Aadmi Party MLA Atishi said 125 centres where Covaxin was being given to the under-45 age group will be shut since the city has run out of doses. Later, at a press conference, Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia accused the Centre of creating a shortage and “forcing” state governments to invite global tenders.At least nine states have said they will float global tenders for Covid-19 vaccines.According to data compiled by science analytics company Airfinity, several vaccine makers have already committed supplies equalling or exceeding their projected production for the year. Among the prominent vaccine makers that still have capacity are Pfizer-BioNTech (800 million doses), Novavax (300 million doses) and Gamaleya Institute (1.43 billion doses).Moderna, Johnson & Johnson and AstraZeneca appear to have already done deals for more than what they are expected to produce through the year.Union health ministry officials said the focus of the vaccination drive from its perspective remained on the over-45 group since they were most vulnerable to Covid-19. States have been urged to “ensure all beneficiaries who have taken the first dose are prioritised for the second doses”, the ministry said on Tuesday following a meeting with states.The Centre’s affidavit also identified expected vaccine production numbers for May: Serum Institute of India, which makes Covishield, was expected to produce 65 million doses, and Bharat Biotech, which makes Covaxin, is expected to churn out 20 million doses.At an aggregate level, this number appears to be inadequate if India were to regain its peak vaccination rate of around 4 million doses a day seen in mid-April. In the most recent seven-day period, however, as supplies ran short and a resurgent wave of infections forced people indoors, this number has come down to about 2 million.Also read | Amplify govt message on Covid-19: Centre tells statesAt specific levels, too, the allotments made by the Union government suggested states will not be able to sustain the pace of vaccinations in the 18-44 age group. According to the Delhi government, in the 10 days since the drive began, 365,262 people in the younger age group have been given doses (including those by private hospitals).The Centre’s allotment for Delhi government for the month of May stood at 360,530. Even if an equal number was to be augmented by private hospitals, as per the rate seen till May 10, the shots for those in the 18-44 group for the month may run out by the third week, and overall vaccination throughout May is likely to fall short of the projected 1 million doses.According to the Co-WIN dashboard, 173.7 million doses of coronavirus vaccines have been administered to people in India, of which 136.5 million are first doses. Among these, 18.9 million have been given to people younger than the age of 45.“Even though effectiveness of vaccines in disrupting transmission cycle is still not fully known, we do know that it reduces disease severity, and that will eventually also help in breaking the transmission cycle. The more vaccine, especially make in India ones, are available, better it is for the Covid-19 vaccination programme,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, founder, Public Health Foundation of India||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-can-procure-only-20-million-covid-19-jabs-for-18-in-may-101620760611347.html
12-05-2021||India||K’taka to float global tender for 20mn vaccine doses||Bengaluru: The Karnataka government on Tuesday said that it has decided to launch a short-term global tender within the next one week for 20 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines.“In order to meet the increased demand and to facilitate vaccination of the age group of 18-44 years, 20 million Covid vaccines will be procured through global tender,” CN Ashwath Narayan, deputy chief minister and state Covid task force head said in a statement on Tuesday.This tender will take the total number of vaccines ordered by Karnataka to 30 million.Narayan said that this includes 10 million doses of Covaxin and 20 million doses of Covishied.“”Till now we had depended only on vaccines supplied by the central government and it was not procured from the open market by floating tender. Now, it has been instructed to float the tender and to complete the process within 7 days,” Narayan added.The order comes at a time when the state is facing shortages of vaccines that has added to the mounting challenges of the BS Yediyurappa-led administration in containing the surge of Covid-19 infections.Karnataka recorded 39,510 new infections in the 24 hours on Tuesday that takes the total number of active cases to 587,452.The positivity rate stood at 33.99%, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department.Bengaluru reported 15,879 new infections, showing a decline for the third straight day and increasing hopes that the spike is likely showing signs of halting.The state reported 480 new fatalities of which 259 were in Bengaluru.Narayan added that the state will procure 1,00,000 pulse oximeters and these will be distributed to all the districts and taluks. He added that 1million of Ivermectin, the tablet which is required to treat the infected has been procured and the supply of this begins on May 14. It has been also asked to further procure 2.5 million tablets and it should be made available in all hospitals across the state. 3.5 million zinc tablets and 10 million colchicine tablets will be procured and will be made available in all district hospitals, taluk hospitals, PHCs, and community health centers, Narayan said.He added that there were 1.5 million RAT kits are in stocks that would last for another week and directed to procure 3.7 million more such kits. However, Karnataka has seen a sharp decline in testing over the last few days, which goes against the measures to contain the surge in the south Indian state. The Yediyurappa-led administration has announced lockdown-like measures across the state that came into effect on May 10 and will remain in force till at least May 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-to-float-global-tender-for-20mn-vaccine-doses-101620760587740.html
12-05-2021||India||Insecurity, fear grip Muslim volunteers after Surya’s remarks||Bengaluru: Bengaluru south Member of Parliament (MP) Tejasvi Surya’s communalisation of the bribe-for-bed fraud case last week has triggered a sense of fear and insecurity among Muslims Covid warriors, employees at the south war room said.A senior Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) official said that ever since the MP questioned the appointment of 16 Muslims last week, there has been a 40% attrition in the number of contract employees working at the south war room. All the Muslim employees were suspended but reinstated later.One of the call operators, on the condition of anonymity, said callers were more keen on knowing their names before narrating their troubles. “It is only after we share our names that they continue with the calls. It is really unfair to those minorities (Muslims) who have been working as hard as we are,” the operator said. Likewise, volunteers are also living under fear ever since the events at the south war room.“The communalisation of civic work was done very blatantly. The MP targeted Muslim employees at the centre and has refused to tender an apology. The volunteer group that I work with has several Muslim members and it is a matter of concern for us. We have several members who help bury and cremate bodies across religious lines. We have concerns over these developments,”a volunteer at the war room, who did not wish to be named, said.Another volunteer shared an incident in which he was denied a refill of the oxygen cylinder after he refused to identify himself. “I cannot be sure if they did not let me refill because of my identity. The reason they gave was that only government agencies were allowed refills from there, which was not true. We didn’t have time to fight since we had to provide oxygen urgently,” the volunteer said, preferring anonymity.Officials in the war room were not available for a comment at the time of filing this report.Meanwhile, a complaint was filed with HSR layout police station was filed against a Muslim data operator, Babu Sadiq, for alleged negligence that resulted in the death of a Covid-19 patients. In his complaint on May 5, a day after MP Surya courted controversy, Dr Mahesh Kumar, who was in charge of Anekal taluk war room in the outskirts of Bengaluru city, alleged that Sadiq allotted two regular beds and an HDU (high dependency unit) bed in three different hospitals while the patient had sought an ICU (intensive care unit) bed. While Sadiq was suspended from duty, police claimed that the employee at the war room had not committed any crime and had acted in the interest of the deceased’s family. “We didn’t find anything criminal in what he did. In fact, he acted in the best interest of the family. He told the family that the ICU was not available, and the family insisted they were ready to take the regular bed, saying they would convince the hospital to provide them with an ICU one (later),” an HSR Layout police officer said, preferring anonymity.As per investigation, the family repeatedly called the employee, seeking a normal bed in another hospital where they could try for an ICU later. “Even there, they didn’t get any bed. Finally, he was able to find an HDU bed but the patient had passed away by then. These details could have been verified had the war room called the patient. However, after the incident at the south war room (suspension of 17 Muslim employees), the war room officials didn’t want to take a chance,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/insecurity-fear-grip-muslim-volunteers-after-surya-s-remarks-101620760467679.html
12-05-2021||India||10-day lockdown in Telangana from today||The Telangana government on Tuesday announced imposition of a 10-day lockdown across the state, beginning Wednesday, to contain the spread of Covid-19. A decision to this effect was taken at an emergency cabinet meeting convened by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao in the afternoon. The decision was immediately conveyed to the state high court, which has been hearing a batch of petitions over the pandemic in the state. The decision comes within a week after the chief minister declared that there was no question of imposition of lockdown in the state on the ground that it would lead to collapse of the state’s economy and severely hamper the state’s attempt to procure paddy this season. According to an official release from the chief minister’s office, the decision to impose lockdown was taken following suggestions from sections of people in view of the intensity of the pandemic. The lockdown would be in force from 10 am on May 12 to 6 am on May 22. There would be relaxation in the lockdown for four hours every day – from 6 am to 10 am -- to enable the people to buy essential commodities. “All the shops and business establishments would be open during this four-hour period. For the remaining 20 hours, the lockdown would be strictly implemented. Only essential services would be allowed during the lockdown,” the official release said. The state cabinet will meet again on May 20 to review the situation and take a call on whether or not the lockdown should be extended. The cabinet decided to give exemption to certain activities from the lockdown. Works related to agriculture production and allied sectors, agriculture machinery, maintenance of rice mills, transport of paddy, supply to Food Corporation of India (FCI) warehouses, fertiliser and seed shops, and seed making units will continue during the lockdown period. The cabinet also decided to continue paddy procurement without hurdles during the lockdown in the interests of farmers. Permission would be given to pharmaceutical companies, medical equipment-manufacturing units, medical distributors, medical shops, all types of medical and health services and government and private hospitals to run their activity during the lockdown. Employees and labourers working in these units would be given special passes for attending to their duties. There would be no restrictions on essential services, such as drinking water supply, sanitation in rural and urban areas, power generation, distribution and their allied services, transportation of goods on national highways, petrol and diesel pumps on national highways, warehousing and cold storage activities, and print and electronic media. Exemption would also be given to employment guarantee scheme works. State government offices would run with 33 per cent staff. Banks and ATM centres would run without restrictions. The cabinet decided to allow marriages with prior permission, subject to the maximum attendance of 40 members. For funerals, a maximum of 20 persons would be allowed. The cabinet decided to set up checkposts on the borders of Telangana. Public transport, such as RTC buses and metro trains, would be available from 6 am to 10 am. Ration shops would be allowed to run during this four-hour period. Supply of LPG cylinders would continue as usual. The cabinet decided to close down cinema halls, swimming pools, clubs, gyms, amusement parks and sports stadia during the lockdown period. “The director general of police has been instructed to strictly implement the lockdown following the Covid guidelines,” the official release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10day-lockdown-in-telangana-from-today-101620760408830.html
12-05-2021||India||HC pulls up govt over 2nd dose of vaccines, asks state to come up with a road map||Bengaluru: The Karnataka high court on Tuesday pulled up the state and Central government on its plans to provide the second dose of vaccines to those above 45 years of age.The HC bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar subsequently ordered the state to come out with a road map for completing the vaccinations. “We hope and trust that if both the governments don’t take serious note of the desperate situation of vaccination and if a greater number of vaccines are not procured, the very object of vaccination will be frustrated. It may have a cascading effect,” the order said. During the proceedings, the Karnataka government informed the court that it is stopping the first dose, to provide second doses to those above the age of 45 years. However, the court quoting numbers questioned the availability of the vaccines. “Only 9,00,000 doses available. 1.6 million people need a second dose immediately. Forget about the 18-44 age group. They can’t even give a second dose. For people above 45 years, how will state give the second dose,” the bench pointed out. The Bench further added that the second dose of Covaxin should be taken within four weeks while asking about the implications of the delay in giving the second dose. “As per the target of 10.7million, 7.2 million have been given the first dose and over 1.1 million have been given the second dose. Hence, it is obvious that if the present scenario continues, the first dose cannot be given to front-line workers and 18-44 years…If the present scenario continues, the entire vaccination drive will be completely ineffective,” the bench said. Talking about the availability of oxygen, the court also pointed out that despite the Centre telling the court that the state’s oxygen quota is being increased from 965 MT to 1200 MT, no document has been placed on record to prove this said allocation. “The court, therefore, proceeded to direct the state government to place on record its daily requirement of oxygen from May 5 till May 11 and quantum of oxygen actually procured. The state government should also place on record projected requirement of state for at least for 1 week from tomorrow (Wednesday),” the HC directed. The court also made an observation about the incidents of the police excesses that were reported on the first day of the second lockdown. “Police excesses should be avoided, and people must co-operate with the government. If people are not cooperating, take them to the nearest police station,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-pulls-up-govt-over-2nd-dose-of-vaccines-asks-state-to-come-up-with-a-road-map-101620760348215.html
12-05-2021||India||Junior doctors threaten strike in Telangana over pay hike||Hyderabad: Junior resident doctors in various Telangana government hospitals have threatened to go on a strike if their demand for a 15 per cent hike in salaries, among others, are not met within two weeks.A notice to this effect was served by Telangana Junior Doctors Association (TJUDA) to the state medical and health department on Monday. The threat to observe a strike also comes at a time when several hospitals are struggling to tackle the Covid-19 surge. “We have given two weeks’ time to the government to fulfil our demands which have been pending for over a year. We shall go on a strike after May 25 and boycott all services, including emergency medical services,” TJUDA president Vasari Naveen Reddy told HT. According to Reddy, junior resident doctors are paid a monthly salary of ₹44,000 in the first year, ₹46,000 in the second and ₹48,000 in the third year of service in various teaching hospitals. “As per the contract, we have to get a 15 per cent hike in salary every year. The last time we got a hike was in 2019 and it was due for revision in January 2020. During last year’s coronavirus pandemic, the government agreed for the pay revision and the file was approved at all levels. It is awaiting clearance from chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao since the last five months,” Reddy said.A similar increase of 15 per cent in salary for senior resident doctors is also pending with the chief minister. “We ran from pillar to post to get the file approved but there has been no response from the government. Hence, as a last resort, we have decided to suspend work after duly giving a two-week notice to the government,” Reddy added. TJUDA also demanded the immediate payment of a 10 per cent incentive as promised by the chief minister to all healthcare workers during the pandemic last year. Another demand put forth by TJUDA is to give priority in treatment to healthcare workers and their family members who are affected by Covid-19.“In several government hospitals, healthcare workers and their family members are not able to get a bed for treatment. The Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) is always occupied with limited beds and we have urged the government to increase the bed capacity. We want the government to issue a circular for free treatment of healthcare workers and their family members,” the association president said. The association also demanded insurance be provided to medical students up to the level of post-graduates, in accordance with an earlier order. “An ex-gratia of ₹50 lakh for doctors and ₹25 lakh for nurse and supporting staff who died on duty that was announced (in September last year by the chief minister) has not been implemented so far,” he added. Reddy admitted that suspending work at this hour of crisis was not appropriate. “But there is no option left for us as the government has turned a deaf ear to our problems despite repeated reminders. Anyway, we have not resorted to any lightning strike, but have given a two-week notice to the government. If it is concerned for the people, it can solve our demands in the next two weeks,” he said.Director of Medical Education Dr Ramesh Reddy could not be reached for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/junior-doctors-threaten-strike-in-telangana-over-pay-hike-101620760288320.html
12-05-2021||India||Andhra CM writes to Modi, forms panel to check oxygen supply||Hyderabad: Taking serious note of the death of 11 Covid-19 patients due to disruption in oxygen supply at a government hospital in Chittoor district, Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday constituted a three-member committee of IAS officers to ensure uninterrupted procurement of the live-saving gas for the state.Besides this, in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi later in the day, the chief minister requested the Centre to increase its allocation of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) for the state. On Monday night, 11 Covid-19 patients died of asphyxiation after the oxygen supply was disrupted due to a brief delay in arrival of tankers from Sriperumbudur in Tamil Nadu to state-run Sri Venkata Ramnarayan Ruia Hospital in Tirupati, Chittoor district, officials said. The chief minister, who held a high-level meeting on Monday to review the incident and take stock of the oxygen situation, said Andhra Pradesh was procuring the gas from Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Odisha to meet its needs.Reddy announced the constitution of a panel of three senior IAS officers – special chief secretary (industries and commerce) Karikal Valaven, principal secretary (skill development and training) G Ananta Ramu and chairman of AP Pollution Control Board A K Parida – to look into the supply of oxygen from these states. “Valaven will take care of oxygen supplies from Tamil Nadu, Anata Ramu from Karnataka and Parida from Odisha. They will focus on enhancing the supply of oxygen from these states and ensure there is no time lag in its distribution to all government hospitals in the state. The committee will function from Wednesday,” an official release quoted the chief minister as saying.In his letter to Modi, Reddy urged the Centre to increase the allocation of LMO from the present 590 tonnes to 910 tonnes, besides 20 LMO tankers to meet the growing demand of hospitals in the state amid a massive surge in cases. The chief minister said out of the present allocation, 210 tonnes of LMO was allotted from Orissa which was around 1,400 km from Rayalaseema region, resulting in delay in supply. Besides, the state was currently drawing 35 tonnes from St Gobain, Chennai and 25 MT from INOX, Sriperumbudur in Tamil Nadu.“The delay in supply from Sriperumbudur led to the tragic incident in Tirupati hospital,” Jagan said. The chief minister announced an ex gratia of ₹10 lakh each for the kin of the 11 Covid-19 patients who died on Monday. “We shall reach out to each of these families and extend all possible help to them,” he said. The deceased were identified as S Fazulullah (41) from Kalikiri, Mohd Basha (47) from Tirupati, Devender Reddy (58) from Yerravaripalem, P Ghouse Basha (37) from Punganur, Venkata Subbaiah (28) from Rajampet, Tanuja Rani (48) from Gajula Manyam, K Babu (55) from Mangalam, D Shahith (27) from Varadayapalem, Bhuvaneshwar Babu (36) from Chittoor, Rajamma (71) from Vallamedu in Nellore and S Mohammad (72) from Tirupati. While the chief minister has already ordered a probe into the incident, no case has been registered so far.During the review meeting, Reddy directed that war rooms be created in every district to monitor the oxygen supply to various hospitals. “Whenever there is an SOS from any hospital, authorities should immediately respond and inform about the same to higher officials. The entire exercise should be closely monitored by district collectors,” he said. Jagan also asked officials to see whether there were any oxygen storage facilities in the districts, including in industries. “We have already taken the help of various agencies, including the Navy, to ensure timely supply of oxygen tankers to the districts. Sufficient care should be taken to ensure oxygen supply even in Covid Care Centres,” he said. The chief minister said the state medical and health department has already started the purchase of oxygen concentrators which would be supplied to all hospitals shortly. He asked hospital authorities to maintain oxygen supply pipes from time to time with the help of technical staff to ensure proper supply at the regulated pressure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-cm-writes-to-modi-forms-panel-to-check-oxygen-supply-101620760228174.html
12-05-2021||India||Free meals for poor at Indira canteens in B’luru till May 24: Yediyurappa||Bengaluru : Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Tuesday said that free meals will be provided for the poor in Bengaluru during the lockdown period to ease their hardships.“To ease hardships that come with the strict restrictions, three free meals will be made available to the poor, migrants and workers in need, at Indira Canteens in Bengaluru and across the state till May 24,” Yediyurappa said in a post on Twitter.The order comes at a time when Karnataka is under a strict lockdown to contain the surge of Covid-19 infections.Bengaluru reported 15,879 new infections, showing a decline for the third straight day and increasing hopes that the spike is likely showing signs of halting. However, fatality rates remain high as India’s IT capital accounted for 259 out of the total 480 deaths reported across the state. Karnataka and its capital Bengaluru are among the worst impacted regions in the country. On Tuesday, the state reported 39,510 infections, taking the active caseload to 587452.Bengaluru, which attracts migrants from across the state and country, has seen a significant number of them return to their home towns during last year’s lockdown. Although some of them returned late last year, the imminent restrictions over the second wave and accompanying restrictions has cast a cloud of uncertainty over them.To make matters worse, Bengaluru has been reeling under acute shortages of hospital beds, oxygen, life-saving medicines and even space in crematoriums due to the surge.The state government issued notices to Pharmaceutical majors, Cipla and Jubilant to immediately fulfil the supply obligation of Remdesivir vials as allotted by the centre.The two companies have been given a day to supply the quantity commitments of Remdesivir as allotted by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/free-meals-for-poor-at-indira-canteens-in-b-luru-till-may-24-yediyurappa-101620760227674.html
12-05-2021||India||K’taka Covid surge raging since May 1||Bengaluru Since May 1, Karnataka has recorded 490,051 new covid-19 infections that accounts for over 83% of the active caseload of 587452 which indicates the rapid spread of the virus in the southern state that is among the worst impacted by the pandemic.The spiralling surge threatens to put Karnataka as the most impacted region in the country if the same growth rate continues, data shows, which could add to the mounting troubles of the state and administration who are yet to get a grip on the deteriorating health crisis.Karnataka has the highest positivity rate in the country over the last one week at an average of 30.9% as against 23.8% in Delhi and 20.8% in Maharashtra. The national average during the same period is 22.3%, according to data compiled by the Hindustan Times.Karnataka has the second highest change in active cases since May 1 at 26%, just behind Tamil Nadu which recorded 51% but higher than Delhi at 38% and Maharashtra that has shown a degrowth of -16%, data shows.From the beginning of the month (May 1), Karnataka has seen at least 4333 deaths with fatality rates averaging over 1%, which is just 0.1% below the national average. Most of the surge in Karnataka has come from its biggest city and power centre, Bengaluru, that has accounted for 226,779 new infections since the beginning of the month. Bengaluru has the highest number of active cases in the country, even though there are indications of plateauing of cases in India’s IT capital, if data from the last few days is anything to go by.The sudden surge has sent the health crisis in Karnataka into a downward spiral, beating any estimates or preparedness--or the lack of it--as several people continue to lose their lives either due to the severity of the disease, or worse, shortage of oxygen or life-saving medicines and worse still, inability to find hospital beds for treatment.Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday directed officials to increase preparedness for the imminent third wave. But his administration’s inability to contain the surge despite warnings in November by the government-appointed technical advisory committee (TAC) has come under severe criticism from all quarters.On Tuesday, Yediyurappa said that there were over 840 persons who have remained in hospitals for over 20 days which had blocked beds for more serious patients.“This way they are staying here (hospital) unncessarily and instead of going home and taking treatment, they remain at hospitals and serious patients are not getting the opportunity to get beds,” Yediyurappa told reporters in Bengaluru.He said that the total number of beds have increased from 3000 on April 1 to around 12299 currently.But the situation in Bengaluru is slightly more complicated. Several individuals and other volunteer groups have been helping covid-19 infected persons secure beds, medicine, oxygen and even cremations as the covid infrastructure in the state collapses.Bengaluru, also known as India’s IT capital, has recorded at least 2199 deaths in May alone, that has flooded crematoriums, forcing the state to even look at erstwhile landfill sites to cremate those who have lost the battle to the virus.The state’s vaccination drive has also not gone according to plan, data shows, indicating that it was falling short of its own target of 300,000 inoculations every day by over 50% at least.There was a marginal uptick in the daily vaccinations as 126806 persons got their shots on Tuesday till 3.30 pm.The state has so far vaccinated 10759572 persons. However, only 2222325 have got both doses which accounts for 3.4% of the total population of the state, estimated around 6.5 crores.While almost all the focus remains on Bengaluru, the situation in other districts of the state, where healthcare infrastructure is far more inadequate, increases and adds to concerts if these regions will also witness its local systems collapse.Tumakuru, Mysuru, Ballari, Dakshina Kannada, Uttara Kannada, Shivamogga and Udupi are among the worst affected districts in the state, data shows.These districts are reporting higher fatalities as well.“Fatality rates are high in some districts and we are finding out reasons for this. Early detection and treatment is the key to recovery and preventing casualties. The positivity rate in the state is 33.09% and our aim is to bring it down to 5%,” K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s health, family welfare and medical education minister said on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-covid-surge-raging-since-may-1-101620760168723.html
12-05-2021||India||Positivity rate in 42% of total districts higher than national average: ICMR||As high as 42% of the country’s 733 districts are reporting a Covid-19 test positivity rate of more than the national average of about 21%, officials said on Tuesday, underscoring the need for containment efforts to be further tightened across the country.At least 26 states are showing a case positivity rate of 15% and above; six states are reporting between 5 and 15%, and only four states currently have a positivity rate of 5% or less,lower than the World Health Organisation-defined threshold for an outbreak to be considered as under control. The positivity rate is the proportion of positive samples among those tested in a day.“India is facing a massive surge of Covid-19 cases… and the national positivity rate is around 20-21%. And about 42% of the districts, which is about 310, are reporting more than the national average,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), during the Covid-19 media briefing on Tuesday.“If you look at the India numbers, then we find high case positivity rate of 25% and above in 9 states, and about 10 states have the case positivity rate between 20 and 25%. Government of India is in constant touch with these states to look at effective ways through which disease transmission can be curtailed,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union health ministry.Among the top 5 states in terms of high case positivity rate are Goa (49.6%), Puducherry (42.8%), West Bengal (34.4%), Haryana (34.3%), and Karnataka (32.4%).Also read | States can procure only 20 million Covid-19 jabs for 18+ in MayAccording to experts in the government, early testing, isolation, and home-based care is the key to break the disease transmission cycle.The country’s RT-PCR testing—the gold standard to detect Covid-19— capacity is 1.6 million per day, and rapid antigen testing capacity is around 1.7 million tests per day, the official added. There are about 2,520 laboratories across the country doing Covid-19 testing.“The laboratories have been working literally 24x7 to meet the testing demand. Despite infection among lab staff, test performance is still being maintained. In April-May we are doing on an average of about 16-20 lakh RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) combined. We have recently come out with a revised Covid-19 testing advisory. Sometimes we have to wait for the results so that is a bit of a problem, and that is why we have come out with the revised advisory, and given it to all the states also,” said Dr Bhargava.The official said the ICMR has done three things to cope with the current wave: rationalise RT-PCR testing to meet the excessive demand; Covid-19 tests approved by reputed global agencies have been accorded marketing permission by Drugs Controller General of India, VG Somani; and RAT (rapid antigen) testing has been increased for early detection, isolation and home care.Bhargava also mentioned that ICMR was exploring home based testing solutions to detect Covid-19.Experts say that RAT is good at detecting positive cases, and can be deployed to test symptomatic individuals for Covid-19.“During high case load that we are seeing now, RAT can be deployed to get faster results, which is what is the need of the hour. We cannot afford to wait for days for a test report to arrive. So, sooner a positive person is isolated, the better it is in curtailing the chain of transmission. In fact, those who get symptoms should simply isolate themselves, and not wait for the test report to come,” said Jugal Kishore, head, community medicine department, Safdarjung Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/positivity-rate-in-42-of-total-districts-higher-than-national-average-icmr-101620760168195.html
12-05-2021||India||SC to hear Centre’s Char Dham road project plea tomorrow||The Supreme Court on Tuesday showed urgency to decide the fate of the Char Dham road expansion project after the Centre cited “national security” concerns to complete the project involving three strategic roads leading to the international border with China.A vacation bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari agreed to hear the matter on Thursday and asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, to submit a compilation of all relevant government notifications and court orders needed to decide the case.In September last year, the Supreme Court had directed the width of the road to be 5.5 metre based on a minority report of a 26-member High Powered Committee (HPC). This width was fixed as per a 2018 notification issued by the Ministry of Road, Transport and Highways (MoRTH). Later, the ministry amended its notification and filed an application in the top court against its September 8, 2020 order.The Ministry of Defence too had filed a separate application in December last year supporting the MoRTH. It requested the court to allow the road width to be increased to 7 metre (or 7.5 metre where there is a raised kerb) to facilitate movement of heavy vehicles carrying troops, self-propelled artillery and various machinery on each carriageway of the roads. The Char Dham expansion projects involved three strategic roads: 281-kilometre long Rishikesh to Mana (NH-58), 231-km Rishikesh to Gangotri (NH-94, 108) and 162-km Tanakpur to Pithoragarh (NH-125). The Centre had come prepared to argue the case on Tuesday but a request for adjournment was moved by NGO Citizens for Green Doon, which has opposed the road expansion by raising environmental concerns. Appearing for the NGO, senior advocate Colin Gonsalves submitted to the court that several persons in his office and in the NGO assisting him in the case were infected with Covid-19 and requested the matter to be heard after three weeks.Attorney General KK Venugopal, also appearing for the Centre, did not oppose the adjournment but informed the court about the urgency of the matter as heavy trucks and army vehicles use these roads to reach Chinese border.SG Mehta vehemently opposed the petitioner’s request for adjournment, saying, “This is a question of national security. These are roads on Indo-China border and work cannot stop.”The bench appreciated the urgency expressed by the Centre and refused to adjourn the matter by three weeks. Instead, the court said, “It’s about the border roads. Attorney General has already made a statement. We will hear it (on Thursday).” However, the bench wished to know if there was a stay operating against further work involving the project.Gonsalves told the court that the road expansion work had progressed despite the September 2020 order. Meanwhile, the Supreme Court had in December 2020 asked the HPC to consider the latest applications filed by MoRTH and Ministry of Defence and submit a report. This report prepared by HPC on December 31, 2020 gave approval for the Char Dham project roads to have a double-lane carriageway width of 7 metres, as desired by the Centre and army.However, the HPC chairman in February this year wrote to the Supreme Court that the recent disaster in the Rishiganga Valley exposed the “vulnerability and disaster proneness of the region”. This is bound to increase with extensive disturbances such as deforestation, slope cutting, blasting, tunneling, damming of rivers associated with the road expansion work. Several chronic landslide-prone locations and stretches where the slope stability is precarious exist on the three Char Dham highway roads, the letter further stated. The Centre, however, denied any link between the Rishiganga Valley disaster with the ongoing Char Dham road expansion project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-centre-s-char-dham-road-project-plea-tomorrow-101620760049873.html
12-05-2021||India||Centre to disburse next instalment of PM Kisan to over 90mn on May 14||The Union government will disburse the next instalment of PM Kisan, the federal cash transfer scheme for farmers, on May 14, a tranche that will see a few financial and political milestones.Prime Minister Narendra Modi picked May 14 as the release date to coincide with Eid, an official with knowledge of the matter said. The last instalment of PM-Kisan was paid on Christmas i.e. December 25, 2020.In a turnaround, the Mamata Banerjee-led West Bengal government, which resisted implementing the scheme so far, has joined the cash transfer scheme for the first time, the official said. This was reported over the weekend.In the upcoming tranche, about 90.5 million farmers have qualified to receive cash directly in their accounts, around ₹19,000 crore in all, the highest single tranche to be paid so far, according to the official cited above.The last instalment on December 25, 2020 was worth ₹18,000 crore, although total payouts for that period ended up being higher due to additional farmers being validated.The payouts slated for May 14 will be the first instalment of PM Kisan for financial year 2021-22.Under PM-KISAN, the government provides income support of ₹6,000 a year to farmers with a valid enrolment, paid in three equal cash transfers of ₹2,000. It is paid once every four months: December to March, April to July and August to November. It was launched on 24 February 2019, when the first instalment was paid.Although the government may choose any date between April and July to pay the financial year’s first instalment, last year, most beneficiaries were paid by April 20. States faced considerable hurdles, such as manpower shortage, in compilation and uploading of farmers’ data for the due instalment due to a crippling second wave of Covid-19 infections.“The Centre gave states extra time to complete their part of the process such as opening and closing of lots (which refers to farmers’ data),” the official said.States have to upload data to a centralized public finance management system, a platform that auto verifies bank accounts and checks biometric Aadhaar details of beneficiaries sent by states. These are then sent back to states for physical signatures.The Trinamool Congress-led West Bengal government signed on to the scheme on May 4. Nearly 700,000 farmers from the state are set to be paid ₹2000 each as direct cash transfer for the first time.“The farmers’ data from West Bengal have been validated and sent back to the state for final signatures. Farmers there will receive cash payouts on May 14,” the official said.West Bengal’s inclusion – or onboarding – in PM Kisan happened on May 4, a day after Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar wrote to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, urging her to send farmers’ data for the scheme.“Chief minister Mamata Banerjee agreed to the state’s inclusion in the scheme quite sometime back. In fact she had written to the Centre. It’s the implementation that will now happen,” a Trinamool Congress spokesperson said.A Union government official aware of the developments said West Bengal asked for its share of the cash to be transferred to the state government. The Union agriculture ministry declined the request, saying PM-Kisan was a direct cash transfer scheme, which gets paid into farmers’ bank accounts.To be sure, the Modi government’s cash-for-farmers scheme still faces implementation hurdles, such as glitches in Aadhaar-based enrolment, slow internet connections in many rural centres and messy land records, the farm ministry had told a parliamentary panel last year.Eligible farmer families are identified on the basis of operational land holding data according to the agricultural Census Data 2015-16, which is then extrapolated to 2018-19, an official said. It’s the job of state governments to provide accurate beneficiary data and payments are continuously updated.“The Centre has to simultaneously work with state governments to clean up a lot of spurious data because right-to-information queries in the past have shown that ineligible individuals had been paid under PM-Kisan,” said RS Mani, a former economist with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-disburse-next-instalment-of-pm-kisan-to-over-90mn-on-may-14-101620760048652.html
12-05-2021||India||Modi calls off UK visit for G7 Summit as pandemic rages||New Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called off his visit to the UK to attend the G7 Summit as a special invitee because of the Covid-19 situation in the country, the external affairs ministry announced on Tuesday.Prime Minister Boris Johnson invited Modi and the leaders of Australia, South Korea and South Africa as guests to the G7 Summit to be hosted by the UK in Cornwall during June 11-13. This would have been Modi’s second foreign visit this year, after a trip to Bangladesh in March to attend celebrations marking the 50th anniversary of the neighbouring country’s independence.“While appreciating the invitation to the Prime Minister by UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson to attend the G7 Summit as a special invitee, given the prevailing Covid situation, it has been decided that the Prime Minister will not attend the G7 Summit in person,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said.The move came days after Modi called off a planned visit to the Portuguese city of Porto to participate in the India-EU Summit on May 8. The meeting was subsequently held in a virtual format.External affairs minister S Jaishankar visited the UK to attend the G7 foreign ministers meeting in London during May 3-5, but he and his delegation had to go into self-isolation after two members tested positive for Covid-19.The pandemic has also affected the schedule for bilateral visits between India and the UK this year. Johnson called off plans to visit India twice – he cancelled a trip that was to begin on April 25 following a surge in infections in India, and in January, he cancelled a trip in order to focus on his government’s response to a new coronavirus variant that was spreading rapidly in the UK.Modi and Johnson held a virtual summit on May 4, during which they launched an Enhanced Trade Partnership and a Mobility and Migration Partnership, and unveiled a roadmap to boost bilateral ties over the next decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-calls-off-uk-visit-for-g7-summit-as-pandemic-rages-101620759988229.html
12-05-2021||India||Cong panels to look into poll results, Covid relief||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday formed two committees to look into the poor showing of the party in the recent assembly elections, and to coordinate Covid-19 relief activities, a move that underlined efforts to woo key members of the so-called “G23 group” of letter writers who demanded sweeping changes in the organisation last year.The panel to “evaluate the results of recently concluded assembly elections” includes Ashok Chavan, Salman Khurshid, Manish Tewari, Vincent Pala and Jothi Mani. The group, chaired by Chavan, has been asked to submit its report within two weeks. The Congress was decimated in West Bengal, failed to capture power in Kerala and Assam, lost power in Puducherry before the elections and failed to regain it, and is a junior partner in the ruling coalition in Tamil Nadu.The other panel is headed by former Union health minister Ghulam Nabi Azad, one of the most prominent faces of the group that wrote the letter The 13-member body also includes Ambika Soni, Mukul Wasnik, Pawan Bansal, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, KC Venugopal, Jairam Ramesh, Randeep Surjewala, Manish Chatrath, Ajoy Kumar, Pawan Khera, Gurdeep Singh Sappal and Indian Youth Congress president BV Srinivas, who has been playing a crucial role in the Covid-19 relief operations.While the two committees have tasks cut out for them, party leaders were quick to point out the significance of the presence of Azad and Tewari in the panels. A senior leader said that this was the first time after Azad retired from the Rajya Sabha as the Leader of Opposition that the party formally appointed him for an assignment. The leader, who spoke on condition of anonymity, added that in a Congress Working Committee meeting on April 17, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had suggested that Azad be involved in matters related to the Covid-19 pandemic.Party insiders feel Tewari has also been included in the panel to analyse poll results for his organisational experience in Youth Congress as well as his understanding of parliamentary politics.Tewari, who campaigned for the party in the recently concluded assembly polls, has also found a position for another key assignment. The presence of Azad, Tewari and Mukul Wasnik also underlines the Congress’s efforts to bring back as many members of the “G23” as possible into key affairs. Some prominent collaborators of that letter have, however, remained out of favour.While the plan to set up a panel to oversee relief operations was discussed last week, Sonia Gandhi announced in the CWC meet on Monday that a committee would be formed to analyse the election results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-panels-to-look-into-poll-results-covid-relief-101620759867718.html
12-05-2021||India||ED attaches ₹77cr of Chinese firms in fraud case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached ₹76.67 crore, lying in various bank accounts and payment gateways pertaining to Chinese loan app companies and their Indian associates, agency said in a statement said.The central anti-money laundering probe agency had launched a probe against China backed fintech lenders in January this year on the basis of various FIRs registered by CID, Bengaluru based on the complaints received from various customers, who had availed loan and faced harassment from the recovery agent of these money lending companies.In a statement, ED said “the amount attached by it pertains to seven companies out of which three are fintech companies namely Mad Elephant Network Technology Private Limited, Baryonyx Technology Private Limited and Cloud Atlas Future Technology Private Limited which are controlled by the Chinese nationals and three NBFCs (Non-Banking Financial Companies) registered with RBI (Reserve Bank of India) namely - X10 Financial Services Private Limited, Track Fin-ed Private Limited and Jamnadas Morarjee Finance Private Limited.”“The Fintech companies have agreement with respective NBFCs for disbursement of loans through digital lending apps. The amount attached by ED also include amount of fee charged by a leading Bengaluru based fintech payment company to the extent of ₹86.44 lakhs for not conducting due diligence in case of one company enrolled with it for disbursement and collection of loans,” agency said.The ED said its money laundering investigation revealed that these Chinese loan apps offered loans to individuals and levied usurious rate of interest and processing fees.“The loan apps through their recovery agents resorted to systematic abuse, harassment and threatening to the defaulters through the call centres for coercive recovery of the loans by obtaining sensitive data of the user stored on mobile such as contacts, photographs and using them to defame or blackmail to the borrower. They even threatened the borrowers by sending fake legal notices to their relatives and family members,” agency statement added.“Investigation further revealed that the money lending business has been indeed being run by these fintech companies for which they are not authorized to do under any law and these NBFCs knowingly let these fintech companies to use their names for the sake of getting commission without being careful about the conduct of these fintech companies in dealing with the customers who are vulnerable section of the society and are in dire need of funds due to prevailing pandemic situation. The same is also violation of the Fair Practices Code of RBI,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-attaches-77cr-of-chinese-firms-in-fraud-case-101620759807700.html
12-05-2021||India||Over 175 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India so far: Centre||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has gone past 17.51 crore, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday. It said 4,74,629 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years received their first dose of Covid vaccine on Tuesday and cumulatively 30,39,287 across 30 states and union territories since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country stands at 17,51,71,482 according to the 8 pm provisional report, the ministry said. The total of 17,51,71,482 include 95,81,872 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 65,38,656 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,41,45,083 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose, 79,50,430 FLWs who have taken the second dose, and 30,39,287 in the age group of 18-44 years who have received the first dose.Besides, 5,58,70,091 and 78,17,926 beneficiaries over 45 to 60 years old have been administered the first and second dose while, 5,39,54,858 and 1,62,73,279 beneficiaries above 60 years have taken the first and the second dose.As on day-116 of the vaccination drive (May 11), total 23,85,092 vaccine doses were given. It said 10,65,634 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 13,19,458 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine according to the provisional report till 8 pm. Final reports would be completed for the day by late night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-175-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-so-far-centre-101620758753891.html
12-05-2021||India||Over 80 bodies found in Ganga in UP, Bihar||Local administration fished at least 70 corpses out of the Ganga in Bihar’s Buxar district on Tuesday and residents spotted 12 dead bodies floating in the same river upstream in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh’s Ghazipur district, triggering probes in both states and speculation that the bodies belonged to Covid patients.Buxar district magistrate (DM) Aman Samir said 71 bodies were recovered over the past 24 hours at Mahadeva ghat in Chausa village, a day after 30 corpses were seen floating in the river at the same spot.Samir said he proposed conducting autopsy of the bodies but that was not possible. “The doctors refused as the dead bodies are in highly decomposed condition and seem to be five to six days old,” he said. District administration officials said that some bodies were covered with shrouds. Such bodies are generally wrapped in plastic sheets.Roughly 40 km upstream from Chausa, at least 12 bodies were found floating in Bara and Gahmar areas of Ghazipur district of Uttar Pradesh. The local administration initiated a probe into the matter.“Our officials are present on the spot and an investigation is underway. We are trying to find out from where these bodies came,” Ghazipur district magistrate MP Singh said. Bara town shares a boundary with Buxar. Gahmar is two kilometres away.Also read | After Bihar, bodies found abandoned in Ganga in UPThe recovery of decomposed corpses in the Ganga has set off alarm bells in the administration and among residents in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, especially because the river acts as a source of drinking water and livelihood. Local activists have alleged that the bodies belong to Covid patients who couldn’t be given a proper funeral due to shortages and fear of the virus in rural areas. The administration in both states have ordered probes and said many bodies were far too decomposed to conduct tests.On Tuesday, Union minister of Jal Shakti, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, termed the incidents as “unfortunate” and asked concerned states to take immediate cognizance.“The incident of corpses found floating in the Ganga in Buxar region of Bihar is unfortunate. This is definitely a matter of investigation. The Modi government is committed to the cleanliness ‘mother’ Ganga. This incident is unexpected. The concerned states should take immediate cognizance in this regard,” Shekhawat tweeted.In Buxar, the district administration said the DNA of corpses will be preserved. “Here at Buxar and also in Bihar there is a custom to burn the dead bodies but when a team was sent to Ghazipur district of Uttar Pradesh to find the truth, it was found that some people believe in the custom to throw the dead bodies in river rather than to burn it,” Samir said.The administration is also performing the last rites of bodies. “The religion of dead bodies is not known, and the dead bodies are in decomposed condition, so it has been decided to bury all the bodies. For this, large pits have been dug,” the DM said. At the time of filling this report, Chausa circle officer (CO) Nawalkant (only one name) said that 71 dead bodies have been recovered and the process to dispose of them is continuing.Senior police officials in Bihar said there was little doubt that the bodies had floated down from upstream states -- a charge denied by Uttar Pradesh.In Ghazipur, local residents said they sounded alarm on Tuesday morning. “I received information that two bodies were floating in the Ganga in Bara area of Ghazipur. I along with my team reached the spot...this is a matter of grave concern,” said Ramesh Kumar Maurya, sub divisional magistrate of Sevrai division.Mubarakpur village chief, Shyamnarayan Singh, said some families had dumped the bodies in the river because they couldn’t afford cremations. “In rural pocket, this has been taking place for the last one week,” said former village chief of Gahmar, Durga Chaurasia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-80-bodies-found-in-ganga-in-up-bihar-101620759387610.html
12-05-2021||India||Vedic science, Vaastu in MP’s new vocational curriculum||Vedic knowledge is at the core of the new vocational education syllabus being framed by the Madhya Pradesh higher education department, officials said.The new curriculum will have special focus on Vedic Karmkand (rituals), Jyotishi (astrology), Vedic science and Vastu Shastra (a mix of architecture and spirituality). This is apart from other vocational courses such hotel management, dietary science and physical training.“Two vocational subjects will be mandatory for students. One will be generic and other specialised,” said a state education department official who asked not to be named.Confirming the changes being made, another officer of the department said that in generic subjects, students will learn about the rich ancient knowledge of India along with basics of subjects such as physics, chemistry, math and biology.“By reading from many ancient books and the vedas, students will realise that Indian saints were intelligent and discovered so many things centuries ago,” the second officer added, asking not to be named.The specialized subjects will include Vedic Karmakand, Vedic science and astrology, yoga, hotel management and dietary science, the first officer said.The curriculum framing committee has also decided that the state government will promote new Indian writers and remove Shakespeare and other foreign writers from the syllabus, first officer said.“There are so many Indian writers who have contributed to English literature. Why should we force students to read Shakespeare,” a third officer of the department said, adding that students would also be taught about the history and culture of Madhya Pradesh. This officer, who didn’t want to be named didn’t specify the Indian writers whose work will now be included.Educationists said the Bharatiya Janata Party-led state government is pushing the agenda of its ideological parent, the RSS.Bhopal based educationist GL Dubey wondered about the purpose of new curriculum. “Does the government want to provide new job opportunities to youth or push their agenda in name of rich culture of India? ”Devi Ahilya Vishwavidhyalaya’s former vice-chancellor Narendra Dhakad said, “There is so much focus on coding and other technologies skills and the government wants to introduce Vedic Karmkand in higher education. For such courses, Sanskrit universities and colleges are already there so what is need of introducing it as a vocational course.”The principal secretary of the state’s higher education department Anupam Rajan disagreed: “ 1,500 subject experts in 79 boards are preparing a syllabus which will be different from syllabus of traditional courses. The list of vocational courses has been prepared as per job requirements in the market.”Higher education minister Mohan Yadav added: “We want to provide employment to students after graduation and post-graduation. We also want to enhance their scientific knowledge about vedas so that they can contribute something towards society.”“There is such a huge demand for astrology and experts of Vedic Karmakand and we want to give the student a choice to become self-employed with this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vedic-science-vaastu-in-mp-s-new-vocational-curriculum-101620758011320.html
12-05-2021||India||Over 5k soldiers infected as 2nd wave hits armed forces||More than 5,000 soldiers from the three services are currently undergoing treatment for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in military hospitals across the country, almost a fivefold jump in hospital admissions in the three weeks since a second wave of infections tightened its grip on the country, according to official figures accessed by HT.The cases under hospitalisation in the military increased from 1,067 on April 18 to 5,134 on May 10, reflecting in some measure the wider national trend of a surge in coronavirus infections.To be sure, the 1.5-million strong armed forces have largely managed to check the transmission of the virus and keeping the mortality rate low by adhering to strict Covid protocols -- 133 deaths of serving soldiers have been reported since the pandemic broke out last year (including 17 in the three-week period cited above).The figures show that the cumulative number of soldiers discharged from military hospitals after being treated for the disease after the first outbreak in 2020 stands at 45,413 (as of May 10, 2021). Almost all soldiers in the armed forces have been fully vaccinated against the coronavirus.Veterans suffering from Covid also account for a considerable load at military hospitals. A total of 1,814 ex-servicemen are currently being treated at these hospitals, compared to 356 three weeks ago. At 1,027, the cumulative veteran deaths outnumber the serving fatalities -- 44 veterans died on May 9 alone.Military hospitals have discharged 5,242 veterans after treatment since last year. There are more than 3.2 million ex-servicemen in the country.Dependents of serving soldiers and ex-servicemen are also battling the coronavirus in military hospitals. A total of 3,662 dependents of serving soldiers and 1,439 dependents of veterans were undergoing treatment in military hospitals as of May 10, compared to corresponding April 18 figures of 667 and 166.The cumulative number of dependents in both categories discharged after treatment since last year stands at 11,820. Dependent deaths add up to 2,094.Dependents include spouses, sons (till the age of 25 or when they start earning, whichever is earlier), unmarried/divorced daughters, parents with monthly income of less than ₹9,000 and special children for life. The number of military dependents in India is around 2.3 million.Taken together, 12,049 soldiers, ex-servicemen and dependents are currently in military hospitals for treatment, with the cumulative death figure since last year being 2,611.In all, military hospitals admitted a total of 77,135 soldiers, veterans and their dependents over the last 14 months and discharged 63,631 patients. Civilians are also being treated at military hospitals and currently account for 448 admissions, up from 71 three weeks ago. The hospitals have recorded 177 civilian deaths since last year.While catering to the health needs of serving soldiers, veterans and their dependents, the military is also operating in full battle mode for national Covid relief and foresees a bigger role for itself in the coming weeks and months to help civilian authorities tackle the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-5k-soldiers-infected-as-2nd-wave-hits-armed-forces-101620757888697.html
12-05-2021||India||Ten states gear up to import vaccines; bottlenecks remain||At-least 10 states have decided to float global tenders to buy Covid-19 vaccines from international manufacturers even though officials said that there is no clarity by when these manufacturers will be able to supply the vaccines, because most vaccine supplies have been mopped up by countries -- some of which have ordered enough to vaccinate their population twice or thrice over.There is another procedural problem -- India’s drug regulator has to approve the vaccine for its import. Thus far, it has approved only three, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin; Serum Institute’s Covishield, and Russia’s Sputnik V.The Centre allowed the states to procure vaccines from manufacturers to carry out Covid vaccination for those in 18 to 44 age group and decided to continue supplying vaccines to states for older people and front line workers.On Tuesday, the governments of Karnataka, Uttarakhand, Delhi and Telangana decided to float global tenders to buy vaccines as Indian manufacturers Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech are unable to meet the demand of the states to provide vaccination to all adults. Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Odisha have previously announced plans to import vaccines.The Karnataka government on Tuesday said that it has decided to launch a short-term global tender for 20 million doses of covid-19 vaccines.Also read | States can procure only 20 million Covid-19 jabs for 18+ in May“In order to meet the increased demand and to facilitate vaccination of the age group of 18-44 years, 20 million Covid vaccines will be procured through global tender,” CN Ashwath Narayan, Deputy Chief Minister and state Covid task force head, said in a statement on Tuesday. This tender woill be in addition to 30 million vaccines ordered by the state government from Bharat Biotech and SII.The two companies are expected to manufacture 85 million doses in May and June, of which states will be entitled to around 20 million (the Centre will get half, and private hospitals another 20 million). That’s no where close to what states need although the situation is expected to improve by July by when Bharat Biotech hopes to increase its capacity to 55 million doses a month and SII, 100 million.Neighbouring Telangana also decided to float global tenders to procure vaccine. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has asked the officials to work out the details in the next few days, an official note from the CMO said.The Uttarakhand government on Tuesday decided to float global tenders for procurement of COVID vaccines including Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik and formed a committee of officials to work out the modalities. Yugal Kishore, additional secretary in Uttarakhand government, said the global tender will be floated within this week. “We will decide tomorrow on how much stock of vaccines needs to be imported.”Officials and political functionaries in several states said that there was no clarity on by when the international vaccine manufacturers would be able to provide vaccines.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said the state government has written to Russian Direct Investment Fund for the import of Sputnik V asking about the quantity available and the time schedule of delivery. “There was no response to the enquiry,” he said. A Rajasthan government officials said that international manufacturers were not responding to queries on availability of vaccines with them. Sputnik V is being distributed in India by Dr Reddy’s Laboratories.Earlier, the Maharashtra government had announced a global tender for procurement of the vaccines manufactured by international firms such as Pfizer, Johnson and Johnson.“We want the Centre to give the approvals to other vaccines like they have given it to Sputnik V. Central authorities should act on this fast for the approvals to other vaccines so that the state can directly procure them through global tendering,” said Tope said.Maharashtra has set titself the target of vaccinating 57.1 million people in the age group of 18-44 years in six months by procuring 120 million doses of vaccines.The Uttar Pradesh government on May 5 decided to float a global e-tender to procure 40 million doses of vaccines (the last day of online submission is May 21). Chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced on April 29 that state government would float global tenders to procure 40-50 million doses.The state government previously placed orders for the supply of 10 million Covid vaccine doses —50 lakh vaccine doses each from Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India (SII) . Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said the state government has received 3.50 lakh doses of Covishield from SII and three lakh doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech till Sunday.In Andhra Pradesh, too, chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday decided to go global in search of vaccines, but the process is yet to commence. Director of Odisha Health services Bijay Mohapatra on Tuesday said the state government would soon fix the modalities for the global tender. “We have not decided on a timeline as to when the vaccines from global companies would be available. But we expect to get them quickly.”Rajasthan government on Sunday decided to import vaccines and has sought clarification on imports from the Drug Controller of India. “Only those vaccines approved by Drug Controller can be imported. Only Covaxin, Covishield and Sputnik are approved by Drug Controller,” said a Rajasthan government official, who asked not to be named.Several states have either slowed or suspended vaccinations for people in the 18-44 age group people because of shortage of vaccines . Maharashtra and Rajasthan are vaccinating only those above 45 and Odisha has closed half of its vaccination centres. The pace of vaccination has reduced in several states due to dose crunch. “Earlier, we used to administer 2.80 lakh doses a day, but now the figure has drastically come down to 40,000-50,000 per day,” Mahopatra said.However, several states such as Bihar, Punjab, Goa and Himachal Pradesh are yet to decide on floating global tenders. Officials in these states said they were getting adequate vaccines from the Indian manufacturers. According to Punjab’s Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Hussan Lal, there is no plan to purchase Covid vaccines from the global market.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ten-states-gear-up-to-import-vaccines-bottlenecks-remain-101620757827529.html
12-05-2021||India||Antilia security threat case: Sachin Vaze dismissed from Mumbai Police||Former Mumbai crime branch police officer Sachin Vaze, under arrest for his suspected role in planting explosives outside the home of industrialist Mukesh Ambani and the death of a businessman, was summarily dismissed from service on Tuesday.The newly appointed Mumbai police commissioner (CP) Hemant Nagrale dismissed Vaze, who was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on March 13.The 49-year-old assistant inspector of police headed the Crime Intelligence Unit of the crime branch before he was placed under suspension for his suspected role in planting 20 loose gelatin sticks in a Scorpio vehicle outside Antilia, in south Mumbai, on the intervening night of February 24-25. Vaze was also named as the prime suspect in the death of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran, who was in possession of the SUV and whose body washed up ashore a creek on March 5.Nagrale issued an order under Article 311(2)(B) of the Constitution which empowers appointing authorities to summarily dismiss from service a member of civil service without holding a departmental inquiry, where the authority is satisfied that it is not reasonably practicable to hold such an inquiry.The CP cited several findings of the NIA probe into the two connected cases against Vaze as grounds for dismissal. This included Vaze’s alleged attempts at destruction of evidence in the explosives case, Hiran’s murder purportedly committed to destroy evidence and stall investigation, the booking of a room at a South Mumbai five star hotel using a fake identity card, as well as the possession of 62 unaccounted live ammunition and suspected unauthorised use of 25 rounds of his service pistol.Nagrale also cited suspected acts of impersonation, forgery, and floating of companies that conducted financial transactions running into crores of rupees as reasons for Vaze to be summarily dismissed.“For the reasons recorded above, that the holding of a regular departmental enquiry against API Sachin Hindurao Vaze, will not be reasonably practicable,” the order stated. “Thus, he is dismissed from service with immediate effect,” it added.Officials at state police headquarters said a similar proposal for the summary dismissal of another Mumbai police officer arrested in the case, Vaze’s former colleague at the criminal intelligence unit of the Mumbai crime branch, API Riyazuddin Kazi, is under process.Nagrale’s predecessor Param Bir Singh was transferred to head the Maharashtra Home Guards on March 17, following Vaze’s arrest.Vaze was originally in charge of investigation of the bomb scare case, but was removed after reports emerged of his links with Hiran, who had reported the SUV stolen on February 17, 2021. After Hiran’s body was found on March 5, it emerged that Vaze had borrowed the Scorpio from Hiran in November and had returned it on February 5.The NIA took over the explosives case on March 8 and the murder case on March 24. Vaze was named the main accused in both, and was arrested by NIA on March 13.The NIA has arrested two more Mumbai police officers -- Kazi and police inspector Sunil Mane -- for their alleged involvement in both cases. A bookie, Naresh Gor and a former constable, Vinayak Shinde, have also been arrested for their suspected role in Hiran’s death.Vaze was suspended from service in 2004, and resigned in 2007 after the state initiated a case against him for his role in the custodial death of a blast accused. He was reinstated by the former Mumbai police commissioner, Singh, in 2020.Vaze is also being prosecuted for custodial death of Khawaja Yunus, an accused in Ghatkopar bomb blast case of 2002.Yunus, an engineer, was arrested by the Mumbai crime branch in connection with the bomb blast case, and later reportedly died in police custody. The state Crime Investigation Department (CID) had, in March 2004 charged Vaze and three other police personnel -- Rajendra Tiwari, Rajaram Nikam and Sunil Desai -- with murder and destruction of evidence. Following this, Vaze was placed under suspension.Vaze, who was inducted in police service as sub-inspector on June 20, 1990 and who was promoted to the post of API in June 2003, eventually resigned from service on November 30, 2007. The following year, he joined the Shiv Sena. Though the trial in Yunus’ custodial death case is yet to be concluded, Vaze was reinstated in service on June 6, 2020. So were the three other policemen who had been booked for their alleged involvement in Yunus’s custodial death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antilia-security-threat-case-sachin-vaze-dismissed-from-mumbai-police-101620756987459.html
12-05-2021||India||In national politics, where does the BJP stand||Had the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) managed to win the West Bengal elections, it would have got its first government on India’s eastern coast. Having lost the high stake battle to the All India Trinamool Congress (TMC), it will remain formidable — as a party which controls most of India’s Hindi speaking and northeastern states along with its traditional bastion of Gujarat and the politically turbulent southern state of Karnataka — but short of its goal.As of now, the BJP and its allies have governments in 18 out of the 30 states and union territories (UTs) in India where a legislative assembly currently exists (Jammu and Kashmir is a UT with legislature where no assembly exists as of now). The only major state, which has a non-BJP National Democratic Alliance (NDA) chief minister, is Bihar.Of the seven major states — excluding all northeastern states except Assam, the hill states of Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand and the western state of Goa — where the BJP or its allies are in power, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat will go to polls in 2022. In both these states, the BJP will be under pressure to not just win but also win big.In Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh, where BJP chief ministers are currently in office, the party did not form a government after the assembly elections and it has captured power riding on defections from the Congress party. While it has consolidated its position in Madhya Pradesh, its Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa, continues to battle inner party problems, something which has plagued both the BJP and the Congress in the state.Also Read | Centre brings all 77 BJP MLAs in West Bengal under VIP security coverIn Haryana, the only state apart from Assam and Bihar where the BJP managed to come back to power, with the help of the Jananayak Janata Party, after the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, there could be strong headwinds against the BJP due to the ongoing farm protests, the effects of which could also manifest itself in western Uttar Pradesh, when polls are held in early 2022. The same issue could give the otherwise nationally beleaguered Congress a decisive edge in the state of Punjab.To be sure, the BJP is also the main Opposition party in seven out of the 12 states where it is not in power currently. Of these, in West Bengal and Odisha, it has captured opposition space for the first time in the latest elections. In Telangana, where assembly elections were held before schedule in 2018, the BJP has performed better than the Congress in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. States on India’s eastern coast still hold the promise of future gains for the BJP. Of the four eastern coast states (Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, West Bengal, and Odisha), only the TMC has been opposing the BJP on a consistent basis when it comes to the BJP’s legislative agenda in the parliament.The only region, where the BJP seems to be in complete control at the moment is the north-eastern region beyond the Chicken’s Neck. That the party has bestowed the chief minister’s post on Himanta Biswa Sarma by removing the incumbent Sadananda Sonwal shows that Sarma has emerged as a regional heavyweight not just in Assam, but the entire north-eastern region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-national-politics-where-does-the-bjp-stand-101620730226956.html
12-05-2021||India||Cong misleading people on Covid-19, JP Nadda tells Sonia Gandhi||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda on Tuesday wrote a letter to his Congress counterpart, Sonia Gandhi, asking her and the party including its chief ministers to stop “misleading people, creating false panic” over the Covid-19 pandemic and contradictory stands on the vaccination policy.The letter came a day after the Congress Working Committee on Monday passed a resolution calling the second Covid-19 wave a “grave calamity and direct consequence of the Modi government’s indifference, insensitivity, and incompetence.”Nadda, in his four-page response to Gandhi, accused Congress leaders of contributing to vaccine hesitancy. “Vaccine that is made in India should be a matter of national pride. Instead, Congress leaders tried to ridicule it and create doubts in the minds of people. Even the chief ministers belonging to your party indulged in such antics. In a nation that has almost no recent history of vaccine hesitancy, your party has the dubious record of trying to actively create [it], that too, in the middle of a once-in-a-century pandemic,” the letter said. “The Congress Working Committee talks about the Modi government ‘abdicating’ its responsibility on vaccination. Is there so much of a communication gap between the Congress party and the states it shares powers in? In April itself, topmost Congress leaders were calling for decentralisation of vaccination.”The drug regulator’s approval of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin came in for criticism from various quarters because it was done without even interim data being made available. The data, available several months on, did show the vaccine to be highly effective.Nadda defended the vaccination policy and said it had already ensured considerable coverage in priority groups by providing at least 160 million vaccines to states in the first two phases.Also read | States can procure only 20 million Covid-19 jabs for 18+ in MayThere has been a slew of complaints from states about the deficiencies in the vaccination programme, the lack of vaccines, and their differential pricing for those above 18. It has also become clear that India does not have enough vaccines to meet the demand, even by the Union government’s own admission. Several states are now looking to buy vaccines directly from global manufacturers. However, most manufacturers have already committed supplies for several months .Nadda said that BJP ruled states have announced their resolve to help the poor and underprivileged by providing vaccines for free. “I am sure that Congress governments in various states also feel strongly for the poor, can they also come out with a similar decision to provide vaccines for free?” Punjab , Rajasthan, and Chattisgarh, all governed by Congress administrations have announced that they will provide vaccines free to anyone in the 18-44 years age group. Those over the age of 45 are already covered by the Union government’s Phase 2. Maharashtra, where the Congress is part of the ruling MVA alliance has also announced free vaccines for those in the 18-44 years age group. However, most states (including BJP ruled ones) have been scrambling to source vaccines on account of inadequate supply. According to the Union government’s latest policy, half the capacity of domestic vaccine makers will be dedicated for the Union government and the other half, equally shared between states (on the basis of their population), and the private sector.Nadda accused the Congress of politicising the pandemic and the vaccination policy. He added that in this fight against the pandemic, the conduct of the topmost Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, will be remembered for “duplicity and pettiness.”“Your party, under your leadership, is doing no favours to itself by opposing lockdowns and then demanding for the same, ignoring the Centre’s advisories on the second wave of Covid and then saying they did not get any information, holding massive election rallies in Kerala causing a spike in Covid cases while grandstanding about the election rallies elsewhere, supporting protests but speaking about following Covid guidelines,” the letter said. Nadda also cited a surge in Covid-19 cases in Congress-ruled state such as Punjab.Also read | Covid-19 wave ebbing in 9 regions, shows dataOn the Congress’s opposition to the Central Vista, Nadda said the need for a new Parliament was raised during the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance rule. He added the then speaker Meira Kumar underscored the need for a new parliament building. Nadda added Congress’s Chhattisgarh government was also going ahead with its plans of building a new assembly complex.The Congress hit back at Nadda over the letter, with party general secretary Ajay Maken saying: “When the Congress is trying to play the role of a responsible opposition, the ruling party president writes a letter that smacks of usual arrogance. This is shameful.”Congress MP Shashi Tharoor quoted German philosopher Hannah Arendt that “one of the greatest advantages of the totalitarian elites of the 1920s &1930s was to turn any statement of fact into a question of motive”. “Of course @JPNadda wasn’t born when Arendt wrote those words, but his BJP apologists resort routinely to this old technique!” he tweeted.Interacting with the media, Maken said that whatever Congress leaders such as Rahul and Sonia Gandhi have been repeatedly saying about the Modi government’s handling of the pandemic, the Indian Medical Association, and international journals The Lancet and Nature have also echoed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nadda-writes-to-sonia-gandhi-asks-her-to-stop-misleading-people-over-covid-101620714625342.html
12-05-2021||India||KR Gouri, architect of land reforms in Kerala, dies aged 102; tributes pour in||KR Gouri Amma, 102, the architect of land reforms in Kerala, its first woman minister and one of the longest-serving legislators, died at a private hospital in Thiruvananthapuram due to age-related ailments, her family said on Tuesday.She helmed the key revenue ministry and drafted the Kerala Agrarian Relations Act for ownership of land to peasants who tilled it after the first democratically elected Communist government assumed power in Kerala in 1957. Amma and T V Thomas became the first couple in a government when the two ministers in chief minister EMS Namboodiripad’s ministry got married the same year.She was a founding member of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI (M), when the Communist Party of India (CPI) split in 1964 over ideological differences. Thomas remained with the CPI. The CPI(M) is said to have built a wall in the couple’s house before ideological differences had the couple part ways. Thomas died of cancer in 1977.Known as the “stormy petrel” of Kerala politics, Amma was a six-time minister, who was elected to the state assembly 12 times. Ahead of the 1987 election, the CPI (M) projected Amma as the chief ministerial candidate and coined a slogan in Malayalam that meant “she is set to rule Kerala”. But after the election, the party named E K Nayanar as the chief minister. A sidelined Amma fell out with CPI (M) general secretary Namboodiripad and she was expelled from the party in 1994. Amma later floated Janadhipathya Samrakshana Samithi and allied with Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF). Amma was a minister in K Karunakaran, AK Antony, and Oommen Chandy-led UDF governments before she returned to the Left Democratic Front in 2016.Also Read | Practically impossible to provide oxygen to other states: Kerala CMIn the 1980s, she served as the industry minister in the EK Nayanar government and was instrumental in setting up the country’s first Information Technology Park (Tehnopark) with the help of technocrat KPP Nambiar.Amma, who was known for her fiery orator, was born in Alappuzha’s Pattanakad village in 1919. She was the first law graduate from the backward Ezhava community. Amma enrolled as a lawyer at a court in Cherthala before joining CPI in 1947. She was associated with the labour movement and was jailed and suffered torture when the party was banned.Tributes poured in after the news of Amma’s death broke. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan called Amma a brave fighter, who dedicated her life to end exploitation and build an egalitarian society. “She made seminal contributions in building the Communist movement & as an administrator. Let’s show respects, by pledging to build a more progressive society. Red Salute!,” he tweeted.Former defence minister AK Antony and Governor Arif Mohammad Khan were among others who condoled Amma’s death.In his condolence message, the Kerala Governor said Gowri Amma, with her extraordinary courage and inspiring leadership, was a perfect symbol of women empowerment. “K R Gowri’s struggles to ensure social justice and her contributions to land reforms and industrial growth in Kerala will always be gratefully remembered. May her soul attain Mukti.”Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “My heartfelt condolences to the family of K R Gowri Amma ji. A tall presence in Kerala's politics, she remains a source of inspiration to many.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpi-m-founding-member-kr-gouri-passes-away-101620709284954.html
12-05-2021||NA||Highlights: Telangana records 4,801 new Covid-19 cases, 32 deaths||The World Health Organization (WHO) sees the highly contagious variant of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) spreading in India as a global concern. India on Tuesday saw 329,942 fresh infections in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry dashboard. The new Covid-19 cases took the active caseload of the nation to over 3.71 million (3,715,221) and death toll to 249,992.The nation's capital, New Delhi extended its lockdown for another week as it battled a wave of coronavirus infections and warned about a potentially deadly fungal infection in Covid-19 patients. Uttar Pradesh also extended its lockdown till May 17 with stricter measures.Meanwhile, WHO Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan has termed the rate of coronavirus infections and deaths in India as "worrying" and called on governments to boost exercises on reporting actual numbers."I would say that at this point of time, the situation is very worrying, the daily number of cases and deaths that we are seeing today in India and other countries in the Southeast area region is a big concern for us and we also realise that these are underestimates. Every country in the world, in fact, the number of cases and deaths has been underestimated to its true number," she told ANI.Follow all the updates here:Telangana records 4,801 new Covid-19 cases, 32 deaths4,801 new #COVID19 cases and 32 deaths reported in Telangana today; active cases 60,136 pic.twitter.com/bXE6JQgPYYTelangana recorded 4,801 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total tally of active cases to 60,136. 32 deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 2803.Uttarakhand, Telangana float global tenders for procuring Covid-19 vaccinesThe states of Telangana and Uttarakhand joined the list of several other states on Tuesday by floating global tenders for Covid-19 vaccine procurement, reported news agency ANI.Tamil Nadu records 29,272 cases of Covid-19, 298 fatalities#COVID19 | 29,272 new cases, 298 deaths and 19,182 recoveries reported in Tamil Nadu todayActive cases: 1,62,181Total cases: 14,38,509Death toll: 16,178Total recoveries: 12,60,150 pic.twitter.com/4J6lcI0hMZMaharashtra records 40,956 new cases of Covid-19, 793 deathsMaharashtra reported 40, 956 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the state-wide tally of cases to 51,79,929. 793 deaths were also recorded in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 77,191.FIR lodged against Chandrababu Naidu for allegedly spreading panic about Covid-19 variantA First Information Report has been lodged against ex-chief minister of Andhra Pradesh Chandrababu Naidu for allegedly spreading panic about N440K variant of Covid-19 in the state, reported ANI.Japan to send 200 oxygen concentrators to India on May 12On May 12 and 13, 200 oxygen concentrators will be sent to India as part of emergency assistance from Japan in response to the current surge of #COVID19 cases: Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan pic.twitter.com/AneyQzR6kNCovid-19 vaccines continue to be effective against B.1.617 variant, says WHOCovid-19 vaccines, therapeutics, and diagnostics continue to be effective against B.1.617 variant, World Health Organization representative to India, Dr Roderico H Ofrin said on Tuesday, reported ANI.Vaccines procured by Maharashtra govt for inoculating 18-45 year-olds being diverted, says health ministerMaharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said on Tuesday that stock procured by state government for vaccinating those in the18-44 age group is being diverted for the second dose of 45-plus beneficiaries. More than 2.1 million people are due for their second dose, 1.6 million of whom have taken Covishield. Adding that the decision taken in the wake of the short supply of vaccines for 45-plus by the Central government.States showing decline in daily Covid-19 cases, says health ministryMadhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Telangana, Chandigarh, Ladakh, Daman and Diu, Lakshadweep and Andaman and Nicobar Islands showing continuous decline in daily Covid-19 cases, the health ministry said on Tuesday.Delhi records 12,481 new Covid-19 cases, 347 deathsDelhi recorded 12,481 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the number of active cases in the capital to 83,809. 347 deaths were also recorded in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 20,010.States and UTs to receive 7 lakh additional doses of Covid-19 vaccine, says health ministerUnion health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Tuesday that states and Union Territories will be receiving over 7 lakh additional Covid-19 vaccine doses in next 3 days, reported PTI.Jasprit Bumrah gets inoculated with first dose of Covid-19 vaccineVaccinated. Please stay safe everyone. pic.twitter.com/8ZrclDh2LINagaland imposes total lockdown from May 14 till May 21Nagaland imposed total lockdown from May 14 till May 21, in a bid to control the surge of Covid-19 cases in the state. Read MoreAndhra CM announces ₹10 lakh ex-gratia for kins of Covid patients who died in TirupatiAndhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy announces ₹10 lakhs ex-gratia for the families of those who died at Ruia Hospital, Tirupati last night: Chief Minister's Office (CMO) pic.twitter.com/ewyi8F1MOyAndhra chief minister Jagan Mohan Reddy announced an ex-gratia of ₹10 Lakh for the kins of the Covid-19 patients who died in Ruia hospital, Tirupati, on Monday night, reported ANI.PM Modi speaks with Lotay Tshering; thanks Bhutan for support in wake of Covid pandemicPrime Minister Narendra Modi held a telephonic conversation with his Bhutanese counterpart Lotay Tshering on Tuesday as the two leaders noted that the coronavirus crisis has further highlighted the special friendship between the two countries.Pondy registers highest single-day coronavirus toll with 30 deathsFor the first time sincethe Covid-19 pandemic outbreak last year, Puducherry recorded 30 related fatalities, highest in a single day, taking the toll past the 1,000-mark.Decision over extension of lockdown in Maharashtra will be taken tomorrow: Rajesh TopeDecision over extension of lockdown in the state will be taken in the cabinet meeting tomorrow: Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope.Graph of Covid-19 cases on decline in Madhya Pradesh: ministerThe graph of Covid-19 infections in Madhya Pradesh is on the decline, state Home Minister Narottam Mishra said on Tuesday, a day after the daily infections dropped to 9,715.Considering holding off vaccination drive temporarily for 18-44 age group: Rajesh TopeThere is a dearth of vaccines hence we are considering holding off vaccination drive temporarily for 18-44 age group. 2.75 lakh vaccine doses left for this group, that'll be used for 45 yrs and above group now. Administering 2nd dose is priority: Maharashtra Health Min Rajesh TopeOver 18 crore vaccine doses provided to states/UTs free of cost: GovtOver 18 crore vaccine doses provided to states/UTs free of cost by Govt of India, so far. More than 90 lakh doses still available with States/UTs to be administered. Over 7 Lakh doses, in addition, will be received by States/UTs in next 3 days: Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.Demand for oxygen and beds is less now: Satyendar JainDemand for oxygen and beds is less now, but it's there. We've about 23,000 beds of which 20,000 are occupied, It's a huge number. Oxygen supply should continue otherwise it will be problematic. We are getting little less than the requirement of 700 tonnes LMO: Delhi Health MinisterIn the last few days, positivity rate has declined from 36% to 19.1%" Satyendar JainIn the last few days, positivity rate has declined from 36% to 19.1% with the caseload also going down from 28,000 per day to about 12,500. Till we reach positivity rate at below 5% and caseload below 3000-4000 cases, we can't be at ease: Satyendar Jain, Delhi Health Minister.Need to develop national policy to inoculate everyone in next few months: KejriwalNeed to ramp up vaccine manufacturing on war footing in India and develop national policy to inoculate everyone in next few months, says Delhi CM Kejriwal.Centre should procure their formula and give it to other companies: Arvind KejriwalOnly two companies should not be manufacturing vaccine. Centre should procure their formula and give it to other companies, says Kejriwal.We are facing vaccine shortage; left with stock that will last only a few days: Delhi CMRight now, we are administering 1.25 lakh doses every day. We will soon begin vaccinating over 3 lakh people every day. We aim to vaccinate all residents of Delhi within next 3 months. But we are facing vaccine shortage. We are left with stock that will last only a few days: Arvind Kejriwal.Coronavirus cases are going down in Delhi, so is the second wave: Arvind KejriwalCorona cases are going down in Delhi, so is the second wave. With your cooperation lockdown was successful. We have increased number of Oxygen beds in past few days. Yesterday we started 500 new ICU beds near GTB Hospital. Now there's no shortage of ICU and Oxygen beds in Delhi: Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal.Covid-19 vaccination camp at Delhi airport cancelled due to vaccine shortageThe proposed Covid-19 vaccination camp which was scheduled to be held at GSD Complex, Indira Gandhi International Airport, Delhi on Tuesday and Thursday, has been cancelled as government authorities have expressed inability to hold these camps due to non-availability of vaccines.UK keeping a 'close eye' on Indian variant as Covid restrictions easeBritain is keeping a close eye on the Indian variant of Covid-19 but measures such as enhanced tracking and tracing, travel restrictions and the roll out of the vaccine should keep it at very low levels, Health Secretary Matt Hancock said on Tuesday.Australia's Victoria on alert after first Covid-19 case in two monthsAustralia's second most populous state reported a locally acquired Covid-19 case for the first time in more than two months on Tuesday, sending authorities scrambling to find the source of the infection amid concern about a new outbreak.UP: Case registered against 35 SP leaders for violating Covid norms in UnnaoA case has been registered against 35 Samajwadi Party (SP) leaders here for violating Covid-19 norms by holding a meeting without taking permission from the administration, police said on Tuesday.HUL to provide 4,000 oxygen concentrators to IndiaFMCG major Hindustan Unilever Ltd (HUL) on Tuesday said it will provide 4,000 oxygen concentrators to India to address the acute shortage of medical oxygen as the country grapples with a deadly second wave of the pandemic.India's seven-day Covid average at new high, WHO issues warning on strainIndia's coronavirus crisis showed scant sign of easing on Tuesday, with a seven-day average of new cases at a record high and international heath authorities warning the country's variant of the virus poses a global concern.We need more targeted sequencing to be done: Dr Maria Van KerkhoveWe need much more information about this (B1617) virus variant and all of the sub-lineages. We need more targeted sequencing to be done: Dr Maria Van Kerkhove.B1617 virus variant has been classified as a variant of interest by WHO: Dr Maria Van KerkhoveB1617 virus variant that was first identified in India has been classified as a variant of interest by WHO: Dr Maria Van Kerkhove, Technical lead Covid-19 at WHO.Low and lower-middle income countries have received just 17% of the world’s vaccine: WHOHigh & upper middle countries represents 53% of world’s population but have received 83% of the world’s vaccine. By contrast low and lower-middle income countries account for 47% but have received just 17% of the world’s vaccine: WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesu.India logs 329,942 fresh Covid-19 cases, 3,876 fatalitiesIndia reports 3,29,942 new Covid-19 cases, 3,56,082 discharges and 3,876 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per Union Health MinistryTotal cases: 2,26,62,575Total discharges: 1,90,27,304Death toll: 2,49,992Active cases: 37,15,221Total vaccination: 17,27,10,066Odisha reported 9793 new Covid-19 casesOdisha reported 9793 new Covid-19 cases, 9706 recoveries and 18 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 5,54,666Total recoveries 4,57,569Death toll 2215Active cases 94,829Scientists develop better way to block viruses causing respiratory infections in childrenResearchers have improved a method in rodent models intended to help keep children healthy by engineering a short chunk of protein, or peptide, that can prevent the attachment of human parainfluenza viruses to cells.Philippines records first two cases of Indian coronavirus variantThe Philippines has detected its first two cases of a coronavirus variant first identified in India, its health ministry said on Tuesday.Andamans reports 31 new Covid-19 cases, 2 more deathsAndaman and Nicobar Islands Covid-19 tally rose to 6,398 as 31 more people tested positive for the virus, while two new fatalities pushed the death toll in the union territory to 78, a health department official said on Tuesday.18,50,110 samples were tested yesterday: ICMR30,56,00,187 samples tested up to May 10, for Covid-19. Of these, 18,50,110 samples were tested yesterday: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)Uttarakhand Police launches 'Mission Hausla' to help Covid-19 patients get oxygen, beds, plasmaThe Uttarakhand Police has launched a drive called "Mission Hausla" to help people get oxygen, beds and plasma for Covid-19 patients.Ladakh reports 112 new Covid-19 cases, 2 more deathsLadakh has reported 112 new Covid-19 cases pushing the tally to 15,429, while two more fatalities raised the death toll due to the viral disease to 157 in the Union Territory, officials said on Tuesday.North Korea again claims no coronavirus infectionsNorth Korea has told the World Health Organization that it has tested 25,986 people for the coronavirus through April but still has yet to find a single infection.Ready to buy vaccine from foreign countries if center allows: AP Health Principal SecyAndhra Pradesh medical and health principal secretary Anil Kumar Singhal said the state government is ready to purchase corona vaccine directly from foreign countries too, if Central government allows.Covid-19: Sewa spends USD 6 mn on lifesaving equipment for IndiaNon-profit organisation Sewa International said that it has spent over USD 6 million to procure lifesaving equipment in the last two weeks as part of its ‘Help India Defeat Covid-19’ campaign.Mizoram reports 173 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hoursMizoram reports 173 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total cases in the state to 7796.Active cases 1854Total discharges 5920Death toll 22England reports zero daily Covid-19 deaths for first time since July last yearEngland reported zero daily Covid-19 deaths on Monday, the first time in a 24-hour period since July last year.Australia's New South Wales reports zero Covid-19 cases for fifth straight dayAustralia's most populous state reported no new locally acquired Covid-19 cases for a fifth straight day on Tuesday as authorities hunt for a missing link in a new infection chain reported last week.Indian doctors warn against cow dung as Covid cureDoctors in India are warning against the practice of using cow dung in the belief it will ward off Covid-19, saying there is no scientific evidence for its effectiveness and that it risks spreading other diseases.No one, including WHO was able to predict 2nd Covid wave would affect India this much, says MoS ReddyUnion Minister of State for Home Affairs G Kishan Reddy on Monday said no one, including the World Health Organisation (WHO) was able to predict that the second wave of Covid would affect the country so much. He added that the nation will also get over the second wave very soon.LG Manoj Sinha appeals to people to follow Covid curfew in J-KJammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Monday appealed to the people to follow the Covid curfew imposed in the Union Territory.Malaysia declares nationwide lockdown as Covid-19 cases spikeMalaysia on Monday imposed a new nationwide lockdown, as the country grapples with a surge in coronavirus cases and highly infectious variants that the government said are testing its health system.Novavax delays Covid vaccine authorization requestUS biotech firm Novavax on Monday said it had delayed plans to seek authorization for its Covid vaccine candidate, a setback for developing countries hoping the injection would soon be available.Twitter donates USD 15 mn for Covid-19 relief in IndiaTwitter has donated USD 15 million to help address the Covid-19 crisis in India which is battling the unprecedented second wave of the deadly pandemic.China reports 14 new Covid-19 cases vs 11 a day earlierChina reported 14 new Covid-19 cases on May 10, up from 11 a day earlier, the national health authority said on Tuesday.Karnataka to form task force to tackle third Covid waveKarnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday asked officials to prepare for the third wave of Covid-19 and ordered to set up a task force committee to handle the forthcoming situation.Uttarakhand goes under stricter curfew from todayUttarakhand will go for a stricter curfew from May 11 at 6am to18 till 6am.Haryana to provide ₹5,000 to BPL families as Covid reliefHaryana Government will provide ₹5,000 to the families below the poverty line (BPL) in the state as their livelihood has been affected during the Covid pandemic, said State Home Minister Anil Vij.Pfizer Covid-19 shot expanded to US children as young as 12US regulators on Monday expanded the use of Pfizer's Covid-19 vaccine to children as young as 12, offering a way to protect the nation's adolescents before they head back to school in the fall and paving the way for them to return to more normal activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-may-11-2021-101620690715130.html
12-05-2021||Today's||For the PM, it is time to course-correct||Sometimes, not winning an election can teach us much more than winning one. For the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), especially Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the outcome of West Bengal assembly elections may actually present a great learning opportunity, if not occasion for course-correction.First of all, the West Bengal hustings are not a debacle for the ruling party at the Centre, as many of its critics have made out. Raising your tally from three seats in the 2016 elections to 77 seats in 2021 is a huge advance. Not only is the BJP, for the first time in its history, the principal opposition party in Bengal, there is every likelihood of it forming the government in the next elections in 2026.As to Mamata Banerjee of the Trinamool Congress (TMC), she has proved that she not only has guts but staying power too. By returning as chief minister for the third time, Banerjee not only succeeded in overcoming anti-incumbency and an adversary with greater money power and might, but also, defeating an electoral machine led by the most formidable political duo in recent memory, Modi and Amit Shah.It was a closely contested election. Contrary to the initial post-election analysis, the polls were a three-cornered contest, not a straight fight between the TMC and the BJP. What has been observed is that the BJP does best when there is a direct confrontation between it and another party. Else, its potential, mostly Hindu, vote-bank gets splintered. That is what happened in West Bengal. Straight contests work best for the BJP. Such is the logic of its electoral appeal.Also Read | Enable the Covid-19 task force to take decisionsIt is a truth that needs to be accepted that polarisation, especially on religious lines, does benefit the BJP. However, what these elections have proven beyond doubt is that this alone is not enough. I am not speaking of the BJP’s usual pitch to voters on development, prosperity, better governance and delivery of State schemes to the last person, lesser corruption, and so on. These are, no doubt important, and will continue to matter.What I am suggesting, instead, is that a more general connect with the people was lacking, whether on linguistic, social, or cultural lines, the sense of belonging to a region and representing its aspirations. In other words, grounds for identification beyond the religious — this is where the BJP needed to fare better. The transfer of votes, if at all, happened usually in favour of the TMC, not the BJP. A significant number of those who wanted to vote for the Congress or the Communist Party of India-Marxist continued to support these parties, even if they knew that these did not have a chance to win. They did not feel persuaded to switch to the BJP.Why? Because the inherent regional and emotional appeal of Banerjee’s Ma, Maati, Maanush, though coined for the 2009 and 2011 elections and not used this time, still worked. Banerjee’s supporters, including the Muslims, still voted en bloc for her.Finally, the second surge of the pandemic intervened in the last stages of the eight-phase election. The BJP redirected its energies to combating the virus instead of winning the battle for Bengal. Vital momentum was lost. The almost universal criticism of the country’s leadership in handling the pandemic, much of it especially targeting Modi, might have also punctured the aura of invincibility that the BJP enjoyed.Modi’s image has certainly taken a beating. It is, therefore, time to introspect and, if necessary, course-correct. How? For instance, to show more humanity and humility. Especially during a national crisis, it does not help a leader if he appears aloof, isolated, extraordinary, exceptional — or impervious to advice, and above criticism. Is a makeover in order to make Modi more people-friendly and responsive to good counsel?As Mahatma Gandhi quipped about our rulers ensconced in the Viceregal Lodge, Shimla, which he first visited on March 12, 1921, “He is no king who maintains a distance, the height of five hundred floors between him and the subjects”.Also Read | Covid-19: Pay attention to rural IndiaAdmitting one’s errors, in this case underestimating Covid-19’s second surge, does not make one a worse or weaker leader. On the contrary, it shows a vulnerable, more down-to-earth, indeed, a more dharmic head of government who is not afraid to take responsibility. Modi has projected himself as an upholder of rajdharma, a just and judicious ruler, dedicated to working for the welfare of the people, irrespective of personal power or profit.But in his photos and public appearances, he stands alone, like a lonely Colossus, far removed from the toiling, suffering, and now ailing masses. The massive human tragedy, not just loss of lives and livelihood, but the enforced impoverishment of hundreds of millions of hardworking but now terribly disadvantaged poor needs the healing and helping hand of a national leadership that is kinder, compassionate, and caring. In addition to vaccinations, oxygen, and medicines, the people also need the balm of gentleness and genuine concern. The sage-like Modi, with his flowing white locks and beard, should not appear too detached or out of touch with the people who voted him to power and still believe in his leadership. He has to lift them up and symbolically hold them closer to his very broad chest so that they can weep on his shoulders.There is no doubt that India will recover from this catastrophe and emerge stronger. But Modi should not miss this chance to show that he really cares. Indeed, he did precisely that during the Bhuj earthquake of 2001, which actually became the basis of his dizzying ascent to power. It is time to recall the lessons learnt then because they might actually serve him better now. Else, as a labourer on our grounds remarked to me, “Six years of goodwill will be lost in six months.”Makarand R Paranjape is director, Indian Institute of Advanced Study, ShimlaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/for-the-pm-it-is-time-to-coursecorrect-101620821742347.html
12-05-2021||Today's||Enable the Covid-19 task force to take decisions||Last week, a harried Supreme Court (SC), faced with a clutch of petitions and high court (HC) orders on the handling of the pandemic, announced a National Task Force (NTF) to lay down the broad policy for the allocation of medical oxygen to the states in a week, and submit the broad contours of a national plan in six months to fight Covid-19 in the present and the future.The 12-member task force, comprising domain experts, inspires confidence. However, its advisory nature will leave the decisions again in the hands of the central bureaucracy, which is in the eye of the storm. Citizens want a professional, unbiased body to take decisions for which NTF — in its current form, or with additions of other experts as the need arises — is suitable. And, therefore, for a range of reasons, what is needed is for SC to award NTF with wide-ranging powers on a range of policy issues related to Covid-19 to enable it to take decisions.For one, quick decisions — possible through a body such as NTF — are the need of the hour. Take an example. In March 2020, 11 empowered committees were set up under secretaries of the Government of India (GoI) to combat the Covid-19 surge. Yet, out of 133 oxygen plants proposed to be installed, only 33 came up, and the committees could do nothing. In November, a parliamentary standing committee voiced concern over the shortage of oxygen supply, intensive care unit beds and other facilities. And still, when the second wave hit with full force in March, we were unprepared. Now, take the fight between Delhi and the Centre over the oxygen quota, where it is the judiciary which took the decision of allocating 700 MT oxygen per day to Delhi. These may be different issues — installing capacity and determining distribution. But compare the sense of urgency now with the complacency of the past year, and it reveals what quick court-monitored decisions and commitment can do.Also Read | Covid-19: Pay attention to rural IndiaTwo, there have been individual and local level successes, especially on oxygen supply. Some states such as Kerala, Odisha and Chhattisgarh managed to maintain their oxygen reserve and even help other states. A young collector of Nandurbar set up three oxygen plants in his district and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation commissioner is being applauded for his sheer tenacity and ingenuity in fighting Covid-19.But individual acts are not enough, and a central body has to take a host of decisions in fighting the menace on a daily basis. For instance, the next fortnight will remain crucial for oxygen supplies and allocation, and it is important for NTF to do this on a daily basis than sit down and deliberate over a policy. There are daily imponderables to be considered which may not be covered by a policy — which can wait to be evolved in more peaceful times. There is already a committee, under a secretary to GOI, looking after oxygen allocation. The secretary can present the status report every day to NTF and take orders. States will be satisfied and concentrate on their efforts too, rather than bickering over central policy and directions.Three, this expert panel can also assume a more active role in framing India’s vaccine policy (which, remember, is also a subject of judicial hearing at the moment). Given the rupture in federal relations on the question of vaccines, let the distribution of all vaccines be decided by NTF, involving a dynamic bottom-up and top-down approach. Let the onus be on NTF to strategise the systematic vaccination of the population, on the basis of existing and perceived severity of the disease, for various demographic segments, in various geographies.Also Watch | Dr. Naresh Trehan explains why new vaccination policy is not good for IndiaFour, NTF is equipped to offer medical expertise, given that a lot of confusion persists over protocols regarding Covid-19. On the one hand are statements of doctors and experts, cautioning citizens to use therapies such as remdesivir, tocilizumab, and plasma sparingly and in only specific circumstances, if at all. On the other hand, doctors are freely prescribing these to patients in home isolation. NTF needs to look into it this urgently and issue a national advisory. Through regular media briefings, NTF can also alert the public about the progress in genome-sequencing and what we know about the variants.Five, foreign medical supplies, in the form of aid, are arriving regularly, and a GOI committee is looking into distribution of these as per norms. Lest it gets embroiled into another controversy over delays and bias in allocation, let NTF take up distribution after hearing the committee on a daily basis.NTF should be the focal point of all Covid-19-related decisions for the next six months. It has the competence and unbiased image to take quick decisions on important pending matters. A host of committees already exist to back up NTF with all the information and wherewithal required for implementing its decisions. In a virtual world, two short meetings a day can decide on all urgent matters.Critics may label empowering NTF as an instance of judicial overreach and undermining the authority of the elected executive. However, SC has set up empowered bodies before, such as the one for clearing encroachments in Delhi. A calamity calls for extraordinary measures and the SC’s decision will not only dissipate Centre-state wrangling but also complement their efforts, since NTF would rely largely on government data and resources for taking unbiased, professional decisions.Yashovardhan Azad is a former IPS officer, who served as Central Information Commissioner and Special Director, Intelligence BureauThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/enable-the-covid-task-force-to-take-decisions-101620820363322.html
12-05-2021||Today's||Can India and the EU operationalise their natural partnership?||It has been a long road from the first European Union (EU)-India Summit in 2000 to the virtual India-EU leaders meeting in 2021, which saw Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi interacting with the 27 EU leaders as well as presidents of the European Council and the European Commission last week. The optics could not have been better. This was a special privilege accorded to the Indian PM to underline a new sense of urgency in the EU to get its India policy right. From New Delhi’s perspective, this is also an inflection point in the way it is thinking about its foreign policy priorities; a renewed momentum in India-EU ties is the need of the hour.The most significant outcome of the summit was that after eight years and several rounds of talks spanning six years, India and the EU have decided to resume negotiations for a comprehensive trade agreement. These talks were suspended in 2013 after the two sides failed to bridge their differences on some key issues such as tariff reductions, patent protection, data security and the right of Indian professionals to work in Europe.Today’s changed circumstances provide the two sides with a new set of opportunities to move forward on this long-stalled agenda. The EU wants to pivot away from China. It recently signed a Comprehensive Agreement on Investment with China, which has drawn a lot of flak and its ratification has now been suspended because of diplomatic tensions. The European Parliament remains overwhelmingly opposed to this deal after China imposed sanctions on some of its members, in response to the EU imposing sanctions against China for its treatment of the Uyghur Muslim minority in the Xinjiang region.Also Read | Modi calls off UK visit for G7 Summit as pandemic ragesIndia wants to showcase its commitment to open trade at a time of renewed focus on developing a domestic manufacturing base. With the EU being India’s largest trading partner and the second-largest export destination, the economic logic of strong India-EU economic relations is self-evident. The two sides have also agreed to commence talks for a standalone investment protection pact and an accord on geographical indications.The virtual summit saw India and the EU launching an ambitious “connectivity partnership” in digital, energy, transport, and people-to-people sectors, enabling the two to pursue sustainable joint projects in regions spanning from Africa, Central Asia to the wider Indo-Pacific. At the multilateral level, climate cooperation was the focal area.Given the current situation, health cooperation assumed a new salience. Contrary to the partisan debate in India on vaccine diplomacy, EU member-states stood in solidarity with New Delhi. French President Emmanuel Macron asserted that India does not need to be “lectured from anyone” on vaccine supplies. EU member-states have rallied to support India by sending critical medical supplies in the last few weeks in recognition for the role India had played in helping others over the last year. As the two sides commit themselves to working together on global health, the need to focus on resilient medical supply chains is all the more evident. India, of course, has been pushing for the EU’s support on a TRIPS waiver for vaccine patents to which the EU remains non-committal so far.Also Read | EU launches conference to debate its future with citizensThe India-EU summit has given new energy to a relationship that, for all its trappings, has struggled to capture the imagination of top-level decision-makers either in New Delhi or in Brussels. But as strategic realities evolve rapidly in an era defined by Covid-19 and its aftermath, India and the EU have a new opening to re-evaluate the fundamentals of their engagement.The EU is being forced to reckon with the geopolitical implications of its foreign policy imperatives and India is looking for substantive partnerships with like-minded nations to bring stability to the Indo-Pacific theatre. With its India and Indo-Pacific strategies, Brussels is making its changing priorities clear and with a robust outreach to Europe, New Delhi is also signalling that it is willing to take the plunge. Whether the two “natural partners” can make the most of this unique synergy remains to be seen.Harsh V Pant is professor, King’s College, London, and director of studies, Observer Research Foundation, New DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/can-india-and-the-eu-operationalise-their-natural-partnership-101620816581821.html
12-05-2021||Today's||Scientifically Speaking | All that we know about the B.1.617 variant||As the second wave of Covid rages on, we now know that cases of B.1.617 (which was previously called “the double mutant variant” because of two concerning changes in the spike protein) are increasing. Another variant which is increasing is B.1.1.7, which was first identified in the United Kingdom.B.1.1.7 spreads more efficiently than earlier types of the coronavirus and is now the dominant form of SARS-CoV-2 in many countries. B.1.1.7 also likely causes more severe disease. However, it is not considered an “immune escape” variant because reinfections are uncommon; vaccines still work, albeit with reduced antibody recognition.Two other mutants, B.1351 (which was identified in South Africa) and P.1 (which was identified in Brazil) are concerning. They spread rapidly. The spike protein in these two variants is not recognised as well by current neutralising antibodies. They have been referred to as “immune escape” variants because reinfections are common and vaccines are less effective against them.Right now, there is reason to believe that B.1.617 is more infectious that the ancestral virus identified in Wuhan, and roughly similar to that of the B.1.1.7 variant. This assumption is based on the increase in cases in India and elsewhere, and the recent elevation of a particular type of this virus to a “variant of concern”.Also Read | Foreign aid for Covid-19 swiftly cleared for states, says CentreAlong with data on spread, we also have some initial results on how well the modified spike of B.1.617 infects cells. A preliminary study by Markus Hoffmann and colleagues (posted to the preprint server, bioRxiv) used a different virus covered with coronavirus spikes from B.1.617 to test for viral entry into cells. Viruses with the mutated spike can enter two kinds of cells more effectively than the viral spike of the original virus. But further studies are needed to corroborate these early results.Early work by scientist Pragya Yadav and team indicates that B.1.617 might be causing more severe disease, at least in lab animals. Certainly, it would fit with reports from doctors on the frontline. Entire families are getting sick in the second wave. Many, including those who are young and have no comorbidities, are succumbing. But whether this is because more people in general have been infected or because of actual biological changes in the variant is yet to be determined.None of this is good news. The not-so-bad news is that B.1.617 does not seem to evade the immune responses of polyclonal antibodies that attack different parts of the virus as much as originally feared, or indeed as much as the B.1.351 variant. In B.1.351, the changes to the spike can evade many times more antibodies raised after earlier infection or vaccination, causing a drastic reduction in vaccine-induced protection.In the past few days, new studies have shown antibodies found in sera of people who have been infected before, or have been vaccinated, can block the B.1.617 variant from entering cells. Very preliminary data is available for all major vaccine classes, namely, Pfizer’s mRNA vaccine (after one or two doses), AstraZeneca/Covisheld’s viral vectored vaccines after two doses, and Covaxin’s inactivated virus vaccine after two doses.Also Read | India’s active Covid-19 caseload declines for 2nd consecutive day: 10 pointsIn one study, scientists did show that antibody recognition was reduced in half in B.1.617 compared to the original strain. In case of vaccination, two groups found fewer neutralising antibodies with B.1.617 after two doses of the Pfizer vaccine compared to the original virus. But even with such a drop, protection was not completely lost because these vaccines are excellent in stimulating a large number of antibodies. They still had enough of a buffer to cope with this variant, at least in the laboratory.Some people in India have suffered from severe and critical Covid-19 even after being fully vaccinated. There are some heartbreaking stories, but we still don’t know how frequently this is happening and under what circumstances. The laboratory data we have so far indicates some vaccine protection, so this is likely rare. In the coming days, we will have more information on how well these observations correlate with effectiveness in the real world.Anirban Mahapatra, a microbiologist by training, is the author of COVID-19: Separating Fact From Fiction. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/scientifically-speaking-all-that-we-know-about-the-b-1-617-variant-101620815431585.html
12-05-2021||Today's||Requiem for the jumbo jet||For decades, the venerable Boeing 747, popularly known as the jumbo jet, dominated the skies of the world. Air India was one of the first international airlines to get these in 1971. It still has four of them, mostly for VVIP flights.Most airlines have retired them or announced plans to do so in a few years. British Airways had announced its fleet of 25 will be retired by 2024, but the current situation in the airline industry has hastened plans to do so. Qantas sent its last Boeing 747 to the “boneyard” of aircraft in Mojave Desert, United States.The term jumbo, though almost synonymous with the Boeing 747, also meant any wide-bodied jet. The Airbus A380, a much bigger aircraft, called the super jumbo may also be on its way out.The 747s were the biggest aircraft when they were launched. Most international airlines had versions that could carry about 360 passengers, though some Japanese versions could carry up to 660 passengers. The largest of these once carried almost 1087 passengers to Israel in an evacuation of Ethiopian Jews. Boeing also made freighter versions for carrying cargo and a Combi that would also carry more cargo and lesser number of passengers. Air India also used these aircraft on routes where passenger demand was less and there was more cargo demand. More than 1500 Boeing 747’s were manufactured since their introduction in 1968.Also Read | US urges citizens to return home from India through available flightsThe first passenger jets, the de Havilland Comets, were introduced by BOAC (predecessor of British Airways) way back in 1952. They were unfortunately subject to many accidents, due to metal fatigue, and withdrawn. The development of the Boeing 707 in 1958 truly introduced the Jet era. In 1960, Air India was the first airline in Asia to get these and also became the world’s first all jet airline. Air India placed an order for the Boeing 747s in 1967 and received the first one in April 1971. Air India had designed its own interiors of these aircraft as well as made the famous “jharokhas” for the windows of these. Air India introduced its new Palace in the Sky livery and branding, when it got its first Boeing 747, Emperor Ashoka in 1971.Pan American World Airways, sadly now defunct, felt the need for bigger aircraft than the Boeing 707 and worked with Boeing for designing these. Boeing had to work on many new systems. The baggage and cargo were loaded in containers. Bigger and more fuel-efficient engines were designed to make it more cost effective to operate. The 747 was a double decker aircraft, with a lounge cum bar for first class passengers. In those days, the business or club class had not been introduced. Eventually, the business class was introduced and was located on the upper deck, so the lounge cum bar was removed.The first Boeing 747 was launched by the then American First Lady, Pat Nixon, on January 15, 1970 in Washington, DC and entered international service on January 22, 1970 on Pan American’s New York-London route. Air India also introduced Boeing 747s on the New York route in 1971. In fact, for quite some time, there were only four carriers — Air India, BOAC, Pan American, TWA — on this route with daily service. Full page advertisements of Air India for these could be frequently seen in The New York Times in the 1970’s and 1980s. An era has ended.Speedy Dutt, an aviation geek, inventor and mathematician, worked with Air India for many decades. It was his last wish to see this piece, written in 2020, appear in the Hindustan Times, where his late wife Prabha Dutt once served as chief of bureau. He died from Covid on April 27, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/requiem-for-the-jumbo-jet-101620736406839.html
12-05-2021||Editorials||A tribute to Kerala’s tallest woman leader||History will be far kinder to Kalathilparambil Raman Gouriamma, the tallest woman politician Kerala has ever produced, than the Communist Party of India (Marxist), to which she devoted much of her life, even sacrificing her marriage to remain true to her ideology. She died on Tuesday at the age of 102. The state owes much to its first woman minister, not least for her passionate advocacy of its enviable land reforms. Few can match her record of 13 assembly election victories. Gouriamma, as she was known, was also a staunch and fiery advocate of women’s emancipation in an overwhelmingly patriarchal society. The CPI(M) projected her as the chief ministerial candidate in the elections of 1987. Yet, at the moment of reckoning, it chose theoretician EK Nayanar over her, and with this, her disillusionment with the CPI(M) began. The final blow to the woman leader, who was as instrumental in building the party in Kerala as stalwarts such as EMS Namboodiripad and VS Achuthanandan, was her expulsion from the CPI(M) in 1994, a blow from which she never recovered politically. But true to form, she formed Janathipathya Samrakshana Samithi (JSS) taking on the formidable Left forces in the state. But, perhaps due to her mercurial temperament and inability to counter the CPI(M) politically, she came back to it in 2016. The party has since moved away from the ideological beliefs she held so dear. Kerala’s poor farmers and labourers owe a huge debt of gratitude to Gouriamma who rewrote the history of the state’s working class. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s tribute to her sums up her eventful life when he said modern Kerala’s history is Gouriamma’s biography.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-tribute-to-kerala-s-tallest-woman-leader-101620819706015.html
12-05-2021||Editorials||Covid-19: Pay attention to rural India||When Covid-19 first hit India, the biggest fear among both policymakers and public experts was that the pandemic would travel to India’s Hindi heartland — primarily across the rural belt of Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Bihar. Given the size of the two states, the density of population, the abysmal health care infrastructure, and the manner in which the virus could quickly transmit in these regions, this fear was legitimate. And there was palpable relief when the first wave was, in hindsight, relatively less destructive. There was never any scientific and cogent explanation for why this was the case, but this did not deter speculative, and clearly misplaced, theories about the innate immunity of those in rural India to resist the virus.It is now clear that the biggest fear of 2020 is the everyday reality of 2021. There is, after all, no innate immunity, and Sars-CoV-2 and its variants are sweeping through the villages and small towns of two of India’s most populous states. UP reported 20,000 new cases and over 300 deaths, and Bihar had over 10,000 cases and 72 deaths on Tuesday. But anecdotal reports from local communities, hospitals, emergency wards, crematoriums and graveyards; informal admissions by district and health authorities; pleas for help on social media (even though recourse to Twitter is not the natural default option for many in these areas); and now the tragic sight of bodies floating in the Ganga, confirm that the numbers are much higher. The process of medical management of Covid-19 is under great strain. Testing is hard, hospital admissions of patients with serious symptoms (with or without a test) are harder, there is an acute shortage of medical supplies, contact-tracing is non-existent, bureaucratic red tape has made care even more difficult, and there is little dignity in death.Given the dense networks that exist between cities and villages, continuous inter-state movement, the return of migrants for Holi and the harvesting season and in response to curbs in bigger cities, the impact of Kumbh, and in the case of UP, untimely panchayat elections, this surge is not unexpected. And the pace of vaccination, the most effective way to fight the disease, is much slower than needed. Away from India’s urban hubs, India’s Covid-19 trajectory will be decided by what happens in Bihar and UP. The state governments, with help from the Centre, must step up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/covid19-pay-attention-to-rural-india-101620818801949.html
